A bankrupt businessman faces life imprisonment after being found guilty of the murder of a solicitor whom he blamed for the breakup of his relationship and the repossession of his home.Michael Chudley, 63, walked into MGW Law in Devizes, Wiltshire, in July last year and shot Jim Ward in the head once at close range using a sawnoff shotgun. Ward, 58, a father of three, died almost three weeks later in hospital.Chudley, of no fixed address, denied murder but was convicted following a nine-day trial at Salisbury crown court. The jury of seven men and five women took two hours to reject Chudley's defence of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility.Chudley had pleaded guilty to carrying an offensive weapon with intent to commit an indictable offence, possessing the gun with intent to cause unlawful violence towards Daphne Courtney, a receptionist, and threatening to kill her with it.Chudley will be sentenced on Tuesday by the trial judge, Mr Justice Bean. During the trial the court heard that Ward's wife, Nicola Morris, a partner in the firm, ran to a neighbouring shop to get help when Chudley marched into the office on the afternoon of 2 July.She heard the gunshot and a shattering of glass and watched as Chudley fled the office and drove off in his Ford Fiesta.Chudley, a property developer, was arrested 30 minutes later by armed police at his former home in the nearby village of Rowde and confessed: "I shot him because he made our lives a misery."He told police he had planned to shoot himself in a bedroom of the house but gave up when he could not gain entry and waited for them to arrive.After the house had been repossessed, Chudley had either rented rooms in local pubs or slept in his car. He had lost his home and his business after becoming embroiled in a long-running legal dispute over building work. The man he unsuccessfully sued, Christopher Sear, had instructed Ward.Prosecutors said Chudley acted out of revenge, anger and resentment. William Mousley QC, prosecuting, told jurors: "At the time of the shooting his actions were planned, premeditated, and he continued to act in such a way after the shooting – even explaining to officers why he shot James Ward.  Chudley's victim, Jim Ward. Photograph: PA"The prosecution say that both before and after the shooting he knew exactly what he was doing. The prosecution case is that this is a clear and obvious case of murder and nothing else."The case centred on whether Chudley had an abnormality of mental function at the time he killed Ward. Jurors heard evidence from two psychiatrists who both agreed that he had a paranoid personality disorder.Dr Andrew Johns, called by the defence, said Chudley's condition represented an abnormality of mental function, meaning he would not have been responsible for his actions when he shot Ward. However, Dr John Sandford, for the prosecution, disagreed and said he could not find any psychiatric evidence of any abnormality of mental function.Detective Chief Inspector Ian Saunders, of Wiltshire police, said after the verdict: "Jim Ward was a family man and a successful, respected solicitor. He was representing a client who was involved in a protracted legal dispute with Chudley regarding building work."Chudley has a history of being an angry, paranoid, litigious man and when he lost the case he blamed Jim Ward. He didn't get what he wanted and decided to get revenge. Chudley has shown no remorse and by his own admission does not know the meaning of the word."Morris, who was supported by her family, said: "Jim's family have always known that no verdict could ever bring him back. However, we are reassured by the judgment today that says the justice system in this country works well."Jim was a kind, honest man and a most wonderful loving husband and father. He was an exceptional person and will forever be in our thoughts."