Professor Peter Furness is a diagnostic histopathologist working at the University Hospitals of Leicester and is a member of council of the Royal College of Pathologists; Jan Robinson is a member of Pity II, the Alder Hey parents' group.Dear Jan I occasionally do postmortem examinations, but almost all my work, like that of most pathologists, involves examining tissue removed from living patients in order to diagnose disease in the living.I've met a few parents who suffered the problems at Alder Hey and Bristol, so I think I understand a little of what you went through. But what do you think of this new human tissue bill?I would guess you will approve of the emphasis on consent and the certainty that there will be criminal proceedings if anyone repeats what Professor van Velzen did at Alder Hey. How could anyone object? But from my viewpoint, there are problems. The bill threatens me with criminal proceedings if I work without "appropriate consent", but I have to rely on the coroner's officers or the doctors on the wards to obtain consent. These are the very people who didn't explain things adequately in the past. What if they fail again? There is no criminal penalty for them if they do not do their job properly. But the biggest problem comes because the bill is not limited to postmortem examination. In my hospital we examine more than 1,000 specimens from living patients for every autopsy. Each year, the NHS processes 150m samples from living patients. This bill "protects" a leftover urine sample just as it does the heart of a baby. There is no sign of the government providing the resources needed to request and record consent 150m times. If it does not, a fine-sounding requirement will turn into a prohibition of work done to help patients. Is that really what the parents of Alder Hey wanted?  Peter Dear PeterI wonder whether you do truly understand how families have felt. Perhaps I should start by telling you of my experience. I am the parent of a four-month-old child who died in 1989. Without our knowledge, all of his organs were retained after his postmortem examination, at Alder Hey. His heart and lungs were placed in the Institute of Child Health and given a museum number - again, without our knowledge.The rest of his organs were kept in a filthy basement for more than 10 years, only to be discovered after revelations of heart collections around the country became public knowledge following evidence given at the Bristol inquiry. Our family was not alone, nor was van Velzen the only pathologist who was guilty of retention without consent.My primary concern was that any new legislation would be built on the principle of informed consent - especially with regard to postmortem examinations, but also to other tissue samples. Communication is vital, not only between doctors and their patients but also between professionals. I appreciate you are concerned you could be held responsible, but do you have no confidence in your colleagues? I would hope that salutary lessons have been learnt from the past, and I am certain that resources are being made available for this.  Jan Dear JanLike most doctors, I do care passionately about saving lives and improving healthcare. We need blood and tissue to train NHS staff, to do research and to help future patients. Specimens from living patients are more numerous and, usually, more useful for this. I think they need separate consideration to samples from the dead. The bill does not do this. We would all treasure a lock of hair from a relative who had died, but hair goes into the bin at the hairdresser's. In NHS laboratories we just do not see people asking for their blood, urine and biopsies back. If a patient insists on a specimen being incinerated instead of being used to help others, that's OK - but how do we find out? I agree with you that communication is vital, but the government has ignored the problem of scale. Yes, resources are being made available for bereavement services (good!), but there is not a bean extra to pay for obtaining consent from the living or for recording and retrieving that consent. Let us allow just one minute to ask questions, think, answer, listen and record the answer. I think that's inadequate - it leaves no time for explanations. But with 150m samples a year, a paltry one minute each equals 1,300 full-time jobs, or the equivalent of shutting down a hospital. Is it worth it? For tissue taken in postmortem examinations, certainly. But for surplus urine or leftover blood?  PeterDear PeterIf a patient is in hospital, waiting to undergo a procedure, consent has to be sought before that procedure can be carried out. Surely it would not be too onerous to take an extra minute to explain to the patient that, following any histology that would help in their own diagnosis, it would be beneficial to others, medical students or other patients, if their tissue could be retained. Every day, people attend their GP surgery or hospital to give urine or blood samples. Most patients have to wait before this procedure is carried out. Why can't they be given an information sheet to read explaining that their sample may be sent to a laboratory for use in education, teaching and research? Peter, where there's a will, there is a way. JanDear JanIf you go into hospital and have 10 samples taken, do you need the same questions 10 times? Why not provide the information sheets, as you suggest, but add the questions to the long list every patient has to answer during "booking in" and record the answer with the patient's record, not that of the specimen? This would be less hassle for everyone, and if patients changed their minds, it would only need to be recorded once in order to apply to all specimens, past and future. Would that not empower patients? You could extend the scheme to other preferences, perhaps including organ donation. But it is still not free. It has to be electronic, so that in the lab we can find out what patients want. Just changing hospital IT systems like this costs a fortune.  Peter Dear PeterI have always felt, not only as a parent involved in organ retention but also as a member of the Retained Organs Commission, that there is a difference between postmortem tissue and "surgical" tissue.This was, in fact, indicated in the advice given by the commission to the Department of Health.Perhaps your suggestion of recording the consent at the time of "booking in" would work, but how, and who, would decide the exceptions?I'm really not trying to fudge the resources issue. I agree that the necessary resources will need to be provided to enable electronic records to be kept, but I cannot imagine that you would need to completely change the NHS's IT hardware.  Jan Dear JanGood: we agree that postmortem tissue and tissue from patients are distinct. The government disagrees: that is the core problem with this bill; that is what threatens the staff training and research patients need. You still ignore the problem of scale. You might take less than a minute to clean your teeth. It is negligible. But what if you were told to do it 100 times a day, on top of a working day? My heart bleeds for your loss and the pain of your story, but I fear determination and suspicion blind you to the dangers in this bill for living children and adults. Peter Dear PeterI understand that you feel there might be a problem, but I do think you are grossly exaggerating. The ultimate responsibility for establishing best practice will rest with the new Human Tissue Authority.My family have had to accept that we cannot change the past, but we are determined that there will be changes for the future. The same must apply to those working in the medical profession. You also have to move forward and embrace the changes and challenges.  Jan