Two former directors of Derby County and the club's ex-director of football were sent to prison today for fraudulently sharing £440,625 in secret commissions after they took over the club in 2003. A Monaco-based lawyer, David Lowe, was also jailed, for two years, after being convicted of money-laundering.The jury at Northampton crown court had been told that following the takeover of Derby, when the heavily-indebted club was bought for just £3, Andrew Mackenzie, 55, the club's finance director, Jeremy Keith, 41, who became the new chief executive and Murdo Mackay, 53, then the director of football, had each been paid £125,000 plus VAT by the club, which was not approved by the board.Mackenzie and Mackay were both sentenced to three years in prison, after being found guilty of conspiracy to defraud the club. Keith was sentenced to 18 months having been convicted of false accounting. The court heard that Lowe, the legal adviser during the takeover, had received £81,895 for part of Mackenzie's share of the commissions, and channelled it to Mackenzie via one of Lowe's companies registered in the Isle of Man. Keith was also disqualified from being a company director for three years, while Mackenzie and Mackay were both disqualified for five years. The judge, Ian Alexander QC, described the fraud as "in some ways more reprehensible" than usual because the four men were "to some extent public figures" and previously successful professionals."You, like so many people who commit business and professional crime, somehow give the impression that you do not believe the rules apply to you," the judge said, "and that what you do in your business life is perfectly acceptable."The spectre of prominent members of society behaving in such a dishonest way on this scale, and without any apparent hesitation, conscience or remorse, is very unedifying." Derby County have applied to have the £375,000 returned to them from the men. HM Revenue and Customs is understood to be also claiming for return of the £65,625 VAT. The convictions and prison sentences followed a three year investigation by Derbyshire Police's economic crime unit, working in association with the Fraud Prosecution Service, who brought the case to its conclusion in court. The period in which Keith, Mackenzie and Mackay ran Derby County was controversial from the beginning partly because the finance Keith and two of his partners, John Sleightholme and Steve Harding, brought with them was a £15m loan from a company, ABC Corporation, registered in Panama, whose source has never been confirmed. It was, however, strongly believed to have come from Michael Hunt, the former managing director of Nissan UK who in 1993 was sentenced to eight years in prison for his role in the largest tax fraud ever perpetrated in the UK. Sleightholme and Harding have since resigned from the club; neither was implicated at all in the fraud or charged with any offence. The Derby County Supporters Trust, Ramstrust, consistently expressed dissatisfaction with the regime and two board members, Elaine Dean and Jim Wheeler, said today that they felt the campaign has been vindicated by the convictions and sentences. "The trust battled to bring the truth to light over the financial dealings at the club and we welcome the sentences today," they said. "We hope this will make other opportunists think twice before trying to rip off football clubs – and encourage supporters at all clubs to ask questions before welcoming into the boardroom 'businessmen' who have no previous association with their clubs." I will be writing in more detail about this case, and the turbulent events at Derby County during the period in which the fraud was perpetrated, in my column and on this blog on Wednesday.