The Metropolitan police has drawn up a carefully orchestrated campaign to defuse criticism of racism in the force ahead of this week's 'explosive' report into the murder of Stephen Lawrence. Anticipating damning condemnation of police conduct during the investigation into Stephen's death, The Observer can disclose that earlier this month the Met invited dozens of journalists to its training school in Hendon, north London, to interview five specially selected recruits from ethnic minorities. The five all denied experiencing racism, from colleagues or on the street. They are understood to have painted an image of a force where, in spite of the stresses of policing London, they were generally happy at work and well treated by their white peers. They did not believe their background would impede chances of promotion. The journalists were only allowed to attend on condition that the 'positive' experiences of black and Asian officers would only be published or screened the day after Sir William Macpherson's report is made public, possibly as early as Tuesday. Senior officers denied briefing the interviewees on what to say. But a source close to the Met's 'spin campaign' said: 'Next week the Met are going to be trotting out all the happy black faces at Hendon, saying they have never seen anything bad and everything is all right. But that is not the case. Institutional racism does exist in the Met and the report will prove it.' Paul Wilson, chairman of the Black Police Association, believes the Met's white-orientated culture is so pervasive that even black officers are forced to adopt to survive. 'Every black officer experiences racism on a daily basis,' he said. 'We all have our own ways of coping with it. You either take flight, acquiesce or fight. You can't put your head above the parapet because the dominant culture dictates your behaviour. Anyone who denies it is either blinkered or blind or both.' John Grieve, the Deputy Assistant Commissioner, has already briefed selected journalists on new lines of inquiry in the Lawrence investigation. The briefings are embargoed until publication of the Macpherson report.  Macpherson is expected to rule that institutional racism is widespread throughout the capital's police force and was responsible for the failure to bring a conviction in the Lawrence case. The Met's Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, is also set to face personal criticism for repeatedly denying that racism was to blame.  Although the Met last night refused to discuss who was behind the media blitz designed to show the force in a positive image, police sources said it had been sanctioned at 'the highest level'. The campaign will also include the publication of a new report outlining detailed procedures to eliminate racism and improve working conditions for black and Asian officers. In addition, figures will be released showing the number of recruits ejected before the end of their training because they had 'racist' tendencies.  In recent weeks Grieve has invited a succession of journalists to the new Race and Violent Crimes Unit at Scotland Yard. After introducing reporters to his Asian systems analyst, he briefs them on his plans for getting tough on racial crimes. He is also quick to point out that since the unit was set up last August the Met has 'locked up 400 racists'. A Scotland Yard spokeswoman denied the Hendon briefing was specifically aimed at diluting the impact of the Lawrence report. 'It was a response to a number inquiries about what training is like, what new recruits to the Met go through. We opened up the training school and took journalists around some of the training suites. It was all for pieces tied to the Lawrence report and we embargoed all the interviews until then. But it wasn't really an opportunity to interview ethnic minority officers. There were some there, but not very many.'