Tony Blair has been personally associated with many flawed crime initiatives - evicting anti-social tenants, frogmarching louts to cash machines and night courts - and now he has launched yet another personal crusade to turn around the social irresponsibility of the 60s.For the key emphases in yesterday's five-year Home Office plan, the latest symbol of Downing Street's energy after health and education plans, very much reflects the personal prejudices and political strategy of the prime minister.It was the prime minister who demanded that government departments come up with the five-year plans, over-riding objections from ministers who feared such plans were premature and would deprive the autumn party conference of the momentum necessary to take the party into a general election next spring.It was also the prime minister that put the anti-60s twist on a Home Office plan that is in other respects quite liberal. He puzzled some Labour MPs by blaming the 60s, rather than the individualistic Thatcherite 80s, the "Me" decade. Mr Blair carefully defended parts of the sixties legacy, including the end of deference and discrimination, but argued, as an unspoken Christian, that it has led to moral relativism. He argued: "A society of different lifestyles spawned a group of young people who were brought up without parental discipline, without proper role models and without any sense of responsibility to or for others." People, he argued, "do want rules, order and proper behaviour. They know there is such a thing as society. They want a society of respect. They want a society of responsibility". It is a set of values, an agenda that Labour would lose at its peril. Tom Watson, Labour's successful Birmingham Hodge Hill byelection coordinator, said yesterday: "If we had not been seen to be on the people's side over anti-social behaviour, we would have lost the byelection. "Without a shadow of doubt, it is the number one issue on the doorsteps in urban areas and has been since I have been an MP. It is teen gangs, graffiti, fireworks, the quality of life issues that cumulatively make life a misery for too many people." Mr Blair, from when he was shadow home secretary, has seen it as his personal responsibility to keep ahead of the Conservatives on crime. As long ago as 1998, he was moving beyond the traditional crime agenda by using the phrase anti-social behaviour. For the past three years, he has focused on "crime and grime", the low-level loutishness that sends law-abiding citizens furious at the lack of respect on society. Indeed "respect" for authority has become a key New Labour focus-group mediated word. Mr Blair started thinking in legislative terms when backbench MPs repeatedly relayed messages from their surgeries that the pro-order measures introduced by the previous home secretary, Jack Straw, in 1998 were not being used by police and magistrates. The MPs repeatedly told ministers that fear of crime, as much as crime, was moving votes. It prompted the Anti-Social Behaviour Act in April which has helped spawn the new street levels symbols of authority - the neighbourhood wardens, the street wardens and community support officers - responsible for "reassurance policing". Initially unskilled CSOs were unpopular with police chiefs but research showed neighbour- hood warden areas had seen crime fall by an astonishing 28% and fear of crime by 10%. The issue now is no longer legislation, but enforcement. Privately Number 10 is deeply critical at police conservatism. So the proposed power for the public to be able to trigger changes in the way the local police deploy their resources is seen as a key reform.