The award-winning actor Chris Langham was today sentenced to 10 months in jail for downloading pictures and videos of child abuse to his home computer.Langham will serve half the sentence, minus the 43 days he has already spent in custody.The star of the BBC satire The Thick of It was convicted last month of 15 counts of making an indecent photograph of a child.The Crown Prosecution Service said material found on Langham's computer included images of sadism and non-consensual sex between adults and children.Some of the images were classified by police as category five - the most severe grading. Passing sentence at Maidstone crown court today, the judge, Philip Statman, said one of the child abuse victims shown in the images Langham downloaded had been around eight years old, while others were between 11 and 13."Some of the children viewed are clearly prepubescent, others are fully developed, some of the children are clearly of Filipino extract," he said. "All have had inflicted upon them horrifying sexual abuse and, I want to make this absolutely clear to you, I must think first of those children. They are too young to consent."He continued: "When one sees their faces, in my judgment, they are vacant and lacking in expression ... you never ever see the faces of the perpetrators. "Your activity took place in the comfort of your own home, no doubt at the time feeling safe in the knowledge that you would never be caught."Langham will also be placed on the sex offenders' register for 10 years, and will be subject to a five-year sexual offenders' prevention order.The actor was cleared of six charges of indecent assault and two charges of buggery after the jury found him not guilty of having sex with a 14-year-old female fan he had befriended outside a London theatre in the mid-90s.During sentencing, the judge said he had told the jury they were not required to consider whether Langham was a paedophile. "There's nothing in the papers before me to indicate that you are a sexual predator in the sense that is ordinarily used," he told the actor. "You accepted in your evidence that you had been arrogant in thinking that you were above the law in downloading those images. With that statement I wholeheartedly agree."During the trial, Langham, of Golford, near Cranbrook, Kent, repeatedly denied claims that he systematically groomed and then assaulted the girl when she was 14 and 15. He admitted having sex with her when she was 18.The 58-year-old actor never denied downloading child abuse images, but said he was pleading not guilty because he was not a paedophile. He told the court he had been researching a sex offender character for the BBC comedy series Help, which he was co-writing.Langham recounted having been abused as an eight-year-old child, and said he had looked at the images to better understand what had happened to him. Outside court, his solicitor, Angus McBride, read a statement on his behalf. The statement said: "The court has confirmed today that I am not a paedophile. "It has reached this conclusion having considered reports by social services, the probation service, a senior consultant psychiatrist and an expert in sexual offenders with 30 years experience. "If the prosecution had accepted this at the beginning, I would have pleaded guilty. I have always admitted I should never have downloaded those abusive images. I am delighted that, at last, my account has been proved to be the truth."