A pub chef with a long history of sexual violence was sentenced to life yesterday for the murder of 18-year-old aspiring model Sally Anne Bowman and must serve a minimum of 34 years.Mark Dixie, 37, a father of three from south London, had insisted he was not the killer. Instead, he claimed to have chanced upon her lifeless body while high on cocaine and had sex, not realising she was dead. But it took an Old Bailey jury just 3½ hours yesterday to find him guilty of what the police officer in charge of the case said was the most horrific killing he had ever had to investigate - but one he feared was not Dixie's first."I can't believe Sally Anne's murder was Dixie's first because of the way in which it was carried out," said Detective Superintendent Stuart Cundy."I never want to see anything like that ever again," he added. Dixie had forced the Bowman family to listen to some harrowing evidence for his own sexual gratification, said Cundy.He added that DNA evidence had been crucial in tracking down Dixie, and called for the introduction of a national DNA register which would hold a sample from everyone in Britain. "If there was a DNA register, we would have known who killed Sally Anne [on the day her body was found]," Cundy said.Dixie was a dangerous sexual predator with 16 previous convictions dating back 20 years, many of which were sexually motivated, said Cundy. He said he was sure Dixie was responsible for other, unsolved, crimes and made an appeal for women to study photographs of Dixie to see if he had ever attacked them."Mark Dixie posed a significant threat to women and I strongly believe that there may be other victims who have not come forward," said Cundy.Although Dixie has been ruled out of any murder in the UK, it is thought he may have got away with a series of sex attacks - or even killings - while living in Australia between 1993 and 1999.Cundy said: "I am still convinced he has done something somewhere in Australia. If he has committed another shocking murder somewhere, it is in Australia."During the trial, the court heard that British police had linked Dixie with an unsolved rape and attempted murder in Perth, Australia, in 1998. A young Thai woman had been attacked by a knife-wielding man who climbed through her window wearing a stocking on his head. He stabbed her until she was unconscious and then raped her. It was only when he was arrested for Bowman's murder that a DNA match was made, with forensic science experts saying there was a "one in a billion" chance the sperm found in the victim's body did not belong to Dixie.He has never been charged with this crime, and in court said that he could not remember the Thai woman - who gave evidence behind a screen - and she must have been either a one-night stand or a prostitute.The jury heard that the Australian crime bore an eerie resemblance to Bowman's murder: in both cases, Dixie attacked the women in or near their homes, stabbed them and raped them while they were unable to fight back. In both cases, the victim's handbag has never been found.The court heard that Dixie's first sexually motivated conviction was in 1986 when he was just 16. Then, he and a friend held a knife to a woman's throat and fondled her breasts. He was convicted on a count of robbery and the sexual assault offence was left to lie on file.The Bowman family cheered as the verdict was read out in court. There were tears from the victim's boyfriend, Lewis Sproston, who was initially the prime suspect in the case after he admitted rowing with Bowman minutes or even seconds before she was knifed to death in her own driveway in Croydon in September 2005. When he was arrested the day after the killing, he said to police: "Is this about the row with my girlfriend last night?" After four days of questioning in police custody, Sproston was released when DNA analysis found that sperm found on Bowman's body belonged to another man. Police then launched the biggest voluntary DNA screening ever seen in the UK, with some 1,700 men giving samples. Dixie was not one of them, and in court one of his friends recalled that he reacted angrily when a friend suggested he should be screened by police, saying: "Are you calling me a murderer?" Shortly afterwards, he fled to Amsterdam for a few months.If Dixie had stayed under the police radar after the killing, they might never have caught him. But on June 15 2006, he got into a bar brawl after an England football match and was arrested for a minor assault. Since 2004, the police have been given powers to take DNA swabs from anyone arrested and taken to a police station, so Dixie, like everyone else in his position, was made to give a saliva sample.At the time, the officers interviewing him thought it slightly odd that he cried under questioning - he was not facing a serious charge at that point. The reason for his anguish became clear 12 days later, when Sussex police got a call from the forensics lab: Dixie's DNA was a near-perfect match for the semen discovered on Sally Anne Bowman's body. "There was a one in a billion chance it could have belonged to someone else," said Julie-Ann Cornelius, the senior forensic scientist who gave evidence in the case.Dixie has never shown any remorse for the murder. The only hint he ever gave of his involvement was when he was arrested in June 2006, some nine months after the killing, when police officers asked if he had a history of mental health problems. "I must have been mental to do that, eh?" he said.Passing sentence yesterday, the judge, Gerald Gordon QC, said the 34-year minimum term reflected Dixie's criminal record, his total lack of remorse over the killing and the way in which he had carried out the attack so near to Bowman's home."There is no mitigation," he said.