Ministers should suspend anti-discrimination laws to enable police forces in racially diverse areas to fast-track black and ethnic minority recruits at the expense of white candidates, according to the head of the government's race watchdog.Trevor Phillips, chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, said that ways had to be found to fast-track ethnic minority staff to senior posts if police were to appear "legitimate" in the eyes of their communities.In an interview today with Society Guardian Mr Phillips says such measures are needed because of the failure of conventional methods to tackle race inequality, such as colourblind recruitment techniques, anti-racism training, and job advertising in the ethnic minority press. Mr Phillips rejects suggestions that the approach copies US-style affirmative action. "Affirmative action has become 'let's help black people'; I'm not doing this to help black people; I'm doing it because our public services cannot do the job unless we make progress [in racial equality] at all levels, pretty quickly." He says he is in discussion with the home secretary, David Blunkett, about the measure, which would - in "extreme" cases - require existing police recruitment procedures, which are based on a strict queuing system, to be halted to allow an influx of ethnic minority officers. Allowing black and Asian candidates to jump the queue was necessary if forces were to maximise their performance and win the confidence of a racially diverse public, said Mr Phillips. The principle could also be applied to other public services. He said: "If you are a police force in a city which has 20 or 30% ethnic minorities but you only have one to two per cent ethnic minorities in your workforce, you don't just have an operational problem you have a legitimacy problem." Mr Phillips criticises police recruitment procedures which he said meant candidates sit numerous tests and wait for the right opportunity to come up. "Unless what happens is 10,000 ethnic recruits turn up on the same day and they all apply at same time you're not going to change things very fast." The police force in England and Wales this month reached a record 134,000. Increased pay levels mean there have been no shortage of new recruits. This has made it more difficult for police forces to accelerate their ethnic minority recruitment. Mr Phillips' proposal is influenced by the experience of the US army, which he says realised that a purely white officer cadre would not be able to guarantee troop unity on the battlefield. "What they needed to have was a mixed officer class so they did whatever it took to achieve that aim." Mr Phillips said the Commission for Equality and Human Rights, which will be created following the abolition of the CRE, Equal Opportunities Commission and Disability Rights Commission in 2006, should be given the right to apply to ministers to suspend the race and sex discrimination laws in certain circumstances. Jan Berry, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales said that the service had been working hard to recruit more ethnic minority officers, and "steady progress" had been made. But she warned that positive discrimination could be counter-productive. "All officers, including talented black officers, may feel isolated and consider their efforts and promotion are undermined should newer colleagues be leap-frogged into the service through preferential treatment and recruitment." Mr Phillips, a television executive who has been chairman of the CRE for just over a year, also reveals that in the interests of fairness he plans later this month to expand the number of white CRE commissioners from two out of 15 to five. "If I can put it crudely - we are not just the commission advocating for black and brown people," he says.