Two years ago this week, Debbie Remorozo, a 26-year-old Filipino coronary care nurse, wrote up her notes and completed her 7am to 3pm shift at the Royal Oldham hospital in Greater Manchester.At 3.37pm on December 7 2002 she was spotted by a CCTV camera as she left the hospital to make her way home. Less than half an hour later she arrived at her flat in Summervale House in the Werneth district of Oldham, a block protected by a concierge and security cameras. She used her key to let herself in through the front door. Some time that same evening she opened the door to her killer, who launched what the coroner at her inquest described as a "savage and unprovoked attack". The following day, which Ms Remorozo would have known as the Catholic feast of the immaculate conception of the Virgin Mary, friends and colleagues became worried when she did not turn up for work. They telephoned her flat but no one answered. Fellow nurse Estrellita Villacamea told the inquest that everyone was worried. With other friends, she used a spare key to let herself into Ms Remorozo's flat at 5.40pm. "We found her lying on the floor," she said. "There was lots of blood on her clothes. I felt for a pulse but there was none. I ran out and called an ambulance." Ms Remorozo had suffered multiple stab wounds from a kitchen knife to her neck and chest, some of which had pierced her heart and lung. Two years on the person who carried out that frenzied attack has not been found. On the anniversary of her death, Det Supt Steve Heywood of Greater Manchester police appealed to the public for help. "Debbie was a young professional nurse who was killed in the prime of her life," he said. "This is the most heinous of murders and I will not rest until we find her killer. "We have a DNA profile of someone who was in the flat at the time Debbie was killed. Now we need a name to match that profile. That would be the last piece in the jigsaw. There is someone in the Oldham community who knows, or suspects they know, who killed Debbie." His inquiries have shown that Ms Remorozo had left her parents Dionisio, a farmer, and Alicia, a teacher, in the Philippines to come to Britain to work to provide extra cash for the family. She worked hard, often signing up for overtime. She would go home, prepare a simple meal and sleep. She did not socialise much but went regularly to church. Mr Heywood said: "We believe that she did have suitors but because of her religious beliefs and culture she had an approach towards courting that we would consider Victorian." No motive has been established. "We have had to rule out robbery - there appeared to be nothing missing from the flat and there was no evidence of a sexual attack," Mr Heywood said. "On the face of it, it would appear to be an argument that has gone wrong. It may be that Debbie had upset someone in the past and that he or she has come for revenge." Last year, on the first anniversary of Ms Remorozo's death, friends and colleagues remembered her at a mass at St Patrick's church in Oldham. By then police had interviewed 1,500 people and announced that a £10,000 reward was on offer. They said it would be "only a matter of time" before the killer was caught. As inquiries spread far and wide, officers distributed leaflets in English and Tagalog at Filipino festivals in north Wales and west London. Other officers travelled to the Philippines. "We strongly suspect that the murderer was someone Debbie knew," said Mr Heywood. "She was a very security-conscious individual who would always lock the door behind her." He renewed his appeal to the public to offer help, anonymously if necessary. "There is a £10,000 reward available, but this isn't about money but about trying to get a killer off the streets," he said.