A teenager who beat an engineer to death in an unprovoked attack filmed on his friend's mobile phone has been jailed for life.Ryan Sheppard, 18, will serve a minimum of 12 years and three months' imprisonment after admitting the murder of Mark Roberts, 35, in Weston-super-Mare, Somerset, on 12 October last year.Roberts had been walking home alone following a night out with friends when he was approached by four teenagers, then aged between 15 and 17.Sheppard began pestering Roberts for a cigarette and to take him to a pub – requests the stepfather-of-two declined, instead suggesting the group "go home".The teenager responded by hitting Roberts to the floor before a girl, then aged 15 and who cannot be named for legal reasons, took out her iPhone and started filming. Bristol crown court heard she filmed for about 90 seconds as Sheppard kicked and stamped on Roberts before using both hands to repeatedly slam his head on the pavement.Sheppard and his friends then walked away, leaving Roberts, who suffered a cardiac arrest, lying unconscious in a pool of blood.Residents called paramedics and Roberts was taken to Weston general hospital, where he died 36 hours later.As doctors battled to save Roberts, Sheppard, then aged 17, was showing the video of his fatal attack to friends.Police later arrested Sheppard, who admitted murdering Roberts, along with the girl who was filming. She was acquitted of murder and manslaughter following a trial at Bristol crown court in June.Judge Neil Ford QC, the recorder of Bristol, jailed Sheppard for the "unprovoked, sustained and brutal" attack."For some reason you suddenly lost your temper and punched him to the head and predictably he fell to the ground," the judge said."Once he had done that he was wholly helpless. When he was on the ground you punched him further and kicked him repeatedly, you also struck him with your elbow."A wholly independent witness saw you repeatedly raise his head with both of your hands and smash it on the ground."At some stage you stamped on his head. Your attack has been described as cowardly. It was also unprovoked, sustained and brutal."He was a hard-working 35-year-old. He was engaged to be married this year."Roberts, who lived nearby with his fiancee and her two children, spent the evening of 11 October drinking with friends at the Devonshire Road Social Club.  Mark Roberts died in Weston general hospital 36 hours after the attack. Photograph: Avon and Somerset Police/PASheppard had been drinking with friends, two 15-year-old girls and a 15-year-old boy, and had also taken cocaine that night.Residents spotted Sheppard and one of the group running over cars, an act described to the court as "monster trucking".Roberts left the social club at midnight and was followed and attacked by Sheppard as he walked through a park.Adam Vaitilingam QC, prosecuting, said Sheppard boasted as he showed off video of the attack to friends later that day. "There was an element of triumph of what he had done," he said. "This was a souvenir that could be shown to others about what Ryan Sheppard had done to Mr Roberts."Roberts was declared dead at midday on 13 October in the intensive care ward of Weston general hospital.A postmortem examination found he suffered bruising and cuts to the left side of his forehead, above his right ear and had cuts to his lower lip and beneath his chin.It also showed Roberts suffered a fractured nose, with bruising of both eyes and cuts across his face.Bruising and a partial footprint from Sheppard's shoe was found on Roberts' forehead. His blood was found on Sheppard's clothing and shoes.In a victim impact statement read to the court, Roberts's fiancee, Zara Powell, described how his murder had left her suicidal."He will always be my one and only," she said. "As well as my children, Mark was my whole life. In the short time we had together we achieved a lot. He made me so happy."Roberts's aunt, Theresa Sheldon read a statement by his mother, Lesley Roberts, describing their loss."Until the day we die, Mark will be 35," she said. "We will never see him age or get married. Mark died when he was at his happiest. His life and future have been taken away from him."At the end of the statement, Sheldon turned to Sheppard and told him: "You showed Mark no mercy, you should be shown none."Sheppard was on licenceat the time of the offence, having robbed three boys of their mobile phones in March 2013. He has previous convictions for possessing an offensive weapon and handling stolen goods.Representing Sheppard, Richard Smith QC, said his client was remorseful for his actions. "It is a dreadful word to use in respect of this defendant's case but he is a coward, he accepts that and it is how he describes himself," Smith said.Sheppard, wearing a blue shirt, remained emotionless as sentence was passed. Members of Roberts's family wept in the packed public gallery.In the victim impact statement, Roberts and her husband Andrew described Sheppard as "the face and voice of evil"."We have been left broken-hearted knowing the last Mark saw on this Earth was his attacker, the face and voice of evil. One of us should have been that person," they said.Speaking after the hearing, Detective Inspector Lorna Dallimore, of Avon and Somerset police, said: "Mark died following a brutal and unprovoked assault as he walked home following a night out."There was no reason for Ryan Sheppard to suddenly turn on Mark and beat him to death but that is what happened. Now, as he begins a lengthy prison sentence, he must face up to the consequences of his actions."