The UK's biggest music festival group is planning to launch personal safety awareness campaigns for female fans after two rapes at the Latitude festival in Suffolk last weekend.Melvyn Benn, the chief executive of Festival Republic which runs Latitude, said the organisation was planning to raise awareness of the potential dangers faced by female festival-goers at all its events, which include Reading, Leeds and the Big Chill. "It is fair to say that in the future we will be making much more high profile the issues of being alone at night, particularly if you are a girl – definitely," said Benn.The company is considering launching on-site campaigns to raise awareness after a gang rape was alleged at Latitude on Thursday and a second rape alleged on Saturday.Benn told the Guardian he was "devastated" about the weekend's events. "I can't believe it, this is everything that Latitude isn't," he said."It is difficult to find any nastiness or aggression at Latitude and this is the antithesis to everything the festival stands for. It's shocking and I am distraught about it."The two attacks came a week after police began investigating a sexual assault and two attempted murders at the T in the Park festival in Scotland.At Latitude – marketed as a family-friendly, arts-oriented event – a 19-year-old woman told police she had been attacked by a group of men on Thursday, after becoming lost while looking for the toilets in her campsite. She was raped by at least one of the group, she told police. Police said they were "following up several lines of inquiry", but no arrests have been made, and no witnesses have come forward.A 17-year-old girl then said on Saturday that she had been raped in a tent on the campsite the previous night. A 19-year-old man was held on Saturday night in relation to the incident and bailed to return to police in Lowestoft, Suffolk, on 2 September.The second incident occurred between two people "who had become acquainted with each other", according to Benn. "The two incidents were not connected, and from what we are told by police the first attack appears to have been opportunistic rather than targeted," he said.It emerged yesterday that another girl had been chased to her tent by a gang of youths on the same Thursday that the gang rape was said to have happened.Frances Anderson, 17, from Ipswich, said her friend had run back from the arena to the campsite in tears after being chased by four "drunken yobs". She said: "They had stuck their hands down her top and pinched her bum. She hid in the toilets so they wouldn't know where she was staying before coming back. When we heard we did think – it could have been her," she said. The girl did not wish to be named, or to report the incident to police.Benn said security at Latitude and other Festival Republic events would be reassessed. "There are always thing to learn and improve on," he said. "We will be reviewing the security but only because of these incidents".Security at Reading and Leeds has already been stepped up this year after violent incidents last year.There will be more police, stewards and security staff and a ban on bringing alcohol onto the site will be enforced at 6pm on the final evening.Other festival organisers said they were shocked about this summer's alleged crimes and urged all festival ticket holders to have a good time, but not let their guard down.Vince Power, founder of Reading and Leeds and organiser of Hop Farm festival, said the events were likely to prompt all festival organisers to reassess their security. "If it happened at Latitude, it can happen anywhere," he said, adding that UK festivals were the most secure in Europe and serious crime was rare."When you go to a festival with your friends and you drop your guard, but you are living in what is essentially a small town and in a town you wouldn't leave your door open and you would expect some crime," he said.Dawn Woodhouse, festival co-ordinator at next month's V festival in Essex and Staffordshire, said both sites would have uniformed and undercover police."We encourage our guests over the weekend to support the work of the police, by looking out for each other and acting responsibly," she said.Benn said Latitude has below average crime and everything possible had been done to make sure it was safe. "Festivals provide an element of outdoor freedom. That is integral but our ability to inform young girls in particular about the dangers of sexual predators is something we can do more on, and we will."