Sobriety bracelets. They sound a bit like purity rings, but there's nothing self-righteous about them. A chunky piece of ugly technology, the sobriety bracelet is used to detect even a smidgen of alcohol in the perspiration of its wearer, from whom readings are sent twice a day in order to monitor their abstinence.Sobriety bracelets are used in a number of US states as an alternative to custody for people, among them Lindsay Lohan, who commit alcohol-related crimes. Strathclyde Police – now part of Police Scotland – conducted trials into their use a few years ago, and the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, has just announced that they'll be tested in four of the capital's boroughs next. In Britain, however, the preferred nomenclature is sobriety tags.Whether it's tags or bracelets, I wish I could ridicule the idea and complain that my childhood vision of the future was full of jetpacks, holidays on Mars and world peace, not public officials hunched over screens examining the sweat of their fellow citizens. But I can't. When I was young, I didn't consider the future of prisons either. But if I had, I wouldn't have foreseen the same Victorian buildings that we'd used in the 1960s, only much more miserable and overcrowded, as is often the reality.Statistics published this week by the Ministry of Justice confirm that our prisons are getting worse, not better. That's hardly surprising, since the coalition is cutting prison costs by 24% during its term. But the consequences are still shocking. The number of people who killed themselves increased by more than two-thirds in the year up to March. Self-harm is increasing among men and women. Not only the inmates are suffering. Serious assaults on prison officers are up by 38%. The National Offender Management Service has identified 29 prisons in which performance is of "concern" or "serious concern". The public are at risk, too, the escape of violent offenders having become a familiar news headline.So absolutely nothing that could keep people out of prison, or get them out early, can be lightly dismissed, especially as 44% of people convicted of violent crimes in England and Wales are under the influence of alcohol at the time of their offence. Metropolitan Police commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe says that for night-time arrests in the capital the figure is sometimes as high as 90%. "You can," he says, "literally smell the problem" by walking around police cells at night.In Scotland, social workers have argued that any scheme involving sobriety tags should be voluntary (although a voluntary scheme launched by Northamptonshire Police in May has attracted only three participants so far). The general argument is that people find it hard to abstain from alcohol completely, and that it's unrealistic to expect people suddenly to change their drinking habits so radically, especially if they don't have adequate social support.But the London scheme addresses this problem directly. Possible participants will be screened, so that people who are already dependent on alcohol aren't forced into abstinence when it would be an unrealistic course for them. Those who are put on the scheme will be offered treatment.The centre-right think-tank Policy Exchange has studied a couple of US schemes, and the statistics are fairly impressive. In Wayne County, Michigan, the bracelets are monitored by the police, under an early-release scheme for serving prisoners, and have no treatment component. Among the first 975 people fitted with the bracelets, 84% didn't touch alcohol at all. Of those who did, only 2% did it three times or more. The Wayne County scheme highlights cost-saving, suggesting that monitoring costs $8 a day, compared to $70 a day in county jail.Interestingly, a scheme at state level in Michigan, which does include treatment and support, has a lower success rate, with 68% completing their time without drinking at all and 11% non-compliant three times or more, although it may be simply that the success rate is lower because the term is longer (an average of 115 days in Michigan, compared to 77 in Wayne County). In fact, there's not much in the way of evidence about whether alcohol-monitoring changes drinking habits in the long term.But that's not really the point. The good thing about sobriety tags is that – potentially, at least – they combine punishment and opportunity in a way that prison should, but rarely does. Alcohol dependence and alcohol addiction are progressive. The longer the problem continues, the harder it is to address it. If your alcohol use is at a stage when it's placing you in the purlieu of the criminal justice system then it's already a problem, but not as intractable a problem as it may become when both psychological and physical dependence are well advanced. Young people find it particularly easy to persuade themselves that their alcohol abuse is something they'll simply grow out of, even though there's rarely a shortage in any town of evidence displaying how low alcohol abuse can take a person in a lifetime.An imposed period of sobriety may help people gain some insight into how much their alcohol use is damaging other aspects of their lives. Making such a discovery voluntarily is hard, because the pressure to drink in our culture is so vastly underestimated. Simply having a cast-iron excuse for saying "no" to well-meaning friends and family with their certainty that "just one won't hurt" may prove in some cases an invaluable experience.But technologies such as this don't just offer an opportunity to individuals; they have potential to rehabilitate the whole idea of probation. The probation service has been severely damaged, under this government and the last. The result is that more people are in prison – and for longer. And people rarely come out of prison more equipped to be useful citizens than they were when they went in.Common sense suggests that even a short period of enforced sobriety – in England and Wales the maximum sentence is 120 days – can, with decent probation input, be enough to put a life back on track. Also, the efficacy of probation has in the past been hard to measure. Whatever else can be achieved during a period under a sobriety bracelet, such a regime does at least set out a clear aim, the failure of which is easily detectable.Long ago, in 1997, Labour promised that they would be "tough on crime [and] tough on the causes of crime." The sobriety bracelet finally offers an opportunity for us to get tough on one cause of crime while doing criminals what could, in some cases at least, turn out to be a much-needed, life-changing favour.