A remand prisoner recovering in hospital after surgery to remove one of his legs lies handcuffed to his bed, his lawyer claimed yesterday. Carl Shepherd, 35, from Northern Moor, Manchester, suffered head and leg injuries when arrested for burglary and was transferred from Manchester prison to hospital, where his left leg was amputated below the knee to prevent the spread of septicaemia.Now in a side room on a ward after leaving the intensive care unit, he is guarded by at least two prison officers."I was astounded when I went into North Manchester general hospital to see him in a small room at the end of the ward," said Mr Shepherd's solicitor, John Black. "When he lifted his hand up I could see his wrist was chained to the bed ... I was shocked when I saw the handcuffs."When you look at the state of him, it's disgraceful. He is not going anywhere. He has two prison officers next to him. He has lost a leg. He is in shock. He is in poor health. He is two or three floors up. He is expected to be in hospital for another two months from what I've been told."Mr Black said his client had been fit and well when he arrived at court to ensure he was abiding by a drug treatment order and was arrested on suspicion of a house burglary later that same day. "I understand it was at this stage he sustained injuries to his leg and also [had to have] 15 staples to a head wound. He was charged with burglary and two police assaults and he was placed on remand at Strangeways. I think infection set in which was exacerbated by his drug addiction."Mr Shepherd's partner, Adele Mason, added: "It's just not fair after what he has been through. He's not a mass murderer, a terrorist or a sex offender. The man hasn't been allowed any dignity."They haven't left him alone for a minute, not even when he goes to the toilet or when his wound is dressed. I'm very angry at the way he has been treated. He shouldn't be chained up like that. He should be given some privacy because of his condition. He can't possibly go anywhere."Ms Mason said Mr Shepherd, a father of two, was arrested on April 10 and was held at a police station before magistrates remanded him in custody. He was later moved to hospital and, after a five-hour operation, spent two weeks in the high dependency unit.A Home Office spokeswoman declined to comment on individual cases but added: "Prison staff on hospital escorts follow strict guidelines on the use of restraints. Prisoners are handcuffed if there is a risk to themselves or anyone else, and that includes the risk of escaping."