All the young men say they carry knives 'for protection'. It is not a convincing argument. Young people who offend often have poorly developed verbal skills which can make reasoning with others difficult. They may never have learned the principles of sharing and co-operation. The way they think may attribute hostile intentions to other people's behaviour where there were none. Given these sort of difficulties, carrying knives to threaten and harm others can be seen as an easier option.Duwayne alludes to the lack of support in his life. Shabs realised his anti-social friends became more of an influence than his family. Dave and Paul relate how they have been the victims of violent crime in their community. Violence in the homes of those who offend is common. A fifth of young people known to Youth Offending Teams are considered at risk of harm from others. If children grow up surrounded by high levels of conflict and low levels of warmth and family love they will learn to behave violently. Research indicates that child abuse and neglect affects children's behaviour as well as their emotional and social development. Disaffection with school is also a strong factor related to criminal behaviour. Many children and young people who come from chaotic family environments with high family conflict have school related difficulties. Their parents are likely to have negative attitudes to school based on their own experiences. When there are problems at school the parents are unable and unwilling to work constructively to solve them and the result is that many of those who persist in committing crime will not be in school. Violent behaviour will quickly lead to exclusion. Bringing knives into school is the surest, quickest route out.Many, like Paul, think that it is down to computer games. It is not. It's not just for protection either. The reason young people carry knives is simply an extension of the problem we already have that young people engage in crime and some in violent crime. They do it because they lack the warmth, structure and consistency in care and discipline in their home. They fail to benefit from the opportunities for social, emotional and intellectual growth available at school. Once out of school they gravitate towards anti-social peers where they participate in deviant activities and where their thinking patterns about behaving violently and carrying knives are supported and reinforced.If we are to reduce knife crime and the devastating consequences then what we need to do is clear. It is not to send more to prison where they can learn about behaving violently. It is not to exclude them from the huge benefits of an education. If things are to change we need to take the long term actions which we know work. These are not the 'quick fix' answers of extra police, different computer games or tougher, expensive custodial sentences. These are working to support families to promote clear consistent parenting practices and supporting schools to work with children and families whose behaviour challenges all of us. In fact it is the daily work of many unsung heroes, our teachers, social workers, foster carers and those working in the criminal justice system. The government policy where 'Every Child Matters' is all about achieving better outcomes for every child, including those who have now grown up and carry knives.· Zoë Ashmore is a consultant forensic psychologist in the NHS Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service working with the Youth Offending Service.