Politicians debating crime rarely expand the mind, so when I watched Stephen Greenhalgh, Boris Johnson's policing deputy, speaking wisely on the theme on Tuesday I wondered which one of us had swallowed LSD. Re-running his appearance before the London Assembly's budget and performance committee I am now confident that neither of us did - the trippy moments were matched by the usual ploddy stuff. But when he was out there, man, it was, like, wild.The occasion was the start of a three-part scrutiny of the mayor's proposed 2014/15 budget, which includes the financing of the Met. Government cuts require Greenhalgh, as head of the mayor's office for policing and crime (MOPAC), to make big savings, yet Johnson's promise to increase the number of London police officers up by around a thousand to 32,000 must also be kept. Committee chair John Biggs grilled deputy commissioner Craig Mackey about why the recruitment part was taking so long – it could apparently, be next spring before the target's hit. This was a proper line of questioning given the Johnson pledge, but it made me wish for the eleven billionth time for less talk of "police numbers" and much more about what police actually do.Enter Greenhalgh, running late – "my watch stopped," he explained – but wasting no time before dropping his tab (so to speak). "More important to me than police officer numbers is the performance of the Metropolitan Police Service," he said. "Our prime role is to set expectations around crime reduction and public confidence in the Met." He added that there'd been a big drop in recorded "victim-based crime" such as burglary while, surprisingly he thought, survey evidence showed "a big increase in public confidence in the Met" to "pre-riot levels." It was vital to sustain that, he said.Far out. And yet a comedown wasn't far off. Greenhalgh listed his other big commitment as "getting far more officers out of the back and middle office and into neighbourhoods - a shift toward having more bobbies on the beat." And suddenly it felt as if we were slipping back into the grey, everyday of Tory cops-and-robbers cliché, where Sergeant Dixon and his doughty lads are stuck indoors filling forms forced on them by pettifogging socialists when they should be out on the streets giving young layabouts clips round the ear.But let's pause to recap. The goals of the mayor's four-year policing plan are summarised as meeting a 20.20.20 Challenge, meaning that by 2016 "key neighbourhood crimes" will be down 20%, costs cut by the same amount (some £500m) and public confidence in the police boosted to the same extent. A year ago a panel of criminologists explained to the assembly that two of these targets might be in conflict and could even make things worse. If, for example, the public has more faith in the police, crime rate figures can increase as a result because people are more likely to report crimes in the first place. A rise in recorded crime could, therefore, reflect improved police performance rather than the reverse. There was scepticism too about the way the policing plan, at that stage in draft form, proposed to drive up public confidence: too much belief was invested in the quantity of "bobbies on the beat" and not enough on the quality of their interactions with the public or on vital though less visible aspects of police work, such as the efficient processing of intelligence by civilian staff and securing co-operation from witnesses. The very existence of such targets could have "perverse effects" it was observed, including deflated morale and figure-fiddling.A different morale issue was raised at Tuesday's meeting by Tory AM Gareth Bacon, who'd heard from several officers at a social function that the rank restructuring process underway - fewer supervisors, more bodies on that rather hazy concept "the frontline" – was limiting their career progression hopes. What was the point of staying on?Greenhalgh thought this a manageable consequence of a positive change that had actually become more possible because of the budget squeeze. He was, he said, aware of other risk factors, such as the increasing requirement for officers to work at night. Yet while "attrition" was a proper concern, more of it might be unavoidable initially in the context of longer-term improvement. He stressed that new recruits would have to be fully aware of what being a Met officer entailed these days – not a nine to five occupation, for a start – and added that retaining them involved valuing "things that matter and being clear about what counts – how you engage with and deal with the public is an important part of policing." Finding the right people, Mackey had said earlier, was one of the reasons why getting those police numbers up to 32,000 was taking time.So maybe some of the points those criminologists raised twelve months ago have been taken on board. And maybe, despite my, ah, acidic opening remarks, the Greenhalgh MOPAC will bring about some good reforms to the way the Met goes about its work. Another big theme of the policing plan is selling buildings, including several police stations. This has worried some of the mayor's political opponents but they are, probably rightly, being ignored – improving relationships between the public and the police is about much bigger and more complicated things than a few sparsely-used front counters in Victorian piles. Time will tell if Greenhalgh and the Met really grasp what those things are.Many other important issues about MOPAC's plans and the Met's implementation of them were explored by the budget and performance committee. You can watch a webcast of the meeting via here. 