A judge called yesterday for an inquiry into police blunders which left a pimp free to repeatedly rape and beat a teenage girl and force her to work as a prostitute.Agrol Xhabri, 22, was jailed for 12 years after abducting the 17-year-old Latvian girl from her father's house in east London last year in broad daylight. Over two months he beat her, threatened to cut her "into little pieces", raped her around 30 times, strangled her and kept her prisoner in a room, allowing her out only to force her to have sex with other men. But on October 23 the woman escaped and called police from a phone box outside a massage parlour on Tottenham High Road where she had been forced to work. She begged for police to rescue her, and was told by the 999 operator that help was on the way. But none came and her nightmare continued for almost three more weeks. On November 12 she managed to ring her mother in Latvia and break the news of her ordeal. Her mother rang her father in London, who called the police. Policemen in a marked car went to a east London address and saw Xhabri and the girl enter. But there was a delay in staging the rescue, during which time the teenager was again raped while police were outside. After sentencing Xhabri at Snaresbrook crown court, Judge Martin Reynolds called for an inquiry: "There are two matters that caused concern during the course of evidence and I want to see if they could be improved. "I heard the 999 call. It seemed to me that the treatment she received in that call was less than helpful and less than sympathetic and had it been more appreciated what plight she was in it might have saved a lot of suffering." Part of the transcript of the 999 call, made from outside the Venus sauna, reads: "Victim: 'Please send car with police yeah?' Operator: 'Yes, I will do.' Victim: 'I am outside and near am work, no house, Wenos sauna.' Operator: 'I'm going to get police to you OK'. Victim: 'Yes please, then take me please.' Operator: 'Yes'." Judge Reynolds also expressed dismay at the police delay on November 12 in rescuing the teenager: "On the final day [of the victim's ordeal] a police car was outside the premises and must have seen the defendant and the victim arriving. We know that after arriving at the house a serious rape was committed. "It seems to me they should be investigated. It may be that they are procedural matters, but both these matters caused me considerable concern and hope that they will be looked into by a senior officer." The teenager came to London last summer to learn English and stayed at her father's house. Xhabri targeted her after a chance meeting, and went to her home with two men while her father was away. She was forced to write a note telling her father she had gone away to work, and then was driven to Xhabri's home where she was kept prisoner in a small room. She was repeatedly raped and Xhabri threatened to murder her if she resisted. She said: "He told me he would kill me if I tried to leave. He said I had no right to leave. On some occasions he would get really angry and beat me up, especially if I defended myself or argued ... he would also kick me and tried to strangle me." She was then forced to work in massage parlours and brothels in Tottenham, Chingford and King's Cross, earning £200 a day which Xhabri pocketed, allowing him to quit his job. Xhabri forced the teenager to ring her mother to tell her she was happy. He was found guilty of two specimen counts of rape, making threats to kill, false imprisonment and controlling prostitution for gain. He will be deported to his native Albania after serving his sentence. Judge Reynolds told him: "I have no doubt that you have done incalculable harm to that young girl. You used her for your own sexual gratification and then sent her to work as a prostitute." Scotland Yard was unable to comment last night.