The chairman of the Metropolitan police authority took more than two days to inform police that his son had allegedly been caught with class A drugs at a nightclub.Lord Harris of Haringey heard early on Saturday that door staff at the Fridge club in Brixton, south London, had claimed to have found ecstasy tablets on his 17-year-old son Matthew. But Lord Harris did not refer the matter to Scotland Yard until Monday - after a national newspaper had contacted him about the episode. If detectives discover that Lord Harris tried to cover up the incident, it could make his position as chairman of the Metropolitan police authority, which oversees the running of the capital's force, untenable.His office insists that he always planned to go to the police after consulting the parents of his son's friends who were at the club. A spokeswoman denied that he had been prompted to go to the police only when it became clear that the incident was to be made public. The episode also puts the spotlight on how nightclubs deal with visitors found in pos session of drugs. The Fridge admitted that its policy was to destroy drugs on the spot and inform parents rather than immediately handing those found with drugs over to the police. Lord Harris, 47, who was made a life peer by Tony Blair in 1998 and is the leader of the Labour group on the Greater London authority, was telephoned by staff at the Fridge at 12.40am on Saturday. He was told that his son and a 16-year-old friend had been caught allegedly with almost 50 tablets between them. It is claimed that Matthew Harris had 19 pills. The pills were destroyed in front of the young men, security staff and management and the pair were sent home in a taxi. The peer did not make a formal report of the incident until soon before 7pm on Monday when he and his son went to Brixton police station. By then, it is claimed, he had been approached by a newspaper and thus knew that the incident would almost certainly come to light. A spokeswoman for Lord Harris said he had asked the police to treat his son as they would anyone else. The spokeswoman said he had always planned to go to the police af ter speaking with the parents of the nine friends Matthew was with. He had also been busy in the run-up to the May Day protests and had been awaiting a hernia operation. Andrew Czezowski, owner of the Fridge, said Matthew Harris and his friend had not been given any preferential treatment. He said if a clubber was suspected of dealing drugs, the police were called. However if he or she was found with a "smallish" amount, the drugs would be destroyed, the incident recorded in a logbook and the person ejected. In this case, Mr Czezowski said the amount was considered "smallish". But Lord Harris said that the club had told him that they had informed the police, but had been told to "deal with the situation themselves". Even though the substances allegedly carried by Matthew Harris and his friend have been destroyed, it is still possible that they could be cautioned or charged. Lord Harris has been a member of the London drug policy forum since 1990. As the first chairman of the Metropolitan police authority he is responsible for helping to frame policy for the force.