Amid widespread criticism of their proposals for Titan prisons, the release of the latest reoffending statistics has brought some rare good news for the Ministry of Justice. The figures reveal that the overall reoffending rate for adults has fallen from 44% in 2000 to 39% in 2006, with all three measures of adult reoffending – the proportion of offenders who reoffend, the frequency of reoffending and the severity of reoffending – showing significant reductions during this period.Even bearing in mind the caveats attached to reoffending rates, which, despite efforts by the Ministry of Justice to improve their scope, remain a blunt and imprecise measure, these statistics obviously suggest that the criminal justice system is working more effectively than it was at the start of the decade, at least in terms of reducing reoffending. Perhaps most significantly, the figures also show a substantial drop in reoffending by adults who are given non-custodial sentences, with 36% of adults given community sentences now reoffending within one year. This contrasts favourably with short prison sentences, with nearly three out of every five offenders (59%) released from a prison sentence of less than 12 months reoffending within one year, the highest of any sentence. Unlike community penalties, short prison sentences are also barely more effective than they were at the start of the decade. Between 2000 and 2006 there has only been a 4.8% reduction in the frequency of reoffending for prisoners on sentences of less than 12 months (compared to a 23.4% reduction for community sentences). These figures may not be directly comparable, as they do not take into account the possible differences between groups of offenders, but they do demonstrate that community punishments are working better now than in the past, and that in a choice between giving a community sentence or a short prison sentence, a community sentence is likely to be the more effective option.This is no surprise, as penal reformers have long argued that short prison sentences – during which prisoners receive little resettlement help – are ineffective, yet every year nearly 60,000 people are sentenced to prison for less than 12 months. These latest statistics show yet again that this is not an effective use of public money, but the government is pushing ahead regardless with plans to increase the capacity of the prison estate to 96,000 by 2014, at a cost of £2.3bn. Despite finding money for this huge investment in the prison system, the Ministry of Justice has pledged just £40m in extra funding for the severely overstretched probation service, at a time when probation budgets are being cut by an estimated £60m in 2008-2009, cuts that are therefore only partially rescinded by this "extra" funding. As a result, in some areas probation services are not able to afford to provide the programmes that are needed to prevent reoffending. The government needs to learn the lessons from last week's figures. First, they need to invest in community penalties, which will reduce crime and cut the cycle of reoffending. At the same time, the government needs to lead a move away from an over-reliance on prison, and show strong political leadership in promoting community sentences that tackle the causes of offending, in place of ineffective short prison sentences. Reducing the number of prisoners on short sentences would by no means solve the prisons crisis. However, it would help to alleviate prison overcrowding in the short term and free up prison places for serious and dangerous offenders, who Mike Fuller, the chief constable of Kent, has claimed are avoiding jail or being released early due to prison overcrowding.The criminal justice system is in a mess, with too many people crammed into a failing prison system while the probation service struggles to cope with insufficient resources. Yet last week's figures provide a chink of light, showing that crime can be reduced if community sentences are used instead of short, ineffectual spells in our overcrowded prison system.