A 14-year-old girl was charged last night with inflicting grievous bodily harm on a fellow pupil after a schoolyard attack in which the victim was stabbed in the eye, head and chest.Natashia Jackman, 15, was reportedly stabbed five times on Thursday with what was thought to be a pair of scissors at Collingwood college, in Camberley, Surrey. Shortly before the assault outside the school science block, it has been suggested that the girl stood up to a group of fellow pupils who allegedly threatened to set her hair alight.She was taken to Frimley Park hospital with serious head wounds and was last night discharged after surgery to repair a punctured eyelid. Her father, Humperdinck Jackman, revealed that his daughter had narrowly avoided being blinded when the scissors pierced her eyelid four millimetres from her retina.He told a BBC Radio Five Live phone-in that a gang of girls had taunted his daughter before she was attacked, telling her: "We are going to give you a haircut or we are going to set your hair on fire. She was covered in blood and she had an injury to her left eye."Surrey police said last night that one of three girls arrested was charged with inflicting grievous bodily harm with intent, a charge that could attract a custodial sentence. She was released on conditional bail and will appear in court on Wednesday. The two other girls arrested, a 14-year-old and a 15-year-old, were earlier released on bail until Tuesday after being questioned on suspicion of conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm and attempting to pervert the course of justice.They were questioned by detectives with other students and teachers who had seen the attacks. Inspector Mark Adams, of Surrey police, said the victim was "very fortunate not to end up with life-threatening injuries".Collingwood college was praised in a 2002 Ofsted report for "very good" behaviour and strong relations between students. But Natashia's father said that his daughter had been the victim of two previous attacks linked to the school, including being hit over the head in school grounds.The school is also the alma mater of Sharon Carr who, in 1994, aged 14, stabbed a fellow pupil in the back, puncturing her lung. When detained at a young offender's centre over the stabbing, Carr confessed that in an incident unrelated to the school two years previously, she had murdered Katie Radcliffe, stabbing the 18-year old hairdresser 32 times. Carr was jailed indefinitely in 1997.However, the Surrey Heath MP, Michael Gove, defended the school yesterday."It is not right to single out specific schools and there is certainly not a culture of problems at Collingwood college," he said. "Under new leadership the school has gone from strength to strength in the last 10 years - this sort of incident could occur anywhere."Surrey county council said the school had an excellent track record in behaviour standards. It said in a statement: "Both the college and the county council are dismayed by this incident and have launched an investigation. Every support is being offered to the family through the college, the council and Surrey police."The school's principal, Jerry Oddie, said the attack was an "isolated incident" and that the school had a "very clear, well established anti-bullying policy. It is a shocking and appalling incident and it has shocked the whole college community".The school is planning special assemblies and counselling for those distressed students who had witnessed the stabbing, he added. The attack comes less than a month after a 12-year-old schoolgirl, Shanni Naylor, from Sheffield, was scarred when her face was slashed by another girl with a pencil sharpener blade.Steve Sinnott, the general secretary of the National Union of Teachers, said such attacks were extremely rare in schools, but warned it was impossible to prevent students from using everyday items as weapons. He said: "The real difficulty for schools is finding ways to ensure that children do not move from aggressive language to a physical attacks, as happened in recent cases."