In examining whether too many police officers remain imbued with Neanderthal attitudes on rape, you report that "a senior adviser to the government [says] that in some parts of England and Wales cases which did not fall into the classic 'stranger rape' category - such as those where the woman was drunk or was attacked by her partner - were being dismissed by police officers" (Police accused of adopting 'Life on Mars' attitude, August 16). This is happening, your article says, because the officers "fear [that such cases] will fail in court and hit their clear-up rates".It is plainly a waste of resources taking weak cases to court, and rape is no different from any other crime in that the Crown Prosecution Service is duty bound to discontinue allegations where it deems the prospect of a conviction to be unrealistic. Decisions to proceed or discontinue are normally based on an assessment once all or at least most of the evidence has been gathered. However, the point made by the government adviser, Dave Gee, is effectively that the police are usurping the CPS, taking decisions based on a peremptory dismissal of the complainant's credibility as a witness.Gee, a former head of Derbyshire CID, then goes on to comment that police and prosecutors "don't try to improve the credibility of the witness". I assume he means they are neglectful in chasing up corroborative evidence, rather than in coaching and rehearsing complainant witnesses - a practice long deprecated judicially. Great care must be exercised to avoid such coaching, and this has been helped by the fact that police interviews with rape complainants are now video-recorded as a matter of routine.It is easy to appreciate how an officer who has personally written off a witness's credibility may be half-hearted in pursuing inquiries. As Gee suggests, the real problem may be an outdated narrowness of perspective on rape. But as to the central function of conducting rape complainant interviews, there can be little criticism about police professionalism. My colleague Anthony Heaton-Armstrong and I - practitioners at the criminal bar for nigh on four decades - can each look back on a long career of defending in rape trials, but that is not why we are able to assert with confidence that the performance of interviewers is generally beyond reproach. The evidence is there for all to see: video-recorded rape complainant interviews show that investigators do not coach, rehearse, nudge, cajole or wheedle. Equally, they show officers by and large treating complainants with respect, diffidence and gentility, not scorning and disparaging them to their faces. Of course we only see the video in cases that come to court, but there is no reason to suspect that the police habitually confine improprieties to off-video exchanges or to those cases which are dropped. Provided they conduct interviews in a seemly manner, officers are perfectly entitled to communicate dismissive opinions about complainant credibility to the CPS. If the CPS lawyer rejects the officer's opinion and decides that the case should continue, supporting evidence necessary to complete the investigation will or should be requested.· David Wolchover is a former head of chambers at 7 Bell Yard dw@7bellyard.co.uk