The standard of education in prisons is "inadequate and unacceptable", MPs said today. Prisoners will continue to reoffend unless they are given more training and education, concluded the Commons education committee following a nine-month inquiry. Less than a third of prisoners have access to education, and those who do spend only nine hours a week in formal learning activities.The chairman of the committee, Barry Sheerman, said despite more resources, the government had yet to fulfil its manifesto commitment to dramatically increase the quality and quantity of education provision.He added: "Reoffenders are costing the taxpayer an estimated £11bn a year. Education has a key role in rehabilitating prisoners into society and finding them secure employment."If prisoners are to find a real alternative to crime on their release, then prisons will have to dramatically improve their provision. Prisoners need high quality teaching that is suited to their individual needs. If the situation is to improve then the DfES [Department for Education and Skills] needs to have a fundamental shift in its approach."The committee found that half of all prisoners did not have the skills required to do 96% of jobs. More that half of male prisoners had no qualifications, with many suffering from low levels of literacy and numeracy.Previous studies had revealed that up to 50% of prisoners have learning difficulties, including dyslexia. The MPs argue that the Department for Education and Skills should introduce an overarching strategy for prison education that links into a wider strategy for rehabilitation.Mr Sheerman said: "Vocational training in prisons that can prepare an inmate for a real job on their release is vital to reduce reoffending."The director of the Forum on Prisoner Education, Steve Taylor, praised the committee's report that "consigns all the government bluster to the dustbin". "We have long said that the unremitting diet of basic skills we currently see in prison education is based not on any real measure of individual need. We're pleased to see that the committee has agreed with us and has reinforced the value of education for its own sake."The time has come for us to overhaul education for offenders to ensure that they are offered the same quality and level of education as learners in the community. Education is a human right for all, and one that's breached daily for too many prisoners." Both the forum and the committee recommend that prisoners have supervised internet access. Mr Taylor said his organisation is conducting research into web access, which will be published at the House of Lords in May.