Beekeepers stung by pestilence and poor weather are being warned to protect their hives from rustlers as thefts rise to unprecedented levels due to a national shortage of bees.The sharp decline in Britain's honeybee population following the arrival of varroa mites and two consecutive harsh winters has led to premium prices for top-quality bees and a black market trade in stolen hives. In the latest incident, more than a million were taken from a strawberry farm near Telford, Shropshire. Thefts of 12 hives in Whitby, North Yorkshire, and three from the New Forest in Hampshire have also been reported, as well as cases in Norfolk and the West ­Country.David Sutton, the National Bee Unit inspector for western England, said: "You used to get the odd one or two, but not like this. People are realising the value of bees now because they are very scarce."Experts believe the bees may have been stolen to order, destined for beekeepers whose own hives have failed.Second-hand hives that used to sell for £30 can now fetch more than £200. With each hive capable of producing around 50lb of honey a year, victims stand to lose thousands of pounds. And the culprits may be in the beekeeping community. Tim Lovett, president of the British Beekeepers Association, said: "To steal bees, you have to know what you are doing. Beekeepers are now on the lookout. It's a vicious circle. You lose more bees, the price of bees goes up and the risk of them being stolen goes up."Richard Lindsey, 41, who runs The Great Little Honey Company and has 600 hives throughout Shropshire and Staffordshire, said the loss of a million bees was devastating. A commercial bee farmer, he estimates that thefts have cost him more than £6,000. His wife, Marieanne, said: "The beekeeping world used to be like a Harry Potter underworld of bee­keepers who all knew one another. To steal someone's honeybees is like stealing their dog." John Howat, secretary of the Bee Farmers' Association, said: "You used to hear of a theft or two, but it seems to be at unprecedented levels. The demand has gone up tremendously. Last year was a very bad year, so there are not so many bees around. People are stealing them for passing on to someone else, perhaps, or it could simply be because they have seen people paying £150, £200 and more for a good-quality second-hand hive."