The government's top lawyer further stoked the debate over home-owners' rights to defend their property this weekend by saying that criminals must also have the right to protection from violence.In an interview with The Observer, Attorney-General Lord Goldsmith said that existing legislation was adequate to give home owners the right to repulse burglars using 'reasonable force'. 'We must protect victims and law-abiding citizens,' he said. 'But we have to recognise that others have some rights as well. They don't lose all rights because they're engaged in criminal conduct.' Last week, Tony Blair ordered a review of legislation protecting householders after the Conservative party threw its weight behind calls from Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens for reform of the law. Stevens said it should allow the public to use whatever means necessary to repel intruders from their home. Goldsmith, the Prime Minister's chief legal adviser, said he was obliged to carry out the review, but remained unconvinced of the need for new legislation. In an unusually outspoken interview, he said the problem had been blown out of all proportion by the publicity surrounding Tony Martin, the Norfolk farmer who was prosecuted for shooting a teenage burglar in the back as he was fleeing his home.'There are very few cases that have given rise to this problem. Besides Tony Martin, there's only one I know about,' said Goldsmith. 'Police and prosecutors have been very understanding of people who act to protect themselves and their property. The law says there's a limit to the force you can use, but it is judged by what you believe the position is, even if you turn out to be mistaken.' Asked whether the law made it clear that householders already had the right to defend themselves and their property, he said: 'Absolutely. That's what the law says. The actions you take, commensurate with reasonable [belief], will be justifiable, even if, in hindsight, you were wrong. 'But I think we need to look at this. That's what the PM has asked, and that is what we shall do.' However, he warned of the danger of using the Martin case to make bad law. 'It's always possible to extrapolate from one case and think that something is happening across the country when it isn't,' he said. The Attorney-General's intervention comes at the beginning of a week when the Home Secretary, David Blunkett, is expected to go on the offensive on crime. On Wednesday he will tell his regular round table on gun crime that the government is considering a change to the law to make possession of knives as serious as the possession of firearms. The debate over burglars intensified earlier this month after City financier John Monckton and his wife were found with multiple stab wounds by their nine-year-old daughter in their west London home. Mr Monckton later died in hospital. The Home Office confirmed that it was considering new legislative measures on the carrying of knives.