Motorists who use a hand-held mobile phone at the wheel are to face a fine of up to £1,000 and three penalty points in a new clampdown on dangerous driving, the government announced yesterday.Fixed penalty fines of £30, which can be increased to a maximum of £1,000 if the matter goes to court, are to be introduced from December 1. New legislation making the offence subject to three points is expected to follow. Drivers will face the fines even if they are using a shoulder to support the phone while keeping both hands on the wheel. Text messaging and using a hand-held mobile with an earpiece or microphone will also be covered by the ban. The only exception, reluctantly granted because a ban would be hard to enforce, will be hands-free systems where no manual control is needed. The road safety minister, David Jamieson, said: "We are all too familiar with the sight of people driving along while holding and talking on their mobile phones. It affects the ability to concentrate and anticipate the road ahead, putting the driver and other road users at risk. "Our decision to introduce this new offence will make the roads safer for us all." Drivers can already be fined for failing to maintain proper control of their vehicle, but it is hoped that the new legislation specifically targeting mobile users will be a more effective deterrent. Statistics do not record the cause of an accident, so no figure can be put on the number of incidents caused through the use of phones while driving. But the number of motorists using them is said to have risen from 1.5% to 2.2% in 18 months. The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents recently cited 19 cases reported in the national press between 1998 and 2001 where a death could be attributed to a driver using a mobile. Mr Jamieson said 88% of 1,000 responses in a consultation exercise were in favour of introducing an offence of using a mobile phone at the wheel. Safety campaigners warned that people using hands-free systems were still putting themselves and other motorists at risk and called for them to be included in the ban. Kevin Clinton, head of road safety at Rospa, said: "People are drawn into the conversation and ignore what is happening on the road around them. We are worried that the powerful mobile phone industry will use the new law as an opportunity to market hands-free kits claiming they are safe, when in fact they are not." Fears were also expressed that the government will face an uphill struggle to enforce the ban because of widespread complacency. Research from the RAC indicated that, although 63% of motorists "frequently" see others driving carelessly while using a mobile phone, only 4% admit to regularly using a hand-held mobile phones while driving. RAC spokeswoman Rebecca Bell said: "If the perception that everyone else is to blame for poor driving while using a hand-held mobile goes unchallenged, some motorists may well simply opt to take their chances and gamble on not being caught." Andrew Howard, head of road safety for the AA Motoring Trust, welcomed the decision not to ban hands-free kits. But he added: "There also needs to be a clear definition of what driving is. If motorists are stuck in stationary traffic then we see no reason for not making a call to say that they may be late." 