Customs and tax officers were investigated over a record £2.3m of fraud in the past year, official figures reveal. Deception and swindling by staff at HM Revenue and Customs are now understood to be responsible for more than half the recorded fraud by value committed across all government departments.In one case a clerk stole more than £220,000 of taxpayers' money to pay for holidays. In another, a senior member of staff signed off more than £100,000 of her own fabricated expense claims. The Conservative party last night called for an investigation into the issue, which they described as 'alarming'. The disclosure is an embarrassment to Gordon Brown, who as Chancellor created HM Revenue and Customs, the department in charge of fighting tax fraud.The huge scale of the deception among Revenue and Customs staff in the past financial year is revealed in a reply to a Freedom of Information request for details about financial wrongdoing, including tax and expenses fraud. Official records reveal that 14 members of Revenue and Customs staff were investigated for financial fraud totalling £2.3m in the year ending March 2008. Nine of the 14 cases ended in staff being convicted of a criminal offence. The other five are understood to have been the subject of internal investigations. All of the nine convicted fraudsters have been sacked or resigned.The total amount of recorded fraud perpetrated through Revenue and Customs is thought to be more than half of that from all government departments. The most recent figures published by the Treasury show that in 2006-07 about £3.6m worth of recorded fraud was committed by government employees across 28 departments and agencies. The new data also reveal that the amount of swindling by staff at Customs and Revenue has increased in the past year by a third. In 2006-07, 10 members of staff were investigated over £1.7m of fraud. Ten employees were convicted of a criminal offence and sacked in the same year.In response to The Observer's revelations, David Gauke, the shadow exchequer secretary, said last night that he would write to Stephen Timms, the newly appointed Financial Secretary, who has overall charge of HMRC, for further details and to ask what action is being taken to combat staff fraud. 'These figures suggest an alarming increase in HMRC staff fraud,' said Gauke. 'On top of failures in general performance and data protection in particular, this demonstrates yet further failure in HMRC's procedures. I will be writing to Stephen Timms to ask for further details and to ask what is being done to address the issue and how has it happened.'Revenue and Customs, which was set up in 2005, was strongly criticised after it lost computer disks in November 2007 containing confidential details of 25 million child benefit recipients.