The two soldiers murdered in Northern Ireland on Saturday night have been named as Sappers Patrick Azimkar and Mark Quinsey, both from 25 Field Squadron, 38 Engineer Regiment.Sapper Azimkar, a 21-year-old from north London, was known to his colleagues as Pat. According to the Ministry of Defence, he joined the Royal Engineers four years ago and was known for his competitive streak and footballing talent.Azimkar had had trials with Tottenham Hotspur before joining the army and went on to represent his squadron and regiment.He was described as "jovial, courteous and fun-loving" and looking forward to his first operational tour in Afghanistan."Sapper Pat Azimkar exemplified the characteristics of a highly motivated young soldier," said Lieutenant Colonel Roger Lewis, commanding officer of 38 Engineer Regiment."He was dedicated, ambitious and full of energy. Always willing to go the extra mile to get the job done. He never ceased to amaze me with his cheerful approach regardless of the conditions."Lewis said Azimkar had shown "true grit and determination" during his pre-deployment training: "He couldn't wait to get to Helmand with the rest of his troop. It was his performance during this training, and in particular his commitment to supporting his mates, that showed his full potential for training as a non-commissioned officer."The regiment and I have been shocked and stunned by the death of this very promising young soldier. Our thoughts are with Sapper Azimkar's family and many friends as we all come to terms with this tragic loss."Major Darren Woods, Officer Commanding 25 Field Squadron, added:"Whether at work or play, Sapper Azimkar never failed to raise a smile with his happy-go-lucky approach."To command a soldier of this quality has been the greatest privilege and one which I will remember with pride. My condolences and the heartfelt sympathy of the whole squadron go out to Sapper Azimkar's family and friends, as we now struggle to come to terms with the death of this hugely popular young soldier."Neighbours living near Azimkar's home in Wood Green, north London, expressed their shock at his death.Greg Kalogirou, a friend of the young soldier for 11 years, said "all he ever wanted to do" was to be in the army.He said that as a young boy, Azimkar played in midfield for his school team and was a key player. "The last time I saw him was just the other day. He was playing with a remote-controlled car outside his house and he seemed very happy."A cousin of the family later left their home. He did not wish to be named but said: "It's a huge shock." He said the family were devastated that the young man had been attacked in his barracks where they had thought he would be safe.The family is of north Cypriot origin. Sapper Azimkar had one older brother, James, who is a model. His mother is from Lancashire.Sapper Mark Quinsey, who was born in Birmingham in 1985 and joined the army when he was 19, was described as a "mature, reliable and hugely capable young soldier" with a bright future ahead of him.Lewis said: "Sapper Quinsey was an outwardly calm, resolute and motivated young soldier. A social livewire and hugely popular across the regiment, he was rarely away from the centre of the action."Professionally, his approach reflected his infectious enthusiasm for life … he was hugely passionate about his trade and eager to put his new qualifications to good use in Afghanistan."We were expecting him to play a vital role maintaining the living and working conditions of British soldiers serving in southern Afghanistan. Tragically, he has been denied this opportunity."Woods said he had known Quinsey for almost two years and come to admire his calm optimism.Squadron Sergeant Major Paul Dixon said: "If you ever needed a steady hand to crew the ship Mark was your man. He could and would turn his hand to most things. Yet, at the end of the working day he would always be at the front, immaculate appearance, ready to party and charm the ladies with a bit of his Brummie banter."By lunchtime today a Facebook group with more than 100 members had sprung up, as friends gathered online to pay their respects to Quinsey.One friend wrote: "Rest in peace quincey [sic] cant believe your gone, it just doesnt seem real."Had some quality times. One of the funniest people i know and most fearless, miss u so much and will never forget you."Another said: "Known you since you was born and i'll never forget you mark, always had a big smile on your face without a care in the world."You've been selfishly taken from us all, but you will never be forgotten."Staff at Baverstock school in Druids Heath, Birmingham, where Quinsey studied, released a statement this afternoon, describing him as a "hard-working and committed student".It went on: "There are no words to express fully our sadness and sympathy at this time and we simply send our deepest condolences to his family and friends. Mark was a well-respected member of Baverstock and showed great determination in pursuing his chosen career within the army."General Sir Richard Dannatt, chief of the general staff, said he was "deeply shocked and angered" by the attack. He added: "The peaceful garrison life so enjoyed by the soldiers and families of 38 Engineer Regiment has been shattered by this most tragic event, which is especially distressing as the regiment begins its deployment to Afghanistan."I offer the families and friends of those affected my heartfelt condolences and support."The defence secretary, John Hutton, said the two men "had trained hard and were on the verge of deploying to Afghanistan. By all accounts, they were promising soldiers and had already achieved a good deal in their careers to date. My thoughts and sympathies are with their families and friends at this difficult time."