The government is to launch two “secure schools”, and introduce measures to monitor progress in English, maths, health and behaviour among young offenders, in a radical change to youth custody.The number of frontline staff dealing with young offenders will be increased by 20% and a new head of operations will be appointed with responsibility for driving up standards.In a first step towards reforming the way young lawbreakers are dealt with, two secure schools will be launched teaching core subjects such as English and maths, with access to work training and apprenticeship schemes.Government will use education to offer hope to young offenders The reform follows publication of an independent assessment by Charlie Taylor, a child behavioural expert. He delivered a scathing verdict in February on the existing system, which he claimed did little more than teach offenders how to survive in prison.Writing on this newspaper’s website, the justice secretary, Liz Truss, says she wants to reduce violence and improve training and education within young offender institutions. She writes: “The people in our prisons and young offender institutions have broken the law, they have violated the rules under which a civilised society necessarily and rightly operates, and they must face the consequences.“But we are missing an opportunity if we do not recognise that helping these people to turn their lives around not only benefits them but benefits us all. Preventing more of us becoming victims of crime. Making streets and communities safer. And delivering huge savings to the public purse.” Helping these people turn their lives around not only benefits them, but benefits us all.Liz Truss, justice secretary “Nowhere is this opportunity greater than with our young people. Because here the penal system has its earliest chance to intervene, to steer our young people away from a life of crime and onto the right path, towards finding a job, settling down with a family.”Under the new system, progress in education will be measured, along with health and behaviour. Plans are also being developed, outside the Ministry of Justice, to ensure that when offenders leave custody they have the support of a mentor.Chris Wright, chief executive of Catch22, a charity which runs alternative education institutions, said he was “excited” by the proposals. He added: “The young people we’re putting away are likely to have diagnosed and undiagnosed mental health issues. They’re likely to have learning difficulties, health problems, battles with addiction. They’re likely to have poor educational outcomes and even poorer job prospects.“By tackling underlying behavioural and educational challenges our children face, we will set them up to succeed. Custody must remain the last resort, but when custody is mandated, purpose-driven and educationally focused secure schools will deliver an effective answer.”“A successful Secure School will focus on empowering young people to become capable, confident and compassionate members of our society. Risk and trauma aware, it would keep young people safe, turn them to positive lifestyles, and in turn, reduce reoffending.”