A woman lured her husband into woodland after giving him a natural aphrodisiac before slitting his throat and leaving him for dead, then going to pick up another man she had met on the internet, a court heard today .Joanne Hale, 39, gave husband Peter, 43, an aphrodisiac called "horny goat weed", blindfolded him and led him into woods. The pair kissed, cuddled and "rolled about on the leaves" as part of an apparently "playful game", Bristol crown court heard.But Hale then straddled her husband as he lay face down and slit his throat with a knife, leaving a 12cm (4.5in) long wound, before plunging it into his neck and chest several times, it was claimed.Hale allegedly abandoned her husband when she was disturbed by a passerby and drove to a nearby railway station to see for the first time a man she met on the web.Police arrested her when she returned to the marital home in Stapleton, Bristol. Hale denies attempted murder and wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.The attack allegedly happened on 27 December last year. The couple, who had been married for nine years, were watching television when Hale suggested her husband take the natural aphrodisiac, also known as "rowdy lamb herb".Peter Hale told the jury: "I think both of us discussed how to prepare it. Jo said it was quite unpalatable and I said I would like a drink with it."At about 6pm they left home and walked to Stoke Park in the dark. The husband said: "We went through the kissing gates, then on the cobbled path. I felt absolutely fine. Jo didn't like it around there; she believes in spiritual things, the paranormal, and she was getting bad vibes from it."We had a cuddle and a bit of rolling about in the leaves," he said. "I was happy at that point. There was something involving a stick; I thought it was a playful game. It was a bit odd."He told the court his memory is "hazy" from this point onwards but he remembers seeing his wife and a man before waking up in hospital.The court heard that Hale, a published poet, came up behind her husband, slashed his throat with a knife and stabbed him several times in the neck and chest.She was allegedly disturbed by passer-by Timothy Walker and left, claiming she did not know who Peter was or what had happened to him.She then drove to Bristol Parkway railway station where she had arranged to pick up postal worker Philip Sudol, a man she had met on the internet.Hale allegedly told Sudol she was separated but her husband had injured himself and she would get the blame.The Hales had been penpals before they married. But the couple were affected by stress after Peter Hale "totally messed up" his studies for a PhD at the University of the West of England in Bristol.The trial continues.