A "devoted husband and father" who battered his two-year-old daughter to death while suffering an acute psychotic disorder was sent to a psychiatric hospital yesterday after a jury found him not guilty of murder on the grounds of insanity.Alberto Izaga, 36, an insurance executive, attacked his daughter Yanire after becoming convinced that he and his wife were possessed by the devil. He also believed that a Jesuit cult was conspiring to take over the financial world, the Old Bailey heard.In the early hours of June 3 last year, Izaga began ranting to his wife about the sect's plans, his inability to sleep and a horror film he had seen. His shouts woke the couple's daughter.His wife, Ligia, heard him say "I know what I have to do. I have to kill her", before he started to punch the child and smash her head against the ground. She suffered multiple skull fractures and died in hospital two days later. Some of the attack was recorded on a neighbour's voicemail after Ms Izaga rang for help.He said: "Bitch, this bastard does not die. God does not exist, the universe does not exist, humanity does not exist."Police and paramedics arrived at the Izagas' flat in Lambeth, south London, half an hour later to find Izaga chanting "Big Ben, Big Ben".After his arrest, police believed Izaga was suffering from a mental breakdown."His body was rigid as he was carried to his cell and his eyes were staring wildly," said Jonathan Rees, prosecuting. He was also "laughing in short bursts and doing physical exercises".Rees added: "If ever a case deserves to be described as truly tragic, this is surely it. How else can you describe a case in which a devoted father killed a child he loved in front of her mother?"He said the Spanish-born businessman was considered by colleagues to be "clever and driven", and that he loved family life. "He was the last person capable of killing another human - and least of all his own flesh and blood."When interviewed by police, he read a prepared statement saying he had no recollection of injuring his daughter.The court heard from a psychiatrist, Dr Tim Exworthy, who said Izaga had been suffering from an acute psychotic disorder. It took only days for Izaga to develop "a severe form of mental illness in which the patient loses appreciation of what is real and what is imaginary", and experiences "hallucinations and delusional beliefs". He said Izaga could not have known that what he was doing was wrong.Judge Richard Hone QC ordered Izaga be detained without limit of time under sections 37 and 41 of the Mental Health Act 1983. He told Izaga: "No sentence I pass can ever match the sentence you will pass down on yourself."After the verdict, David Perry QC, defending, read a statement from Ligia Izaga. "The best times were when the three of us were together as Yanire would always start singing. It's quite hard for him and it is going to be difficult for him without her being around."Izaga said she visited her husband every day, adding: "We discuss how to get through the day and how we should restart our lives. We tell each other not to give up and we have to get better."