A mother and two sons whose bodies were found at their home on Sunday suffered stab wounds, police have confirmed.Clair Smith, 36, and her sons Ben, nine, and Aaron, one, are thought to have been attacked by the boys' father Richard Smith, 37, who died of smoke inhalation after killing them.The family's bodies were found at the fire-damaged upstairs bedroom in Sheridan Way, Pudsey, near Leeds, after concerned relatives raised the alarm. It is understood that a mattress had been placed against a door to prevent smoke escaping.Speaking on Tuesday, Detective Superintendent Paul Taylor, of West Yorkshire police, said Clair Smith had died from a single stab wound to her chest, as had their baby Aaron. Ben suffered a stab wound to the chest area but died as a result of suffocation.Taylor said he was not sure of the exact time of death, but said: "Ben's advent calendar had not been opened on the Saturday morning, suggesting it happened either late on Friday night or overnight into the Saturday."The last confirmed sighting of the family was at 11pm on the Friday when they left a function together in a taxi from the nearby Pudsey St Lawrence Cricket Club.Taylor confirmed the family had been found dead by a friend and a family member. He said: "I cannot begin to imagine what they have been through during the last 48 hours and the sympathy of the inquiry team rests with them at this time of year."As we have previously stated we are not looking for anyone else in connection with this inquiry and our role is to now establish the facts leading up to the tragic event that has ended the lives of four people and a seemingly happy family. That information is then passed to the coroner, who will make a decision around the circumstances of the deaths."In a statement presented to the press conference, Clair Smith's parents, Alan and Norma Robinson, said: "Clair was an exceptional person, loving and caring to everyone. She was a loving mum, her children were her life, and everything centred around her family and home. She was our daughter and our best pal. We cannot imagine what caused this tragedy."Neighbours said they saw Richard Smith washing his car outside the house at the weekend, thought to be some time after his wife and children were killed.Detectives are working on the theory that it was a case of murder followed by suicide, although the cause of death will be determined by a coroner's inquest at a later date.Officers were called to the scene at 5.30pm on Sunday. The family are thought to have moved to the modern stone-built property some months ago. The only sign anything was amiss was a smashed window in the lounge. Police initially worked on the basis that it was a chemical incident, after an unusual white residue was discovered on the bedroom walls. But tests later revealed that those concerns were unfounded.Family friends and neighbours left tributes by the police cordon outside the house. Many residents expressed shock and disbelief at what had happened.Richard Smith's cousin, Gary Tempest, described them as the perfect family. He said he did not believe his cousin could have harmed his family as he thought the world of them.