John Grieve has convicted the country's worst drug dealers, seen off Irish republican terrorists and sent racist murderers to jail at a time when the Metropolitan police's credibility with minority communities was hanging by a thread.But though Scotland Yard's mercurial detective has routinely made the improbable possible, he could not turn back time. Which is why colleagues who joined him for a leaving drink or three last Thursday fear he is likely to leave the force next week without the final triumph he wanted - bringing the killers of Stephen Lawrence to justice.The challenge has kept the deputy assistant commissioner working well past retirement, due six years ago, heading a team of 40 detectives who were briefed to disregard all previous investigations into the death of the teenager in April, 1993, and to start from scratch. In the last two years, they have built up strong evidence against the five original suspects and up to three others. If it was any other case, Scotland Yard believes the men would be in custody ready to stand trial. "We've taken people to court with much less than this," said a source. But as Mr Grieve concedes privately, the crown prosecution service is not judging the latest inquiry in isolation; there are the failures of previous police inquiries, collapsed prosecutions and massive amounts of prejudicial publicity. The murder squad has also detected a change in attitude to the case in the Home Office and at the top of Scotland Yard. Though weary of his massive workload, Mr Grieve might have been persuaded to stay, but neither the home secretary, David Blunkett, nor the the commissioner, Sir John Stevens, offered him an extension to his contract. Friends of Mr Grieve said he has interpreted this as a sign that they feel "enough is enough".  Innovative officer  Whatever the CPS decision, it is likely to overshadow his last days at the Met, which will bring to an end a 37-year career that marked him as an innovative, unconventional and controversial officer. A philosophy and psychology graduate who has 14 police commendations and awards for outstanding courage, Mr Grieve's willingness to "think out of the box" rather than along traditional lines set him apart from most officers of his generation. Mr Grieve, an accountant's son born in Gosforth, Tyne and Wear, built his reputation in the drugs squad working undercover in London's East End. He went on to write a definitive guide to undercover work. Nine years ago he caused uproar when he called on police to "think the unthinkable" about drugs, urging a debate about the licensing of possession and supply. In March, 1993, as head of the intelligence branch at Scotland Yard, he organised a conference about race in which the then commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, spoke about the need for officers to be "totally intolerant of racially motivated attacks", and of "the dire consequences of racially based nationalism, ignorance, prejudice and outright thuggery". Neither men were to know that the conference themes were prophetic. Within a month, Stephen Lawrence had been stabbed by white youths in Eltham, south-east London, and the Met blundered into one of the worst episodes in its history. Before Mr Grieve became involved in race issues again, he was appointed head of the anti-terrorist branch. Within weeks, the 17-month IRA ceasefire came to a bloody end when a truck bomb exploded in Docklands. Six months later, had had coordinated raids that led to the arrest of important suspects and the seizure of 10 tonnes of explosives, bomb-making equipment, booby-trap car devices and weapons. His expertise in intelligence-gathering and the handling of informers was considered key to the success. He also proved adept at smoothing relations between the police and MI5 and handling the media. No surprise then that in January 1999 Sir Paul Condon entrusted him with what was then the most difficult job in policing. Drowning in the bad publicity generated by Sir William Macpherson's report into the Lawrence murder inquiry, the commissioner persuaded him to give up his hopes of becoming assistant chief constable of the then RUC and asked him to set up a racial and violent crimes task force. Within a year, his team had secured convictions against the killers of the musician Michael Menson and been asked to oversee a new investigation into the hangings of two men in Telford. He had also set up community safety units in every London borough, reformed family liaison and introduced groundbreaking critical incident training for senior officers. The Lawrence case has been his last hurrah. He believes there is enough to prosecute, but has to defer to the advice of lawyers at the CPS. If his career is to end with a disappointment, then he has enough outside interests to prevent him from dwelling on it for too long. A watercolourist, he has started a painting course and intends to teach at universities and police training courses. His favourite authors include Dostoevsky, Beckett and Seamus Heaney. He is an expert on the Apache leader, Geronimo, and the sayings of Sun Tzu, a Chinese philosopher of the fourth century BC. Sir John recently described him as "one of the best, if not the best, detective ever to have worked at Scotland Yard". Mr Grieve says he has no regrets. "From the age of 11, all I ever wanted to be was a detective at Scotland Yard."