Police believe an off-duty special constable killed outside her home may have been stabbed with a knife from her own kitchen, it was revealed yesterday.Detectives are searching for the missing John Lewis knife, which is 13 inches (33cm) long. Police say the pattern of the single stab wound to the groin that killed Nisha Patel-Nasri, 29, is consistent with having been caused by the missing knife.Mrs Patel-Nasri was found barefoot and bleeding, dressed in her nightclothes, late on Thursday outside her home in Wembley, north-west London; one explanation is that she went outside after hearing a disturbance, possibly an attempt to break into cars outside the house. The house had been targeted by burglars five days before the stabbing. But yesterday police said there was no sign of a break-in at the house, and so far no sign of damage had been found to cars parked outside.Mrs Patel-Nasri ran a hairdressing business and was also a volunteer special constable in her area.At a press conference yesterday police gave more details about her death, but they only added to the mystery of how and why she was killed, and why she had gone outside.Mrs Patel-Nasri had spent her last evening having dinner with her husband, Fadi, to celebrate their third wedding anniversary. She was attacked just before midnight when her husband, who owns a limousine business, had gone out to play snooker.Detective Superintendent Julian Worker, who is leading the search for the killer, said there was no sign of a break-in: "The knife is missing. I do not know how it came to be missing. It is a possibility that Nisha took the knife out. There is no evidence to suggest at this stage that the house was broken into."Det Supt Worker said detectives were investigating the possibility that she had heard noises outside, taken the knife from her kitchen, and then had the knife taken from her by her killer after a struggle: "I know that the knife was in a block during the course of that day and it's now missing. It does match the profile of the injury."Detectives are hunting two men in connection with her murder, including one wearing a hooded top who was seen running towards the house. A second suspect was seen walking away from the house, ignoring Mrs Patel-Nasri's screams as she lay bleeding to death: "He did not appear to look behind him," Det Supt Worker said. "Nisha had been fatally stabbed and was screaming out in pain."Police are also investigating a threat made to Mr Nasri about two months ago after a row about money. The person who made the threat is reported to have been ruled out of the murder inquiry.Detectives disclosed fresh information about an attempted burglary at Mrs Patel-Nasri's home last Saturday, which her husband said had left her "scared". Three men came to her porch door, but when she challenged them they said they had the wrong address and left. Immediately afterwards, one of them returned, but by then she had secured the door.Mrs Patel-Nasri only reported the incident to police when she noticed damage to the window a few days later. "They may have been there for innocent purposes - they may have been there to break into the property," Det Supt Worker said.