Five years after the 7/7 London bombing we seem none the wiser – and not any safer, if you believe our intelligence services. The core PREVENT strategy adopted is in tatters – misunderstood, mistrusted and messy. Anti-terrorism initiatives remain pedantic, paradoxical and reactionary. The struggle for hearts and minds is in a stalemate – but in the global wired village our young and angry youth are increasingly vulnerable and at great risk.The anti-terrorism industry is now worth billions globally. Despite their being so many tanks there is really little that is dynamic, innovative or courageous thinking at the core. Hypotheses based on ignorance are heavily mixed with those fuelled by fear to produce an extremely unhealthy situation. What is needed now is not recrimination but a gutsy and robust retrospection.Security matters – like all other fundamental issues affecting our quality of life and existence – are a concern for all of us. A strategy based on an aggressive demonization of an entire community for the actions of a tiny minority was destined to be still-born. The majority of British Muslims loathed being lumped together and made to look like a fifth column of Al Qaeda rather than bona fide citizens of a country to which they are making so much of a contribution.The lager mentality that developed was further enhanced by irresponsible mixing of legal enforcement efforts with community capacity building. The uncoordinated and sometimes contradictory thinking at the top was soon reflected at the community level leading to haphazard, half-baked projects filled not with a united purpose but with jealousy, unhealthy competition and suspicions.Most amazing, however, have been the efforts to randomly label Muslims: analyses such as Sufis are 'good Muslims' and Salafis are 'bad Muslims' are as ridiculous as they are naïve. And so are efforts to engineer a theological context for British Islam through a bunch of social activists and commentators. The promotion of organizations, foundations and councils that are perceived as malleable at the expense of those deemed 'difficult' – because they legitimately question the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, or our policies in Palestine, for instance – was doomed to fail.The way forward is to learn from mistakes made and to start afresh. First and foremost we need to understand that Muslims in Britain are here to stay, that they are a critical part of the solution and that they suffer more than any other community from all forms of extremism – including racism and Islamophobia.Without the support and goodwill of the Muslim communities no anti-terror strategy stands a chance – however much it is resourced or packaged. Any initiative has to seriously reach out and be transparent. Muslims have to be made stakeholders and be involved in all aspects of policy. They need to be and feel empowered – partners in the struggle to make our society safer and better.The culture of blaming the victims when it comes to failed government policies should no longer be encouraged and tolerated. And neither should the perception be perpetuated that members of our society – Muslims or otherwise – are satisfied to be mere spectators eager to bear the consequences of initiatives introduced by consultants and advisers living in planet network. Our communities are, on the whole, more responsive and productive when treated responsibly and given responsibility about their affairs.The role of Islam in this contest of ideas is the tipping point. The teachings of the faith on security and peace are unambiguous: there is no price high enough to pay for it and it is worth sacrificing everything for. According to Shaykh Abdallah Bin Bayyah, one of the leading Islamic scholars of our times, 'peace and security are the ultimate goal of the Islamic fraternity'.Of course Islam in Britain represents a real challenge to the agenda of social cohesion, integration, nationhood and security. But it is a task that a modern secular state working on principles should be able to handle easily. In this dialogue with its Muslim citizens, government must not compromise on issues related to security but it must do so with respect and empathy. British Muslims must learn to come to terms with the complexities of their situation and have the courage to embrace change and difference. The authorities have to trust its citizens to do the right thing because it is what they have to do.The Holy Koran describes Muslims as a people who 'enjoy good and forbid evil'. Most British Muslims, given the opportunity, would like to take this primary message of their faith seriously and participate fully in their society to make it a reality.