A violent loner with delusions of building a "crazy artist" image was jailed for life yesterday for stabbing a young cabaret dancer to death and cramming her body into a refuse cupboard.Michael Little was convicted of luring Rachel Moran, 21, into his litter-strewn flat on New Year's Day and lying about her until police discovered decomposing remains behind a barricade of rubbish sacks. Mr Justice Hooper told Hull crown court that Little, 23, had sexually assaulted the striking six foot bleached blonde without her consent, although it was impossible to tell whether this had happened before or after her death. The judge also underlined the "totally destructive" effect of Rachel's killing on her close family, and warned that he would be writing to the home secretary recommending that a minimum term be added to the formal life sentence. In a letter read before sentence, Rachel's mother, Wanda, said she was a physical wreck and that her husband, Roy, had been "destroyed" and now paid obsessive visits to his daughter's grave. "Life will never be the same again," she said. "We have not just lost Rachel but lost part of each other." Little, a burly misfit with a goatee beard, repeatedly tried to blame the murder on a friend, Marc Fuller, but also gave rambling statements to the police which included the confession: "I must be evil." The three week trial heard that he never met his victim until their paths crossed late at night after new year parties in Hull, although he had probably seen her many times from the window where he sat obsessively making pencil drawings. Rachel's body, stabbed 20 times in the head, neck, chest and back, was found in January after a 28-day search and several national appeals, only 300 yards from her home on the Orchard Park estate in Hull. She had vanished after leaving her parents' home after midnight on New Year's Day, in spite of their protests, to check on her two kittens after a muddle over their feeding arrangements. Rachel, who was seen by security cameras being tailed by a man on her last walk, shared a flat with her boyfriend facing Little's identical block across a children's playground. Her regular 20 minute walk to her parents passed in front of his first floor windows where he would sit drawing or staring. Little had never worked since leaving Greatfield comprehensive school in Hull, where he was nicknamed Podgy and bullied because of his weight. His father, a social club manager in Hull, walked out on the family and Little claimed to have been beaten up and abused by his stepfather who later died of kidney disease. At school he hung around with his sister, four years younger than himself but very different, keen on her work and now at university. He was fond of her and spoke regularly of adoring his mother but they appear to have been the only women in his life. Little lived in a succession of council flats which became notorious for never being cleaned. Neighbours dismissed him as weird and he lived up to the image by growing his hair and goatee, staying indoors and taking drugs. "He seemed to want to build a crazy image. He was always on dope and would pop pills like ecstasy which made him unpredictable," said Graham Ness, a 19-year-old who was at school with Little. "But there has always been something wrong with him. He is built like a gorilla and has a pretty bad temper. "Living opposite him, we made an effort and played football and rode motorbikes. I used to have a quad bike and rode it around the playing field. But rather than come out and join in, I remember Podgy once called the police to stop us playing. That isn't normal for a teenager." Outside the court, Rachel's older sister, Kerry Harper, 39, said: "We feel no elation, only emptiness." Detective Superintendent Paul Davison of Humberside police, who led the murder investigation, said: "Michael Little described himself when he said 'I must be evil'. If we had not found the body, Rachel's grave would have been that 4ft square cupboard."