The father of a Welsh backpacker murdered on the Thai island of Koh Samui on Sunday visited the scene of the crime yesterday and made an impassioned appeal for anyone with information about the killing to come forward.Sitting yards from Lamai beach where Katherine Horton, 21, was beaten and then dragged into the sea to drown, her father, Ian, was barely able to hold back tears as he pleaded for information about the case in the hope of preventing another murder."The perpetrators are too cowardly to offer themselves to justice in Thailand," he said, flanked by his son, Christopher, and Katherine's best friend and travelling companion, Ruth Adams. "But there is a person here that knows. A person that can assist the police. Someone that can maybe save another life. I urge that person to come forward to speak out. Katherine was my little girl. Please help her father."Mr Horton said Katherine, a psychology student at Reading University, had come to Thailand to "dance on a beach, to ride an elephant, to have a vacation before her finals at university."She was full of confidence and felt immune to the dangers of this world, as we have all felt when we were young adults. Tragically her faith in her fellow man let her down and she has been taken from us for ever. My words cannot express how I feel. Only a person who has lost a child can know. All I wish is to return Katherine to her home with dignity and privacy."Mr Horton then laid flowers at the spot on the beach where Katherine is thought to have been attacked, before heading to Bangkok, where forensic tests are being carried out on her body.A Koh Samui police officer, Major General Sunthan Chayanon, said last night: "The local doctor in Samui found DNA on the body which he thinks was from the culprit. We are still waiting for confirmation of this from Bangkok. It should come tomorrow or the next day."Gen Sunthan indicated that the DNA was thought to be from sperm, which, if confirmed, would suggest rape.Six foreign men, including two from Scotland, who were with Ms Horton and Ms Adams over the new year have been questioned as witnesses, along with a number of Thais, but there are no suspects yet, police said.