A former training instructor at the controversial Deepcut army barracks today pleaded guilty to five sex attacks on young male soldiers.Leslie Skinner, 46, of Marton, Lincolnshire, changed his plea ahead of a trial at Kingston crown court and pleaded guilty to five counts of indecent assault relating to four male soldiers between 1992 and 1997. Judge Charles Tilling ordered a further four counts of indecent assault and one count of rape on a male to lie on file. The jury in the case was discharged but prosecutor Sally Howes QC told them that Skinner had "taken advantage of vulnerable young men". Ms Howes recounted a series of incidents, including one in which a young soldier at the barracks in Surrey was required to have anal sex with Skinner and another in which a separate victim awoke after a night's drinking to find the defendant performing a sex act upon him. In another incident, a soldier was taken back to a changing room at Deepcut where Skinner opened his locker to reveal a collection of sado-masochistic implements. Skinner went on to abuse the soldier.Ms Howes told the court that the victims had felt obliged to participate in sexual activity initiated by Skinner because he, having been a warrant officer before his later demotion to private, was in a position of authority.Of one victim she said: "At no stage did he think of leaving because the consequences of disobeying an order were far greater." Of another she said: "He said nothing for fear of being described as a homosexual because that, of course, would have been a difficulty in the armed forces in those days." The court heard that the police investigation started when one of Skinner's victims watched a discussion on the BBC's Kilroy programme which prompted him to speak about the abuse for the first time. Although Judge Tilling said that a custodial sentence would be "pretty much inevitable", he released Skinner on conditional bail and ordered him to return to Kingston crown court on October 22 for sentencing. Four recruits died of gunshot wounds at Deepcut between 1995 and 2002. The families of the dead recruits do not accept official explanations that they killed themselves and have suspicions of foul play. A report earlier this year by Surrey police, following a 15-month investigation in to the deaths of Privates Sean Benton, 20, Cheryl James, 18, Geoff Gray, 17, and James Collinson, 17, uncovered repeated examples of bullying. The report criticised a failure to learn from past incidents at Deepcut and called for a "broader inquiry" into the army's care for young recruits.The government has refused calls from the families for a public inquiry.