If a man with two guns and 60 rounds of ammunition barges his way into a bedroom in the middle of the night, confronts the naked and defenceless occupant and then shoots him dead, he has surely committed a criminal offence - a murder which must land the gunman in prison for life. However, the uncomfortable reality is that if the man with the gun is a police officer, it is not that simple.Sussex PC Chris Sherwood is the latest in a lengthening line of "authorised firearms officers" who have shot unarmed civilians and emerged without any criminal sanction. In the last 10 years, police officers in England and Wales have shot no less than 41 people who turned out not to be carrying a firearm. At least 15 of the victims died. And not one of the police officers who fired those shots has been convicted of any criminal offence. The vast majority were not even prosecuted. The victims include Harry Stanley, 46, shot dead on his way home from the pub after police mistook the table leg he was carrying for a gun; Diarmuid O'Neill, 27, the IRA man shot dead in Hammersmith in 1996, unarmed and naked apart from his underpants; and David Ewin, 38, shot dead while trying to batter his way out of a parking place in a stolen car. Police officers in England and Wales now shoot people once every seven or eight weeks. This might look like a disturbing sequence of corrupt decisions, effectively a licence for police officers to kill. In reality, it indicates something very different but equally disturbing, not just for potential victims but also for the police officers who may fire at them: police use of firearms is inherently dangerous. The more police are armed, the more they will shoot the wrong people. And the law which surrounds this is inadequate and incapable of fixing the blame when things go wrong. PC Sherwood's case is classic. The bullet with which he killed Jimmy Ashley in the bedroom of his flat in Hastings, East Sussex, in January 1998 turns out to be merely the final shot in a volley of error unleashed by just about every rank in Sussex police. The shooting was investigated by two outside forces - Kent and Hampshire - and the Guardian has seen secret reports from both inquiries. They found evidence that in the planning or later handling of the incident, crime was committed by the chief constable, his deputy, one of the assistant chief constables, a superintendent, a chief inspector, an inspector and three constables. The evidence was considered strong enough to prosecute only in the case of four of the junior officers. Together, the two inquiries painted a picture of casual disregard for the rules which ring-fence the police use of firearms, a picture in which complacency and confusion conspired to jeopardise the lives of members of the public and of junior police officers alike. It all began on the evening of Wednesday, January 7 1998, when a man called Paul Smith was drinking in Cherries bar on the Hastings seafront. A Scotsman accused him (wrongly) of being a grass. Smith left rapidly. The Scotsman followed him, pulled a knife and stabbed him three or four times in the groin. When the police came, they were given two leads: the Scotsman was known as 'Tosh'; and he had been pulled off his victim by a friend who had then walked away with him. The friend was a Scouser called Jimmy Ashley. The Hastings police knew quite a bit about Ashley, then 39. Over the previous 12 months, an informant had told them he and a few mates from Liverpool were taking over the supply of heroin in the town and using violence to muscle in on other dealers. There were rumours but no hard evidence that they had a gun. In October, Hastings police had set up a covert observation point on a house in Western Road where Ashley and two others had moved into three flats. The observation point had recorded suspicious comings and goings, but it had been closed down without result. Now, in search of Tosh, on the morning of Thursday, January 8, Hastings police reopened the OP. Within a week, Jimmy Ashley was dead. By that time, the search for Tosh had wandered far and wide from the rule book as Sussex police officers took to the streets with guns, sometimes with authorisation that should not have been granted, and sometimes without any legal authority at all.  Dangerous tactic These armed operations were run by an incident commander, Detective Chief Inspector Kevin French, who had never been trained for the job, on the basis of an intelligence operation run by an intelligence commander, Detective Inspector Chris Siggs, who had not been trained for his job either. Its tactics for the use of guns were provided by a specialist advisor, PC Steve Crocker, who endorsed an extravagant plan to send 25 armed officers into the flats in Western Road using a rapid intervention tactic known as Bermuda - even though PC Crocker and his assault coordinator, Sgt Andy Park, had been warned by the head of the police national firearms school in West Mercia that Bermuda was too dangerous to be used in such circumstances. The tactic called for a lone officer to walk into each room in a building, to scan it - thus presenting himself as an easy target to an armed occupant - before calling in backup if needed. When Sussex adopted the tactic in 1992, an internal memo warned that "risk factors are high and, as such, it should only be considered as a last resort". However, a tactic that could conceivably be justified to save a hostage from imminent execution became an approved method of simply arresting suspects. Sussex claimed to have learned this from the RUC in Belfast. The RUC denied it. This tactic was then made even riskier by the Hastings officers' failure to get hold of internal plans of the house: there were five flats with six occupants, only four of whom were targets, but the officers had little or no idea who was in which flat. Superintendent Colin Burrows of the RUC, an official adviser to the chief constables on firearms policy, who reviewed the Hastings operation, said he would never send in armed officers to raid a building occupied by armed suspects unless they had trained as a team "for fast-track decision making in the face of life-threatening danger". These officers had never practised rapid intervention as a team. Indeed, most of them had not trained in rapid intervention even as individuals. And this was only the thin end of the wedge of error which took Ashley's life. It is clear now that the raid should never have been launched. The whole misbegotten incident happened only because of two alarming failures, first of intelligence, and then of command. In the seven days that followed the stabbing at Cherries bar, Hastings officers had received a drip-feed of intelligence. They had identified Tosh as Thomas McCrudden and linked him to three different addresses as well as a car found parked in the town centre. Although they had dispatched armed officers in pursuit of all these leads, they had come away empty-handed. So, on January 14 1998, at about 5pm, they decided to go for the big one. They asked their deputy chief constable, Mark Jordan, to allow them to send 25 armed officers into the Western Road flats. They said they had three objectives: to retrieve a kilo of cocaine which had just been delivered to Ashley; to seize a firearm kept there; to arrest Tosh McCrudden. They were wrong on all three. Inside the flats, there was no cocaine, no firearm and no Tosh. Worse than that, the Kent inquiry concluded, three Hastings officers - detectives Burton, French and Siggs - knew this and lied about their intelligence in order to persuade their deputy chief constable to authorise the raid. Specifically, Kent found they told the deputy that earlier that afternoon a detective from the regional crime squad had warned them that a car carrying drugs was on its way to Western Road, and that they had seen Ashley and his friends taking three boxes into the flat "in a suspicious way". In truth, however, the RCS detective had said nothing of the kind; he had simply asked Hastings police to look out for two suspect cars at two addresses, neither of which was Western Road. And the three boxes had been taken into the flats before either of these cars could possibly have arrived there. The Hastings officers also told the deputy chief constable that Ashley had a gun in the flat, even though there was nothing but rumour to support the claim; and that there was "a strong possibility" that McCrudden was there, which was an exaggeration of a tentative report of an unidentified man entering the building. With yesterday's collapse of the crown case in Wolverhampton, the three Sussex officers who were accused of this dishonesty have been given no chance to put their side of the story. They have always denied dishonesty. Sussex police sources say that if the trial of the three officers had gone ahead, they would have shown that Kent police ignored an informant report which suggested that Ashley and his friends were regularly receiving a consignment of cocaine on Wednesday evenings; and that they were simply doing their best to interpret all the intelligence they had received. Kent hotly deny ignoring any lead. However, while there is dispute about whether the officers were honest in their intellligence report, there is no dispute that they were wrong. This manipulation or misreading of intelligence could not have produced such lethal results if there had not also been a catastrophic failure of command. Mark Jordan now faces disciplinary charges of neglect first, because he failed to ask the questions which would have exposed the flaws in this intelligence, but second, and most important, because experts on firearms and the law told Kent that, even if all the intelligence from the Hastings officers had been correct, Mr Jordan should not have authorised the use of firearms. Two days earlier, the Hastings officers had obtained a search warrant for the flats. It was technically defective because it failed to specify which of the flats was to be searched, and it was wrongly granted because it was obtained under the Misuse of Drugs Act when there was no evidence that there were drugs in the flat. Most important, experts said Sussex police had no need to use armed officers at any stage. Two experts on police firearms reviewed the final armed raid for the Kent inquiry. Superintendent Alan Bailey of the national firearms school said there was no need for firearms officers to arrest McCrudden, who had never been known to use a gun; if they really believed there was a gun, that was a good reason not to go in there but to make the arrest on the street; and, even if they believed there was a kilo of cocaine in there, that did not justify the dangers of using firearms. Supt Burrows, who drafted the firearms guidelines for the Association of Chief Police Officers, said bluntly: "The strategic objectives in this case do not meet the requirements of the Acpo guidelines." It turns out that the seven days after the stabbing at Cherries were littered with similarly slack leadership. Officers had earlier been given a 48-hour authority to use guns to arrest McCrudden in the street; and a further 24-hour authority to arrest him with guns near the car he was thought to have been using. Both authorities were granted by assistant chief constables on the basis that McCrudden was "possibly armed with a firearm"; he was not, and there was simply no evidence to suggest that he would be. More serious, it is now clear that on several occasions that week, heavily armed Sussex officers were sent out into the streets of Hastings with no legal authority at all. In one case, on the morning of January 14, half a dozen armed officers set up an ambush at the post office on London Road in daylight as customers came and went, unaware of the danger. The officers were waiting for McCrudden to collect his giro. The officers were called away to another job before a friend of McCrudden's turned up to collect the giro. So it was that under the supervision of inadequately trained commanders, 25 inadequately trained officers were instructed to use a notoriously dangerous tactic to storm a building for which they had no internal plans in order to execute an operation which was built on false intelligence and launched without proper support from the law or the guidelines. And, as the operation unfolded, things got worse. It was shortly before 1am on January 15 when the 25 officers from the special operations unit filed through the armoury at Sussex police HQ in Lewes. They wore night clothing with body armour. Each was issued was a pistol, a sub-machine gun and 60 rounds of ammunition. They were about to take part in the biggest armed operation in the history of Sussex police. At 1.10am, they gathered to be briefed. Inspector Jim Taylor, head of the unit, showed them pictures of McCrudden, Ashley, and two of Ashley's friends and passed on what he had been told about them: that McCrudden was in the flats (incorrect) and that he had a history of violence with knives (correct); that there was a gun in the flats (incorrect); that Ashley was wanted in Eastbourne for shooting a man in the stomach (incorrect); that he had been convicted of attempted murder (incorrect, although he had served two years for manslaughter). One of the least experienced of those listening was PC Chris Sherwood, then aged 30. Although he had been an authorised firearms officer for nearly five years, he had never fired a shot in an operation, and he was one of those who had never been trained in rapid intervention. The briefing ended, the teams set off by road to Hastings, where they were told that the lights were out in Western Road. If all went well, they might yet take their suspects by surprise. But it did not go well. By 4.10am, Chris Sherwood was standing in a long line of armed men in an alley beside the house in Western Road, trying to look inconspicuous despite the security lamp which bathed them in light every time its sensor detected one of them moving. Two officers had gone ahead with a front door key; now they reported bad news. The two top flats, including the one in which Ashley was thought to be living, had a communal door. It would take twice as long to break down that door as well as the doors to the flats inside. At about 4.15, 10 men, including Sherwood, were called up to the top landing. It was too small for such a crowd, and the officers spilled down the stairs, where more armed officers were gathered. Sherwood was at the back of his group. One of the two officers who had come in ahead of them was trying to twist his way down past them; his rig dragged over the iron railing, and they all flinched at the noise. On the top landing, PC Evans moved towards the communal door with his battering ram. PC Roskilly stepped back to let him through, knocked over an ironing board with an appalling clatter, a dog began to bark. PC Roskilly radioed for permission to start, the assault coordinator called "Strike", and PC Evans attacked the communal door. At the back of the line, Chris Sherwood was nervous. In the bedroom of his flat, Ashley was still asleep, but his girlfriend, Caroline Courtland-Smith, then 19, was wide awake, alarmed by the cacophony of shouting and crashing. She shook Ashley awake. By this time, the first five officers were through the communal door, turning right; the second five-man team was lost on the landing unable to find the door to Ashley's flat because the communal door had swung back to conceal it. Ashley stumbled naked out of bed. The first man from Sherwood's team had opened the door and stepped back; the other four were in Ashley's hallway, each man taking a door. The last man got the last room: Chris Sherwood was now right at the front of the queue, separated from Ashley by two inches of unlocked door. Ashley was walking round the foot of the bed, heading for the same door. The room was dark. Chris Sherwood raised his Heckler and Koch to his left shoulder, turned on the torch on top of the barrel and pushed open the door. What happened next took between one and three seconds. Sherwood took one step forward, scanned the darkness with his torch, caught sight of the face and upper torso of a man, recognised the face from the briefing photo: the attempted murder man, the "shoots people in the stomach" man, armed and dangerous. The man was moving fast towards him. "In that instant," Sherwood said, "I thought I was going to be shot and killed. I thought a gun was being levelled at me, ready to be fired. I reacted instinctively to the threat, fearing for my life. I pulled the trigger and fired." Ashley was less than two foot away when the bullet pierced his chest, ricocheted down off his collar bone and flew through his heart. He coughed a spray of blood on Sherwood, crumpled, coughed a little more blood and fell to the floor. Caroline was screaming. Someone turned on the light. It was then that Sherwood discovered the armed and dangerous man was unarmed and naked. And dead. When the particular detail of this raid is set aside, what happened here is essentially identical to what happens in most police shootings: there is a moment of confrontation between an armed officer and a target, which is also a confrontation between perception and reality. If the officer perceives a threat, he will shoot. If he is wrong, an innocent person gets shot. Or he may guess the other way. In which case, if he is wrong, he gets shot.  Replica guns  In the 41 cases where targets of police shooting had no firearm, 14 of them were carrying replica guns. No police officer in the heat of confrontation can tell the difference. The same logic applies to the 14 other cases where targets were carrying other weapons - air pistol, gas gun, knife, hatchet. How real is the threat? You have between one and three seconds to decide. Get it wrong, and the wrong person dies. Of the remaining 13 cases, six were ac cidental discharges (five of those shot being police officers), and the remaining seven are the most disturbing of all, where the target had no weapon at all, just like Jimmy Ashley. And yet in each case the officer perceived them as a threat and was, therefore, just like Chris Sherwood deemed to be firing in self-defence. The truth about armed police which the politicians have never understood is that if we give guns to our police officers, they will use them; and if they use them, then from time to time, as a matter of certainty, they will shoot the wrong people. That night in Hastings, Sherwood spent a minute or two with his hand clamped over the hole in Ashley's chest, hopelessly trying to turn back time. He was led away in shock. Caroline Courtland-Smith was taken away to the police station where she sat with her mother and tried to describe what had happened. The armed officers arrested three men in two of the other flats, soon found out that none of them was McCrudden, and released them without charge. (McCrudden was eventually arrested elsewhere and got five and a half years for the Cherries stabbing.) There are two conclusions from all this. The first is that our officers are armed too often. Sussex insists it has been traduced. It says just about every force in the country uses a tactic like Bermuda, and adds defiantly that Sussex will continue to use it. It denies using firearms without proper authority. It says its training is no worse than that of other forces. The reasonable conclusion is that there is no reason to suppose that other forces would emerge any better if they were subjected to the same scrutiny. But there is no effective scrutiny of the police use of firearms. When we tried to find out how many people had been shot by police, the national criminal intelligence service and the Acpo said they had no idea; the PCA said it had some files but nobody had collated the information; and the Home Office said it knew the answer and then supplied us with grossly inaccurate figures. The official figures show the number of occasions on which police officers have been deployed with guns has just about trebled in the last decade, from 3,722 in 1991 to 10,928 in 1998-99. This figure understates the truth, because it excludesofficers who now carry guns routinely, including not only VIP bodyguards but also the anti terrorist branch, the flying squad and fleets of armed response vehicles. Yet the figures on the number of standing authority guns are kept secret so as not to 'compromise police effectiveness'  Match firepower British politicians offer two defences: the police have had to match the firepower of criminals - The reality is that British police have armed themselves in advance of their criminal opponents. And they say, that even if there are more officers with guns, it is still rare for them to shoot them. The problem, however, lies in the 41 targets who turn out to have no firearms, and with the finding of Supt Burrows who studied a sequence of firearms incidents and discovered 56% of shots fired by police missed their target. Senior officers who followed the Hastings case believe we are at a crossroads. They argue that we can make two fundamental reforms to reduce the number of wrong shootings. First, we can cut right back on the number of deployments and insist police carry firearms only where there is a direct threat to life. Second, we need to explore the potential of non-lethal means of disabling dangerous opponents, such as stun guns or pepper sprays. The second conclusion is that if a system is failing, it is dishonest to fasten the blame on one junior individual. Sherwood's acquittal reflects that. Yet there is a naked and unarmed man in the background here. Who is to blame for that? In so far as it continues to pretend that the responsibility rests with the officer who pulled the trigger, the justice system is incapable of pinning the blame where it belongs. On this occasion, the crown prosecution service did try to punish three middle-ranking officers for "misfeasance", an archaic common law charge which collapsed before their trial. And that is the end of that. The rate at which officers are armed, the law which controls them, the systems which are supposed to supervise them are all left untouched. Ashley is dead. Forty others are needlessly dead or wounded. Yet for all official purposes, there is nothing wrong. Additional research by Max HoughtonRelated articles 23.05.2001: Inquiry into shooting provoked three-way row among police 23.05.2001: Top officers condemned over fatal police raid