Gordon Brown's sudden interest in tackling antisocial behaviour by breathing new life into asbos comes after two years during which, in the words of the home secretary, Alan Johnson, the government has been coasting on the issue.Most police, local authorities and other criminal justice professionals believed that their day was well and truly over. The slow death of the asbo began in 2007 when the first Whitehall evaluation demonstrated that nearly half the orders issued had been breached and that they were widely seen as a badge of honour by offending teenagers and their parents.Asbos were the flagship innovation of Tony Blair's "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" approach to law and order. They were introduced in the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act as a way of tackling low-level antisocial behaviour on inner-city estates that the police had not bothered with. The original idea was that banning orders – from being out at night or going to certain places – would be coupled with conditions such as parenting programmes designed to tackle the roots of offending behaviour.Out of control "asbo kids" filled the television screens of Blair's Britain,proving an initial hit with local councillors keen to demonstrate they could make a difference. Labour local authority leaders started to compete during their annual party conferences over how many asbos they had taken out in the previous 12 months.But by 2005 the police and juvenile justice workers were becoming less impressed.An evaluation by the National Audit Office of 1,000 asbos that were issued between 1999 and 2006 showed that 35% of offenders had breached their orders five or more times. The Whitehall evaluation said that warning letters from the police, which cost £63 to administer, and acceptable behaviour contracts were much more effective than the £3,000-a-time asbos.The Home Office confirmed this gloomy picture in 2008. Breach rates had soared to 61% and the number of new orders issued dropped by more than a third from 4,123 in 2005 to 2,706 in 2006. Although no official figures have been published since, it is believed that the downward trend has continued over the past three years.The fate of asbos appeared to have been sealed when Gordon Brown took over in Downing Street. His lieutenant, Ed Balls, took over as children's secretary and declared that every time a young person got an asbo it was a failure and he hoped to live in "the kind of society that puts asbos behind us".While Jacqui Smith was home secretary she urged the police and local authorities to make greater use of a wide range of early-intervention measures, including parenting orders, acceptable behaviour contracts and support orders to nip bad behaviour in the bud. At the same time the cross-government taskforce to tackle antisocial behaviour headed by Louise Casey, the "asbo tsar" was dismantled.Brown has made only one major speech on crime as prime minister before his sudden declaration of interest in tackling antisocial behaviour. The speech, made in the middle of the expenses crisis, attracted few headlines.This sudden interest may be explained by party's polling, which has shown a resurgent concern among voters over low-level crime. But it also stems from the new home secretary, Alan Johnson, who has made clear that his ambition is to revive the asbo. New legislation will be introduced this autumn to make asbos easier to get and more user-friendly for police. The move is likely to fail as criminal justice professionals still see the asbo as an ineffective blunt instrument and prefer to use a range of alternative measures that appear to work.