The judge began his summing up yesterday in the "tragic and deeply disturbing" case of Dr Harold Shipman, the family doctor who is accused of murdering 15 women patients, by telling the jury to put aside their emotions when considering the evidence.Mr Justice Forbes said at Preston crown court: "This is a tragic and deeply disturbing case. The allegations could not be more serious - a doctor accused of murdering 15 patients. "You will have heard evidence which may have aroused feelings of anger, strong disapproval, disgust, profound dismay or deep sympathy. You must put all such feelings or emotions to one side and not allow it to influence your judgment. You must consider the evidence dispassionately." The judge said the jurors must put out of their minds anything they may have read, seen or heard outside of the court. "You must decide this case only on the evidence you have heard, seen and read in court." he said. He added that the fact that the defendant had told lies was not in itself evidence of guilt. "Lies can be told to bolster a true defence, to protect somebody else, to spare the feelings of others or told out of panic, confusion or distress." There was no direct evidence that Dr Shipman had killed any of the alleged victims with a fatal dose of morphine or diamorphine. "Nobody actually saw Dr Shipman administer any such injection to any of the alleged victims," the judge told the jurors. He said it was Dr Shipman's case that he did not administered morphine or diamorphine to the women and he does not know how the fatal dose was administered. The jurors should use their common sense and experience of life and knowledge of human nature, said the judge. They must make allowances for the strain of giving evidence in court, including the evidence given by Dr Shipman. "It cannot be easy giving evidence in circumstances in which you face charges as serious as those faced by Dr Shipman in this trial," he said. Dr Shipman, 53, of Mottram, near Hyde, Greater Manchester, denies murdering 15 patients and forging the £386,000 will of one of the women. The trial continues today.