There are many victims in a single murder. The family and friends of the person killed have to spend the rest of their lives with that shadow forever in the background. Often, too, the family of the killer, shocked by the act carried out by someone they loved, find their lives permanently blighted by guilt and shame. And, occasionally, but still too often, there is the person wrongly accused of the crime.The Rachel Nickell case, which finally reached its conclusion at the Old Bailey on Thursday, more than 16 years after she was killed in front of her two-year-old son on Wimbledon Common, is one with all too many victims: her partner and father of their child, Andre Hanscombe; that young son, who had to witness the murder; her family and many friends. But there was an additional victim in Colin Stagg, the 27th person arrested by police in their investigation and the first one to go to the Old Bailey and face trial for the murder back in 1994. Now, with the conviction of the real killer, Robert Napper, he has his formal vindication.Stagg was fortunate in that the judge in the original case, Mr Justice Ognall, was robust and self-confident enough to see the case against him for what it was – a mishmash of suppositions and mild coincidences, sprinkled with some fanciful psychological speculation. Stagg was in jail for 13 months while he awaited trial. Even after he was freed, back in 1994, the innuendos continued, with some members of the press clearly still anxious to tar him with the brush of the "man who got away with murder".To his great credit, Stagg has always said that the real victims in this whole sorry saga are Rachel and her family. What he has suffered, with all the graffiti on his walls, all the snooping on his life and love affairs by a suspicious press, is far less, he has said, than the loss of someone so loved. But that should not detract from the fact that, but for the intervention of the judge, he could well only now be coming out of jail after being convicted by a jury which found itself bamboozled by the evidence and under pressure to satisfy public demand to solve such a notorious crime.Stagg has not blamed the detectives in the case. They were under enormous pressure, as evidenced by the fact that so many people were arrested – 13 in the first month – for the crime. When the murder took place, the criminal justice system was just coming to terms with a catalogue of miscarriages of justice. In 1991, the Birmingham Six had finally been released and two years before that, the Guildford Four. The very week that Rachel Nickell was killed, a high-profile appeal, that of the Darvell brothers, who had been wrongly convicted of a murder in Swansea, was being heard. They, too, might have been regarded as "the local weirdos", and their successful appeal should have been yet another alarm bell reminding the police, the prosecution services and the media that real-life murder investigations are not as neat and simple as a television drama.This was not a case where evidence was planted or confessions invented, as in the old days. This was incompetence not corruption. It came at a time when "psychological profiling" – as portrayed in the television series, Cracker, which started in 1993, the year before Stagg appeared in court – was seen as a magic solution to a tricky case rather than just a useful potential aid.There will be many questions for the senior ranks of the police, the prosecution services and the psychological profilers to answer. However, the case is another reminder that the "local weirdo", who may seem to be the ­likeliest suspect, can all too often be another victim.