Sir William Macpherson's report concludes that the first police investigation into the murder 'was marred by a combination of professional incompetence, institutional racism and a failure of leadership by senior officers'. He begins by saying he is unable to conclude that the five suspects were the murderers. 'They remain, however, prime suspects.' But he is clear that the gang of white youths who attacked Stephen were 'young men bent on violence . . . There is little doubt that all of them would have been held responsible for the murder had they been in court together with viable evidence against them. This murder has all the hallmarks of a joint enterprise.' Stephen's murder, the report says, 'was simply and unequivocally motivated by racism. It was the deepest tragedy for his family. Nobody has been convicted of this awful crime. That is an affront to the Lawrence family and the community at large.' Sir William notes that even after prolonged police investigations and the inquiry itself, which generated more than 100,000 pages of documents, nobody has come forward with new evidence to advance the case. 'There is no doubt whatsoever that the first MPS (Metropolitan Police Service) investigation was palpably flawed and deserves severe criticism . . .This is now plainly accepted by the MPS. Otherwise the abject apologies offered to Mr and Mrs Lawrence would be meaningless.' The report concludes that racism exists within all organisations and institutions. 'The problem is thus deeply ingrained. Radical thinking and sustained action are needed in order to tackle it head-on . . . in all organisations and in particular in the fields of education and family life.' At an early stage Sir William rejects the criticism made by Sir Paul Condon, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, that police witnesses were 'pilloried by a barrage of confrontational cross-examination' which would set back attempts to rebuild the damaged relations between the police and the black community. While accepting that the questioning of officers was robust, he says the damage was 'the result of police failures, and the answers to the questions rather then the nature of the questioning. 'It is of central importance that the Commissioner and his officers should recognise and accept this fact.' Sir William described Stephen's parents, Neville and Doreen, as the 'mainspring' of the inquiry. 'Their persistence and courage in the face of tragedy and bitter disillusionment and disappointment have been outstanding.' The report says that their evidence to the inquiry shows that they 'feel deeply that they were patronised and side-lined. Together with many others they have an inherent distrust which the police must move fundamentally to overcome'. Within minutes of Stephen's murder, police prejudice showed in the handling of his friend, Duwayne Brooks, who was in a state of shock. 'We are driven to the conclusion that Mr Brooks was stereotyped as a young black man exhibiting unpleasant hostility and agitation, who could not be expected to help, and whose condition and status simply did not need further examination or understanding. 'At the end of the day we are satisfied that the lack of respect and sensitivity in handling him must reflect unwitting and collective racism.' The report defines institutional racism as: 'The collective failure of an organisation to provide an appropriate and professional service to people because of their colour, culture or ethnic origin. It can be seen or detected in processes, attitudes and behaviour which amount to discrimination through unwitting prejudice, ignorance, thoughtlessness and racist stereotyping.' Sir William says he heard no evidence of overt racism except for the 'inappropriate' use of the words 'coloured' and 'negro'. But racism in its more subtle form is as damaging as in its overt form. 'Unwitting racism can arise because of lack of understanding, ignorance or mistaken beliefs. It can arise from well-intentioned but patronising words or actions. It can arise from unfamiliarity with the behaviour or cultural traditions of people or families from minority ethnic communities. It can arise from racist stereotyping of black people as potential criminals or troublemakers.' The failure of the first police investigating team to recognise and accept racism and race relations as a central feature of their investigation 'played a part in the deficiencies in policing.' But Sir William says that there was no evidence that the policies of the Met are racist. 'Indeed the contrary is true. It is in the implementation of policies and in the words and actions of officers acting together that racism may become apparent. Such an accusation does not mean or imply that every police officer is guilty of racism. No such sweeping suggestion can be or should be made.' Besides evidence of institutional racism in the police investigation, the report says it is apparent in: 1. the disparity in stop and search figures as a result of stereotyping.  2. the under-reporting of racial incidents because of a lack of confidence in the police. 3. the lack of any racism awareness training of every officer who gave evidence to the inquiry. The report says: 'There must be an unequivocal acceptance of the problem of institutional racism and its nature before it can be addressed.' The report leaves open the question as to whether the suspects should be prosecuted for perjury. While their evidence was 'evasive and vague', the report says that does not mean it would be possible to prove they were lying. 'This does not mean that they could not be prosecuted for perjury, should it be plain that they were lying on oath or affirmation . . . This inquiry is not in any event a prosecuting authority. If the view of others differs from ours the matter can be reported to the police.As for them being murderers, the report says: 'These youths remain the five suspects, but nothing has been proved against them on the evidence.' But it goes on: 'The press and public cannot be blamed for voicing the suspicions about them which are current and which will remain alive because nobody has been convicted of the brutal racist murder of Stephen Lawrence.' Sir William concludes that, from the earliest stages, the police investigation was severely flawed, and astonishing in its lack of command and organisation. A detailed reconstruction was difficult because of an almost total lack of documentation and record of the first night's operations. Some officers claimed that the message alerting them to the murder came at 10.25pm on Thursday 22 April at least five minutes before the attack was committed.  What followed after the first police vehicle arrived at the scene was extraordinary, the report states. Without any information and assuming that a fight had taken place, the officer in charge and a constable went to a pub to the north of the scene in a failed attempt to find witnesses to any violence. In fact, as the first officers on the scene could have informed them, the white youths involved had run off in the opposite direction. The whole picture, the report concludes, was of 'disarray and uncertainty'. No officers early on the scene took steps to pursue the suspects, and even though large numbers of officers were available, inadequate measures were taken to use them actively and properly. 'The lost opportunities for full and proper searches and investigation during the first hours after Stephen Lawrence's murder are to be deplored.' These early failures were compounded after the murder investigation was launched. One unfortunate development was the appointment of Superintendent Ian Crampton, as senior investigating officer (SIO), even though he was only available until the following Monday because he was due to appear at the Central Criminal Court on another case. A fundamental error was a decision taken by Mr Crampton not to make early arrests. That decision was perpetuated by his successor, Det Supt Brain Weeden, even though a striking feature of the case, the report says, was the important information reaching the investigation team on April 23 and 24. By 1.50pm on the Friday, message No 4 from an anonymous caller indicated that a group of youths on the Kidbrooke estate who always carried knives could have been involved in the stabbing. Two of the suspects were named, Neil Acall (sic) and Dave Norris. But the message was not referred to at the 5pm team briefing, and did not reach Mr Crampton until the following day. The most important information to reach the team came on the Friday evening, the report says, when a man who was given the pseudonym 'James Grant' walked into Plumstead police station and named Jamie and Neil Acourt, who called themselves 'The Krays', David Norris and two unknown males as the murderers. The Acourts had been involved in other stabbings, including the killing of a Pakistani youth and an attack on a youth called Stacey Benefield. The information was not passed to Mr Crampton until the following day. By the evening of Sunday April 25, research had been carried out confirming much of the information. Two 'letters', written by the same person, had been received on the Saturday, one left in a telephone kiosk and one on the windscreen of a police car, again confirming much of James Grant's information. Other anonymous and attributable information had also been received. 'The truth,' the report states, 'is that although people were reluctant to give their names there was no 'wall of silence', In fact, information purporting to implicate the suspects was readily and repeatedly made available.' By Sunday afternoon, the balance of favour of action was, in the inquiry's view, overwhelming. The report continues: 'In the end, we are firmly convinced that a vital and fundamental mistake was made in failing to arrest the suspects over the first weekend and certainly by early on Monday morning, April 26 . . . If the right decision had been made, the consequences are obvious. Searches could have been done wholly in accordance with the law, of the premises of the suspects. Identification parades could have been set up at short notice so that the witnesses attended while their memories were at their freshest. Interviews could have taken place in the more immediate aftermath of the murder, and the suspects might not have reached their own considered decision that they would make no comment and remain silent.' The inquiry accepts that early arrests may not have led to the conviction of any suspects. But the failure to do so 'was the most fundamental fault in the investigation of this murder'. The report rejects the Lawrence family's allegation that the officers had been influenced by their knowledge of Clifford Norris, a notorious villain and the father of one of the suspects, David Norris. There was also evidence of a further connection with Norris senior through a Flying Squad detective sergeant, referred to as Sgt XX, who had been seen with the criminal in suspicious circumstances. Sgt XX had served under Mr Crampton and had received a reference from him at a disciplinary board hearing. But the inquiry accepted the officers' evidence that they had not made the connection between the two Norrises at the time. The inefficiency of the police incident room, run by Detective Sergeant Peter Flook, was another problem, the report says. Under the guidelines, he should have had one role, but in fact had four. The HOLMES computer system, on which information was recorded and processed, had been wholly inadequately serviced by trained, experienced officers. That perhaps accounted for the extraordinary lapses in time in connection with the processing of information. DS Flook had been 'singularly unhelpful' when asked to explain the delays. He had also been forced to withdraw allegations that the Lawrence family had been hindering the investigation. 'No wonder,' the report concludes, 'Mr and Mrs Lawrence and the community perceive, with justification, that the management of the case was deficient. DS Flook's attitude to Mr and Mrs Lawrence and to their solicitor . . must result in the conclusion that racist prejudice, stereotyping and insensitivity played its part in the lack of bite and energy devoted to the activities of the incident room.' Another central failure was the surveillance operations mounted on the Acourts' address and David Norris's home in Kent, which the report describes as 'a most unhappy part of this case'. It did not begin in full until the Tuesday because the team did not work at weekends and on the Monday they were booked to observe a young black men suspected of theft. Two officers observing the Acourts' house on the Monday saw a young white man leave with what appeared to be clothing covered by a black bin liner. A camera was not set up so there was no photograph of this event. Nor was it notified to the incident room. The report concludes that the contents of that bin liner will never be known.