Police and community leaders expressed hope yesterday that heavy jail sentences handed down to four men who murdered two girls in a drive-by gangland shooting would deter other youngsters from joining mobs.The four members of the Burger Bar gang, one of the groups which controls the drugs trade in Birmingham, were accused by the judge, Mr Justice Goldring - who said one witness had described them as "urban terrorists" - of bringing gang warfare to the city. Three men who were in the car involved in the shooting of teenagers Charlene Ellis and Letisha Shakespeare, including Charlene's half-brother, Marcus Ellis, were told they would each serve at least 35 years in prison. A fourth man who acted as a "military-style" spotter and "talked in" the "gun car" will serve a minimum of 27 years. All four, now in their 20s, will be approaching pensionable age when they are eligible for parole. Mr Justice Goldring told the three who were in the car, Ellis, a leader of the Burger Bar gang, Michael Gregory and Nathan Martin, that he would have sentenced them to full life terms if he had had the power. He said: "The seriousness of these offences of murder was exceptionally high ... Two people were killed. There was a substantial degree of premeditation or planning. "The aggravating features are clear: this was gang warfare played out on the streets of Birmingham. Lethal weapons were used. The intention was to kill. There was a complete indifference to the lives of others." Mr Justice Goldring continued: "Those who were killed were wholly innocent people. Not a shred of remorse has been exhibited and public interest demands the highest possible deterrent. No society can permit this sort of behaviour to take place without the gravest retribution." The judge set a lesser minimum term for the fourth man, Rodrigo Simms, because he was younger - 18 at the time of the shootings - and not so closely involved in planning the attack. Speaking on the steps of Leicester crown court, Detective Superintendent Dave Mirfield, who led the investigation, said he hoped the sentences would make would-be gang members think twice. He said: "Four men will today be starting a total of 132 years in prison. The message this sentence sends out is that guns and gangs will not win. Justice will always win and any youngster who sees this today, take it as a wake-up call while you still have a chance." Letisha's mother, Marcia Shakespeare, said she hoped the gangsters would get the message that "enough is enough". She added: "The violence needs to stop now." She said she and Charlene's mother, Bev Thomas, would continue to campaign against gun crime. "Our daughters must not have died in vain," she said. Derek Webley, the Birminghan and Solihull district bishop for the New Testament Church of God and vice-chairman of West Midlands police authority, said: "I think these sentences will send out the message that people who are prepared to take the lives of innocent victims will not be tolerated." Prosecutors have expressed the hope that the convictions of the four will be a "watershed" in the fight against gangland violence. They were pleased that unprecedented protection measures for witnesses were allowed during the trial and hope this might encourage witnesses in further gangland and terrorist cases to come forward. The judge said he had no doubt the killers were confident they could get away with the shooting, which took place as the girls, aged 17 and 18, took a breath of air outside a new year party in 2003, because witnesses would be too frightened to come forward and certainly too afraid to give evidence in court. He said that "to some extent" they were right. All but three of the civilian witnesses who testified had to be arrested to get them into court - and many of them did not say in the witness box what they had told police about the shootings. But the judge said the men "reckoned without" painstaking mobile phone and cell site analysis which placed them in and around the scene of the shootings at key times. Praising the police, Mr Justice Goldring said it was this work that was the foundation of their conviction. The jury, which returned its verdicts on Friday, had been told the girls were accidentally shot as the Burger Bar gangsters targeted members of a rival gang, the Johnson Crew. Ellis, 24, Gregory, 23, Martin, 26, and Simms, 20, showed no emotion as they were led away.