The inquest began yesterday of a 43-year-old man who collapsed by the side of a motorway while he was in the custody of Greater Manchester police after being arrested on suspicion of drink driving.John Hinde, a father of three children who was known as Willy, was found by police in his blue VW Jetta on a sliproad of the M60 in Manchester in August 2001. He was arrested after a breath test proved positive. Then he swallowed a plastic bag - containing a white powder - and was involved in a struggle with officers. Within an hour, he collapsed and was pronounced dead after medical staff were unable to revive him. The jury at Manchester coroners' court heard that a plate containing dentures was found lodged lower further down his airway than the plastic bag. He had 32 scratches and grazes on his body. Leonard Gorodkin, the Manchester coroner, said the matter had been referred to the [now defunct] Police Complaints Authority which had ordered a full inquiry. An inquest was taking place with a jury as the death had occurred in custody. A witness, Robert Davies, whose mother was driving him home from work, said: "I saw the man lying face down and I could see he was handcuffed. His shoulder and head were on the road and his legs were on the hard shoulder. "There was blood on his face and I wondered if he was in some form of car crash. We had to literally drive around him. The police officers were near him - but they weren't keeping an eye on him." Mr Davies said to his mother that it was "naughty" to have the man in his state - laying on his stomach, lifting his head with his hands behind his back. He contacted police and made a statement after hearing that a man had died. Another passing motorist, senior radiographer Elizabeth Shuttlebotham, was passing when she saw a man lying facing away from the hard shoulder. "He had arched his back and his chin was up," she said. "His knees were behind him in an awkward position and his back was arched up in a C-shape." She said his hands had been restrained. An officer, who looked perplexed, was kneeling over him with his hands holding his back and shoulder. Kevin Gamble, the ambulance technician who was called to the scene, said they had been told a man had fainted and they were not informed that he had stopped breathing. When he arrived, there was no sign of anyone resuscitating Mr Hinde and an officer was standing several feet away. "I began attending to him," he said. "He was in the prone position lying face down with his cheek to one side. I was told he had been arrested on suspicion of drink driving and he had swallowed a plastic bag and had tried to pull it out himself." Mr Gamble noticed that the man, who was not handcuffed, had begun to turn blue and he was not breathing. There were cuts and grazes on his face and chest. He was put into the ambulance where an ECG monitor recorded no heartbeat. Mr Gamble gave him oxygen and noticed his stomach was swelling, indicating an obstruction. He took out his breathing tube, but could not find the obstruction. He was taken to Wythenshawe hospital where staff removed a plastic bag from Mr Hinde's airway. Mr Gamble said he had been unable to perform this procedure as he is not a paramedic. The inquest continues.