We all have preconceptions, but for the life of me, Errol Henry didn't look like a drug dealer. Like a librarian perhaps. Maybe it was the owlish glasses.And yet, after four hours of deliberations, a jury at Snaresbrook, east London decided that Errol – with his pressing air of sadness – was just that. "Guilty, guilty, guilty." Six years. Next stop, Pentonville. I blame The Wire. Post-Wire, we all think we know what a drug dealer looks like. Big guys, confident, swaggering, charismatic perhaps – they are salesmen – but always with an air of menace. Stringer Bell. Eerie Marlo. They fitted the bill.Errol didn't seem like that. He looked as if things were all a bit too much for him. That was largely true. He is 44, previously a man of good character, the judge was told. A builder, he had always worked, though he used cannabis and class-A drugs such as crack cocaine.What happened? We don't know because Errol told the court he knew nothing at all about the drugs police found when they raided his flat last August. But something, financially, spiritually perhaps, had gone wrong for Errol.They found 208g of cannabis under his bed, 53.4g of cocaine and 12.41g of crack, in various locations; a hallway cupboard, on the balcony alongside a set of scales and within a plant pot. Also under the bed, a live bullet. Errol said he knew nothing of that either. On that count, the jury believed him.He was with two others when armed police crashed in and he said that perhaps they brought the drugs – using the minute it took officers to fully enter his flat to scatter them to different locations. But the judge looked askance. His peers did too. His girlfriend looked ashen.Guilty, guilty, guilty.On to a new life with new problems. How to tell his elderly mother. How to conquer a fear of confined spaces? He's not well; how, in jail, will he access extra oxygen when need be?"There are more like him than you think," one lawyer told me. "A lot are losers." Hard not to feel for them. That said; there is too much coke and crack out there doing nobody any good.