A man was today found guilty of ordering the murder of his estranged wife, who was hacked to death with a machete in a suburban street as she walked to collect the couple's children.Harpreet Aulakh, 32, an Indian-born Sikh, arranged the murder after becoming obsessed with the idea he had lost respect among his peers because his wife, Geeta, from a middle-class British Hindu family, had left him and was seeking a divorce.On 16 November last year his 28-year-old wife, a receptionist at a community radio station, was ambushed after work as she walked the few hundred metres from a bus stop in Greenford, west London, to collect the couple's two young sons from their childminder.On a street corner she was attacked with the 14-inch machete and suffered appalling injuries to the head and body. Her right hand was completely severed as she tried to defend herself.Today Aulakh was found guilty of murder at the Old Bailey along with Sher Singh, 19, of Southall, west London, and Jaswant Dhillon, 30, of Ilford, east London.Jurors were still considering the case of Harpreet Singh, 20, of Slough, Berkshire, and were sent home to continue deliberations . He denies murder.Aftab Jafferjee QC, prosecuting, said behind the "savage and determined" attack was Aulakh's "chilling" reaction to his wife's desire to leave him."Geeta Aulakh was in the process of divorcing him and that would not be tolerated," he said. "No one else in the world could possibly have wished this utterly innocent and hard-working woman and mother any harm."Aulakh, described by Jafferjee as "smug and utterly unrepentant", claimed in court his wife was his "first love" and he did not kill her. He had thought he was in the clear because he made sure he was captured on CCTV in a pub at the time of the murder.Sher Singh, an Indian who had come to Britain months earlier on a student visa, was said in court to have wielded the machete. Jurors heard that Aulakh told a friend: "I don't do anything stupid. I get someone else to do it."But detectives discovered he had offered £5,000 for the killing and had been in telephone contact with Singh hours before it took place. They also found pictures from a wedding in Punjab showing Aulakh with Singh, who was linked to the murder by DNA.Another breakthrough came when the weapon used to kill Mrs Aulakh was found in a canal and found to be a Brazilian-made machete, whose sole UK supplier had sent a batch of 20 to a shop in Hounslow, only three of which were sold. CCTV from the store showed Aulakh buying the blade days before the murder.The court heard he had met his future wife at a bus stop in Hounslow when she was a teenager, but her family disapproved of the relationship. They eloped to Belgium and Holland, getting married and starting a family, before returning to the UK.Jafferjee said that in the weeks leading up to the murder, Aulakh was subjecting his wife to "sheer unmitigated harassment".