The government's decision to release thousands of prisoners early has come under fire after it emerged that they include people convicted for violence and domestic abuse.Two prisoners released in the Midlands for assault on a police officer carried out a robbery on a train on the way to see their probation officer shortly after being freed. The offence should have seen them immediately returned to prison but instead they were bailed, suggesting there is confusion about the recall arrangements.Elsewhere a man who had threatened to kill his partner and another member of her family was released in the south west of England and an offender jailed for using a samurai sword to threaten the public was released this month, despite the fact that his parole report was negative.In another incident a prisoner held for criminal damage and endangering life, who was assessed as posing a 'high risk of harm', was offered early release by prison staff only for probation officers to block the move.All prisoners released early are given £190 cash to help buy food and accommodation in a hostel if they should need it. But probation officers are concerned that much of the money goes on drugs and alcohol. Several examples have come to light of prisoners giving false addresses to qualify for the cash handout.One prisoner was so concerned he would not receive adequate care for his drug addiction when released that he opted to stay in jail. Several offenders released after serving sentences for domestic abuse were allowed out, despite giving their marital home as their onward address.'We are deeply concerned that prisoners are being released without a risk assessment or accommodation check,' said a spokesman for Napo, the probation officers' union. 'Some violent or prolific persistent offenders are being released without proper planning. The scheme was put together quickly and many turned down for parole or Home Detention Curfew appear to be being released.'Out of 60 cases highlighted by prisons and probation staff in evidence provided to The Observer, 19 involved violence, six domestic abuse and five were prolific offenders.The snapshot could embarrass the new Ministry of Justice, which is charged with overseeing the scheme introduced to alleviate the prison overcrowding crisis. It is estimated some 2,000 were freed early in the first full week of the scheme's operation and that the total over the next 12 months will exceed 25,000.Last night the ministry insisted no serious offenders were being released and that the public's protection remained the main priority.'Offenders must meet strict criteria,' a spokesman said. 'Registered sex offenders, those jailed for serious violent crimes or who have previously escaped are not eligible. Those released must have available accommodation where they must reside. Any offender who is reported to have breached their licence conditions will be recalled by the governor.'