The Home Office today defended its decision to allow the Yorkshire Ripper, Peter Sutcliffe, out of Broadmoor to visit the site where his father's ashes were scattered.Sutcliffe, who received 20 life sentences in 1981 for the murder of 13 women and the attempted murder of seven others, left the secure mental hospital to be taken to Arnside, Cumbria on Monday. The 58-year old had been refused compassionate leave to attend his father's funeral last June, but was reportedly allowed the day visit to allow him "closure" in the grieving process. "He had been told shortly after the ashes had been scattered that, when the time was right, he would be allowed to visit the spot when the publicity had died down," a Broadmoor source told the Sun newspaper. The decision to allow Sutcliffe out was initially taken by the former home secretary David Blunkett, and was reaffirmed by his successor, Charles Clarke. A statement from the Home Office said Mr Blunkett had "felt it was the right and proper thing to do"."A full and comprehensive risk assessment was made by the authorities, and the individual was closely supervised at all times. At no point was there any danger to members of the public," the statement said. Travelling in a high-security van, Sutcliffe was accompanied by four nurses during the 540-mile round trip. A spokesman for West London Mental Health NHS Trust, which has responsibility for Broadmoor, said the medical staff accompanying him would have been trained in control and restraint techniques.Home Office guidance states that permission for visits such as that made by Sutcliffe should be granted only after a thorough assessment of any safety risks and the strength of any compassionate grounds. The "understandable potential distress" of victims or victims' families is also taken into account. However, the decision was criticised by the Leeds MP, Fabian Hamilton, who said: "I'm pretty upset about it. I opposed the possibility of his release for his father's funeral. It seemed harsh at the time, but he didn't give any quarter or any sympathy to any of the victims, many of whom were from my constituency. I think that, for the families that survive, this is quite a blow." The Labour MP conceded that the home secretary would only have acted on extensive advice. "He would have been recommended to do this by a mental health review tribunal that will have examined the facts and the possibility of Sutcliffe being a threat to the public," he said. "So it would have been done on very strong recommendation from legally qualified people."However, he added: "The fact is that Sutcliffe has been let out, it has been kept a secret, and it has now come out through the Sun newspaper. And my worry is this will cause further grief, further anger and upset for the families that still remember very clearly, as if it were yesterday, what happened 25 years ago. "I don't think we should have any sympathy at all with this man ... the fact is, he is the most brutal murderer of modern times."The former West Yorkshire chief constable Keith Hellawell, who investigated the full extent of Sutcliffe's crimes following his conviction, said he was surprised that the trip had taken place. "I think it is a little bizarre and also inconsistent because they have, all the time I was involved with Sutcliffe, refused him any concessions," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "I don't think it is wrong, personally, because we don't have capital punishment in this country, we do keep people in prison for a long period of time. "I think it would be inhuman, personally, not to allow them to do things when there have been serious incidents within their family, such as deaths." Mr Hellawell said he believed the main concern of the victims' families had been to see Sutcliffe arrested and justice done. "Some of them will feel very bitter and very hurt. Others will, I think, take it in their stride," he told Today. He said he did not believe the trip signalled a more relaxed approach to Sutcliffe's detention, adding: "In relation to release, I don't think there is any chance at all in the lifetime of Sutcliffe of him being let out of prison. So I don't think this is the thin end of the wedge." However, the Conservative MP Julie Kirkbride said she was "outraged" by the visit. The MP for Bromsgrove, who went to school with one of Sutcliffe's victims, called Mr Clarke's decision "grossly insensitive to the many families in West Yorkshire who are still grieving over the brutal deaths of their loved ones at the hands of this animal". "I was a schoolgirl living in West Yorkshire when the Ripper was carrying out his murders. He killed a girl who was in my class at school, very close to my house," she said. "I don't think it's possible that the home secretary understands the fear in which women in West Yorkshire lived for many years, that they would be the Ripper's next victim. As far as I'm concerned, being incarcerated for the rest of his life is far too good for him."