Prostitution, drugs, theft, graffiti - problems change, but the question remains the same: what are you going to do about it? "If my car is stolen, what's the guy going to get?" "Prostitutes stand on my street and men drive past asking me for sex. What are you going to do?"Judge David Fletcher will soon begin offering answers from the bench of Britain's first community court. But first he must listen - like a novel blend of politician and law enforcer - to the problems of his 70,000 constituents. He began the day after his appointment last month at a residents' meeting in north Liverpool. He will attend several more "Meet the Judge" evenings this month, absorbing the fears of locals. "People know what they don't like. They know what behaviour is blighting their lives. It's important to listen to them," he says. To the woman who complained about prostitutes in her neighbourhood, he promised to drive them off his streets. Tough talk for the new lawman in town. But Fletcher, 47, is wary of breaching the line between representation of his community and pandering to the angry masses. "This isn't lynch law," he says. "If people come to me and say, 'We think every prostitute should go to prison for five years. That's what you should do.' Well, I won't." The North Liverpool Community Justice Centre, a joint pilot project of the Home Office, the Department for Constitutional Affairs and the Attorney General's office, will bring local people into the courtroom from December 9. Fletcher will sentence offenders who commit low-level crimes such as prostitution, vandalism, petty theft and drunk and disorderly behaviour. But the severity and type of punishments will take account of the opinions of local people, particularly the victims of crime, on the problems that plague their streets. Fletcher says that, with the benefit of such input and his wide ambit of "inventive" sentencing powers, he is better equipped to deal with low-level offences. Prostitution is not rated a serious offence, "but it blights people's lives tremendously," he says. "A court rarely makes a community rehabilitation order against a prostitute because there are no consequences for failing to comply. But I can get to the root of the problem." A prostitute convicted in the court may be ordered to attend drugs counselling and perform community-service work, while being offered job training and housing assistance. Convicted offenders will be required to reappear regularly before Fletcher, who is responsible for monitoring treatment programmes and community punishments for all his cases. Guilty pleas should mean offenders are sentenced and begin treatment programmes on the same day. Traditional court processes often fail to support victims and witnesses, particularly through lengthy trials, Fletcher says. Victims will be asked for their opinion on an appropriate sentence and given an opportunity to face the offender. He hopes that the speed of the process will encourage greater involvement by victims and witnesses. "There is a high not-guilty rate in the north Liverpool area, partly because witnesses don't feel comfortable going to court, particularly after time passes," he adds. Convicted offenders may be ordered to write a letter of apology to their victims, perform community service or attend anger-management counselling. Any breach of such orders will result in detention. Fletcher is adamant that his court will not be a "soft touch" for criminals. "We won't be sitting around cross-legged, on the floor. It will be a proper court and I mean business." That business will be conducted in a temporary courtroom in Liverpool until the centre, a converted primary school, opens next May. He hopes the centre will appear less formal than a traditional courthouse. "My outfit is open for discussion. I will probably wear a suit - certainly not shorts and a T-shirt." Fletcher, a former Sheffield district judge and graduate of the University of Liverpool, was sworn in as a circuit judge in London this month, replacing his navy pin-stripes with black tights, silver buckle shoes and knee breeches for the ceremony. He was appointed to the north Liverpool court last month by a five-person panel. In an unprecedented move, two panel members were community representatives. In addition to regular meetings with locals, he will visit the areas worst affected by crime - where walls are often daubed with graffiti, cars abandoned by the kerb and drugs pushed on the street. Behind many anonymous doors are families cursed by three generations of unemployment. Criminal justice minister Baroness Scotland says such communities feel abandoned and disenfranchised by the crime they see. "These sorts of antisocial crimes really impinge on the way people feel about their place," she says. The £3m community justice centre is a two-year pilot programme she plans to expand throughout Britain. The initiative is part of the government's plan to encourage community activism by "focusing on the things that make people's lives miserable". The Liverpool centre, based on a scheme in New York, will also offer counselling and assistance to people before any offence is committed. In April 2000, the Red Hook scheme started in an area of south-west Brooklyn infamous for being one of America's crack cocaine capitals. A door-to-door survey found that only 12% of local people supported the court system. Today, the rate is 68%. Three quarters of offenders before the court complete community service orders, compared with half in the traditional court system. And, for the first time in 30 years, there have been no murders this year in the area. David Blunkett, the home secretary, and the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, travelled to New York last year for advice on starting a community justice centre in Britain. Fletcher will visit Red Hook next year. The New York scheme includes a youth court, where teenagers aged 10 to 16 serve as jurors, judges and lawyers in peer trials. Red Hook has also broadened beyond its criminal jurisdiction to hear property disputes and domestic violence matters. Blunkett has pledged that the Liverpool court - which will have jurisdiction over civil and criminal matters, and have in-house police, Crown prosecutors, probation officers and youth offending teams - will be a "one-stop crime-busting shop". The image suggests a fast food-style solution to crime: speedy and successful at satiating community concerns. But Greg Berman, director of the Centre for Court Innovation, which developed the Red Hook concept, warns against letting high hopes undermine the Liverpool centre. "The biggest challenge for us [at Red Hook] is managing expectations - of staff that they will 'cure' every addict, of journalists that the justice centre will magically eliminate crime, of local residents that it will also eradicate poverty and joblessness," he says. Berman, who advised the government on the Liverpool project, says it is more realistic to expect that the justice centre will improve confidence in the legal system, reduce levels of fear in the community, and ensure that offenders pay back the neighbourhood they have harmed through their behaviour. That notion of crimes causing community harm is part of the reasoning behind antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos). Fletcher expects that rates of compliance with such orders will be higher in his court than in the traditional system. "I was often aware as a district judge that running alongside antisocial behaviour problems in my court was an action in the county court for eviction," he says. "Now I will be the one person dealing with both components." He believes judges often apply Asbos without full knowledge of the facts, and in such wide terms that they "are setting a person up to fail". "Asbos should not just be a blunt instrument. A lot of the breaches at the moment are because of courts not getting the terms of the orders right." Fletcher will visit the streets where antisocial behaviour is distressing people and open the courtroom to discuss crime with them. Red Hook's chief judge Alex Calabrese, a former criminal court judge, offers this advice to his counterpart across the Atlantic: "You need to get out there with people and get to know what the problems are in the community." Fletcher has already taken the advice to heart. What is he going to do about crime? The answers will come from within the community, he says. "You actually need to be a known face within the community, and that is quite different from a regular judge. It's daunting, but it's a real opportunity to make a difference and be involved in a new project. And it is not very often in law that a new project comes your way."