A teenager who was told he could not become a doctor because of a spent conviction for burglary has won a place at a top medical school. Majid Ahmed, 19, a straight-A student from Little Horton in Bradford, was offered a place to study medicine at Imperial College London but it was withdrawn after the college learned of his conviction. Ahmed was given a four-month community service order for a burglary he committed aged 16 in 2005. Since then he has turned his life around, achieving top grades and volunteering at GP surgeries and charities. Yesterday he learned that he has won a place to study at Manchester University School of Medicine in September after a year-long battle of appeals against Imperial College and the university.He said: "At first I couldn't grasp that I am on the course this September - it's only a month away. I'm ecstatic. This shows people that determination and perseverance do pay off and if you think you have been mistreated by a university you should fight your cause."Now I see my future going somewhere I just can't wait to be at medical school."The case, revealed by the Guardian, triggered an outcry about Imperial College's decision. Charities working to rehabilitate young offenders condemned it, other universities offered to interview him, and MPs lobbied for him. The minister for universities, Bill Rammell, said last month: "Universities should be open to people like Ahmed, who has ... done everything that society would ask of him."Ahmed appealed against Imperial College's decision but this was rejected in June. The college said the conviction would not have had an impact on the vast majority of its courses but that it was relevant for medicine. "Medical practitioners hold a position of responsibility in society, and must often deal with vulnerable people. The public must have confidence in the integrity and probity of its doctors," it said. Manchester University, which rejected Ahmed in 2007 and again this year, agreed to reconsider him after his case was reported by the Guardian. Documents obtained by Ahmed under the Freedom of Information Act revealed that Manchester had also cited his conviction as a factor in initially rejecting him, despite publicly claiming that the decision was based on his academic record and experience. The General Medical Council has confirmed that people can still become doctors if they have a criminal record. Doctors have to fill in a declaration of fitness to practise as part of their application for provisional registration. A candidate could be barred if they were thought to pose a risk, but evidence including references would be considered.