A teenager who stabbed and battered a 14-year-old boy with a knife and claw hammer was jailed for life today.Warren Leblanc, 17, was sentenced to a minimum of 13 years after admitting to murdering Stefan Pakeerah in a Leicester park in February.Stefan's parents believe that Leblanc was inspired by a violent video game, Manhunt, but the police and the defence insisted the motive was robbery.Roderick Price QC, defending, said Leblanc had been motivated by fear of a gang to whom he owed a small amount of money. "The reason he killed Stefan is rooted not in video games but in fear - in desperation born of fear. "Both Stefan and the defendant are victims of a gang culture which creates fear in the minds of young men." As the court heard the details of how the murdered boy was left with at least 50 separate injuries, his mother, Giselle, was forced to leave the court.Mr Price said Leblanc had at first only intended to overpower the younger boy and to stun him with the hammer. However, he had then panicked and hit him again and again. With his victim covered in blood, he had carried on attacking him, with the knife. Mr Price claimed the defendant had owed £75 to a member of the Crusaders gang, who had threatened him. He said: "He was getting messages that something very nasty was imminent.Sentencing, Judge Michael Stokes told Leblanc: "You have committed a truly appalling crime. You have taken the life of a 14-year-old boy in a most brutal fashion ..."One thing is clear - you and you alone were responsible for this prolonged, vicious and murderous attack on someone who thought of you as a friend." Outside court, Stefan's father, Patrick, claimed that the game Manhunt had been an "instruction manual" for his son's killer. "It gave him an idea," he said. "It gave him some idea of how to go about what he did. Detective Superintendent Bob Small, of Leicestershire Police, however, disputed his assertion."It would appear to be a robbery that has gone wrong and not an attack based on a video game," he said. "We can find no direct evidence to link the game to the death."