Football, bloody hell. A match preceded by a minute’s warm applause to celebrate the achievements of Reading’s recently deceased record goalscorer, Ron Blackman, ended in ugly recriminations and a flurry of statements from both managers, their clubs, the Football Association and Thames Valley police after the West Bromwich Albion left-back Chris Brunt was struck just below the left eye by a coin thrown at him from among the Baggies’ 4,000-strong travelling support. The Northern Ireland international had gone to applaud them after his side’s latest FA Cup defeat at the hands of the Championship side.Chris Brunt confronts West Brom fans after being hit by coin at Reading Having played more than 300 times in his nine years at West Brom, Brunt was blind-sided – and could have been blinded – when he was hit by the 50p piece at the precise moment he pulled his shirt over his head to present it to a little girl standing to one side of a snarling group of fans, who had convened at the front of the away end to remonstrate with the player after Reading had come from behind to convincingly beat their visitors for the fourth consecutive time in an FA Cup tie between the two teams. West Brom have failed to win at Reading in their past 11 games in all competitions.Having described the incident, which the FA has promised to investigate and Thames Valley police has said it will treat as an assault, as “barbaric”, Tony Pulis later mused on the problems of fan dissatisfaction. “It’s every club,” he said. “I don’t think it’s just one club now. It builds up and it builds up. That’s fine if they’re going on in the stands or on computers or telephones, that’s fine. What you can’t do and what you’ve got to be careful of is allowing the incidents to spill over into what we’ve had today. For someone to throw a coin at a player of a football club that he’s supporting … y’know, the game’s gone mad. The world’s gone mad if people accept that.”Luckily, it seems only a minority accept it. Reading’s manager, Brian McDermott, promised his club would do everything in their power to help identify the culprit who injured Brunt, while West Brom have threatened the person with a lifetime ban. In the hours following the game, a photo of one suspect was posted on Twitter and it has been reported that police are following a definite line of inquiry. The guilty party’s actions led to scuffles among visiting fans on a bad day for the Premier League club on and off the pitch. “I think the person who’s involved, whether he’s been drinking or whatever he’s been doing, I think the police should really take action,” Pulis said. “Forget the football, I think that this goes further than the football. It’s criminal.”Notwithstanding the actions of one lone idiot with more money than sense, this is not a football match Pulis will be able to forget in a hurry. Having gone ahead in the 54th minute when Darren Fletcher picked up a pass from Salomón Rondón and fired low and diagonally across the bows of Ali al-Habsi, West Brom quickly found themselves trailing after Paul McShane – a former Albion defender – and then Michael Hector scored with almost identical close-range headers from Oliver Norwood free-kicks. Moments after taking to the field as an injury-time substitute, Lucas Piazon put the game beyond doubt with a low drive past Ben Foster after finding himself in acres of space as West Brom searched for an equaliser.“I’m really pleased, I thought we deserved it,” McDermott said. “When we got 1-0 down I thought we were in the ascendency but we stuck with what we were trying to do and sent a couple of really good set plays into the box, and finished it off there at the end, which was nice. We’re delighted to be in the next round.”West Brom could scarcely have asked for a kinder FA Cup run – Bristol City, Peterborough and Reading – but have negotiated it as if wading through treacle, needing two replays before bombing out here 3-1. They must now focus on securing Premier League survival, albeit without the services of the defenders Craig Dawson and Gareth McAuley, who missed this match through injury, as well as Jonny Evans, who was hurt during the game. “We’ve missed Dawson and McAuley today and Jonny’s gone, so that’s three of your back four,” Pulis said. “I’d have played Daws and McAuley if they’d been fit but they’ve missed the game.”They may not be the only men to miss upcoming West Brom games but, unlike one particular coin-throwing miscreant, at least their imminent return is assured.Man of the match Oliver Norwood (Reading)