Marcel Berlins worries that the creation of a ministry of justice is taking place "in an unnecessary hurry with insufficient time to have thought properly about its practical, administrative, legal and constitutional consequences" (Three Looming Legal Disasters, May 7).His concerns about the logistics, shared by many senior judges, are important ones but threaten to divert attention from the positive opportunities the new ministry will bring. With our prison population already much higher than our western European neighbours, surely one priority for the new department - a rethink on penal policy - cannot come quickly enough. The new ministry offers a fresh start in which prison can be genuinely used as a last resort, and the sharp and unnecessary rise in the population since 1992 can be reversed.Marcel thinks the timescale for the introduction of the ministry is too short to implement such a major transfer of responsibilities and employees. But, while there may be some practical questions, they should hardly be insuperable. The division of the Home Office has been on the cards since John Reid declared it not fit for purpose. Even before that, it had been proposed several times and, since the end of the 1980s, the Council of Europe has required all new accession states to transfer prison administration to a ministry of justice.Marcel is concerned in particular that the "ever-rising financial demands of prisons will lead to courts and the judiciary being deprived of funding". Yet this is just what our unprecedented penal expansion has been doing to other public services. A halt is urgently needed. He may be right that the new department results in large part from the Home Office wanting to get "rid of its control of prisons and probation". But a much more positive direction for criminal justice should result from the new management arrangements.To achieve this, the new ministry needs to adopt a clearer strategy for ensuring that punishment levels are in line with available resources. A unit fine system would encourage courts to make greater use of fines without risking increasing levels of default. Greater public and judicial involvement in the implementation of community orders would increase their use as alternatives to the 50,000 short prison sentences imposed each year. Investment is also needed in restorative justice, which brings tangible benefits to victims and prompts many offenders to stop offending. To make the best use of prison, the much vaunted idea of community prisons needs to be put into practice alongside an end to automatic returns to prison for technical breaches of probation and parole.Finally, the ministry needs to take a bold step on tackling young offenders: responsibility for youth justice should fall to the children's ministry in the Department for Education. School, family support and health services must be properly organised to prevent young offenders graduating into adult prisoners. Such a programme could start to bring our prison population more into line with other European countries.· Rob Allen is director of the International Centre for Prison Studies at King's College London rob.allen@kcl.ac.uk· If you wish to respond to an article in which you have featured, email response@theguardian.com or write to Response, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. We cannot guarantee to publish all responses, and we reserve the right to edit pieces for length and content