Garry and Helen Newlove and their three daughters moved to a modern house in a pleasant suburb of north Warrington, Cheshire, almost four years ago. They thought it was a decent place to live.But for some time the neighbourhood around Station Road, Fearnhead, had been blighted by antisocial gangs of youths who had caused regular disturbances and vandalised parked cars, particularly at weekends.The ringleader of one of the gangs was Adam Swellings, 19, who was known as Swellhead. He was banned from the town as part of the terms of a court order.In August last year, Garry Newlove went outside his house, barefoot, to remonstrate with a gang that had smashed the window of a digger parked nearby. Swellings was its leader. Garry Newlove was kicked and punched to death.In the minutes before his death, his wife lay ill in bed watching Midsomer Murders. The last time she saw her husband was when he brought her a drink.Swellings and two youths aged 16 and 17 were today convicted of Newlove's murder. Two others, aged 15 and 17, were cleared. For legal reasons, Swellings is the only one who can be named.It emerged during the murder trial at Chester crown court that most of the accused were living a feral lifestyle, staying in a home vacated by one of their parents, who had moved away.Swellings' gang knocked Newlove to the ground, then punched and kicked him, inflicting fatal injuries, the court heard. His eldest daughter, Zoe, 18, said they had kicked his head "like a football". One of the kicks left the assailant's trainer lodged under the body, and there was a trainer imprint on his head.Three months before, Garry Newlove had met with a police community support officer to discuss youth disorder and outlined his plans for a neighbourhood watch. No one did anything about it.As he lay in hospital after the attack, his daughter Amy, who was 12 last summer, wrote a moving letter to her father, describing him as "the best dad anyone can wish for".The letter, which was written before he died, said: "I can't get across how much I will miss you and I don't know what I would do without you. You have always been there for me when I am down and you always put a smile on my face, even if it is a rubbish joke. You mean the world to me and I wouldn't change you for the world."Garry Newlove died from a haemorrhage caused by a hard blow near his left ear, according to postmortem results.On the night he was attacked, 14 youths, including girls, had congregated in a car park behind the Cinnamon Brow Farm pub. They had all been drinking heavily. The group split in two as they left the car park, some heading for an underpass, the others moving along Station Road, the Newloves' street, the court heard.Amy was reading in her bedroom when she heard bangs, the sound of something smashing, and laughing. She looked out to see a youth kick her mother's Renault Scenic and alerted her father, who was in the living room. He went outside to approach the group, who were walking along the street.After he was knocked down, he curled up in to a foetal position with his hands above his head to protect himself. The youths eventually walked off, leaving Helen and their three daughters to help him. He died in hospital two days later, having never regained consciousness.One of them then hit her father on the left of his face. "There were five or six of them who went to hit him," she told the court. "One was behind my dad, two went to hit him and he put his arm up to block them."As he curled up on the ground, she said, they kicked his head, shoulder and upper body, laughing all the time.Zoe's then-boyfriend, Tom Sherrington, said Garry Newlove was felled by punches and a knee in the back before being kicked heavily in the head. "When on the floor they all started kicking him and a lot of them were following through, taking big swings." He identified Swellings as one of the gang. Sherrington said: "I heard a shout that Garry was not breathing and they could not find a pulse. He was on the floor and not moving." Sherrington, trained in first aid, found a pulse but it was "really weak."Ashley Roberts, 19, a former associate of the gang, saw Swellings drink from a three-litre bottle of White Lightning cider (7.5% proof) during the evening of the murder. He said he saw the gang scattered around Mr Newlove as he went to remonstrate with them. "Swellhead stood behind the man and hit him. I saw the man pull back towards the group and kick out, but I did not see what caused him to end up on the ground."When Swellings was arrested at his mother's home in Crewe, he laughed at the detectives and smirked when they told him he was being arrested on suspicion of murder.Zoe Newlove wept as she gave evidence from behind a screen. She described how his attackers had kicked his head like a football. She said that when initially approached the youths were "just laughing at him, swearing and being awkward. He put his arm out to one of them on the shoulder and said: 'Was it you who did it?' "Neighbours said there had been problems with youths in the area. "This is an awful place to live and attracts all the menaces. Over the last year there have been many problems. My daughter, who lives down the road, had her windows smashed," said one.Tracy Cassidy, who saw the attack from a bedroom window, said they dived on Newlove like "a pack of animals." She ran to help and retrieved the Nike trainer from under his legs, later giving it to police as evidence.In the week before the fatal attack there had been three incidents - a van mirror was smashed, its owner was kicked in the head, and a 16-year-old boy was punched and kicked in a park.The van owner, Steven Ormerod, said: "I approached the group and asked them who it was who had kicked the mirror off the van. As I walked back to the house, they were calling me names like faggot and shouting abuse."They said something about a pipe, probably because I was wearing slippers." He said that 45 minutes after he went outside, he heard another disturbance. "I noticed that two of the group were coming towards me. They were quite threatening. I had seen them earlier in the evening."They took a swing at me, went to punch. I took a swing back. They were both in front of me. I ended up on the floor - I might have tripped it all happened so fast."He said there were two or three kicks to his head and elbow. "I remember they were laughing as they kicked me."He said he didn't report it to police as "nothing ever happens when you phone with a report - you get no response"