Police officers were furious yesterday at proposals to give support staff sweeping new powers that would allow them to operate speed traps, breathalyse motorists and investigate minor crime.A leaked draft report, from Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary, also suggested officers guarding top terrorist targets such as the houses of parliament should not have to undergo full police training. David Blunkett, the home secretary, said he had yet to assess the final version of the report, which was written by Sir Ronnie Flanagan, former chief constable of Northern Ireland. He stressed the report was only one of a number of opinions shaping the police reforms, but agreed it made sense to release officers from "unnecessary" bureaucracy. The proposals brought sharp criticism from Jan Berry, chair of the Police Federation, which represents 136,000 rank and file officers, and sent shock waves through their annual conference in Bournemouth, Dorset, where Mr Blunkett was guest speaker. Mrs Berry castigated the idea of increasing the powers of community support officers, warning that the move could cause disputes down the line. "It's totally wrong and totally confusing to the public. The powers of detention and search are areas which should be reserved for police officers. Some of the suggestions undermine the professionalism of officers ... and I don't believe it'll create a better police service." She also questioned the wisdom of splitting the force into specialist areas, claiming that that could stem the flow of vital intelligence and restrict job movement. "Every police officer needs a certain level of training, and then we can get into the discussion about generalists and specialists," she said. "You don't become a brain surgeon without doing your general medical training first." The government introduced civilian support staff (CSOs), two years ago. They carry out local patrols, providing public reassurance. There are now 3,500 in 38 of the 43 English and Welsh forces. Many police officers worry that the government's longterm aim is to increase the use of CSOs - dubbed by critics "Blunkett's bouncers" - to save money and cut numbers of fully qualified officers. Mr Blunkett told delegates yesterday that plans to raise the numbers of CSOs to 4,000 by next year would go ahead. But he said: "I would never ever want to recruit more CSOs ... at the expense of reducing the record number of trained, uniformed police." He said although civilian experts were already involved in dealing with certain crime, such as fraud, he did not see an investigative role for them. However, Sir Ronnie's plan proposes that "creative use of existing powers" with "small amendment to legislation" could be used to allow civilian staff to "exercise a mix" of powers to attend minor crime. These jobs could include operating speed cameras, doing roadside breath tests and acting as custody officers. Sir Ronnie also suggested private security staff could deal with shoplifters "in house" and questioned the need for armed guards, posted outside "sensitive locations" such as embassies, to undergo general police training. However his report said: "Any attempt to unpick the office of constable and review the employment status of officers will be a complex and sensitive undertaking and will undoubtedly raise some significant legislative issues."