Police commandeered buses to take witnesses from the scene of the shooting of an 11-year-old boy in Liverpool last night as the investigation into his murder began.Riot vans and patrolling officers surrounded the Fir Tree pub in Croxteth after a hooded gunman on a BMX bike fired three shots outside the bar last night. One of the bullets hit the boy, who had been playing football with two friends, in the neck. He later died in hospital.Police said he may have been the random victim of a "drive-by" shooting carried out by the youth on a bike. Scuffles broke out among drinkers in the pub following the shooting.Simon Byrne, assistant chief constable of Merseyside police, challenged the community to help find the killer."Someone out there knows who put the gun in his hand and I want your help to get the community to turn that gunman in tonight," he said at a press conference."An 11-year-old boy has lost his life. This is quite an awful crime, quite senseless, and the community holds the clue to solving this crime quickly. Did you see the gunman leaving the scene? Did you see what led up to this crime?"Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust, said the latest teenage murder had pushed Britain to "the point of no return"."The public, police, government and judiciary all blame each other for the problems we are all responsible for," he said."We have now got to wake up and work together to take back the cities, towns and villages that are controlled by those who carry and use guns and knives or act criminally or anti-socially or these senseless child murders will become an unacceptable norm on the streets of Britain."Croxteth, which lies on the northern edge of Liverpool, has developed a reputation for deprivation and there is a high prevalence of drugs and crime in the area. Residents said they feel they have been living in the shadow of gun crime since the Merseyside police gun crime unit, Matrix, was introduced two years ago to look at the issue."There just seems to be more and more incidents every year," one woman said. "The kids pass the guns around each other as if they were football collector cards."There is no mystique about guns, there's no fear, they are just a status symbol. And now it seems anyone who wants one can get hold of one."The campaign group Mothers Against Guns said firearms crime needed to be addressed at grassroots level. "It is horrendous for such a young boy to be taken like this," a spokeswoman said."Young people need to be educated and motivated in order that they do not get involved in street crime and anti-social behaviour."This seems to be a cycle that continues and continues until a life is lost."Croxteth councillor Rose Bailey, who is a member of the local police authority and has lived in the area for more than 20 years, appealed to anyone with information about the shooting to come forward."Shockwaves have gone right through the community. We are appealing to everybody or anybody who has information to please come forward to police because we cannot allow this to happen and continue."Trail of shootingsThe shooting is the latest in a series of violent crimes affecting young people.In Manchester, 12-year-old Kamilah Peniston was shot dead in her home in Gorton on April 30 and last year, 15-year-old Jessie James was gunned down while he cycled through a park.London has seen at least six teenagers killed in shootings since February and 17 murdered in total this year. James Andre Smartt-Ford, 16, of New Malden, Surrey, died after being shot at Streatham Ice Arena in south London in February. Three days later, Michael Dosunmu, 15, of Peckham, south London, was shot dead by gunmen who broke into his home. Police believe he was a victim of mistaken identity. On Valentine's Day, Billy Cox, 15, was shot dead on the doorstep of his home in Clapham, south London. He was serving a 12-month supervision order for a burglary offence and was electronically tagged and restricted to a curfew from 7pm to 7am.Annaka Keniesha Pinto, 17, was shot during a fight in the Swan bar in Tottenham, north London, in June. Abukar Mahamud, 16, died from a gunshot wound to the neck in July after apparently being chased by a gang of youths on bicycles. He was killed in Stockwell, south London.On August 3, Nathan Foster, 18, was found fatally shot near Brixton underground station.