Had it not been for the murder of 20-year-old Daniel McDonald, who was shot dead on New Year's Day 2004 as he sat drinking in the Royal Oak pub in West Derby, the dispute between the Crocky Young Guns and Nogga Dogz gangs in north Liverpool would probably not have escalated to such extremes.For McDonald's death led to an extraordinary explosion of violence between two gangs in the city's L11 district. The young man, whose headstone was later vandalised, was a prominent member of the Crocky gang and it resulted in a series of tit-for-tat shootings in the city, culminating in the death of Liam 'Smigger' Smith, leader of the Nogga Dogz, outside Altcourt prison, where he had been visiting a friend in July 2006.Merseyside Police say there are around 100 young people, some as young as 13, involved in north Liverpool's gangs. Police said of the 104 members of both gangs when the violence peaked, 43 are now in custody.The core members of the gangs are 13 to 17 and male, although there are men on the fringes who are older – in their 30s. The groups are "surprisingly forensically aware." This was demonstrated in Rhys' murder as the 16-year-old killer got rid of the weapon, burned his clothes and washed them with petrol, and got rid of the bike within hours of the murder.Unlike the portrayal of gangs in mafia movies like the Godfather, there is "no rigid hierarchy" in the groups. Unlike American gangs, there is no particular uniform that identifies them.Detective Chief Superintendent Steve Moore said: "The social networks are moving and changing all the time. They make money from committing theft and burglaries but there is no evidence of a sophisticated dispersal of the proceeds of their crimes."They have been involved in a series of petty disputes that have escalated. According to Chief Superintendent Steve Watson, the commander of Liverpool north, the disputes can be as trivial as a row over a girlfriend or an argument over the theft of a bicycle."They can also be turf disputes over so called dealing rights," Watson says. "Two or three people take a lead role in the gangs. If we take the head off, somebody else comes to prominence."He says the shooting of McDonald sparked off increasing enmity between the two groups and an almost tit-for-tat situation. When Liam Smith was murdered, police say it was the tail end of the escalating violence. Shop owners in Croxteth were so intimidated by Smith's death that they were forced to close or be threatened with violence for not toeing the line, as either they or their shops would be harmed.Around 40% of the firearms on Merseyside are shotguns and police are keen to see more controls on them, as it is relatively easy to get hold of one legally.In early 2004, Merseyside police became aware of two groups of young people whom they portray as "an amalgam of dysfunctional teenagers" rather than a gang. Out of the area's youngster population of 31,000 it is roughly 100 people, a tiny minority, involved in gangs.The younger children often act as scouts, carrying out reconnaissance on police movements and rival gang members.In 2006, the battle between the gangs escalated. In February that year, a 15-year-old boy was shot in the leg in Norris Green by a gunman riding a bicycle. Two months later, homes in Norris Green were sprayed with gunfire in a drive-by shooting.Merseyside police say the "bitter irony" about Rhys Jones's death is the police were making significant inroads with the two groups involved when he was shot dead. Currently, there are 43 people in prison who have been identified by police as being involved in gun and gang related criminality.They have a 10-year strategy to identify those at risk of being involved in gangs to turn their lives around.The police say they are using every legal and ethical tool to target the group of people involved in gun crime. One such criminal was prosecuted for driving with an under-inflated tyre.Since this April, there have been 5,800 stop and searches and 636 arrests of people involved in gun and gang crime. Most of those arrested have been repeatedly targeted and rearrested.Detectives have identified those people across Merseyside who are at risk of gun crime and they are warned by police and given the opportunity to escape through education, training and employment. So far, one person has taken up the police offer and two are considering it.