The barrister who represented Siôn Jenkins at his murder trial told the appeal court yesterday that he had not called the former deputy head's daughters to give evidence because he feared they had been "got at".Anthony Scrivener QC said the defence team was worried that the girls had been turned against their father and changed their stories about what happened on the day their foster sister Billie-Jo was killed. Mr Scrivener insisted that the girls' original versions of events, told to police the day after Billie-Jo died, could have saved Jenkins but at the last moment he had advised his client that they should not be called to give evidence. If the sisters, Annie and Lottie, had appeared at Jenkins's trial and been hostile towards him, Jenkins "may as well have pleaded guilty," Mr Scrivener said. The evidence of Mr Scrivener, a former chairman of the bar, gave a rare glimpse into the relationship between a lawyer and his client and an insight into the tactics employed by criminal barristers. Mr Scrivener told the court that a final decision about the girls had been postponed until the trial neared an end, after he had judged how Jenkins had performed in the witness box. He also said he would "not have hesitated" to call the girls if he had felt they could help his client, despite concerns they could suffer psychological damage. Jenkins, now 46, was found guilty of battering 13-year-old Billie-Jo to death with a metal spike at the family home in Hastings, East Sussex, in 1997. A major plank of his appeal is that his daughters Annie, 12 at the time, and Lottie, 10, could not be called to give evidence because they had been turned against him by their mother, Lois, after the police convinced her he was a murderer. Mr Scrivener told the court he felt the girls' initial interviews with police helped Jenkins by bolstering, though not absolutely proving, his alibi. But the barrister told the court that as the trial neared, the defence was alarmed that the girls' mother was reporting that they had changed their stories. He said the defence was concerned when it discovered that a psychiatrist had told the girls that their father was "guilty", and that police officers involved in the case were staying with Ms Jenkins and the sisters. The barrister was asked about notes of a meeting of Jenkins's defence team three months before the trial which recorded the fear that the girls had been "got at". Mr Scrivener said: "Which was what we thought." Dressed in a blue suit rather than in robes, Mr Scrivener told the court it would have been "disastrous" for Jenkins if the girls were called and turned out to be hostile. Mr Scrivener waited until Jenkins had completed his ev idence at the trial in 1998 and visited him in his cell. "I remember I gave him pretty firm advice," Mr Scrivener said. Jenkins followed the advice. The girls were not called and Jenkins was found guilty. It is rare for such details to be made public but Jenkins has waived the right for his exchanges with his legal team to be kept secret. It is also unusual for a defence barrister to be called to give evidence at an appeal. In cross-examination of Mr Scrivener by Camden Pratt QC, for the crown, it emerged that Jenkins, who has been accused of being violent to his wife and daughters, had admitted to his barrister that he had slapped Annie's face on two occasions. But Mr Pratt put to Mr Scrivener that he had no need to suspect that the girls would tell anything but the truth if they were called to give evidence. Mr Scrivener replied: "Their idea of the truth could well have been influenced by outside sources." The appeal continues.