Map: Soham and LakenheathThey had already been led along the "meandering" walk Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman are believed to have taken on the evening of their disappearance. Yesterday the Soham trial jury followed the winding route across the fens which the prosecution says Ian Huntley may have driven as he transported the girls' bodies to the remote ditch where he dumped them. The jury was allowed to examine the spot, close to where Mr Huntley's father once lived, where the badly decomposed bodies of the friends were found almost two weeks after they vanished. A branch where a strand of Jessica's hair was found snagged was also pointed out. In court last week Richard Latham QC, prosecuting, had told the jury the site where the bodies of the ten-year-old girls were left was considered significant. The fact that he had driven for half an hour or more before dumping the girls in what Mr Latham said was an "ideal" hiding place showed he had been thinking clearly. Yesterday it took the jury, which was travelling in a coach escorted by police motorcycle outriders, around 40 minutes to drive the 19 miles or so from Soham in Cambridgeshire to the ditch, off a small road just north of the Suffolk village of Lakenheath. The journey - described by Mr Latham as a "zigzag route" - took them along a series of small, bumpy roads which cut across the peaty fens, empty and bleak at this time of year. Police officers who lined the route turned away or bowed their heads as the coach passed. When the coach, in effect a mobile version of the Old Bailey's courtroom one, arrived in Lakenheath, the home of Mr Huntley's grandmother, Lily Gollings, was pointed out. The prosecution alleges that Mr Huntley may have been seen there three days after the girls' disappearance. It alleges he returned to the ditch, then cut the clothes from the girls and tried to burn the bodies. At the start of the track, which runs alongside the ditch, somebody had left a small bouquet of paper flowers linking "Soham's roses" with the 11th day of the 11th month. "Remembrance forever... we have you in our hearts." The two minute silence for Remembrance Day coincided with the jury's walk along the muddy track. Though there was no request for them to do so, the five men and seven women remained silent. At first the track - Common Drove - runs between two fields. As it approaches an area known locally as The Carr, it becomes lined with trees. Mr Latham pointed out the church in the nearby hamlet of Wangford. The tower could just be seen through the mist. The prosecution has said Mr Huntley's father, Kevin, once lived in a house there called Keeper's Cottage. Crown prosecution officials marked two spots where Mr Huntley allegedly left the track and entered the ditch, the first on the day the girls vanished, the second - 25 paces further along the track - when he returned to the bodies. At the first spot, some 600 paces from the road, Mr Latham showed the jury a waist-high broken branch where the strand of Jessica's hair was found. Counsel indicated a spot in the ditch, which is about 2m deep, and said: "The bodies therefore were found down here". Mr Latham continued: "Feel free to..." but his voice tailed off and he failed to complete the sentence, simply gesturing to the jurors to make their own inspection of the ditch. The jury, which on Monday visited Soham itself, was accompanied by the judge, Mr Justice Moses, who wore a long coat and walking boots. At one point he stepped into the trees and emerged with his coat covered in burrs. Mr Latham, who had tucked his suit trousers into green wellingtons, went on to point out two spots where a car could have turned round. The jurors were invited to walk on towards the perimeter fence of RAF Lakenheath, a little further down the track. The court has heard Mr Huntley was interested in plane spotting. A public viewing area for the base a few minutes' drive from the track was also shown to the jury when they returned to the coach. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the girls in August last year. His former girlfriend, Maxine Carr, 26, has pleaded not guilty to two charges of assisting an offender and one of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Neither attended the site visit. The trial continues back at the Old Bailey today.