Polly Toynbee is wrong to label the removal of the right to jury trial in serious fraud cases as merely "technical" (The damage done by Iraq now seeps into fraud trials, November 29). The intention behind the move may well be technical; its ramifications, however, are serious and deeply ideological.Our legal system, unlike those of many of our European neighbours, depends upon the jury to supervise the operation of the criminal law and to safeguard the high standard of proof required in criminal cases. The respect accorded to the jury is notable - while a person convicted by magistrates is entitled to an automatic re-hearing of their case, a jury verdict can only be appealed with the leave of a judge. Even then, the appeal courts will not violate the secrecy of deliberations in the jury room.This has its origins in the protection of unpopular defendants from oppression - established in the 1670s after the judge trying a Quaker locked up the jury when they refused to convict.While we may now have much more confidence in the independence of our judges, the jury still allows the public to ensure that the criminal law is being fairly applied. The jury also holds a lot of power in terms of how the law is applied - notably in fraud trials, which often turn upon the issue of dishonesty.Honesty, when defined in criminal law, is defined by the standards of ordinary people. Evidently, the jury is best placed to consider these standards. While the jury is more likely to be "ordinary" than the judge, it also helps that it is made of 12 people rather than one. This number of jurors is what maintains the high standard of proof in criminal trials - one person may err as to their perception of a witness's honesty, or be influenced by some subconscious prejudice or preconception, much more easily than 10 people will.Jury trial is also the best way to maintain public confidence in the verdicts of the criminal courts. Following the acquittal of a white, middle-class defendant in a fraud case by a white, middle-class judge, how long would it be before allegations were made of the middle classes "looking after their own"? How long before individual judges' conviction and acquittal rates were compared; the effect of their social and professional backgrounds speculated upon?And yet a solution must be found to the problems of unbearably long, and collapsing, trials - problems that we fully acknowledge. There are alternatives to removing the jury, the most important of which is already in place: new procedural rules and a protocol for serious frauds came into effect this year. If enthusiastically taken up by judges, these rules have the potential to increase efficiency in serious fraud cases in the same way the Woolf reforms did in the civil courts. The government says that for a small number of cases, case management will not be enough. Even if that is true, there are other measures - including the better treatment of jurors so that they are happy to see out the case. The jury itself is too important to be sacrificed on the altar of efficiency.· Sally Ireland is the senior legal officer for criminal justice at the human rights organisation Justiceadmin@justice.org.ukThe Response column offers those who have been written about in the Guardian an opportunity to reply. If you wish to respond, at greater length than in a letter, to an article in which you have featured either directly or indirectly, please email response@theguardian.com or write to Response, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. We cannot guarantee to publish all responses, and we reserve the right to edit pieces for both length and content