A party organiser was arrested yesterday in connection with claims by a teenage girl that she was raped by a group of men including a number of Premiership footballers.Nicholas Meikle, 29, presented himself by appointment at a London police station, where he was questioned about the 17-year-old's claims. Meanwhile detectives continued to question a Leeds United footballer in connection with an alleged sexual assault on a 20-year-old woman. The player was arrested on Tuesday and held overnight by police. Mr Meikle was arrested three days after the News of the World reported his version of events at the Grosvenor House Hotel in Park Lane, London, on September 27. He said the girl who made the complaint had consented to have sex with him, a friend and two Premiership footballers from two different clubs. The Guardian revealed yesterday that Mr Meikle was paid £10,000 by the tabloid. Through the public relations consultant Max Clifford, the girl has "utterly refuted" Mr Meikle's claims. Mr Clifford said yesterday the girl was relieved that the police had taken action "at last". He said she and her family had been becoming "increasingly frustrated" at the pace of the police inquiry. Mr Clifford said the girl was also relieved yesterday when an HIV test came back negative. A Scotland Yard spokesman gave few details about the arrest. The spokesman said: "A 29-year-old man attended a police station by appointment. He was arrested in connection with allegations of rape and assault by a 17-year-old woman." The man was later released on bail pending inquiries. The investigation is being carried out by the Metropolitan police's Operation Sapphire team, which handles sex crimes. Rumours about the identity of those involved have flooded the internet and circulated among fans. In Yorkshire, police and forensic experts conducted a search of a layby on the A58 Leeds to Wetherby road, not far from the Leeds training, where the club's player was arrested on Tuesday. A second man - not a footballer - was also arrested in connection with the allegations, while a second footballer is understood to have talked to officers but was not arrested. Both men were released on bail last night, pending further inquiries, West Yorkshire police said. Leeds United said it was cooperating with the inquiry. The 20-year-old told police she had been assaulted on Monday night.