Nick Clegg has defended his opposition to mandatory sentences for carrying a knife as he faced criticism from Boris Johnson, Ed Miliband and the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe.Clegg revealed in the Guardian he had rejected Conservative plans for six-month jail sentences for anyone found in possession of a knife more than once. The plans were championed by Chris Grayling, the justice secretary, and is set to be put to the Commons by Tory backbenchers. The Labour leader's decision to support the proposal suggests it is likely to be passed when the measure is debated in a few weeks.Hogan-Howe waded into the row by saying gang members heard simple messages such as that there was a minimum five-year jail sentence for gun possession, but had no idea about the equivalent sentence for carrying a knife. "Young people do hear simple messages. If they have heard the message about guns, they need to start hearing it about knives," he told LBC.He said: "Where we get gang members or young people carrying knives, there is no excuse … that is a serious matter for me, and I am afraid knives generally do one thing – that is wound people and sometimes kill them. It is vital we send a clear message to young people."But speaking on Call Clegg, his phone-in on LBC, the deputy prime minister said it was the job of politicians to sometimes deny the police the powers they sought and come to an independent judgment.He said: "I fundamentally disagree with him [Hogan-Howe]. The police often quite understandably say they want new powers on the statute book and politicians often say: 'Well hang on a minute, we don't just constantly put new powers and offences on the statute book without considering the knock-on effect on the prison population, on rates of reoffending'. "This is about just carrying a knife, not committing an offence with it. There may well be cases where a judge should imprison someone for carrying a knife."What I am saying is that I don't think everyone should be chucked into prison regardless of the circumstances, with no discretion, no exceptions and no extenuating circumstances. Coming up to an election time, it is not the easiest thing to be accused of being soft on knife crime. I am not being soft. Let us be tough on knife crime, but let us be smart about it."He said "the more you just chuck people into prison without judges having the ability to make their own minds up about what would be an appropriate sentence to fit the crime, [the more] you just create a revolving door in which you get more crime created"."Hogan-Howe is saying that if you go out of your house with a penknife and you have a previous knife-related offence, under this arrangement put forward by the Conservatives that person would go to prison. That is what the law of the land would be."He added that he had supported mandatory sentences for using a knife in a threatening way.Clegg's position opens up the possibility of another big split in the coalition, with at least 40 Tory backbenchers demanding that their party fulfil the 2010 manifesto pledge on jailing those convicted of knife crime.The Labour leader said he did not agree with Clegg on the issue. "We definitely do want to use the legislation to strengthen the law and we are definitely sympathetic to the issue of mandatory sentences after conviction for a second offence. We need to make sure it is done the right way."Johnson, the mayor of London, said: "Nick Clegg is wrong. I do believe it's vital that we work to educate and rehabilitate those caught up in the culture of knife-carrying, but equally it is imperative that the police and the courts are given every support to tackle the scourge of knife crime."