The owner of the store at the centre of gang rape allegations which sparked the weekend's race riots in Birmingham yesterday protested his innocence and said he had been receiving death threats.The 35-year-old Pakistani trader, who would give his name only as Mr Hussein, told The Guardian that on hearing claims that a 14-year-old Afro-Caribbean girl had been gang raped in his shop he sent the five men who worked there to be interviewed by the police. He also gave officers full access to the store so they could conduct forensic tests. The men were released and the tests failed to unearth any evidence to support the allegations.One man was stabbed to death during the rioting and 35 were seriously injured. Violence flared after an Afro-Caribbean community meeting to discuss the allegations was harassed by Pakistani youths.Since then police and leaders within both communities have appealed for calm. But they face the difficulty that the most obvious cause of the disturbances - the rape allegations - remain unresolved.Many Afro-Caribbeans remain convinced something untoward happened at the shop on Wellington Road, which sells Afro-Caribbean beauty products. Pakistani youths see their community under attack and say they are ready to defend it.The store owner said he first heard the rumours about an alleged attack at his premises two or three months ago. "I thought it was just someone messing about. But the last two weeks have seen the rumours get hotter."Some customers started telling me I was a rapist. All I can think is that people are trying to start trouble"Mr Hussein said: "The black community are very nice to work with and I have no problems with them but there are some who are misguiding them ... a man has lost his life because of a rumour."The store remains closed but he has opened in another branch. "I'm going to carry on with my life. I haven't raped anyone. Whoever started this rumour is not a person, they're a devil."The Guardian has spoken to grassroots figures in the Afro-Caribbean community who say the rape allegation chimed with other complaints about shop workers, going back several months. Women spoke of being made to feel uncomfortable.They point to the police disclosure of another case that emerged last week involving a woman in her 30s and allegations that she was sexually assaulted in "similar premises". Five men were arrested and released on police bail.Itabarica Napthali, president of the Haile Selassie Peace Foundation, attended the first demonstration outside the shop last Tuesday. He said he had no direct knowledge of the rape allegations but added: "I have heard that other girls have been assaulted."The effort to trace the allegation's origin is a taxing one for activists and police alike. One theory gaining credence is that it came from a health worker who said she had heard about the girl's plight and passed the story to a community worker.West Midlands police said last night they had uncovered no evidence to confirm or deny the allegation or identify the 14-year-old girl said to have been attacked.