Five members of the same family were jailed for life today for murdering a mother after torturing her for months.A two-month trial at Nottingham crown court heard 20-year-old Rachel Hudson had suffered more than 60 injuries in the weeks before she was killed.Her 21-year-old husband Craig, his parents Ronald Hudson senior, 49, and Trudi Hudson, 44, his 23-year-old brother Ronald Hudson junior, and 19-year-old Elisabeth Hogg were convicted of the murder.Ronald Hudson Senior and wife Trudi were both told they will serve a minimum of 20 years in jail. Ronald Hudson Junior will serve at least 17 years, Craig Hudson and Elisabeth Hogg will spend a minimum of 14 years in prison.Four of the defendants, along with Charlene Hudson, 18, Shane Hudson, 19, and Emile Hudson, 17, were also found guilty of conspiring to pervert the course of justice in relation to Rachel's death and the disposal of her body. Shane Hudson was jailed for four years. His brother-in-law, Andres Hudson-Makings, 34, was jailed for three years for pleading guilty to the same offence. Charlene and Emile will be sentenced at a later date.Elisabeth Hogg, the girlfriend of Shane Hudson, was cleared of the charge. Shane and Emile are both brothers of Craig HudsonThe court was told Ms Hudson's body - which was dumped face down in mud in the grounds of a stately home - was so mutilated and emaciated that police officers originally thought it was male.She was murdered around 17 months after marrying Hudson, a fairground worker of Stockhill, Nottingham. His sister Charlene, 18, was cleared of murder by the jury, which returned its verdicts after around 14 hours of deliberations.The prosecution said the killers had held Ms Hudson prisoner at their crowded three-bedroom home for months before battering her to death in March last year.The jury heard 11 of Ms Hudson's ribs were fractured and her mouth so badly injured that her bottom lip had become detached from her skull.She had also suffered cigarette burns, scalds and heavy bruising as a result of countless attacks with a baseball bat and a piece of wood.The trial heard the weapons were given affectionate pet names - "Mr Woody" and "Captain Plank" - by her abusers, who called Ms Hudson "slagbag" and "stinkbomb".She eventually died of thrombosis caused by a blood clot in her brain that had been left untreated for weeks. It had been brought on by septicaemia, dehydration and repeated assault.The court was told Ronald and Trudi Hudson were a controlling, violent couple who kept a tight rein on their children and insisted they stay at the family home with their partners. After she was killed, her body was wrapped in a carpet and dumped at Newstead Abbey, the ancestral home of the poet Lord Byron.The Home Office pathologist Professor Guy Rutty told the court it was the worst case he had ever seen. "I see a lot of people who have been beaten. I have to say I have never seen anything like this before," he said."She received injuries to the skin in the form of cuts, burns and trauma. She received injuries to her mouth and her ear, the bones of her left hand and foot, right and left side of her rib cage, which resulted in her rib puncturing her cavity."The assaults would have been painful, both during and afterwards. Within reason, every part of the body I looked at - just about everywhere I could look - I couldn't find anything that wasn't injured."In passing sentence, Mr Justice Hughes said the Hudson family lacked morality and displayed a "primitive pack solidarity".Following the verdicts members of Ms Hudson's family branded her killers as "evil people" who isolated her from her friends and family. "They exhibited a total disregard for human life, especially outsiders who came into the family," said her father, Barry Manger. "With so many individuals against her, Rachel's spirit and physical body was broken, leading to her death. She felt unable to walk away and abandon her children to the mercy of such evil people. She eventually paid the price for this decision with her life."