David Tomkins must have considered it the silver lining on an otherwise very black cloud. He was serving five years in prison after pleading guilty to supplying heroin in Bristol, but when an attempt by the authorities to confiscate his assets collapsed on a technicality, he at least could console himself by looking forward to enjoying the proceeds of his crimes - from the string of flats in Bristol to the Toyota Land Cruiser, equipped with a £4,000 in-car DVD system.Then the case was passed to a new and little known law enforcement organisation called the Asset Recovery Agency. Using its far-reaching and controversial powers, the agency is taking legal action in the civil courts against Tomkins, who faces losing all £300,000 of his assets. He is just one of a growing number of people being targeted by the agency, which was set up in 2002 to make true the well-worn - and often inaccurate - adage that crime does not pay. Until now, the ARA and its activities have remained shrouded in secrecy. But in a two-month investigation the Guardian has spoken to investigators, lawyers and criminal figures, as well as obtaining access to court documents, to produce the first comprehensive account of the agency's operations and its impact on serious crime. The investigation has identified 22 people being targeted by the agency, most of them involved in allegations of drug trafficking. More than £16m worth of assets believed to be derived from criminal activity have already been frozen. Most controversially, some of the targets have not been convicted of any crime and some remain unaware that they are being pursued. According to official estimates, there are at least 400 major underworld figures operating in this country, with assets of up to £440m. Crime is now a massive business. The National Audit Office estimates that illegal drug transactions alone could be worth up to 1% of GDP, or £8.5bn a year. Fraud has been estimated at between £5bn and £16bn a year.Last week the ARA's position in the vanguard of the fight against crime was underlined by Tony Blair, whose speech to the Labour party conference included a promise that those "believed to be part of organised crime will have their assets confiscated, their bank accounts opened up". Before the ARA was launched, criminal assets were being confiscated in only 1% of cases. Now there are signs that underworld figures are discussing the new threat to their activities. "Everyone knows about it," said one south London criminal. "Everyone knows they can come and knock on your door and take your property away, but nobody knows anybody who's been done yet." Seven of the current targets have been convicted but have seen confiscation orders against them fail. They include David Bullen, a professional criminal from north London with a criminal record stretching back over 20 years, including a conviction for VAT fraud in 1984 and a 10-year sentence for his part in what was then one of Britain's biggest cocaine smuggling conspiracies in 1991. He was caught on video by Customs and Excise, boasting of his illegal turnover of £1m a week. But after his conviction, he successfully appealed against a confiscation order for £375,000 of his assets. The agency has now frozen £230,000 of Bullen's property, including cash held in a British bank account, shares and a Mercedes. While its main remit is to target the "Mr Bigs" of gangland - in line with the prime minister's promise - it is also focusing much of its attention on relatively small-time characters such as Tomkins. Jane Earl, the agency's director, said: "Our cases range from major league criminals who have acquired a lot of property from trading on the misery of others, to relatively small-time criminals who act as adverse role models for impressionable youths, where we are sending out the very strong message to local communities that crime does not pay." But while the ARA's operations against convicted criminals are relatively uncontentious, it faces strong criticism for its attempts to seize the assets of people who have no criminal convictions. Four cases being handled by the ARA involve people who were acquitted, or whose prosecutions were either stopped by the trial judge or dropped for other reasons. They include a Truro businessman, Robert Stevens, who disappeared from the country before he was due to face trial for fraud in 1999. The charges against him have since been dropped, but his bank account containing £20,000 remains frozen by the ARA. Tony Barnfather, one of the first solicitors to deal with a civil recovery case brought by the agency, said its powers effectively allowed it to circumvent the rule of double jeopardy and punish people in the civil courts after criminal prosecutions have failed. "In effect, having failed to prosecute cases successfully the first time, the state is having a second bite at the cherry," he said. But the agency rejects this criticism. "Respondents have every opportunity to explain to the court how assets were acquired lawfully," Ms Earl said. "A challenge under the human rights convention that proceedings were criminal in character, not civil, was comprehensively rejected by the high court in Belfast in April." One case uncovered by the Guardian involves a leading member of the UK Chinese community who has never been convicted or even charged with a criminal offence but who has had £900,000 of his assets frozen by the ARA. He JiaJin, vice-president of the London China Town Chinese Association, was questioned by the National Crime Squad in 2001 as part of an investigation into organised people trafficking. In conjunction with arrests in Hong Kong and Australia, officers obtained search warrants for Mr He's premises and arrested him for questioning over allegations of money laundering. He was held overnight but the Crown Prosecution Service advised that there was not enough evidence and he was never charged or prosecuted. The first Mr He knew of the action against him was when ARA officials arrived at his home in Orpington and he was woken up by banging on the door. According to an interim report to the court, the investigation has focused on Mr He's money transaction business, Futsing Finance, "through which it is alleged that the respondents facilitated payments in respect of human trafficking". But Mr He told the Guardian: "It is not payments from criminals, or payments to criminals, or to traffickers. These are transmissions of money [from Chinese immigrants] to their families." He compared the ARA's actions to that of Chinese communists: "It reminds me of the cultural revolution in China when officials thought you were a danger to the party." Mr He and his companies support the UK Fujian Community Centre and sponsored Soho's Chinese new year celebrations, alongside the Metropolitan police and the army. "The only thing that has gone wrong is I've been involved in helping a lot of Chinese when they are in trouble," Mr He said. "I am quite well-known in the Chinese community and have dealt with so many Chinese, Fujianese problems. I help deal with a lot of illegal immigrants for the authorities." It is cases like that of Mr He that have provoked allegations that the agency's powers are draconian, eroding the distinction between criminal and civil law. "It undermines the presumption of innocence and amounts to a way in which the state can target people even though it is unable to prove that they are guilty of any criminal offence," said Gareth Crossman of the human rights group Liberty. "In effect it gives the authorities a second chance to target individuals they believe to be involved in crime."