The Ministry of Defence police force is to be transformed into a rapid response squad ready to intervene in strikes and protests across the country under the new Armed Forces Bill. The sweeping powers of arrest and investigation contained in the Bill have raised concerns about the creation of a national force of paramilitary riot police.The move comes after MoD police were forced to refuse Home Office requests for help during last year's fuel protests. The Chief Constable of the force told Ministers that his officers could not be used to aid fuel convoys or pickets at oil refineries under existing legislation. Defence Minister John Spellar has informed senior MoD police officers that he supports moves to give them similar powers to other police officers. But campaigners are worried that police officers working for the military are not subject to the same controls as local forces. The MoD police force is the tenth largest in the country with 3,700 officers. They are not soldiers, but are employed by the MoD rather than the Home Office and answerable to a special MoD committee rather than the local police authority. The legislation will also extend MoD police powers to allow them to investigate crimes that take place away from the perimeters of military installations. At present police working at military bases are not allowed to intervene in the wider community. The new powers would allow the force to be used as back-up in large demonstrations or protests. They would also be able to intervene on their own initiative to save life or injury. MoD police spokesman Mervyn Dadd said the public should welcome the new powers. He said: 'No one could complain about the intervention at the extremes of an emergency in a life-threatening situation. Surely that can only be of benefit to the community.' Senior officers in the MoD have argued that constraints allowing MoD police to operate only 'in the vicinity' of military bases puts officers travelling between bases in police vehicles in an impossible situation if they are flagged down by the public or witness a serious crime. Former Lieutenant-Colonel Nigel Wylde, who was arrested two years ago by the MoD police on official secrets charges, said he was 'horrified' that their powers were being extended. 'This is a national police force controlled by the MoD that reports to a police committee staffed by employees of the MoD. There is no independent control of this force,' he said. Wylde, who is leading the campaign against the new Bill, was acquitted last November and is now taking the MoD police to the Police Complaints Authority.Members of the House of Commons defence committee have also voiced concerns about the new powers. Conservative MP Robert Key told The Observer : 'There are clear civil liberties issues involved in extending the jurisdiction of the MoD police.'martin.bright@observer.co.uk