After September 11, early analysis depicted al-Qaida as a monolithic, terrorist organisation. Gradually, that view was modified to include other elements: the network of groups linked in a variety of ways to the "hardcore" leadership element, the ideology and, more recently, the free-floating self-radicalising "homegrown" cells or subgroups.The contrast between the 2004 attacks in Madrid – which had no significant direct link to al-Qaida – and the meticulously prepared, commissioned and executed strikes against embassies in East Africa in 1998 or in America in 2001 supported the view that al-Qaida had become less a group and more of an ideology.The evidence heard in this most recent plot – it was known as the "Airlines plot" but the jury decided that in fact the conspirators did not aim, as the prosecution had said, to bring down transatlantic jets so will now have to be renamed – and other recent terrorist efforts in Europe and the Middle East appear to show that the al-Qaida leadership element, once consigned to the margins of militancy has made something of a comeback. Osama bin Laden and his Egyptian associate Ayman al-Zawahiri have been able to reconstitute at least some of the infrastructure and command capability that they had in Afghanistan in the late 1990s and lost in the aftermath of the 2001 war.Bin Laden and his associates, after several years of relative weakness, have now developed a system of makeshift but relatively effective training camps in their secure base of the Pakistani tribal areas which, though they no longer offer weeks of military training in guerrilla fighting, can still be effective, given the right material. The tribal areas also provide a key focus for propaganda and a base for the militants' media – one area where they have lost little of their ingenuity or efficacy.The key question is how connected the three convicted yesterday were to these militant leaders overseas. In many ways, the plot resembles the 7/7 bombings and the fertiliser bomb conspiracy which comprised a self-forming group of likeminded British-based individuals who, largely under their own steam, made their way, or at least sent members, to Pakistan to meet with relatively high-ranking individuals from al-Qaida. The latter took the raw material of the enthusiastic but ignorant volunteers and welded them into something more effective, adding a crucial "x-factor" of technological expertise, directions as to targeting and psychological edge. In this instance, the conspirators appear to have travelled themselves to Pakistan to work in a refugee camp at Chaman on the Afghan frontier in 2002. There, exposed to horrific poverty and victims of bombing in the war against the Taliban, their views hardened. By 2005 they were back in Pakistan and in contact with senior militants. In this, al-Qaida are doing what they have always done – taking the raw material of those attracted by the radical Islamic cause and welding them into something more effective with technological, logistic and targeting advice and assistance. This is what the group, which was founded in 1988, did through the 1990s from bases in Sudan and then Afghanistan, and it has always been one of its principal functions.Does this mean that the view of "al-Qaida as ideology not organisation" is defunct? Not necessarily. Al-Qaida is best seen as a complex and continually changing matrix. Its various elements are continually evolving – and so is the relationship between them.The importance of the ideology remains impressive. This most recent plot reveals how the last decade has seen the views and vision of men like Bin Laden – there are a host of less well-known ideologues who are also very influential – become established as the ideological market leader for angry young men in much of the Muslim world or Islamic immigrant communities. The men involved in the current conspiracy are typical of those for whom the extremist message resonates, particularly in the UK. In their late 20s (the average age for a British militant is 29), they are either second or third-generation immigrants of Pakistani origin (or converts) and come from a broad range of socio-economic backgrounds. The apparent formation of the group is also revealing. Security services no longer hunt for older "preachers of hate" or look for recruitment in so-called radical mosques. In the vast majority of cases, militants are recruited by peers, often friends or family, and almost always away from religious centres. Their group dynamics would be recognisable to any team of sportsmen, soldiers or criminals. Current research by intelligence services as diverse as those of Saudi Arabia, Holland and Australia is now concentrating on the factors that make people vulnerable to radicalisation and on the structure of so-called "social networks". From concentrating on al-Qaida the organisation in the immediate aftermath of 2001, analytic effort shifted to al-Qaida the ideology between 2003 and 2007. It is now shifting to al-Qaida and the individual.The defendants' claimed they were trying to "get publicity" for a film on the impact of western foreign policy on the Muslim world rather than to kill thousands of people over the Atlantic. In either case, the importance to the plotters of attracting attention via the media remains evident. The bombers were planning "a spectacular" which would use violence or its threat to exploit the potential of today's media to communicate their ideas to as many people as possible. For 20 years, Islamic militant leaders, whether formally part of al-Qaida or not, have had one basic aim: to radicalise and mobilise those who have so far failed to heed the call to arms. In this they are following a long terrorist tradition of "propaganda by deed". It is the response to that call which determines success or failure.