Some call it the justice gap. Others say it is more like a chasm. Confidence in the legal system is being destroyed by the way it handles the crime that women most fear. The number of rapes reported to police has doubled over the past decade, and is now more than 14,000 a year. Over the same period the number of convictions has barely changed. These two facts have combined to drive down the conviction rate, which was 30% a generation ago, to less than 6% today. This means that for every 18 women who report a rape to the police, 17 fail to secure justice. For them the process is not just frustrating, but all too often a harrowing emotional journey - a reality borne out by the diary of one victim seeking her day in court which the Guardian has published today.The detailed figures suggest that the main problem is not what happens in court - for rape cases getting that far the chance of a guilty verdict is comparable to many serious crimes. Rather, the issue is the failure of the police and prosecution service: 70% of registered complaints do not lead to charges being pressed. Some prosecutors put the blame on social changes, arguing that heavy drinking and casual sex leads to more ambiguous situations where it cannot be proved whether consent was given or not. Plainly, alcohol can be a serious risk, but any suggestion that drunk women get what they deserve is lazy misogyny. The law was recently clarified to respect the obvious truth that if a woman was in no condition to give consent then she did not give it. Prosecutors would do well to take this into account and try harder to build cases. It must be granted, however, that they face a difficult task. The most common reason why charges are dropped is that there is not enough evidence to give a decent chance of conviction. Rape takes place out of sight, witnesses are rare and proceedings often turn on one person's word against another.Understandable outrage about the 6% figure can give rise to some unhelpful reactions. One is to tell victims of hard-to-prove rapes that going to the police is a traumatic waste of time. That may be true for many individuals, but for society the problem has to be faced before it can be fixed. In the past conviction rates looked much higher because fewer rapes were reported. Going back to a world where women did not report most types of rape would flatter the figures, but injustice would only be inflamed. Another reaction is to demand, as David Cameron has done, longer sentences for those convicted, as a deterrent. Not only does this ignore the reality that jail terms have doubled since 1984; it may also heighten jurors' fears about giving a wrongful guilty verdict, thereby making them even less likely to reach a rightful guilty verdict.A more fruitful approach might be a two-tier offence, with the highest penalties reserved for "aggravated" rapes, allowing juries to convict in more typical cases without fearing that this would lead to the maximum life term. Even more important are steps to encourage victims to come forward early, when bruising and other biological evidence is available. Rape counselling centres play an important role here. After allowing too many to shut, the government is at last building more. Ministers recently let judges block the use of expert psychological evidence in court, but this needs to be looked at again. Such testimony can help jurors understand why victims delay going to the police, a reality that the defence can twist to unfair advantage.Other options are more controversial, such as the deployment of "pretext" techniques, which, as the Guardian reveals today, prosecutors are considering. It may be that judges would refuse to admit evidence gathered in this way; it would surely be better if convictions could be secured by other means. But a 6% conviction rate means all options must be looked at - doing nothing is no longer acceptable. For too many women, the current arrangements serve only to add grievous insult to grievous injury.