A 31-year-old soldier wanted for questioning about the murder of Cambridge student Sally Geeson has been found dead outside a Glasgow hotel after apparently jumping from a seventh-floor window, the police said yesterday.Lance Corporal David Atkinson, who was based with a unit of the Royal Engineers at Waterbeach barracks near Cambridge, is believed to have committed suicide early on Saturday, the day after Ms Geeson's naked body was found close to a military cemetery three miles from the centre of the town. She had been strangled. Cambridgeshire police said forensic tests were being carried out to confirm the man's identity. It was only after the announcement of his death was made yesterday afternoon that police said they had been looking for him. Officers are also believed to be investigating reports that he had set himself on fire before plunging to his death. Detective Superintendent Garry Swain said: "The inquiry remains active and we continue to assess all the evidence gathered." Ms Geeson, 22, a forensic science student, who was due to sit her final examinations at Anglia Polytechnic University in Cambridge this week, disappeared after celebrating the new year with friends at a party in the Avery pub in Regent Street, Cambridge. She was last seen going to a nearby chip shop at 1am. Her body was formally identified by her father, Laurence, 51, on Saturday after it had been discovered by a man out walking in woodland around the second world war American cemetery at Madingley. Police have not said whether she was sexually assaulted. A spokesman for Strathclyde police said yesterday: "At 4.30am yesterday a man died after apparently jumping from an upper floor window of a hotel in Argyle Street, Glasgow."Inquiries are ongoing into the death which at this stage appears to be a suicide." Detective Superintendent Willie Johnston from Strathclyde police added: "Although, not yet formally identified, the deceased is strongly suspected to be a man who was wanted for questioning by Cambridgeshire police in relation to a serious crime." A Ministry of Defence spokesman declined to comment until the body had been formally identified. The incident happened at the three-star Corus Hotel, a few hundred metres from Glasgow Central railway station. Ms Geeson, who was a twin, disappeared in the early hours of New Year's Day after text messages were sent to two friends from her mobile phone. One said: "I've got into a car with someone, please call me." The last, half an hour later, said: "Please help me." Ms Geeson shared a house with other students in Cambridge. In the days after her disappearance they had put up posters around the town with her photograph and appeals for information. Her twin, Julie, posed for photographs outside the Avery pub in the hope of jogging the memory of potential witnesses. After her body was found, Ms Geeson's family, who live in Southend, Essex, issued a statement: "Our beautiful daughter has been taken from us and words cannot begin to express our heartache at this time. Sally was a wonderful and loving daughter, sister and friend and we are simply devastated." Yesterday Ms Geeson's father left a bouquet of white daisies close to the spot where her body was discovered. He told reporters: "I just felt I had to come and do this." By last night around 25 floral tributes had been left at Madingley. One bouquet from "Auntie Rosalyn and Uncle Ian" had a note attached, which read: "A light has gone out in our lives. You will be forever in our hearts. Our love for eternity."