In today's Daily Telegraph is an instructive rant by Janet Daley. Responding to Tony Blair's speech about crime and justice last Friday (and to David Cameron's call for a British bill of rights), she mounts a predictable attack: the reason crime hasn't been tackled properly here, as it has in New York, is "because public officials in America do not suffer from historical class guilt".She says:Mr Blair was doomed from the start on law and order. Once he had uttered that self-cancelling slogan "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime", he was locked into the mindset that he would now like to repudiate, if only he had the political nerve. To approach law enforcement on the premise that all crime is "caused" by social circumstances is to lose the battle before it begins. That is what ordinary people know, and what Mr Blair would like to say, but in his speech last week, he funked it."Let's leave aside the likelihood that Janet Daley's exposure to "ordinary" people is limited to sacking cleaners, and address her easy-money argument.For a start, no one who examines seriously the relationship between social circumstances and the incidence of crime - not even the prime minister - has even begun to assert that "all crime" is "caused" by the economic hardship, poor housing, bad schooling or the cruel or neglectful family lives of individual criminals.What is claimed, however, is that the presence of such factors in criminals' backgrounds seems to have contributed to their propensity for crime. Such findings are not produced in order to excuse criminality. Rather, they offer clues about how to reduce it, and only very ignorant or very shameless rightwing crowd-pleasers go around pretending otherwise.But the true bankruptcy of this sort of line on crime lies in the insistence that from any acknowledgement of an environmental influence on criminal tendencies follows a squeamish disdain for having the law enforced effectively.This is rubbish. Whatever the vacuity of Blair's famous saying, and however inadequately we may feel he has acted on it, there is no intrinsic contradiction between the two aspirations it expresses. The phrase is not "self-cancelling", as Daley claims. Just because someone grasps intellectually what may have made a teenage boy more inclined to smash a window or rob a woman of her phone does not mean he or she doesn't want him stopped.I am such a someone. So are the many others who recently worked together in my famously villainous corner of east London to close down a nightclub that had become a magnet for murderers and violent drug dealers and hangers-on who created a generally malign mood of disorder at weekends. The coalition of locals who brought this about was led by community activists and Labour councillors and supported by a range of residents including mosque-goers, Christian clerics and the sorts of citizens frequently dismissed among the law-and-order lobby as simpering liberal apologists.And there was one other important group involved: the local police. For a long time they had declined to move against the club in question on the not-illogical grounds that if they closed down a licensed premises, illegal ones might spring up in its wake, and the associated crooks would go further underground. Such a consequence seems possible, but in my view even this negative outcome would still be outweighed by the virtue of my community's very public refusal to allow the violent and antisocial to colonise us. And the shift in police policy shows what it is possible to achieve when the constabulary is receptive to those it serves.Now there's a cause for the more conservative newspaper commentators to take up: the reform of the police service to bring it closer to active citizens on the ground, perhaps along the lines of a successful experiment in Sefton. Provide the crime-busting tools and we guilty pinkos will do the rest.