Rhysy asks:"After readingthe article I have several questions about the legality of the situation, and whether this is actually possible.It is to my understanding that Gaynor was not convicted of dealing drugs and murdering people, but of "glamorising the gangster lifestyle" in his music. Surely freedom of speech should prevent this? Also shouldn't all music which covers such topics be banned? For example, US hip-hop artists such as 50 Cent and Snoop Dogg who have gone to number one in our charts with songs which can be perceived in the same way. How can there not be a blanket ban on such blatant disregard to human rights, but rather a specific ban to one individual? I bring this into question as all songs which contain homophobic lyrics are banned in the UK and overseas artists have had gigs cancelled because of this. Surely that should set precedent?Furthermore, he is now "banned from being in a group of three or more in a public place", as ludicrous as this sounds would this include Gaynor going to dinner with his mother and father? As technically he is in a group of three or more? Is such a ban even possible?There are other points which raise concern, such as banning Gaynor from the area of Wood Green itself, from Gaynor being allowed to associate with his "former gang mates", and from being allowed to be photographed with "green bandanas", but when an asbo can be passed which disallows a couple for having sex in their own house as they are too loud I am assuming these are fully legal asbos (unfortunately).My major concern from this stems that Gaynor has had these antisocial behaviour orders (asbo) placed upon him due to the music he makes and not through actual criminal convictions. His freedom of speech, his freedom of movement and other basic human rights have been taken away from him without a legal conviction. How is this possible?As a person doing a philosophy degree, I am astounded by the ethical ramifications surrounding this case. I believe these questions to be highly important and would greatly appreciate them being answered, as for one, to be convicted of 'crimes' while they have not even be proven astounds me."It is difficult to comment on the case of Michael Gaynor without knowing more about the facts. I do wonder, however, whether Rhysy is correct in saying that Gaynor has been made subject to an asbo for "glamourising the gangster lifestyle" in video footage posted on the internet.From looking at reports of the case available online it seems that videos that he posted on the internet may have been used to prove the past "antisocial behaviour" that is one of the requirements for an asbo, ie that the police used footage of Gaynor talking about things that he had done in the past as proof of the fact that he had done them.The reports also make clear that one of the conditions imposed on Gaynor is that he should not post material on the internet which glamourises gang culture. Rhysy is right in pointing out that this is an interference with Gaynor's freedom of expression and that chart-toppers such as Snoop Dogg and 50 Cent have done much the same in their lyrics. Again, we don't know the full facts but there may be a qualitative difference; if Gaynor's lyrics mention specific gangs and locations, or can be taken to make specific threats, then one can see why the authorities here may be more worried about them than by lyrics generally extolling an American gangster lifestyle or depicting gang culture in New York or LA.The case does, however, highlight some of the problems with asbos. They were introduced early on in Tony Blair's first Labour government and were the first of a number of measures introduced by that administration with the intention, it would seem, of circumventing the protections of the criminal law.A court can make an asbo if it is satisfied (1) that a person has acted in an antisocial manner, "that is to say, in a manner that caused or was likely to cause harassment, alarm or distress to one or more persons not of the same household as himself" and (2) that an asbo is necessary to protect others from further antisocial acts. The conditions that can be imposed are those that the court considers necessary to protect people from further antisocial acts by the defendant. These have to be negative ones, ie requirements not to do certain things; the court cannot impose a positive requirement to do something. If the person then goes on to breach a requirement of the asbo they commit an offence for which they could be sent to prison for up to five years.Asbos mix the criminal and civil law in a way that set a dangerous precedent; control orders operate in a very similar way. An asbo is made in a procedure very similar to a civil injunction but unlike injunctions any breaches are prosecuted as criminal offences.Making asbos civil orders was clearly an attempt to get round the difficulty of prosecuting low-level offences. The then government intended that the courts should apply the civil standard of proof (whether something was more likely than not) when deciding whether to make an asbo and that the courts should be able to rely on hearsay evidence. In 2002 the House of Lords ruled that, because of what is at stake for a defendant, the courts should apply the criminal standard of proof ("beyond reasonable doubt") when deciding whether they had acted in an antisocial manner. But the law lords refused to rule hearsay evidence inadmissible and it is therefore very common for asbos to be made on the basis of written statements, often anonymised or including anonymised reports, rather than testimony given in court by witnesses who can be cross-examined on what they have said.A further problem with asbos is that people subject to them can be criminalised and sent to prison for a considerable period for doing something, eg going to a particular location or associating with particular people (both prohibitions imposed in Gaynor's case), that would not otherwise be a criminal offence. Moreover, where prohibitions in an asbo replicate what is already a minor criminal offence the effect of the asbo will be to substantially increase the penalty for the offence.We have all heard of asbos being imposed for behaviour that must be irritating or embarrassing for neighbours at most, and of the sorts of daft conditions that can be imposed – my favourite is a woman who was forbidden from answering her door in her underwear. These are symptomatic of the fact that asbos are often applied for by the authorities in an attempt to show that they are doing something to respond to public concerns. But they are often ineffective, with about half of asbos being breached.Of particular concern to Liberty is the heavy use of asbos against teenagers. This seems to reflect a widespread intolerance, even demonisation, of young people. We have to hope that the coalition government, with its commitment to civil liberties, will review these unfair and frequently ineffective orders.• Do you have a question for Liberty's lawyers? Post it here