"The only thing I remember when I got to the party is finishing my drink," says a former student of Nottingham University who had her drink spiked when she was 17."I woke up in a strange bed with a man having sex with me. I knew there was nothing to be gained from reporting it because no-one would believe it wasn't my fault. I wouldn't be taken seriously and I'd be thought of as someone who got drunk and did something stupid."A crime survey by ITV, released earlier this year, found that one in ten people have had their drink spiked, though not all cases had led to sexual assault. On top of this, a survey at Swansea University found that it had happened to one in three students there.When a student victim of drink spiking shared her story, published by the Guardian this week, it received an unprecedented reaction from other students wishing to share similar experiences.So how widespread is the problem and what is being done about it?The NHS says  people of both genders have their drinks spiked for a variety of reasons, including for theft, sexual assault and as a misguided prank.However the extent of the crime remains hidden, as there are no national statistics recorded by either the health or crime authorities.Most victims say they don't report it, either because they're embarrassed or ashamed, or because they don't remember what happened and don't believe anything will be done.A third-year student from Lancaster University who had her drink spiked when she was in her first year says she didn't report it because she believed people would blame her."I went to the bathroom alone and after half an hour my friend found me collapsed face-down in a cubicle, with the door locked and my feet sticking out from underneath it," she says. "The next day I didn't report it because I thought people wouldn't believe me."With little public information about the crime, misconceptions are common, says Rachel Griffin, director of the Suzy Lamplugh Trust."That, coupled with victims believing they'll be blamed, means far too many people are being left vulnerable and unsupported."Misconceptions include the belief that most drinks are spiked with illegal drugs. In fact the vast majority are thought to be spiked with alcohol. Another myth is that spiking is only a crime if coupled with assault: drink-spiking carries a maximum 10-year sentence even if no added sexual assault or theft takes place.Ex-bar worker Blythe Jopling says she regularly looked after people whose drinks were spiked – she also says it happened to her. Jopling, now an environment consultant, believes more needs to be done to raise awareness."It's definitely something that needs talking about," she says. "When I worked in a bar there was no formal procedure and it was never mentioned by managers. There's still an attitude that 'if someone's got themselves in a mess they only have themselves to blame'."Jopling says bars and clubs need to do more to train staff to spot and look after people who are unable to take care of themselves.Griffin agrees that venues need to do more to create a safe environment. She says drink spiking doesn't happen in a vacuum, but is part of a wider drinking culture in which people are left vulnerable."Bars and clubs can take practical steps to create a safe environment," she says. "Publicly stating that they have a zero-tolerance approach to sexual harassment, and training staff on how to tackle it, can help challenge the culture that leads to these crimes."PhD student Steph Ratcliffe, who has campaigned with Good Night Out to end sexual harassment in venues in Sheffield, believes that if clubs pledge to take safety more seriously, fewer incidents of drink spiking and harassment will take place. "It's good to have consistency in how these crimes are dealt with across cities," she says.Journalist Imogen Calderwood is running a campaign with Spanish paper the Olive Press to draw attention to drink spiking in British tourist destinations in Spain. "Women and men are not safe on nights out," she says."I don't think it's taken seriously enough by any authority, let alone by many bar owners, who understandably see claims of spiked drinks as a danger to business, and so play them down."However Calderwood says there are things that can be done to protect people. "Statistics are needed to bring the problem into the public eye, policing is needed to tackle it, and advice is needed to prevent it from happening in the first place."But before any of this can be done, people and authorities need to admit that it's happening, and not automatically accuse victims of having drunk too much and lost control."• Have you ever had your drink spiked? How do you think the issue can be tackled? Share your experiences and thoughts in the comment section below.