The Sentencing Guidelines Council, chaired by the lord chief justice Lord Woolf, has recommended that people charged with murder should automatically get a third off their minimum prison term, or "tariff", for a guilty plea. As someone who spent a long time on the prison wings, I'd say that on the face of it this sounds like a good idea.For decades it has been the case in British courts that defendants charged with every other crime should receive a reduction in their sentence for admitting guilt. I'm not sure when that changed from being a traditional gesture to a more formalised procedure, but I do know that there has never been any such consideration for those appearing in the dock facing a murder charge. And that's the reason for the controversy.Until November 2002 it was the home secretary who held the power to set tariffs in the case of a man or woman convicted of murder in England and Wales. That was until a man called Anthony Anderson, a lifer whose tariff had been increased by the home secretary from the 15 years handed down by the judge to 20 years, won a landmark legal ruling in the House of Lords. Before then an odd, clearly illogical situation existed whereby the prison sentence in such a case was decided by a politician behind closed doors; there was no way of checking the method by which the sentence had been decided. In most instances, after a judge has passed the mandatory life sentence and recommended the time that the murderer should serve in prison, the home secretary will set the tariff at a higher level - usually by two to five years, although it was not uncommon for the tariff to be doubled in some cases. Quite rightly the House of Lords found that this situation was incompatible with the European convention on human rights. During my time on long-term prison wings before this ruling I saw many letters from the home office tariff unit to prisoners on life sentences informing them of the tariffs decided upon by the "home secretary". But I never once saw persuasive, clearly laid-out reasons accompanying those decisions. The figures appeared to have simply been plucked from the air. To expect individuals who commit the most serious crimes to have to serve very long prison sentences is reasonable and human. But for the decision of how long that should be to be left to a politician, and often a home office junior minister, with no demonstrable means of evaluating its appropriateness, was unsatisfactory in an advanced society. That was why Anderson won his case. Not surprisingly the home secretary was not happy to lose this power. He fought back by introducing his own new sentencing framework within the Criminal Justice Act (2003.) Here he set down the minimum tariff terms that judges had to hand down to those convicted of murder and if any judge strayed from those terms a full explanation would have to be forthcoming. In a statement in January 2004 the home secretary David Blunkett explained his reasons behind the new sentencing framework. He said it had been introduced "not out of any lack of confidence in the judiciary but out of the special significance of the offence of murder and the need to ensure that the framework for the sentencing for murder is set by parliament and incorporates an element of democratic accountability." He emphasised that it would mean that, "the most dangerous and evil people in our society will stay in prison for longer". The starting point for juveniles convicted of murder under the act is now 12 years. For anyone aged 18 to 21 the starting point is 15 years, moving up to 30 years, depending on the gravity of the crime. For over-21s the starting point is 15 years, moving up to 30 years or a whole life term, again depending on the "category" and gravity of offence committed. The home secretary may have lost his power to actually set prison terms through the front door, but with his new framework and the blessing of parliament he effectively clawed it back though the back door. Many judges (not surprisingly since it meant that their ability to judge properly was being curtailed) were dismayed by the new framework. It came as no surprise therefore to learn that the Sentencing Guidelines Council, (which ironically took over the court of appeal's responsibility for issuing sentencing guidelines under the very same Criminal Justice Act 2003 introduced by the home secretary) has recommended that tariffs should be more flexible - it includes seven judges, as well as the lord chief justice. Hence the proposal of automatically shaving off large chunks in return for a guilty plea. In announcing the proposal, Lord Woolf said, "What we earnestly hope is that we will use custody more effectively and more appropriately than we do now. If this works we will not need so many new prisons as we think we need at present." While I'm not convinced of the logic behind the council's recommendations, along with many people who have an understanding of the reality of life on a prison landing, I welcome the possibility that lifers might not have to serve so long in custody before the parole board considers an application. From the perspective of most people who have been affected by murder no sentence for somebody who has taken the life of their loved one could ever be long enough; only the families of murder victims can possibly know the impact of such a crime. But if we are to persist with a system where most people who commit murder are eventually released back into the community, it is not good practice to keep such people incarcerated for longer than strictly necessary. Intelligent, experienced people who understand these things know that between 10 and 15 years for an adult convicted of murder is the optimum time that should be spent in custody. Any more and the point begins to disappear. Few prisoners who end up serving more than 15 years are not irreparably damaged by the experience. Long-term imprisonment means long-term dehumanisation - and ultimately animalisation, which is fine if no one serving life was ever to be released. Since that is not the case we need to address the problem rationally and dispassionately, but not so dispassionately that a murderer can get out five years early just for pleading guilty.