You could tell that Dave was new to Grendon, just from the sound of his voice. A big, tattooed bear of a man, he didn't look out of place, but when he spoke, it was in the loud, confrontational certainties of the archetypal prison hard man. It had taken Dave years of experience behind bars to perfect the overbearing tone. Here, it was the unmistakable sound of the ingénu. "I'm in for attempted murder," he introduced himself. "Career criminal, all my life, armed robber mostly. Not been here long. And I think rapists are the bottom of the pecking order. Yeah. Sorry, but I do." Dave scanned the half-dozen faces in the circle, daring a challenge."Well, Dave, it's always difficult for new lads, coming in with the criminal values." A compact, shaven-headed murderer, after five years here Alex's voice carried the ruminative inflection of a Grendon graduate. "New lads always want the criminal hierarchy, because it gives them the feel-good factor. If I can convince myself that my crime's better than your crime, then I can convince myself that it's not such a problem.""I think about this all the time, Dave," the only officer in the group joined in. "Say you've got two lads, both abused as children. One turns out to be a sexual abuser, one turns out to be an armed robber. The armed robber's always saying, I could never do that - I couldn't turn out to be an abuser. But the abuser says, no, you are abusing. You're inflicting your pain and control and power over somebody else. The only difference is, you're choosing to do it with that weapon, and I'm using this weapon.""No way, Tom," Dave erupted angrily. "When I go out robbing, it's for the money! The power is what I do, yeah - but the end goal for me is the money! Sex offenders want the power over the person. Me, I just want the pound note.""But isn't it all interlinked?" Alex suggested."Well, no, it's not! When I'm robbing someone, I'm not thinking to myself, oh this is brilliant, I'm about to come ... ""No, but I think that's part of it, isn't it?" Alex smiled. "The actual need to be stronger than somebody else. To be overpowering and overbearing.""Well, yeah, I've always kept fit and strong. But that's only so I can run fast when I nick the money!"Dave searched the convicts' faces for validation, but in vain. He began to look bewildered. "Well, I guess this is what I'm having to think about here now. Is it really money I'm after - or is it power over other people?" He turned the heresy over in his mind. "But no, I keep coming back with no, it's the money! It's got to be. I mean, if people get in the way, then I'll hurt them, obviously. But they're not the point. So I think to myself, it's got to be the money."No one said a word. For a moment, Dave looked as if he might give up in disgust and walk out. Instead, a startling thought struck him. "You know what," he suddenly volunteered, "the funny thing is, when I've stolen the money, I go and spend a lot of it on prostitutes. So now I'm thinking, maybe it is a sort of sexual thing. Or emotional. I don't know." His voice freshened with unfamiliar curiosity. "And do you know the really funny thing? When I go to prostitutes, I go to ones that dominate me. So I don't know if that's like relinquishing power, letting them have the power back over me that I've had over my victims. I've never thought about it before."Grendon, as Dave later observed, "is a strange gaff". For more than 40 years, it has been running as a "therapeutic community" for offenders - a radical penal experiment, constructed exclusively upon the principles and practices of psychodynamic group therapy. Deep in rural Buckinghamshire, it contains a higher proportion of psychopaths than any other population outside the top-security mental hospitals. More than half of its 230 inmates are lifers, with the rest serving long sentences, seldom their first, with previous custody records typically featuring serious violence and spells in punishment blocks. Yet the atmosphere is so unlike the edginess of jail; it feels more like a progressive 60s boarding school.Most officers have to think hard to recall the last time they deployed physical force of any kind. Sex offenders and child murderers are not kept on a segregation wing, because there isn't one. There is no punishment block, either. Inmates and staff call each other by their first names (even the governor is Peter, not Mr Bennett) and all refer darkly to the rest of the prison service as "the system". Grendon deviates from the system in almost every single respect, but above all because it fundamentally believes that criminals can change.Few members of the public, however, even know it exists. Early enthusiasts hailed Grendon as the "jewel in the crown" of the prison service, but since then it has often felt more like its guilty secret, whose best strategy for survival was to lie low and keep quiet. I first asked for permission to visit almost 10 years ago, and over the years the governors may have changed but their answer remained no. When it finally turned to yes last summer, I raced off to meet the new governor to set a date. "Oh no," he corrected. "We still can't arrange anything yet. They haven't voted on it yet." What did he mean? "Well, the prisoners - it's up to them, you see. You can only come to Grendon if they vote you in."Getting into Grendon can be almost as difficult as getting out of most jails. Inmates are not sent, but must apply, and pass personality and intelligence tests - entrance exams, if you like. The waiting list has at times reached two years, and one in five admissions still get no farther than the induction wing, but are assessed as unsuitable and returned to their old jail. Others demand to be sent straight back, as soon as they realise what Grendon expects of them. "They must volunteer," in the governor's words, "to have their mind dissected - opened up, and then put back together again."Eventually, C wing voted to let me spend a week with them. The prison is organised into five wings, each a self-contained community of roughly 40 men, staffed by a security team of uniformed officers and a clinical team of therapists. But each also has a chairman, elected by the inmates, with whom the staff consult closely and without whose consent little seems to happen. C wing's chairman was a solemn, faintly dreamy armed robber called Calum, and with his blessing I was free to wander the wing by myself.The men meet every other morning in small groups of about eight, facilitated by a therapist or uniformed officer, where the most intensive therapy takes place. In the afternoons there is drama and art therapy - and twice a week they hold a full wing meeting, chaired by Calum, where everything from disciplinary grievances to administrative details are debated, and decided by a show of hands. The staff attend, but do not have a vote, and if an inmate is unhappy about anything they have done, they will be called upon to justify their actions to the wing.The wing has its own constitution, drafted by the men and ratified by popular vote, and transgressions or disputes are adjudicated at the wing meeting, with punishments agreed on by vote. The jail's three cardinal rules - "No drugs; no violence; no sex" - are not unique to Grendon, but their enforcement certainly is, thanks chiefly to the inmates. What would be vilified as "grassing" in any other jail is called "challenging" here, and considered essential to the self-policing of the community. Should the men decide at any point that an inmate is not fully committed to his community and its rules, they can vote for the ultimate sanction - eviction - and have him transferred back to "the system".In real life, prisoners do not even have the vote, but in Grendon democracy is practised with a diligence that borders on pedantic. It is also, nonetheless, inherently fake. For how can liberty be authentically exercised, in the context of incarceration? If the men were really in charge of their destiny, they would vote to free themselves. This intractable contradiction at the heart of the project helps explain a deep suspicion - which the men wasted no time in sharing with me - that nothing at Grendon is ever as good as it seems.For a therapeutic community to function, there must be trust. But based on their own experience of criminal circles, as many pointed out, it would be wholly irrational to trust each other. "My best friend turned out to be a registered police informant," a painfully bitter lifer said. "That's how I got my 10 [year sentence]. And since I've been away, my wife's had two children - with my brother. So, yeah, I've got a bit of a bad issue with trust." Others based their mistrust on evidence even closer to home. "Well, look at me," offered a drug dealer. "I've been an insensitive, devious lying shit all my life."A McCarthyite paranoia about "bullshitters" pervades the whole community, for to trust one another is to risk looking a mug. "And it limits things, therapeutically," the dealer said, "because you just don't feel comfortable baring your soul in front of someone who's just working their ticket. People here come from abusive backgrounds, and it's quite a serious thing to talk about. It's not nice when you're talking about something that's affected your whole life in front of someone who's full of shit."Yet the men are even expected to trust the people employed to lock them up. Staff talk about "dynamic" rather than "physical" security - a theory that close relationships with prisoners can provide as much security as fences or walls. "But they say they want to give us trust," one inmate complained, "then they give us plastic cutlery." He called over an officer: "Do you trust me?""Yeah, I do.""But then you come in my cell and search it!" he pounced triumphantly. "You know what I mean?"And there is an inescapable conflict of interest between the staff's duty to the law, and to therapeutic confidentiality. "They want me to spill my whole life out in the group," said Pat, a robber who'd spent 20 of the past 24 years behind bars, "but see, if I told the whole truth about myself, I'd never get out. What I got done for, that weren't the whole story - Pat was much more horrible than that. Pat went into people's houses and tied people up. So I brought that up in the group and, well, that opened up a whole can of worms. I was wary, mind, I didn't give times or dates - I'm not going to end up being charged, like some blokes have. But I thought, if I'm here really looking at myself, I'll bring the really bad stuff up. And now I'm angry because on my report it says I've disclosed this and that, so now I'm not getting my parole."By the end of day one, I was starting to wonder at the wisdom of the governor's decision to allow me unmediated access. "Everything going OK?" he beamed one day. "Talk to anyone you want." Peter Bennett has the kindly manner of a slightly rumpled academic, and it occurred to me that he might have badly misjudged the men's mood towards Grendon, and was going to regret ever letting me anywhere near them. But very soon I began to see why he was so sublimely unworried.Grendon casts what can only be described as a spell - a redemptive force that somehow transcends its conceptual inconsistencies. For all their cynicism, the men were overwhelmingly proud and protective of the prison, and even its bitterest critics were anxious not to give an unfairly negative impression. "It's like I've lived two different lives," one said. "The old me before Grendon - I can't hardly recognise him now." I visited other wings, and heard the same thing everywhere: this was the only prison that had ever made these men try - sincerely try - to change.Newcomers tend to arrive still crackling with defensive energy, but by their second year they often look lost. Men meeting themselves for the first time tend not to say very much, and their voices become noticeably quieter. For most, it is also their first experience of a genuinely drug-free prison; for others, the big shock is basic safety. "I've been in 33 prisons," a lifer told me, "and this is literally the first one where I haven't had at least four weapons stashed on me."The psychotherapeutic process is famously difficult to pin down in word, and even harder to translate in a place where everyone speaks a bizarre, hybrid language of prison slang crossed with psycho-jargon. Grendon's register can be bewildering: one second it's all fraggles, nonces and bacons, the next we're on to counter-transference. But you have only to witness the dynamics of daily life to see that something profound is taking place.What I wasn't able to see, though, was any actual therapy taking place, for all sessions are strictly private. When I interviewed inmates in small groups, I'd get glimpses of the therapeutic dynamic, but to come so close and not see the one thing from which everything else was derived was frustrating - like hearing 100 film reviews, but never seeing the movie. On the last day I mentioned my frustration to an inmate called Rick. How about we mock up a small group, he suggested, and give you a demo? Within minutes he had a circle of volunteers, ready to try to recreate a typical session.A garrulous 24-year-old, Rick could talk so fast it was hard to make out the words, and after two years here he still carried some of the restless energy of the street. Carl was a young black gangster from the Midlands, fond of affecting amused indifference to almost everything. Jerry, a thief from north London on his 23rd sentence, had a sardonic wit, but the complexion of a former heroin user. Matt, also from London, looked 20 years older than everyone else - small and conspicuously gentle, he was serving 12 years for assault. Jamie and Phil were both Scousers - a broodingly angry armed robber, and a volatile giant who used to kidnap and rob drug dealers. Jake spoke with a thick north-east accent.Rick volunteered - in the jargon - "to use the group", and explained he was in prison for slashing a stranger's face in a drug-addled fit of paranoia. At first, self-consciousness kept throwing everyone off their stride, and I wasn't sure it would work. But within minutes my presence was forgotten, and I got to see for myself what Grendon really does.Carl: How did you feel when you slashed that geezer?Rick: Powerful. I felt powerful.Matt: But he was just walking down the road. He was just going home.Rick: Well, yeah, I know. When I saw the photographs and saw his scar and all that - and he'd done nothing wrong, that's where the guilt comes in.Matt: How did you feel then?Rick: Like shit.Carl: Did you really feel like that? Or are you just saying that 'cos you think that's what's expected?Rick: No.Carl: So what's different this time? Have you stabbed people before, have you slashed people before? So why feel guilt about this person?Rick: Well, this geezer never wanted to hurt me. Geezers I've had fights with before have always wanted to hurt me. I mean, people have come to my mum's house, smashed her house up, blew me cars up, blew me house up, set my house on fire. These are the sort of people I fight with.Carl: So you're saying that's all right?Rick: No.Carl: So that's why I'm asking you, why do feel guilt just for this guy? When you've obviously done this to people before. You're saying you want to change, and be different, but you're still justifying what you've done. If you want to change, you can't still be thinking if someone's done something to you, then it's all right to do it back.Rick: Carl, come on, I had to be tooled up, there was no way I couldn't hurt people back. People wanted to do me damage.Jerry: Don't you think it was really about making a public statement round your manor? Fuelling your image. Anyone fucks with Rick gets opened up.Rick: Well... well, yeah. But that wasn't the point of it. I've been around violence all my life. To me, it was normal. Growing up, I seen people getting stabbed or glassed or slashed. I saw my best mate get stabbed, stabbed to fuck. But on someone innocent, yeah, it does play on my mind. I said it when I first got locked up, fucking hell, I'm not an animal, I'm not a monster. I might have turned into one. But I wasn't one originally.Jake: But when you get out, you're going back to the same area, aren't you? Back to them sort of people. Those people you've hurt in the past are going to try and approach you.Rick: Yeah? Well, listen, I'm not moving from my manor.Jamie: But when you say that like that, it makes me question why you're here.Rick: No one can question my intentions about being here! I never want to go back to that life! You only had to come behind me and I'd jump. That's how my life was, it was horrible. It was horrible.Jamie: So what have you learned here?Rick: I've got to deal with my own paranoia. Handle myself and my emotions with people better. I mean, I hadn't been able to sit down with my mum and have a cup of tea. That is how fucked up I was. I couldn't sit down with anyone. I couldn't talk to anyone. No one got near me. I'm the youngest of six, and my brothers were violent before I was even fucking born. I grew up dealing with people with crossbows, shotguns, coming to the house, people trying to kidnap my brother, trying to do him in. That's what I grew up with. And to do what I was doing out there, I think you have to be disconnected.Phil: But Rick, what are you going to do out there again, when other people haven't changed? What are you going to do out there when it's on you, lad? Because if you've made enemies out there, it's going to come on you, lad. Then what are you going to do?Rick: Well, ummm, it's hard to say... I mean, I know what you're saying...Phil: Why are you set on going back to Nottingham?Rick: Well, it's my town! I'd never leave Nottingham. Grendon can't expect that of me. It's my town. I'll never leave.Matt: What happens if you go back and come face to face with the guy you slashed? That's quite possible. What happens then?Rick: Well, I dunno... Well, I mean, what can I do?Matt: Have you even thought about that?Rick: What, if I see him? If I see him, I see him. I can't do anything about what I've done.Jamie: But what would you like to say to him?Rick: Explain to him why I was so fucked up.Jamie: But you can do that while you're in here.Rick: Look, I might see him, I might not, I don't know, all right? But I'm not leaving Nottingham. I've been through a lot and I just couldn't cope. Simple as that. I'll do what I have to do to survive.Jamie: Well, how do you think the guy you cut will feel? He's trying to move on with his life. He's got that scar on his face to remind him of you every day. And all of a sudden he turns a corner in a shopping centre, and there's you? Would you feel powerful then?Jerry: What is it with Nottingham, Rick? Do you feel a sense of belonging? Does your image make you feel better? What is it?Rick: I dunno.Phil: All we're saying is, lad, you going back to your old area, to your old reputation, people are still going to be wanting to take you clean out. And that's how easy it's going to be for you to flop back into it. Like you said, you'll do what you have to do to survive. And once you get into the realm of 'I've got to do whatever I have to do to defend myself', you're in trouble, lad.Carl: Think about it. They're not seeing the Rick who's just done two years of therapy. They're seeing the Rick that used to stab people. And they'll be going, look there's Rick, he does this and he does that.Rick Listen, I'm going back to Nottingham, it's where I live, right? End of. I worked from when I was 18 to 20, I didn't always have a life like you're saying. I've got friends there, good friends. I'm not going to go back to my exact old area, it's a shithole. I'm just going back to Nottingham, to lead a normal life.Phil: But why don't you listen to what other options people are trying to give you?Rick: I am listening.Phil: No, but you jump on to the defence at everything we've said. Just look at the options I'm giving you. You don't have to sit there and defend everything that's said to you. Just take it away and think about it.Continues here