Two brothers were yesterday found guilty of murdering a father-of-two after trying to steal his radio. Balbir Matharu saw one of the men breaking his van window and tried to stop him. But the thieves, Albert and Tommy Willett, drove off in their car, dragging Matharu under it for 40 metres along the road, then ran over him. Talking after the death of Matharu the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, criticised the press for coverage reflecting "institutional racism". More attention had been paid to the murder of a white lawyer, Tom ap Rhys Price, who died during a mugging, than to the killing of Matharu, he said. In a statement read to the Old Bailey yesterday, the victim's daughter, Baljinder Matharu, said: "Our worlds have never and will never be the same again. Through no fault of ours or my dad's, his life was taken in a most cowardly and despicable way." Sentencing of the Willetts was adjourned until today.As Tommy Willett was taken down he shouted: "I ain't coming back tomorrow ... you corrupt bunch of dossers." Outside court Detective Chief Inspector John Macdonald said the brothers each had a £150-a-day heroin habit. "They don't deserve to be at liberty because all they do is cause misery for everyone else." Matharu was 54 and married with a grown-up son and daughter. He worked for his family's building firm in Stratford, east London, where he was knocked over in January 2006. Albert Willett, 26, was driving the green Ford Mondeo car which was driven at Matharu. Tommy Willett, 24, also in the car, told his brother to drive off as Matharu stood in front of the vehicle telling them they had to wait for the police after he saw them trying to take his stereo by smashing a window of the vehicle."They were so desperate not to get caught for a trivial offence that they were prepared to commit a terrible one," Crispin Aylett QC, prosecuting, told the court. The reporting of the Matharu case came under scrutiny. It led to the wider issue of the greater prominence given by the press to certain murders - those selected from the total, for instance, of the 757 murders committed in England and Wales in 2006-2007.In 2006, at a meeting of the Metropolitan Police Authority, Blair accused the media of "institutional racism" in the way it reported on murders. The commissioner, noting the killing of Rhys Price, said: "That death of the young lawyer was terrible. But an Asian man was dragged to his death, a woman was chopped up in Lewisham, a chap shot in the head in a [black-on-black] murder - they got a paragraph on page 97."Blair's remarks sparked a debate on gender, race and age prejudice in the media. Rhys Pryce, a 31-year-old Cambridge-educated lawyer, was given page-one prominence when two muggers stabbed him to death on his way home on January 12 2006. Over the next seven days, until two young men were charged with his murder, the coverage amounted to about five times more than that covering the death of Matharu the same day. It was difficult to escape the conclusion that the tragedy of a young and privileged white couple in Kensal Rise, who had planned to marry in Tuscany, was considered more newsworthy than the death of a middle-aged Asian manual worker in Stratford. Roy Greenslade, the press commentator, said: "There cannot be the slightest doubt that some murders do get huge coverage while others, equally as horrific and worthy of large headlines, do not." Blair also referred to the coverage of the black 15-year-old Rochelle Holness. The first report of her murder, in the Evening Standard of September 25 2005, did sum up the horror: "The body of a 15-year-old schoolgirl has been found dismembered in bin bags after she was abducted from the street on Sunday." Until a convicted rapist was charged a week later every newspaper gave the case extensive coverage, and they returned to it for John McGrady's brief trial and whole-life sentence. Another killing in London, mentioned by Blair, is still unsolved and has gone largely unreported. Leon Adams, 26, was shot in the head late at night in Notting Hill, London, within 24 hours and two miles from the place where Rhys Pryce was stabbed. Adams had been in and out of jail for robbery and mugging. His father was an armed robber. But Adams also had a girlfriend, Chantal, who was pregnant with his child and he, too, like Rhys Pryce, planned to soon marry. But besides two paragraphs noting his murder, the only other coverage of his death, prompted by Blair's words, was a long feature in the Evening Standard, including a touching interview with his mother. Adams's death was one of many "black-on-black" murders that have attracted little attention. Peter Cole, professor of journalism at the University of Sheffield, believes colour is not the key factor. Reporting of such murders, as that of Adams, is limited or non-existent "because, essentially, we are not terribly concerned about what nasty people do to each other". This January, without attracting publicity, the Met posted a £20,000 reward for information leading to the killer of Adams.