A man wanted in connection with a shooting at a hairdressers in Newport, south Wales, has been found dead in woods.A woman was shot in the knee and two others were injured after a gunman walked into the salon, named locally as Carol Ann's Hairstylists, and opened fire.None of the injuries from the shooting, which took place just after 2pm, were said to be life threatening and the police refused to say whether two of the women – who suffered injuries to the neck and arm – had also been shot."A male had entered the premises with a firearm," said a spokesman for Gwent police. "Officers have recovered a firearm from the premises. A female received a gunshot wound to the knee. Another female has an injury to the neck and another female an injury to the arm. At this time the nature of these injuries has not been confirmed."All three adult females are receiving medical treatment and are currently with police officers," the spokesman added.The police helicopter was scrambled as officers searched the area.Police said they were called to the hairdressers just after 2.20pm following reports that several people had been injured.A councillor, Paul Cockeram, who represents the ward, said it was believed to be a domestic incident involving one of the women who worked in the salon."I heard it was a domestic – whether it's a husband or partner, I don't know," he said. "He came in and apparently fired indiscriminately, hitting several people."Cockeram said the shop had been badly damaged by the gunfire and said it was lucky people had not been more seriously injured. "From what I have heard, the person he was after worked in the shop. And obviously he hit other people in there as well."The shop is obliterated apparently. It's amazing nobody died. I've heard some of them are in surgery at the moment."The salon is predominantly a more senior sort of hairdresser's salon … They would have been extremely frightened." Cockeram added that the area was usually quiet."It's quite sad something like that has happened because it's in an area that we have no problems at all, but obviously these domestic incidents can happen anywhere."The injured women were taken to Royal Gwent hospital. A spokesman said: "We are working closely with Gwent police on the incident and we will give an update later."