The Manchester City footballer Joey Barton appealed to his brother yesterday to give himself up to police investigating the racially motivated murder of the black teenager Anthony Walker.In a statement, the 22-year-old midfielder said the horrific killing "has shocked the country". Anthony, 18, was murdered in a Liverpool park after he and Marcus Binns, his cousin, were subjected to racist abuse as they walked Anthony's girlfriend, Louise, to a bus stop on Friday night. The trio were so shaken by the abuse that they walked to the next bus stop, but were followed to McGoldrick Park in Huyton, where Anthony was assaulted. Marcus and Louise ran to get help. Anthony was found slumped on the ground with an axe embedded in his head. "Those responsible for the senseless death of a kind, decent and caring young man must be brought to justice," the footballer said. "My sincere condolences go out to Anthony's family during this terrible time," he said. "My side of the Barton family are sickened by his death. Although Michael and I were not brought up together, I urge him now to come forward and give himself up to the police and help them with their investigation. "Michael, if you have any information about what happened you have to tell the police. You must do this for the Walker family so they can mourn Anthony and ... because you know it's right." Merseyside police are liaising with Interpol to trace Michael Barton, 18, and his cousin Paul Taylor, 20. It is believed they have made for Amsterdam or Spain. Officers said they were pleased by the cooperation they had received from the footballer. Last month Barton was fined £120,000 - eight weeks' wages - after a late-night brawl during a pre-season tour of the Far East. A 26-year-old man is being questioned by police and two teenagers, aged 17 and 18, and a 29-year-old have been released on police bail. Anthony's sister, Dominique Walker, offered a message of forgiveness. She said "we have to forgive" the gang who used an axe to kill her brother. Quoting from the Bible, she said: "'Seventy times seven we have to forgive' - that's what Jesus said. So we have to, we have to forgive. The only thing left now is to catch them." As the investigation intensified, tributes continued to pour in for Anthony. A book of condolence was opened at his church and flags were flown at half mast. Within an hour of the book being opened, more than 50 people had signed it. Anthony, who had ambitions to become a lawyer, had worshipped at the Grace Family church in Aigburth for most of his life. He enjoyed playing basketball and rapping. Pastor Diana Stacey, who leads the church, said: "The response of the public is a great comfort to the family." Hundreds of people gathered to remember Anthony at a vigil at St George's Hall in Liverpool city centre early yesterday evening. In her first public statement, his mother, Gee, appealed for anyone with information about her son's murder to contact the police. She thanked people for their support, saying: "When I look at the sea of faces, so many close friends, people I know, I was so overwhelmed I was not sorry that I came here. I am receiving letters from people I don't even know-from America, from Canada, phone calls from Ireland, you name it and letters of condolence." When she apologised for wearing sunglasses because of her swollen eyes, the 800-strong crowd broke into applause.