Legislation to tackle domestic violence will be introduced this autumn, the home secretary, David Blunkett, promised yesterday.The package will for the first time give police the power of arrest in cases of common assault, make criminal penalties available for those who breach court orders, and create a limited national register of those orders. Victims will also be granted anonymity if fear of identification deters them from giving evidence. But a Home Office consultation paper published yesterday makes clear that several proposals which had been strongly backed by the solicitor general, Harriet Harman, are unlikely to be in the legislation when it is published later this year. They include changes to the defences of provocation, self defence and diminished responsibility in murder cases, and plans for a national register of domestic violence offenders. There was a broad welcome for the package when it was announced in the Commons yesterday, with MPs from all parties expressing a strong commitment to tackle a problem which had often been regarded as taboo. "One woman in four will experience domestic violence in their lifetime. Every single minute of every day, a domestic violence assault is reported to the police. It can occur irrespective of background or circumstances, race or gender, but it is predominantly women who suffer," said Mr Blunkett. "We are determined to do more to tackle this evil crime which devastates families and ruins lives. Domestic violence is often a hidden crime, which victims suffer in silence and isolation." The decision to make common assault an arrestable offence is designed to ensure that the police adopt a "pro-arrest policy" when they respond to a domestic violence call. This will allow the police to find and arrest the offender if, as is not uncommon, he has already left the scene by the time they get there. The register of civil orders will allow the police to check for outstanding orders against an alleged offender when they respond to a call. But it has been decided to ask the Law Commission to report on proposed changes to the defence of provocation in murder cases. It has been asked to report by spring 2004, leaving open the question of whether it will be in time for next year's legislation. Responding to the proposals, the Tory's shadow minister for women, Caroline Spelman, warned: "The government needs to be careful not to introduce unenforceable legislation in an area where lives need to be saved." Sandra Gidley MP, the Liberal Democrat spokesperson on women, criticised violent partners still being permitted unsupervised access to their children in situations where a child was in potential danger. "This amounts to gambling with a child's welfare," she said. That criticism was reiterated by the NSPCC and Women's Aid charities, who said that since 1999 at least 17 children had been killed in England and Wales during contact visits. Andrew McFarlane QC, chair of the Family Law Bar Association, applauded the measures to ensure the criminal and civil justice systems worked more closely together. But the Solicitors Family Law Association insisted victims should retain the right to choose to use the civil system alone. "For many sufferers, the need for a safe home for their children will be a more pressing priority than a criminal conviction to punish the perpetrator," it said.