I never had a Christmas tree, as I don't spent that much of my time at home over Christmas. Like many people from the regions I flee London and head back to the familiarity of my parents and siblings. If I did have a tree there would be nothing under it now, following a recent break-in.Like many, but fortunately not too many people, my home has been burgled just before Christmas. It is an odd experience to describe, because being the victim of a crime is nothing like the portrayal in The Bill or on the embellished play-acting of Crime Watch; in fact, the burglary itself was a very mundane event, but a mundane event that has made me more suspicious as well as costing me almost £1,000 and a few sleepless nights.I arrived home from work at around 5.30pm and noticed the back door had been torn open with enough force to break the locks and damage the wood. Nothing in any of the rooms had been moved or disturbed. The criminals took two reasonably expensive laptop computers. My experience with the police was good, they came quickly enough considering no one was harmed and, though expensive, the experience with the emergency locksmith was pleasant and quick enough.I think this blog is simply a warning to many of us who think it cannot happen to us because, well, no logic can describe it. I took comfort in the fact I lived on the second floor in a nice area of southwest London and there is a very narrow fire escape stairway at the back. More fool me, never again, I hope. Since the burglary I've beefed up my security, purchased adequate insurance and sought out the neighbours on my street to warn as many of them as possible about it in the hope they will be more vigilant. And to prove there is some kindness in the world, one of the neighbours posted a Christmas card to me and thanked me for the neighbourly act.My thoughts go out to the hundreds, if not thousands, of families who experience this kind of crime at Christmas. There is nothing worse than having your home invaded, damaged and presents and valuables taken.But, as the card from my neighbour also proved to me, Christmas is about less materialistic things, even if we do try and outspend each other. It's about family, friends, neighbours and simple acts of kindness wherever possible. No burglar can take that away from me.