Teams of specialist rape prosecutors could be set up after an official report confirmed that fewer than one in 10 allegations of rape result in a conviction.An inquiry by the crown prosecution service inspectorate, which monitors the work of the CPS, found criminal proceedings were launched in only 15% of cases where an allegation was made to police. Only 60% of trials ended in a conviction. The report, carried out jointly with the inspectorate of constabulary, is to be published next week. It will identify several reasons for these figures, including the difficulties of proving lack of consent in "date rape" cases. It will recommend that every CPS office or region has access to a prosecutor with specialist knowledge of rape cases. Not every case would have to be prosecuted by an expert. An increase in the number of prosecutions where the accused and the complainant know each other has been linked to the fall in convictions. In 1985, 24% of rape allegations ended in convictions. Since then, the proportion of all recorded cases categorised as "stranger" rapes has fallen from 30% to 12% and there has been an increased proportion of allegations of "acquaintance rape". The report is expected to call for improved training of police when questioning rape complainants, and improved training of police forensic medical examiners. Crown prosecutors will be expected to raise standards of presentation in court, making sure that the complainant is treated more sensitively and is better informed about what is happening in court. Sandra McNeill, a spokeswoman for the Rape Crisis Federation in England and Wales, said: "Rape cases should not just be given out at random. "The defence have specialists in rape cases and it's time the prosecution did. Complainants say to us that they would welcome the chance to meet the prosecutor beforehand so they can be sure they know the story, and know what questions to ask. People think that you give your story and he gives his, but that's not the case, you can only answer the questions you've been asked. I've met rape complainants who've not been asked the questions to get their story across. They also want to meet in advance because they feel there's a chance [the prosecutor] might care." Recorded rape offences against women in England and Wales rose by 1.5% to 7,929 in the year to March 2001. Rapes against men rose by 11% to 664. The government wants to strengthen the law to tackle the low conviction rate. Ministers propose to set the prosecution the lower test of proving that the victim had not given their "voluntary and genuine agreement" rather than having to prove the victim did not consent. The law will list examples where consent is not present. They include where a person was asleep or too affected by alcohol or drugs to give "voluntary and genuine agreement". But planned changes in the law on rape will not see the introduction of a lesser offence of "date rape".