Wrexham is a tough place. The border town in north Wales is not quite the Wild West it used to be 20 years ago, when drunken brawls on a Friday and Saturday night were a way of life. But people still prefer to sort out problems in their own way.Take Susan Ryan and her daughter Emma. On millennium eve another of Susan's daughters, Jessica, was feeling ill and her mood swings were the talk of a party at their home in Glan Gors. At one point Jessica started to cry. Then she became violent. Her father restrained her by sitting on her. In the pandemonium Mrs Ryan, 42, discovered she had been given some "smack" to "celebrate" 2000 by a drug addict who lived close by. Mrs Ryan and Emma, 18, went to the addict's house. They had words with the woman. Then they kicked and punched her. They forced her to kneel and ordered her to say "I am scum, I am scum." When the beating was over, Mrs Ryan called the police. In March she and Emma pleaded guilty to causing actual bodily harm. Magistrates were sympathetic, saying the women had been severely provoked. They were sentenced to 80 and 60 hours' community service respectively. Wrexham has overcome challenges before. The town could have been damaged beyond repair by the closure of coal mines, breweries and steel works in the 1970s and 80s, but it got on with the business of survival and reinvented itself. Today it faces different challenges. One is drugs.  Vulnerable to crime  The curse of many inner cities has started to corrode this and many other provincial towns. Wrexham is vulnerable to organised crime because the police and the people are unsure how to defend themselves. The dealers who speed down the M53 from Liverpool and the M56 from Manchester know it. They regard Wrexham's two council estates, Caia Park and Plas Madoc, as virgin territory. They have brought with them what one local councillor calls "a poverty of expectation, and a sense of overwhelming despair". Heroin is cheaper in Wrexham than almost anywhere else in the country. Children aged seven have been caught smoking cannabis. Wrexham's coroner warned recently that one person overdoses on methadone every month. And where there are drug dealers, there are loan sharks. Both carry guns. It would be unfair to exaggerate the problem. Wrexham is not overrun by junkies and in recent years the police have managed to cut crime on limited resources. But drugs are a menace and they will not go away. "We know it's going on, but we're not quite sure how bad it is," said one officer. "At least we could see the drunks when they were fighting." Wrexham is the largest town in north Wales, with a population of 125,000. It can be dated to the 12th century and during the civil war it supported the royalists, who were defeated by the roundheads at the battle of Rowton Moor outside Chester in 1645. Wrexham's most famous son is George Jeffreys, who became lord chief justice in 1683. He was better known as Hanging Judge Jeffreys, or the Blood Judge, a nickname earned for the brutal way in which he conducted the trials of supporters of James Scott, Duke of Monmouth, who had plotted to overthrow James II. In recent years, Wrexham's claims to notoriety have rested with the local football club's occasional charges in the FA Cup, and the child abuse scandal at the Bryn Estyn children's home. Wrexham is surrounded by wonderful Denbighshire hills to the west and some of the smarter parts of Shropshire to the east. But the town has neither beauty nor charm. There is hostility to England, but more to affluent south Wales, particularly Cardiff. In some ways, this resentment is hard to fathom. When Wrexham lost its traditional industries, it turned to food manufacturers. It is now a prosperous town, with major employers like Kellogg's and Cadbury's. Although Wrexham has a reputation for being rough, the crime figures tell a different story. There has not been a murder in Wrexham for two years. The three attempted murders were "domestics" and solved easily. The town has 183 police officers who deal with most of the 22,000 incidents reported in the division, which covers the eastern part of north Wales. Crime seems to be falling. There were 3,700 crimes reported in April and May last year, 3,500 this year.Violent crime has dropped by 35% over the course of the year, the number of burglaries has fallen slightly and detection rates for crime overall have risen.  CCTV success  Some of the town's anti-crime initiatives have proved a great success. Four years ago Wrexham county borough council spent £250,000 setting up CCTV cameras around the town centre to deter vandals, thieves and drunks. The cameras had an immediate impact, so the council put up more. There are now 40 cameras watching the shopping parades, two others monitor the car parks on the Plas Madoc estate, and four could soon be mounted in Caia Park. Security guards at the major stores are equipped with a "Shoplink" radio, which keeps them in touch with officers in the CCTV control room. They tip each other off if troublemakers or thieves are on the prowl. A similar scheme links Wrexham's pubs and clubs. "We've always had trouble in the town centre at turfing out time," said Detective Chief Inspector Chris Corcoran, 47. "Since we've had the cameras, we've made more arrests. And because we had people caught on film, we got more convictions. The cameras cut out the need for lengthy investigations. With this system, you need one officer and the CCTV footage to get a guilty plea. They have been a tremendous success." Other issues which worry city forces hardly register in Wrexham. There have been only two reported racial incidents in the past 12 months. The town is 99% white and the force has struggled to recruit any officers from ethnic minorities. "We want to recruit our officers locally, but we don't have any racial communities to recruit from," said Mr Corcoran. "If we recruit from elsewhere, we could end up isolating them." A more pressing problem is the need to recruit women, and officers who can speak Welsh. There has been a revival of the language in recent years and 15% of the town is bilingual. Like many of his generation, Mr Corcoran is not, but his children are taught Welsh at school. The Caia estate, where he grew up, requires his closest attention. It is a sprawl of 3,000 terraced homes on the outskirts of the town. It had a reputation as one of the roughest places in Wales. One local politician, who asked not to be named, said: "Twenty years ago, Caia was like the Wild West. Juvenile crime was out of control. I think the council would have liked to fence it off and throw food in once a week." Instead, the council supported a community project called The Venture. This began as an adventure playground for children, but has expanded over the past 22 years to offer services like a homework club and outreach work. The playground, built by children on the estate, is still the heart of the scheme. Thanks to The Venture, crime on Caia fell spectacularly during the 1980s and early 90s, but then the atmosphere began to change. "There had always been some drugs on the estate - glue-sniffing and things like that," said Malcolm King, manager of The Venture.  Liverpool dealers  "But we noticed harder drugs were being sold here seven or eight years ago. It seems the dealers in Liverpool were looking for new markets, and they came to Wrexham. The drugs flooded in. The heroin addicts were easy to spot _ shrivelled up and gaunt-eyed." He added: "Drugs have eaten their way into parts of the estate and we have struggled to keep cohesion. Once we've lost a child to drugs, it is very hard to get them back. I resent that. There are good kids on the Caia. They should have a chance in life." The police are unsure how big the problem has become. There are no statistics on drug dealing. The evidence comes from anecdotes and from the number of addicts - one a month - who end up in the morgue. There have also been rumours that the police use of informers led to a crackdown on some dealers, while others were left to flourish. Mr Corcoran denies there has been any trade off, but confirmed one officer in the drugs squad is suspended and under investigation. "The drugs problem is something we can't really tackle on our own," said one detective. The feeling, though, is that city police forces and agencies like the national crime squad are not particularly interested in a backwater like Wrexham. "One imagines they have bigger fish to fry," said the officer. WrexhamPopulation:  125,200 Number of police:  183 officers Reported crimes across eastern division of North Wales police last year: 22,000 Detection rate for division:  33%