When John Ronald Darwin walked into a West End police station in London on the evening of December 1 last year, claiming to be suffering from amnesia, few people could have imagined the web of deceit that was about to unravel around him."I think I may be a missing person," was reportedly one of the first things he told officers. John Darwin and his wife Anne, 56, a former doctor's receptionist, were retired and running a seafront B&B in Seaton Carew near Hartlepool when she reported him missing on March 21 2002. John Darwin, who had worked as a teacher before joining the prison service, had apparently disappeared into the North Sea near the couple's home in a canoe called Orca. What may have surprised his would-be rescuers was that the sea that day was as smooth as a millpond. He had in fact, been dropped off at Durham station by his wife as the first part of an elaborate death faking plan. Before the deception started, John and Anne Darwin had appeared happy and wealthy, at least superficially, having married in 1973 and built up a portfolio of property and money generating schemes including snail breeding and making garden gnomes. Yet in reality the couple had become overwhelmed by debt. After a hike in payments on a £245,000 mortgage, in March 2002 they were turned down for a £20,000 bank loan - just six days before John Darwin apparently disappeared into the sea.Soon after turning up in London more than five years later, he released a statement in which he claimed he had never intended to defraud anyone, or any business. "The last clear thing I remember before any of this is a holiday in Norway in the year 2000," his statement read. "I have hazy recollections of being in a kayak, but I cannot remember the accident or anything leading up to it all. It is therefore true to say that I do have some form of amnesia."However, the full scale of the deception was quickly revealed by police and media inquiries. Anne Darwin initially maintained her complete innocence, but this crumbled when a photograph emerged of her and her husband smiling happily with an estate agent in Panama. She confessed to reporters that she knew all along that he was alive, adding tearfully that her sons were going to hate her and that they would never forgive her. The photograph was dated July 14 2006; proving she knew he was alive. She had also communicated with him using the email account john-jones-1850@yahoo.co.uk.Last week, Anne Darwin's trial started at Teesside crown court where she stood accused of six charges of deception and nine of money laundering. She put forward an unusual defence of marital coercion - claiming her husband had forced her to go along with the plan. But she was, the prosecution claimed, no shrinking violet and it was a true criminal partnership.The couple's sons, Mark and Anthony, were forced to give evidence against their mother. They have been estranged from their parents since the full scale of the deception was revealed. In the witness box, neither of the sons looked at their mother, weeping in the dock, as they gave evidence from across the court.After John Darwin disappeared, a large-scale rescue operation was launched at a cost of more than £100,000. Six weeks later, his broken canoe washed up on the shore and part of the paddle was later found. For the intervening five-and-a-half years, Anne Darwin, played the role of a grieving widow, hiding the fraud from her sons, the insurance companies who paid out on various policies, the police and the coroner. She and her unsuspecting sons attended an inquest where the coroner recorded an open verdict allowing a crucial death certificate to be issued. The coroner stated that John Darwin had "probably encountered difficulties as a result of which he died." Anne Darwin received £160,000 in insurance policies and £60,000 from the Prison Service for death in service, plus an £8,000 widow's pension.John Darwin lived rough for a spell after faking his death. For his deception to work, what he needed was a new identity, and in a move straight out of Frederick Forsyth's The Day of the Jackal, he toured cemeteries looking for possibilities. He settled on stealing the identity of baby John Jones, who was born in Sunderland in March 1950, but died less than a month later from infective enteritus. Although baby John Jones' parents are now dead, his family feel angry and upset that someone could "stoop so low" to use the birth certificate to obtain false documents. Within a month of his disappearance, John Darwin phoned his wife and asked her to pick him up and he returned to their home at 3 The Cliff. Often he would stay in one of the bedsits next door, at number four, which had access to his house via a coffin-shaped door. To disguise his identity, he grew his hair and a straggly beard, and acquired a limp. An avid reader, he joined the local library using the alias and giving his address as 3 The Cliff. So confident was he of the deception that he continued to stroll along the seafront, heavily disguised by a woolly hat. Cleveland police did investigate a sighting of John Darwin in 2005, but his wife claimed it was his cousin.In October 2003, six months after the inquest, John Darwin acquired a false passport in the name of John Jones. He flew to America in 2004 and contacted Kelly Steele, a mother of three from Kansas, whom he had met while playing online role-playing games. He persuaded her to buy a 20-acre ranch in her name using £25,000 he sent her. He told her his wife had died of cancer and he had always wanted to be a cowboy. He later demanded his money back and sent her threatening emails. Steele described him as the creepiest, oddest, most frightening man she had ever met.By December last year, the game was up. Unbeknown to him, a police investigation had begun in October after detectives obtained a judge's order to investigate Anne Darwin's bank accounts in Panama, the UK and Jersey. John Darwin was arrested at his son Anthony's home in Basingstoke, Hampshire, on December 4 and taken to Cleveland for questioning. His wife was in Panama and was tracked down by journalists. The couple's eldest son, Mark, said the news that his father had died in a tragic accident had "crushed my world". Both brothers spoke of their sense of betrayal at their parents' actions.John Darwin's elderly father, Ronald, 91, was scathing after his son's arrest. "He had ideas above his station," he said. "He had big dreams and ambitions and I sometimes think he was in too much of a hurry to make money."In March, John Darwin admitted seven charges of deception, while nine further charges of money laundering were ordered to lie on file. At a previous hearing, Anne Darwin pulled her hand away as her husband tried to squeeze it when they were in the dock. She pointedly didn't wear her wedding ring throughout her week-long trial.