We all watched London burning on the office TV on Monday night with one thought: "It couldn't happen here, could it?"As the list of cities caught up in the violence grew longer and nearer, the notable exception of Manchester was a source of pride.But during the course of Tuesday that pride grew into a sense of unease as the Twittersphere exploded in a frenzy of speculation, rumour and fiction.Some said that the huge Primark store in the city centre was ablaze. No. We had a reporter standing right outside.Others were convinced that McDonald's in Market Street had been destroyed. It was merrily serving Big Macs with no hint of any trouble.The calls from readers started to come into the newsdesk by mid-afternoon.Could we tell them how bad it was? Had the city centre been evacuated yet?Our reporters on the ground across Manchester and Salford checked out every rumour but we were at peace.At about 4pm assistant editor Sarah Lester, who runs our news operation, told me that gangs of youths were gathering in Salford Precinct and a shop window had been kicked in.The police were beginning to arrive and a confrontation was brewing.Mindful of not adding to the speculation or exacerbating the already tense situation, we held off uploading the details to the MEN website. Maybe the youngsters would clear off when faced with such large police numbers.Then, half an hour later, reporter Alice McKeegan phoned to report that youths were attacking police with bricks and stones, fires were being started and a BBC van had been turned over.It had started.Gangs of youths who had been gathering in Market Street were smashing shop windows and stealing.We launched a CoveritLive blog on our website and 12 reporters and seven photographers started to file tweets, pictures and videos from across Manchester city centre and Salford.Within an hour 17,000 people were following the feed; an hour later it topped 25,000 and they stayed with us right throughout the night. Reporters and photographers had been given instructions to keep safe. A BBC man had already been attacked and I'd rather miss something than have one of the MEN team hurt.Senior reporters who covered the Oldham riots and the riot the night the giant TV screen broke down in front of thousands of Rangers fans watching the Uefa cup final said that this was different. Terrifyingly different.The reporters regrouped to charge their mobile phones in our city centre office in darkness as the mob battered on the windows.The events unfolded with remarkable speed. A Miss Selfridge store was in flames. All the smart shops in St Anne's Square had been ransacked. Even Liam Gallagher's boutique Pretty Green had nothing left except a large poster of him.News organisations from around the world called to get a video taken by reporter Pete Bainbridge, on his Nokia N8 phone, of looters running out of a sports shops with armfuls of clothes.Production chief Paul Coates set about clearing the first seven pages and moved the deadline back to midnight as pictures started to come in of scenes of utter devastation.Photographer Sean Hansford filed a stunning picture of a riot cop standing next to a sheet of flames and we had the front-page image.The live blog was mesmerising. Every few seconds a new piece of information would appear, and across Greater Manchester the public reported what was going on in their area. A very polite "This may sound obvious but there is nothing going on in Alderley Edge," raised a laugh.And there were heartening comments thanking MEN staff for putting themselves in harm's way to bring the news.But that enjoyment was tempered with a genuine sadness at the scenes we were witnessing in cities we care about.As well as tweeting, reporters started to file stories from the scene. Veteran reporter John Scheerhout wrote: "I think to myself this is what anarchy must be like. In 18 years of reporting in the city, I have never witnessed anything like this."Reporter Paul Britton files: "The atmosphere, filled with police sirens, screams and shouting was as horrible as it was dangerous."The second edition was off-stone at 5am and, as a volunteer clean-up operation began, we lined up nine pages of coverage for our 11am edition.Sports editor Peter Spencer, who doubles as duty editor, ranks Wednesday's MEN a 10 out of 10. I have to agree.Maria McGeoghan is editor of the Manchester Evening News