A Briton accused of murdering his American wife and baby daughter allegedly searched the internet for information on how to kill and commit suicide in the days before their deaths, according to newly-released court papers in the US.Neil Entwistle also looked up escort services and other websites offering help in finding sexual partners, the search warrant documents allege. The 27-year-old will appear before a US court later this week after being arrested in London over the deaths of his wife Rachel and nine-month-old daughter Lillian.He has agreed to return to the US but remains in custody in the UK, Scotland Yard said last night. Ms Entwistle and Lillian were shot dead on January 20, a day before Mr Entwistle left the US for his parents' home in Worksop, Nottinghamshire. Their bodies were discovered in a bed at the couple's home in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. Documents released by Framingham district court claim investigators examining Mr Entwistle's computer found he carried out internet searches for information about suicide, euthanasia and "killing people with a knife" on January 16 and 17. In the same week, he allegedly went online to get the names and addresses of various escort services in the Boston and Worcester areas of Massachusetts.He also visited a website which investigators said helped subscribers find sexual partners through internet chat rooms and personal ads, according to the documents. Last week, prosecutors said they believed the unemployed computer programmer killed his wife and daughter after accumulating tens of thousands of dollars of debt. More than 200 pages of documents, including testimonies following searches of Mr Entwistle's home, car and computer, as well as lists of items found, were made public yesterday. They also provided more information about the telephone conversation police in Massachusetts had with Mr Entwistle three days after the murders, when he was in Worksop. He allegedly told state trooper Robert Manning that, on the day his wife and daughter died, he woke up around 7am and fed his daughter before leaving the house to carry out some errands. When he returned at around 11am, he said, he checked the baby's room. After he was unable to find her, he went into the master bedroom, where he discovered his wife partially covered with a duvet. "Neil said that he pulled down the comforter [duvet], saw his wife was pale, saw blood on the baby and that the baby had been shot, and they were dead," the officer is quoted as saying. "Neil said he pulled the covers back over his wife and daughter, went downstairs, grabbed [a] knife from the kitchen and considered killing himself, but then put it down because it would hurt too much, and then decided to drive to Carver and tell his inlaws what had happened since he had no number to call them." Mr Entwistle allegedly told the police officer he drove to Carver to get a gun belonging to his father-in-law, Joseph Matterazzo, to kill himself, but found no one at home. Prosecutors last week said they believed Mr Entwistle used a .22-calibre handgun owned by Mr Matterazzo to kill Ms Entwistle and Lillian. They allege he drove around 50 miles to Carver to return the gun while no one was there. According to the police affidavit released last week, keys to the Matterazzo home were found locked inside Mr Entwistle's BMW at Logan international airport in Boston. Mr Entwistle is said to have told Mr Manning that, after leaving Carver, he drove to the airport, where he walked around for a while before leaving to drive back to Hopkinton. According to the documents, he then changed his mind and returned to the airport before boarding a flight to England. "Neil said he wanted to go home to be with his parents," Mr Manning wrote.On Friday Mr Entwistle's lawyer, Judith Seddon, said her client wished to return to Massachusetts as swiftly as possible. Asked whether he was denying killing his wife and daughter, Ms Seddon said she had no further comment.