Police have arrested a 28-year-old man on suspicion of murder after a woman was stabbed to death in a taxi at Northfield, Birmingham.The man was found in the garden of a house on Allens Farm in south Birmingham just after 6pm, a short time after police issued a photograph of a man wanted in connection with the offence. He has now been taken to a police station in the West Midlands.The victim, believed to be a 22-year-old from the local area, died after receiving multiple stab wounds from her fellow passenger. It is thought the pair were in a relationship.West Midlands police received a 999 call at 8am from the driver of the Peugeot taxi after the incident at the junction of Dimsdale Road and Hoggs Lane, in a residential area. Despite the efforts of the first officers and paramedics to reach the scene, the woman died.Matthew Connelly said he saw paramedics trying to revive the stabbed woman for about 30 minutes. He said: "I looked out of my window, the police were on the scene and paramedics; the taxi driver looked really shook up, he was chain smoking the whole time."The West Midlands Ambulance Service said: "The woman was in traumatic cardiac arrest with multiple stab wounds. Emergency treatment was immediately carried out including specialist advanced life support techniques. Unfortunately … nothing could be done to save the woman and she was confirmed dead at the scene."Det Chief Inspector Wayne Jones said: "Officers have sealed off the scene of this incident, and are making significant enquiries in the local area as we search for the man who ran from the scene."We believe that the victim and the suspect are known to one another and one line of inquiry is that this incident is domestic-related. The suspect we are searching for is described as a mixed-race Asian man, around 5ft 8in tall, in his 20s, with short black hair. He was wearing a dark jacket."We urge anyone who witnessed the incident or who has seen this man, to come forward and contact police."A half-mile police cordon has been erected around the scene in Northfield as officers carry out a fingertip search of the area. Jennifer Pickering, 37, who lives on nearby Dimsdale Road, said: "We feel like prisoners in our own home … we certainly won't be leaving the house until this man is caught."Bradley Swankins, 26, who lives on the next street, said: "People are terrified, my aunt has locked herself in her house and won't come out."Superintendent Andy Shipman, from Birmingham South police, said: "Violent crime is very rare in south Birmingham and we hope local people can be reassured that this is being treated as an isolated incident between two people, at this stage of the investigation."It was later reported that the couple were travelling in a taxi owned by cab firm 24/7 Radio Cars in Northfield. A taxi driver said: "The woman was young and lived locally. She was a regular customer of 24/7 Radio Cars."Anyone with information should call Force CID in Birmingham by dialling 101 or speak to Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.