An emotional phone conversation between Maxine Carr and Ian Huntley's mother, secretly taped while the former classroom assistant was on remand in prison, was played to the jury yesterday.Ms Carr admitted that Mr Huntley had told her Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman had been in their house on the day they disappeared. She sobbed as she told Lynda Huntley: "I just don't understand why. Why this had to happen. Why." Ms Carr, 26, also said: "I really need Ian." The jury was told that the conversation took place two months after the couple were arrested. Ms Carr, accused of lying to protect Mr Huntley, knowing he was responsible for the deaths of Holly and Jessica, had called Mrs Huntley from Holloway . The two spoke of what Mr Huntley had told Ms Carr on the afternoon after the girls disappeared. Ms Carr told Mrs Huntley: He [Mr Huntley] said to me... there were some kids had gone missing... and he told me who they were... and he said, but the thing is, Maxine, they came into the house." Mrs Huntley replied: "They came into the house!" Ms Carr: "Yeah... I told my solicitor that, but my solicitor has told me not to say anything." Mrs Huntley assured Ms Carr that she would not tell anyone what she had said. Ms Carr continued: "One of them had a nose bleed apparently. And then they left - as far as that's what he told me." Mrs Huntley said she had asked her son if the girls had been in his house. She said he told her he could not remember. Mrs Huntley told Ms Carr: "It's funny, Maxine, because I got the distinct impression... he could remember." Later they discussed Mr Huntley: Ms Carr: I don't know what to think Lynda. H: You said he was normal when... C: He was so normal. Something's wrong. H: Something's very wrong darling, we know there is, but we just don't know what. C: Something, something happened. And I don't know what's happened. Extracts of a second secretly recorded conversation 12 days later were read to the court. Mrs Huntley began by telling Ms Carr that her son had slammed the phone down on her. Asked why, she replied: "Because I've got to tell the police everything." Ms Carr replied: "Bloody hell."