Police forces should consider using specially trained attack dogs to disable suspects who are threatening officers with knives or guns, the police complaints authority said yesterday.Ordinarily, police dogs are taught to chase offenders and to bark at them once they have been caught and stopped, but "passive attack dogs" are trained to launch themselves at suspects who are not moving, biting the arm that is carrying the weapon. Merseyside police has trained 11 passive attack dogs as an alternative to using plastic baton rounds or firearms. Another force, north Wales, is also considering deploying them, the PCA said. Wendy Towers, the PCA deputy chairman, said: "Faced with a suspect carrying a pointed weapon or a gun, a normal police dog will only sit and bark. Passive attack dogs are trained to attack someone who is standing still and facing them." Ms Towers admitted that this was "obviously more dangerous for the dog", but said that the safety of officers was paramount. She said that Merseyside police had tried to use passive attack dogs last July when Andrew Kernan, 37, brandished a samurai sword above his head on a street in Wavertree, Liverpool. But the dogs did not reach the scene in time and Kernan, a schizophrenic who was dressed in his pyjamas, was shot dead. Merseyside police said yesterday that 11 of its 38 German shepherd dogs had been trained in passive attack techniques. "Police dogs know what to do when someone runs away, but they don't know what to do when someone is standing still in front of them carrying a weapon," said a spokeswoman. "Our firearms containment dogs have not been deployed yet, but they will be used against armed offenders. They are trained to put the suspect off balance long enough for officers to take away a weapon and get handcuffs on." Sgt John Webb, head of Merseyside's dog training unit, said that only a handful of dogs had the potential for such training. The National Canine Defence League, Britain's largest dog welfare charity, expressed dismay that dogs were being trained for use in such dangerous circumstances. It demanded that police forces provide dogs with bullet proof coats. "We are concerned that police forces will be training dogs to attack armed criminals because of the high risk of injury. "We would expect the police to provide the dogs with the same degree of protection as they have themselves." The RSPCA said it also had concerns over the passive attack tactic, but believed that most offenders were brought to their senses when confronted by a snarling dog. The PCA raised the issue of passive attack dogs when it launched its annual report yesterday. The authority said that forces must continue to search for "non-lethal" options so that firearms are only used in certain, extreme circumstances. Most forces have baton guns, but the PCA believes that some are reluctant to use them. It reserved special criticism for the Metropolitan police, which has yet to deploy baton guns because of concerns within the force's overseeing authority. "How would the authority justify the shooting of somebody when the less-lethal alternative was languishing in the armoury," said the PCA chairman, Sir Alistair Graham.