The mother of Stephen Lawrence, whose racially motivated murder became a cause célèbre, has launched a damning attack on Britain's education system, in which she accuses white teachers of failing to tackle racism in schools and argues that there has been little improvement in race relations since the Sixties.Doreen Lawrence's comments, made in a new book, are likely to spark a national debate on the causes of racism in Britain's schools. Since her son's death in 1993 she has become an increasingly vocal and respected campaigner on race issues whose views are sought by politicians and education experts. Lawrence and her former husband, Neville, led a campaign calling for an investigation into police inaction and discriminatory behaviour into the murder of their son. The campaign led to the publication of the Macpherson report in 1999, which called for wide-ranging reforms aimed at tackling institutionalised racism in the public services. Now, Doreen Lawrence, who regularly visits schools and has worked as a learning mentor, says little has changed in the education system since the Sixties. The claim is likely to reinforce fears that sections of British youth are becoming increasingly polarised along racial lines, a trend that has been blamed for helping to perpetuate racism. In an introduction to Supporting Black Pupils and Parents, she writes: 'The problems in our schools are not new for black pupils' parents because they too had the same experiences when they faced racism and discrimination as pupils. There have been few changes since the early 1960s... when black children were made educationally subnormal by racism and the collective failure of the education system.' Lawrence writes that black pupils face 'soul-destroying' barriers on a daily basis which 'sometimes can seem to come from the teachers themselves. The negativity of many white teachers leads the way and can impact on black children as a whole and that in turn leads to underachieving.' However, she calls on black parents to do more for their children. 'In order for black children to gain access to all levels of the British workforce, parents and members of the black community must make it their duty to play an active part in their children's education.' The author of the book, Dr Lorna Cork, an education adviser in Birmingham who has set up a series of organisations to help black parents support their children's learning, said her research painted a 'somewhat bleak picture' of relations between schools and black parents. Black parents, Cork argues, feel teachers indulge in racial stereotyping and have a tendency to talk to black parents about their children's behaviour rather than their schoolwork. Her research showed there was no single solution to the problem. 'The study recognises that the job we are asking the teacher to do is a highly complex and demanding one. 'Motivating and educating young people across the cultural and socio-economic spectrum, preparing them to be principled and responsible citizens of a diverse society, cannot be attained by one party alone,' Cork said. 'Cultural co-operation between parents, school and local communities is a difficult but very necessary route to achieving these goals.' jamie.doward@observer.co.uk