Murder squad detectives suspect a mass brawl at an 18th birthday sparked a fatal stabbing and shooting.Daniel Thompson-Graham, 18, was repeatedly stabbed near East Dulwich railway station in south London in the early hours of Saturday morning. He was one of dozens of young men thrown out of nearby Dulwich Hamlet Football Club after a young woman's birthday celebration descended into violence. A second teenager, aged 14, was shot in the leg in the car park of a nearby supermarket.A Metropolitan police spokesman said a 13-year-old boy was arrested today on suspicion of attempted murder over the shooting.One witness said Thompson-Graham was chased by up to 15 young men before he was fatally attacked near Grove Vale library, 300m from the football club. He said: "Shots were fired in the car park of Sainsbury's. There was a chase down Dog Kennel Hill and the gang caught up with him near the library."Witnesses said up to 70 young men were thrown out of the clubhouse at Dulwich Hamlet FC in Edgar Kail Way, off Dog Kennel Hill, after a fight broke out. The party was shut down early.Police and paramedics arrived shortly after midnight and found Thompson-Graham, of Peckham Rye, with stab wounds. He was taken to King's College hospital in Camberwell but died two hours later.The 14-year-old boy arrived at the same hospital with a gunshot wound shortly after midnight. He remains in hospital in a stable condition.Another eyewitness said police stopped a bus in nearby Lordship Lane where a wounded man got off and was put in an ambulance.Detectives from the Met's homicide and serious crime unit suspect the two attacks are linked.Non-league Dulwich Hamlet postponed their clash with Eastbourne Town as the police investigation continued on Saturday.Tributes were paid online to Thompson-Graham today. One message on Twitter said: "RIP Daniel! My heart skipped a beat when I found out it was you!" Another added: "London is a joke."Writing on an East Dulwich internet forum, one member of staff at Dulwich Hamlet defended the club: "The party at Dulwich Hamlet was an 18th party, and everyone buying a drink was ID'd. No matter where it was held or where in London, is not the point and to try to pinpoint blame on a venue, or otherwise in these circumstances is very wrong. Dulwich Hamlet is a football club, and also a health and social club, which hosts many a party, with great events and evenings and it is just so, so sad a tragic event occurred after this party."Thompson-Graham was the fourth teenager murdered in London this month.• This article was amended on 31 January 2010 to remove personal details at the request of the individual