A financial adviser who stole over £2m from his clients to feed an online gambling addiction was last night facing a substantial jail sentence after pleading guilty to theft, false accounting and forgery.Philip Smith, 48, exploited his reputation as a trusted investment expert to con people into parting with their cash and credit cards. His victims included a man with severe learning disabilities, a chronically ill woman and even a member of his own family.Smith, of Bowdon, Cheshire, used the money to fund an online gambling habit and an opulent lifestyle. When arrested police said he was living in a house worth £550,000, drove a BMW and had a £170,000 villa in Spain. He also had a chalet in Porthmadog in north Wales.He was due to stand trial at Manchester crown court yesterday but pleaded guilty to theft, money laundering, false accounting and forgery worth £2.3m. He admitted stealing £1.75m and laundering £600,000. Police said they believe he had lost about £900,000 gambling.David Friesner, prosecuting, told the court: "It does not appear that there are hidden assets in this case. Some of it was spent, some of it was returned to other victims, but a lot of it was gambled away."At least 51 people were targeted, some of whom had been clients and friends for 20 years, while others had been introduced to him more recently by friends.Smith had been a successful financial adviser, one of the highest earners at the Lloyds TSB branch in Stockport. In 1990 he left the bank and started his own financial consultancy, recruiting new customers through recommendations and taking some of the bank's customers with him. He eventually built up a network of 270 clients with investments of £6m. He would often pay for clients to visit him in Spain and other foreign destinations.However, police believe faltering investment values and gambling losses may have driven Smith to start stealing money. He tried to hide the losses by gambling large sums on stock market futures. He also started using his clients' money to place huge bets with internet and telephone bookmakers.His victims included Dylis Booth and her daughter Jeanette, who lost a combined £47,000. Ms Booth, 65, was introduced to Smith by a solicitor in 1987. She asked him to help one of her aunts with her investments and after years of what Ms Booth described as "very good" work she invested £34,000 from an inheritance with him in 1993 and £20,000 from the sale of a house a year later."He went out of his way to help [my aunt], he did not con her out of any money. She died in 1992 and he even came to her funeral," Ms Booth said. "But when the stock market started to go down, he said he wanted to move it to a company in Luxembourg, because I would probably get a better return."Ms Booth said she had no reason to be suspicious, even when he asked her to use her credit card because "he was a bit short"."The payments were showing up on the credit card statements I received every month under the name Betfair. I assumed that was an air company, meaning something like better airfares ... he was such a good liar." She only became suspicious three months before his arrest when he had failed to pay off the credit. But by then Smith had borrowed another credit card from Ms Booth, conning her of £40,000. He also stole £7,000 from her ill daughter, who was living on incapacity benefits. Another victim included a 36-year-old man with severe learning disabilities.Smith was eventually caught in February last year after a building society alerted police to suspicious activities on a bank account. He had cashed in an investment policy belonging to an 88-year-old widow and withdrawn almost all of it - some £150,000 - at once.Detective Constable John Ashington from Greater Manchester Police, said: "He has left not only financial chaos and devastation in his wake, but also dozens of decent and hard-working people feeling shocked, shattered, betrayed and angry."Smith will be sentenced in Manchester on October 10.