A couple discovered the remains of their daughter-in-law in a freezer after breaking into their son's home, police revealed last night.Paul Dalton's horrified parents called the police after finding the dismembered body of his wife, Tae Hui, at their £500,000 house in Kingston-upon-Thames, Surrey. Police hunting for Mr Dalton, 33, have alerted all ports and advised members of the public not to approach him. Detective Chief Inspector Nick Ephgrave, who is leading the investigation, said: "Mr Dalton, the suspect's father, attended this address with his wife late on Tuesday evening trying to find Paul. "They got in and made a search of the house, which appeared to be relatively clear of effects." "During the search they opened the chest freezer in the kitchen and found a series of packages. They looked and realised what they had discovered was a dismembered body." "I can only speculate how that must have felt, but it was clearly a very shocking event." Mr Dalton, who ran a language school with his 36-year-old Korean wife, contacted his mother on Monday, but has not been in touch since then. His red VW Golf car has been found outside an address in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey. Appealing directly to Mr Dalton, Det Chf Insp Ephgrave said: "I would say to Paul it is in his own best interest to come and speak to us. It is clear that something terrible happened here, we don't know what your involvement was but we need to find out. If you do decide to come forward, you will be treated quite properly." He said that the death of Mrs Dalton could have been "a terrible, terrible accident", but that he needed Mr Dalton to come forward to get to the truth. He said that it was difficult to determine when Mrs Dalton had died because her body had been kept in the freezer. It is thought she was last seen on bank holiday Monday, May 31. A police cordon was placed outside the couple's detached Victorian house close to the river Thames. Detectives were awaiting the results of a postmortem examination at Kingston mortuary while forensic experts combed the house. Mr Dalton is believed to have married Tae Hui seven years ago. They have a six-year-old daughter, who was being looked after elsewhere yesterday. Neighbours said they had watched Mr Dalton load his car. One said: "We saw him going back and forth across the road and apparently he was filling his car up." Some said they believed Mrs Dalton had visited Korea, where she was born, over the school half-term holiday. One neighbour described the couple as quiet but polite: "As far as I am concerned they were the nicest neighbours we've had." One woman, a university student, described her horror at what had happened. She said: "The whole road was cordoned off and I saw a policewoman looking really distraught. "It must have been awful, quite horrific, and it's not something you expect to happen in a street like this." There was a padlock on the door and no answer at the couple's language school in Kingston last night. A sign on the door said: "Students, we are sorry, but we can't give you any information until Monday." Mr Dalton is described as white, 6ft tall, slim to medium build with blue/grey eyes and a mole on the front left side of his neck. He has short, dark-brown, wavy hair which is swept back with a parting on the left.