A Catholic teenager has told how he sought refuge in a wheelie bin during a near-fatal attack by a loyalist sectarian gang on the set of a movie shoot in Belfast.James Turley, 18, said his attackers thought he was dead after kicking and stamping on him in the loyalist Village area of south Belfast last week.He told the Belfast newspaper the Irish News that while semi-conscious inside the wheelie bin he could hear one of his attackers say: "That's enough. I think he's dead."Turley's ordeal began after he was spotted in a car just after finishing filming a scene for the film The Good Man starring the former star of the Channel 4 hit series Queer as Folk Aidan Gillen.A gang of loyalists surrounded the car, pulling off a wing mirror and smashing a window. When Turley was dragged out of the car he tried to escape and hide in a nearby house. At one stage, with the mob in pursuit, Turley said he called on the family inside the house: "Please help me. They're going to kill me."He told the Irish News he could hear one of the chasing gang, shouting: "There's a Taig in there."He added: "They all just came in and started beating me." No one in the house came to his help, he said.He said. "They stamped on my head and everywhere. The woman [the householder] said: 'Get him out of my garden' and they dragged me out into the alley."They just started beating me again. They put me in a bin and were pushing me somewhere. I didn't know where I was going … when I got put in the bin I thought that was it. I think they realised they couldn't beat me when I was in the bin. They kicked or pushed it over and dragged me out of it."The teenager said at one point he was knocked out, but "I started to come around and then I heard them saying: 'That's enough. I think he's dead'".Later he managed to flag down a passing motorist who drove him to the nearby Royal Victoria hospital across the M1 motorway. His mother, Donna, whose husband Frank was murdered in 1998, said she thought her son had been killed. She went to his bedside last Friday.She said: "It's like deja vu. I can't remember getting to the hospital. I just kept thinking: 'Please, please, just let him hang on for me.'"