A detective with alleged corrupt links to the gangster father of one of the Stephen Lawrence murder suspects has been allowed to retire from the Metropolitan police and keep his pension.Sir William Macpherson's report expressed dismay that Detective Constable David Coles continued as a serving officer despite having unauthorised meetings "in the most suspicious circumstances" with Clifford Norris. Norris was later jailed for drug smuggling, and his son, David, was one of the five prime suspects in the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence.The Guardian has learned that Mr Coles, at the centre of corruption allegations at the inquiry, retired on medical grounds on February 10. He had been on sick leave since June 1998, and will be entitled to a police pension, believed to be up to £20,000 a year. The Stephen Lawrence inquiry heard that undercover officers from customs and excise had seen Mr Coles meeting Clifford Norris three times in 1988 in the Tiger's Head public house in Chislehurst, south-east London. Customs officers observed packages being exchanged, and at one stage Mr Coles produced a calculator and was seen making notes. After the third meeting, Norris, the target of a major customs operation, went on the run before he could be arrested. Mr Coles was a sergeant in the flying squad at the time. Disciplinary charges were filed against him over an unrelated incident and a hearing recommended his sacking. But on appeal that was reversed and Mr Coles was demoted to detective constable. He was warned over his meetings with Norris but allowed to continue as a serving officer. The public inquiry referred to Mr Coles as Sergeant XX. In his report Sir William wrote: "It seems to us right that we should register our concern that this aspect of Sergeant XX's association with Clifford Norris was not formally pursued and that the disciplinary penalties which were subsequently imposed appear lax, particularly since they resulted in the continued em ployment of Sergeant XX in the CID in the same area of London. "Regardless of the fact that the association was not subject to formal discipline procedures, it was plainly highly suspect." Asked at the public inquiry in June 1998 about Mr Coles's continued employment, Assistant Commissioner Ian Johnston said: "On the facts as put to me, I'm appalled that this particular individual is still working for the Metropolitan police."The public inquiry also heard that Mr Coles had been assigned to guard Duwayne Brooks, the main witness to Stephen Lawrence's murder, during the Old Bailey trial of three of the suspects. Mr Brooks said: "Yet another officer has slipped the net. I am no longer surprised." No officer criticised in the Macpherson report lost a day's pay. Paul Wilson, chairman of the National Black Police Association, said Mr Coles's departure on a police pension would be seen as a conspiracy. Mr Wilson, a serving Met officer, said: "People will read into this that the Met has something to hide. The perception of the community will be that there's a conspiracy to get this guy out with as little publicity as possible. "It is most unsatisfactory that the Lawrences were not told. They should be apprised of everything relating to the inquiry. "It leaves a bitter taste in the mouth, it really does." Scotland Yard confirmed that Mr Coles never faced a disciplinary hearing regarding his meetings with Norris. It would not discuss why. A source suggested that there was insufficient evidence to disprove beyond reasonable doubt Mr Coles's story that he was meeting Norris to try and cultivate him as an informant, though Scotland Yard sources have denied that there was any officially sanctioned effort to turn Norris into an informer. A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "David Coles was medically retired from the Metropolitan police service as of February 10, following full medical scrutiny involving more than one doctor." The spokeswoman added: "David Coles had completed 28 years' service at the time of his retirement."