An inauspicious council estate in West Gorton, Manchester, seemed the perfect location for Shameless, Channel 4's successful drama series about the dysfunctional Gallagher family. In the end, however, it allowed for an uncomfortable example of life imitating art.Yesterday, Manchester City magistrates served 17-year-old Steven Birchall with a wide-ranging antisocial behaviour order for the "climate of fear" he brought to the Gorton estate. The court heard how Birchall and his cohorts ran amok through the estate, drove a tractor on nearby open land and told a local Asian shopkeeper, "We'll beat you, smash your car and your windows". The intimidation escalated to such a degree that the television crew were forced to call the police, who were told "the youths had persistently disrupted filming and had acted in an intimidating fashion," community beat officer PC Tracey Burns told the court. The Asbo imposed on Birchall extends for an indefinite period. It prevents him from publicly associating with more than three people and specifically associating in public with Martin Francis Joyce, Johnny Joyce, Carl Smith, Mark Smith and 16-year-old Anthony Copeland, who was also served with an Asbo at a youth court in June. Birchall is also banned from engaging or threatening to engage in conduct likely to cause people to fear for their safety or that of their property; inflicting or attempting to inflict violence; and being a passenger in or a driver of any motorised vehicle unless the driver is 18 and legally documented. He is also prohibited from employing abusive or insulting language or behaviour in public and using specified obscenities and racist language. Additionally, Birchall is barred from certain areas on the estate. He faces a fine and up to five years in prison if he breaches the order. The order was broadly welcomed by the community yesterday, although the shopkeeper victimised by Birchall and his gang felt it was not enough. "They need to look at taking tough action," he said. "And if all else fails, evicting the family from the estate." Shameless was written by Paul Abbott and is said to be semi-autobiographical. It attracted critical praise for its uncompromising yet warm portrayal of family life on a city council estate. "Gorton was chosen because it absolutely reflected what Paul was looking for," said a spokesman for Company Pictures, the production company behind Shameless. "But we are still filming in Gorton. This has absolutely not put us off."