Anthony Hunt had been a magistrate and justice of the peace, a pillar of society. And then he became an emblem for angry, accused men when he mounted a case that threatened to throw a legal tsunami at the already lamentable prosecution of sex crime.In 2002 he was investigated for an alleged rape which was said to have happened seven years before. A meagre 6% of reported rapes result in a conviction on a charge of rape – and yet, despite the length of time that had elapsed, this was one of them. In 2003, Hunt was jailed for four years. But he appealed and, in 2005 the conviction was declared unsafe: new evidence had emerged, and the judge had failed to properly advise the jury. Hunt was acquitted.Then came the killer blow: Hunt decided to sue the woman for £300,000 damages for malicious prosecution. His action was bewildering: malicious prosecution actions are usually pursued against the police or other public authorities for the abuse of power.Last Thursday, four years after he started seeking damages against her, the woman (known as Alice Barnes to protect her anonymity) was told by her solicitor that the appeal court judges had at last rejected his case: "I was aquiver, overwhelmed, I couldn't take it in," she says. Her lawyer told her again, "We've won!" But Barnes felt nothing, "It wasn't elation, victory, it was numbness." For although women's rights groups have greeted last week's ruling with great relief, Barnes has had to forfeit her savings and her pension fund to defend herself.But why did Hunt's lawyers seek remedy from her in the first place, rather than from the police and prosecutors – after all, it was their case, and she was only their witness? Hunt himself will not comment. His solicitor, Stephen Taylor, told the Guardian that the evidence was hers, not theirs. Without her evidence there was no case. Therefore, the witness was the prosecutor.It left Hampshire's former chief constable Paul Kernaghan aghast. "The idea that an alleged rape victim is in financial jeopardy suggests the law is an ass," he said.Barnes had no choice, she had to defend herself. Her MP, Julian Lewis, pressed the police to give Barnes maximum support, but the police could not meet the costs of a civil case. They recommended reputable lawyers, Talbot Walker, but her defence cost her in excess of £60,000. And the irony is that, according to both Barnes and the officer who carried out the original rape investigation, detective chief inspector Alison Scott, Barnes had never wanted a prosecution in the first place – rather, she'd tried to forget the whole thing.When the incident took place, in June 1995, Alice Barnes had been a special constable. "It wasn't glamorous job, it was a community-based public service. I loved it, I felt I was put on this earth to do it." She gave 1,000 hours a year to the special constabulary. On the day in question, she and Hunt, a traffic warden, were on duty at a country show in the New Forest. Both agree that Hunt came to her home for a cup of tea. Both agree that sex happened. She says it was rape, he says it was by consent. She says that afterwards she showered and washed everything. She telephoned her senior officer. He told her to report it. She didn't do so, she says, because she thought she wouldn't be believed – "this thing about no scratches, no bruises, no torn clothes came into my head".For seven years the story was only known by a tiny handful of people. It was in 2002 that – during the course of an unrelated disciplinary matter – the allegation came to the attention of CID's Alison Scott, a rape specialist.Scott recalls when she first met Barnes: "She was shaking like a leaf. She didn't want to act on it. I told her that whether she gave a statement or not we'd have to investigate." Hunt was a traffic warden employed by Hampshire police, and if he was guilty "we couldn't employ a man like that".Barnes eventually, reluctantly, agreed to give evidence. The police investigated – witnesses were tracked down, phone calls were traced, notebooks were checked – and felt they had a case. The CPS agreed, and the trial went ahead.By the time I first met Barnes in 2008 she'd been through the original trial, and the appeal, and her hands were still shaking. Literally. And they continued to shake more or less throughout our first conversation. She told me then she feared she'd lose her home to find the rest of the £112,000 her lawyers required. "What am I supposed to do, live in a tent?"Her plight found its way to Vera Baird, Redcar MP and a barrister celebrated for her pioneering work on rape. Baird and Lewis agreed: whatever happened, the woman should not have to pay another penny. Baird enlisted the big city lawyers, Lovells, to take it on at no cost to Barnes herself.And so, as Halloween approached a year ago a small, sombre congregation sat in the gloom of Court 11 at the Royal Courts of Justice before Mr Justice Blake: 64-year-old Anthony Hunt, now living in Dorset, beside his wife; and 56-year-old Barnes, with her husband.Hunts' lawyers argued that when the victim was "the sole repository of the truth" she was, in effect, the prosecutor. Barnes's barrister, Antony Metzer, countered that police "investigated and authenticated" allegations; the victim was merely a witness.Mr Justice Blake rejected Hunt's case, not on the basis of the truth or otherwise of the evidence during the rape trial – Hunt has been acquitted of that charge – but because the woman could not be deemed the "prosecutor"; the police had instigated the investigation, and DCI Scott "couldn't stress enough how much support and persuasion" had been involved. Furthermore, having heard Barnes's story again, he said that "nothing has come to light" to prove "any malice whatsoever" by Alice Barnes.This week the appeal court, led by Lord Justice Sedley, agreed.So, Hunt had lost, but had Alice Barnes won? Appeal judge Walls said "it is plainly undesirable … that key witnesses be deterred from reporting allegedly criminal acts for fear of an action for malicious prosecution if the defendant is acquitted." Thousands of people reporting rape could find comfort and clarity from the ruling, commented Lovells solicitor Anna Wilson. But Barnes cannot recover her £87,000.Vera Baird hoped "something useful has come from her suffering". And Alice Barnes? "I wouldn't wish this even upon an enemy. But if it saves anyone from suffering this turmoil again, then it has to be good."• This article was amended on 29 October 2009. The original said that 6% of rape cases result in a conviction. This has been corrected.