Given the confusion and uncertainty surrounding the criminal justice system - inspection reports on Feltham, so blatantly disregarded, demonstrated untreated failures that contributed to the death of Zahid Mubarek - it hardly seems the time to be throwing out such a proven, independent element of stability as Her Majesty's chief inspector of prisons.Yet the police and justice bill, currently on its second reading, provides for just such abolition.Tomorrow the House of Lords will consider a series of amendments that I tabled with a Conservative, a Labour and a Liberal Democrat peer; these are an attempt to prevent what I can only describe as an avoidable nonsense. It could be presumed that I would say that because I was chief inspector from 1995 to 2001. But my reasons are based on the recognition that in its Inspectorate of Prisons, this country possesses a unique jewel in the crown of its criminal justice system.The bill contains a proposal that the inspectorates of the Police Service, the Probation Service, the Crown Prosecution Service, Court Administration and Prisons should be amalgamated into an Inspectorate of Justice, Community Safety and Custody. There would be a single chief inspector, subject to the orders of "the responsible ministers" and required to have regard to such aspects of policy as the said ministers may direct. So much for independence.Two aspects are particularly galling. First, the proposal does not result from any identified failing of the Prisons Inspectorate, or any examination of inspection arrangements. Instead the proposal that 11 public-sector inspectorates be reduced to four was made by the chancellor in his March 2005 budget speech. It is clear the whole process was driven by savings. It is also clear that the new inspectorate is meant to operate on lines laid down by the Audit Commission, which is concerned above all with value for money. The chief inspector of prisons is required to inspect treatment of and conditions for prisoners. It is left to those responsible for running prisons to worry about money.Secondly none of the ministers or officials who drew up the proposal has ever inspected a prison, and to my knowledge only one has even accompanied an inspection. Had they done so they would have realised that such inspections are immensely complex and detailed affairs, requiring contributions by experts from many different disciplines. I worked closely with the inspectors of the Crown Prosecution Service and the then Magistrates Courts Inspectorate. Such joint working has been happening for years, and does not need an unwise merger to bring it about.Home Office ministers assert that the new compromise will be more independent. Two simple facts undermine that assertion. The chief inspector will decide what is to be published - not, as now, the chief inspector of prisons. And the chief inspector will have direct access to the Home Secretary; the deputy chief inspector of justice, community safety and custody (prisons) will not.Three weeks ago I was invited to a conference in Geneva convened by the UN high commissioner for human rights, the Red Cross and the Commission against Torture, to describe my experience of conducting independent inspection, because the UK alone was regarded as having the necessary mechanisms in place. Imagine their amazement when I had to tell them that the government was proposing to demolish that independence.The protection of the public by the prevention of crime is too important a subject to be undermined in this way. To wilfully throw away a priceless advantage is unwise at the best of times. To throw away a proven - and, dare I say, trusted - weapon at a time of serious danger, when there is no space in prisons, would seem to be folly on a scale that can only make an old soldier gasp.I just hope that John Reid will stand up to the chancellor and refuse to be parted from one of his few assets. He has only to withdraw the inspectorate of prisons from the proposed merger and he will save himself the embarrassment of what will be said about the proposal in our debate tomorrow. The Commons never even discussed it at the report stage because too much time was taken up with other parts of this extraordinarily complex bill. If he does, Dr Reid will encourage those who like to think we still live in a civilised country.· Lord Ramsbotham was chief inspector of prisons from 1995 to 2001 ramsbothamd@parliament.uk