Two men who conned a woman out of £1.6m by using a fictional ideal man to seduce her on a dating website have been jailed.The divorced mother of two, who cannot be named for legal reasons, thought she had met and fallen in love with a man called Christian Anderson on Match.com.She was persuaded by Anderson, supposedly a well-to-do divorced oil industry engineer with two children, to transfer huge sums of cash between March and December 2014 only to discover he did not exist, Basildon crown court heard. Accountancy student Ife Ojo, 31, from Peterborough in Cambridgeshire, and administrative assistant Olusegun Agbaje, 43, from Hornchurch in Essex, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to defraud. The Metropolitan police are trying to identify others involved, including the person who posed as Anderson. The Met said in the past year they had investigated the loss of £4m from 100 victims who had been “ruthlessly manipulated by men and women pretending they love them”. On Friday, judge Jonathan Black sentenced Ojo to 34 months in prison and Agbaje to 32 months. He said: “The victim was an intelligent businesswoman but she was also vulnerable because she was recently divorced.”Lesley Bates, prosecuting, said the victim had borrowed money from friends and family, believing it would be paid back when Anderson came to live with her. She added: “She has since experienced stress, cries, is depressed and unable to trust people or tell them what has happened through her embarrassment. She has been unable to tell her friends and family and finds herself isolated by the fact she was taken advantage of by the way that she was.” The court heard she met the man pretending to be Anderson in person once. She described him to police as a “handsome white man”. Their relationship blossomed through conversations almost every day on Skype and Yahoo messenger services. These were usually text conversations or over a poor connection, meaning she could not see Anderson. The victim also received flowers and chocolates purporting to be from him. He persuaded her to pay money to his personal assistant, Brandon Platt, saying it would help him complete a project in Benin and allow him to come to live with her in the UK. Police identified Agbaje and, when they raided his home, found him with Ojo. At Ojo’s home they found a laptop containing records of the victim’s conversations and a “seduction kit” including a poetry book, For My Soulmate, and dating manual, The Game. Bank records showed Ojo received £10,000, most of which was used to make payments to Rolex and Lexus. A total of £35,000 was paid into a bank account controlled by Agbaje.John Femi-Ola, mitigating for Ojo, said his client was originally from Nigeria and had been introduced to the scam by Agbaje.Simon Smith, mitigating for Agbaje, said his role was to provide a bank account. “The planning and sophistication of this crime was not his responsibility,” he said. 