"I don't understand how this could have happened to our family," says Farah, near to tears. "We have waited months for answers since Bijan's death."Farah (not her real name) works in the NHS as a nurse in post-operative care. The 52-year-old is warm and gentle and the eldest sister of Bijan Ebrahimi who, last July, died horrifically after he was beaten unconscious and set on fire by neighbours on the estate he had lived on for seven years.This is Farah's first and last interview and she is anonymous because, like her younger sister, she has a son studying for A-levels whom she wants to protect from bullying. Almost daily, she says, she drives to the Brislington estate in Bristol where her brother lived. There she sits in her car and cries. "We want to make sure this never happens to anyone ever again."When Ebrahimi was murdered, the two sisters, and their respective families were returning from a week's holiday in Mallorca. His passport had expired so he had been unable to join them. As with many who have lost relatives in violent circumstances, the "if onlys" can become overwhelming."If we had been here, it might never have happened," says Farah. "When my husband died five years ago, I suggested to Bijan that he live with me and my son. He was very close to both his nephews and was a good uncle. But Bijan wanted his independence. In spite of the troubles he had on the estate, it was also where he had his flowers and Mooshi, his tabby cat whom he loved."On Thursday, 24-year-old Lee James, Bijan Ebrahimi's neighbour, received a life sentence with a minimum tariff of 18 years for Ebrahimi's murder. Stephen Norley, 25, a night fruit porter, pleaded guilty to assisting an offender and was given a four-year sentence.According to Ebrahimi's sisters, it was a clash of cultures. Their brother, reserved and a Muslim who did not drink or take drugs, lived near James, who during this year's hot summer, frequently held noisy barbecues on common ground in front of the homes on the estate.Two days before his death, Ebrahimi filmed children and young people being encouraged by James to vandalise the potted plants and flowers in which Ebrahimi took such pride. The police were called, but three officers then arrested Ebrahimi not James. Animosity made itself felt in the rumour that Ebrahimi was a paedophile. A baying crowd taunted him as police drove him away.Avon and Somerset police said that the charge of paedophilia was utterly unfounded. However, when they released Ebrahimi back to his home, they left the rumours on the estate unchallenged. "We know that in the evening before he died, Bijan made call after call asking for help," Farah says. "Why did nobody respond? He was so unprotected. He trusted the police. He came here as a refugee from Iran. He believed England was a safe environment."Several inquires are now under way including one by the Independent Police Complaints Commission investigating 11 police officers and civilian staff. No matter what the outcome of the inquiries, both sisters say they are powerless to change the portrait that has been painted in the media of a man they do not recognise as their brother.Ebrahimi has been described as a "misfit", an "oddball" and "educationally challenged". On the contrary, says Farah and Manizhah, he had friends and mixed regularly with his extended family and the Bristol Iranian community. Given the incidents of racial abuse inflicted upon him at several addresses over the years, triggering continual trepidation, coupled with the profound concern he had about his own health for several months – a week before he died, tests indicated he did not, as he feared, have mouth cancer – then his apparent introversion, timidity and refusal to socialise has the logic of self-preservation."I witnessed abuse on the estate," Farah says. "Bijan was called 'foreign cockroach' and 'Paki'. He was different – but why is that a crime?"In Tehran, Ebrahimi's father had been a railway engineer. His mother had a stroke when he was 11, became paralysed and died when he was 21. A few years later, his father was diagnosed with cancer and also died. "We four older children had gone to university," Farah explains. "But then Iran had a revolution, the universities were closed for two years." Ebrahimi, as the baby, was not so fortunate in education, "but was always hungry to learn".Farah says her brother had been a champion table tennis player for a number of years but he, his uncle and brother all suffered from curvature of the spine. By the time Ebrahimi was in his 40s, in spite of being a trained plumber, carpenter and with qualifications in IT, he had become registered disabled and unable to work. "I would see him almost every day," says Farah. "I would have to take him shopping. He couldn't bend and he couldn't lift. But he wasn't a loner. It distresses me that his seat at our table is now empty."More than 20 years ago, Farah was the first of her family to come the UK. Her sister followed, married an Englishman, and now works for a large retailer. Ebrahimi, in his 20s, had been engaged but it didn't work out. Farah says she has always acted as his surrogate mother, so after both parents died, Ebrahimi moved to England in 2000. He subsequently experienced a string of racist attacks that included being beaten round the head with a baseball bat, having boiling water poured over him and having his previous flat set on fire. He had frequently asked to move from the 1960s housing estate, particularly after the arrival of James, nine months before Ebrahimi's death. Farah says the alternatives he was offered failed to take account of his increasing mobility problems. "It was as if Bijan had been forgotten."Chief Constable Nick Gargan of the Avon and Somerset Constabulary said on Thursday: "It is clear that there was a collective failure on the part of the statutory agencies and others to protect Mr Ebrahimi and we cannot wait for all the various internal investigative processes to run their course before we start learning lessons for the future."The Disability Hate Crime Network has written to attorney general Dominic Grieve, asking him to review the sentences handed down to Lee James and Steven Norley, arguing that they should be viewed as hate crimes, demanding longer prison terms. Tony Murphy of Bhatt Murphy, the Ebrahimis' solicitor, says: "The failure of the authorities to provide even the most basic protection to Bijan as a long-standing victim of hate crime is deeply concerning.""A rumour was spread about Bijan that wasn't true," says Farah. "People need to understand the consequences when such allegations are made. We miss our brother terribly. His only 'crime' was that, for some people, he was not like them. Why should that lead to such a terrible death?"