Badri Patarkatsishvili was described as "a man of many consonants and a convoluted history".His colourful range of activities included West Ham United and broadcasting, in partnership with Rupert Murdoch. He was also preoccupied with the fear he would be assassinated by Chechen rebels in league with the Georgian government.Patarkatsishvili employed Andrei Lugovoi, the chief suspect in the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, on and off for 13 years as a security consultant. Like Litvinenko he was a close associate of his fellow oligarch Boris Berezovsky.He owned the football club Dinamo Tbilisi, and had talks to buy West Ham United in 2006. He also "owned" the former West Ham player Carlos Tevez and part-owned Javier Mascherano. The arrangement, which he described as a "rental", was the main reason that Tevez's transfer to Manchester United took so long to resolve.Patarkatsishvili, who was Georgia's richest man, co-owned Georgia's largest broadcaster, Imedi, with Murdoch's News Corporation.The former Communist was an opponent of Vladimir Putin and was wanted in Russia on fraud charges.One of his lawyers was the former attorney general Lord Goldsmith, and his spokesman was Margaret Thatcher's PR guru, Lord Bell. In December he claimed the Georgian authorities were plotting to assassinate him. "I believe they want to kill me," he said.His claims were backed by a tape recording of an alleged conversation between Georgian interior ministry officials and Uvais Akhmadov, a Chechen warlord.Methods believed to be discussed in the tape included a plan to murder him in the UK or Israel, where he also had a home. The conversation was said to echo the circumstances surrounding the murder of Alexander Litvinenko.Patarkatsishvili was seen as a driving force behind anti-government protests in Georgia in November, and was under investigation there on charges of plotting to overthrow the government.He was secretly recorded in the autumn offering a senior interior ministry official tens of millions of dollars to ensure police sided with protesters. At the time he countered the claims by alleging the assassination plot against him.He hired lawyers, including Lord Goldsmith, who at the time said Patarkatsishvili was taking the threat "very seriously".In an interview with the Sunday Times in December he said: "I have 120 bodyguards but I know that's not enough. I don't feel safe anywhere and that is why I'm particularly not going to Georgia."According to transcripts of the alleged conversation, Patarkatsishvili was described as "a political problem". Georgia did not want to be seen to be involved in an assassination abroad, they said."We want this person to disappear completely, with his escorts, with everything. So that everyone basically disappears," the Georgian official is alleged to have said.The Georgian embassy dismissed the allegations as a conspiracy theory designed to boost his election profile. He repeatedly delayed his arrival in Georgia for election campaigning over what he said was a lack of security guarantees from the government. Standing against the president, Mikhail Saakashvili, he received just 7% of the vote.Patarkatsishvili was born in Tibilisi in 1955. He studied economics, and involvement in the Communist party gave him valuable contacts. He worked as a manager in industry in Georgia until the collapse of the Soviet Union.In 1989 he became a business partner of Berezovsky's in the Russian holding company Logovaz. They invested in oil, media companies, airlines and the car industry during the economic tumult of the huge privatisations of the 1990s.Patarkatsishvili took primary responsibility for Logovaz's media holdings.He was a senior executive in the Russian TV networks Ort and TV-6, and for a time owned the Moscow newspaper Kommersant.But he was forced to return to Georgia in 2001 after being accused of helping a Logovaz colleague to escape from prison.Patarkatsishvili helped finance the "rose revolution" that swept the current president, Mikhail Saakashvili, to power four years ago. Then relations soured. Patarkatsishvili backed opposition protests in Georgia last month in which hundreds were injured and a state of emergency was called.Last November police stormed and took off air the Imedi television channel, which was founded by Patarkatsishvili and is run by Murdoch's News Corporation, after it aired anti-government broadcasts. It was later reopened.Patarkatsishvili described the current regime as "a dictatorial junta". His election slogan in January was "Georgia without Saakashvili is Georgia without terror".He is survived by a wife and two daughters.