A violent teenager, who revelled in the nickname Slasher, was jailed for life yesterday for stabbing a woman jogger in a north London park and another knife attack on a 17-year-old male friend.Elias Cecchetti, 16, was found guilty in the Old Bailey in April of attacking a teacher in Clissold Park in Stoke Newington in December. Detective Chief Inspector Ron Scott described Cecchetti, who has more than 20 previous convictions, including stabbing a 12-year-old when he was 12 himself, as the most dangerous juvenile in the UK. The boy whispered, "Hello, jogging princess, I'll get you on your next lap", moments before plunging a six-inch knife into the teacher's stomach and then trying to kick her wound. She managed to run off, but he pursued her, shouting abuse. He was convicted of causing grievous bodily harm with intent, but cleared of attempted murder. Police said the woman owed her life to a doctor, who was nearby with her two children. The jogger collapsed at the feet of the doctor, who staunched her bleeding. Six weeks earlier, Cecchetti was released from Feltham young offenders centre in Middlesex after serving a sentence for robbery. Considered a threat to women and known for using knives - his mother called the police when he left home with a kitchen knife aged 11 - he was ordered to have sessions with probation staff during the day and to wear an electronic tag to ensure he stayed at home from 7pm to 8am.Cecchetti carried out the Clissold Park attack at 5pm, after a meeting with a tutor in Stoke Newington library. A police source said that during this meeting the boy gloated over a Scotland Yard crime statistics website, punching the air and shouting "yes!" when he saw his home borough, Hackney, had the worst murder rate in London.Cecchetti yawned and smirked yesterday as he was given a life sentence at Maidstone crown court for the Clissold Park stabbing and unlawfully wounding 17-year-old Curtis Byfield in Finsbury Park last year. Byfield said his former friend had laughed as he stabbed him in the chest, half an inch from his heart. Judge Warwick McKinnon took the unusual step of lifting an order banning his identification. He said Cecchetti, who refused to see a psychiatrist, showed "no remorse". Mr Scott said: "Elias Cecchetti is without doubt the most dangerous juvenile I have ever encountered in my 28 years of service. This was clearly the most dangerous juvenile in the UK. He has proved to be a calculating and callous individual whose complete disregard for others is extremely disturbing. Having him off the streets makes London a safer place for everybody, women in particular." Mr Scott said the victim was extremely brave to give evidence in court, without which Cecchetti might not have been convicted, and he praised the doctor who saved her life. Cecchetti was caught when a friend, arrested for mugging, told how he had boasted of the Clissold Park attack. Detectives initially thought the person who stabbed American artist Margaret Muller to death in nearby Victoria Park in February last year was also responsible for the Clissold Park attack. But Cecchetti had been in a secure unit in Peterborough that day, where he attacked two members of staff. Ms Muller's killer has not yet been caught. Earlier this year, at the Old Bailey, Cecchetti also admitted possession of heroin with intent to supply while on remand at Feltham. His primary school teachers decided he was uncontrollable at the age of nine, when he produced a knife in class. One neighbour said the Italian-American youth's heroes were Al Capone and Tony Montana, Al Pacino's drugs boss character in the film Scarface, which he watched repeatedly.