A serial "wildlife criminal" was sentenced today to 30 months in jail after he was caught trying to smuggle rare peregrine falcon eggs out of Britain.Jeffrey Lendrum, 48, was caught in May after arousing suspicions when a cleaner saw him dashing in and out of the shower in the Emirates' business class lounge at Birmingham international airport.He was found to have 14 of the eggs bound in socks and strapped to his body with bandages to keep them warm. The eggs, worth £70,000, were destined for the black market in Dubai where falconry is a national sport.Eleven were successfully hatched and the highly protected chicks have been released back in to the wild, Warwick crown court heard.Police subsequently searched one of Lendrum's properties in Northamptonshire where they discovered equipment for egg hunting, including incubators, a GPS system and walkie-talkies.Lendrum, who spoke only to plead guilty, admitted one count of trying to export the eggs and another of illegally stealing them from a nest on the side of a mountain in Rhondda, south Wales, in what investigators described as the most serious case of its kind in decades.There are only 1,400 breeding pairs of peregrine falcons in the country and the birds receive the highest possible level of protection. The eggs of wild birds are highly sought after despite a ban on the importation of wild falcons.Last February, the government named bird of prey persecution as one of the six wildlife crime priorities for the UK, with emphasis on five species – the golden eagle, the white-tailed eagle, the goshawk, the hen harrier and the red kite. The RSPB wants the peregrine falcon to be added to that list.A former member of the Rhodesian SAS who regularly travelled around the world for business on an Irish passport, Lendrum developed daredevil techniques to snatch eggs, once abseiling off a cliff to reach a nest, while on another occasion he lowered himself from a helicopter in Canada.Wildlife officials said it was a serious organised crime, well planned with extremely high financial rewards."Lendrum is the highest level of wildlife criminal," Andy McWilliam, from the National Wildlife Crime Unit, told the BBC. "The eggs for him are a commodity. This is his profession, he knew exactly what he was doing."Judge Christopher Hodson said: "I quote the words of a lord justice of appeal (Lord Justice Sedley) when he says, 'environmental crime, if established, strikes not only at a locality and its population but in some measure to the planet and its future'. I adopt these words to express the gravity of what you did. A substantial term of imprisonment needs to be imposed to punish you and deter others."Guy Shorrock of the RSPB said: "This sentence is fantastic news. It sends a very clear message to the criminals who seek to make money from exploiting our wildlife."Lendrum was first convicted of offences involving taking birds of prey from the wild more than two decades ago. He was first convicted in Zimbabwe in 1984, then again in Canada in 2002.