A father charged with the murder of his six-year-old son was today found dead in his prison cell, having apparently committed suicide.The Home Office confirmed that the body of Dafydd Field, 52, was discovered at HMP Lewes early this morning. Officials said he appeared to have electrocuted himself. Mr Field handed himself into police in Tywyn, Gwynedd, on Wednesday, two hours after the body of his son Jethro was found at the family home in Farncombe, near Godalming, Surrey, more than 200 miles away. The teaching assistant was remanded in custody by magistrates in Dorking on Saturday. He had been due to appear at the Old Bailey on July 7. An inquest into the Jethro's death was opened in Woking, Surrey, today. The Surrey coroner, Michael Burgess, heard that the boy's body had been found on a bed at the family home. A police statement released this evening said that Jethro, who would have celebrated his seventh birthday on April 27, died from head injuries caused by a brick and a knife cut to the throat. He had also been stabbed in the chest.The Home Office said the cause of Mr Field's death would have to be investigated, but "indications are it was self-inflicted and appears to be electrocution". He was not on suicide watch when he died, officials confirmed. "We can confirm that Dafydd Field was found dead in his cell at HMP Lewes on April 10," a prison service spokesman said. "Staff attempted CPR and paramedics attended, but the prisoner was pronounced dead at 6.42am. "Next of kin have been informed. Every death in custody is a tragedy and, as with all deaths in custody, the prisons and probation ombudsman will conduct an investigation." A Surrey police spokeswoman said the force would cooperate fully with the investigation, supported by Sussex police, into what went wrong. "There will be a full investigation into what took place, and obviously our investigation will have to be re-examined," the spokeswoman said. "Family liaison officers with the family will be, and have been, doing what they can to comfort them. We will do everything we can to support the family at this time."Jethro's parents had been married for 10 years, although at the time of his death they had been living apart for nearly a week. Police said the couple were not divorced and had an "amicable arrangement" whereby they both looked after their young son. Jethro had a sister, aged 16, and a 19-year-old brother from his mother's previous marriage, and another sister, aged 16, from his father's previous marriage.