A double killer who escaped the hangman 41 years ago started a life sentence yesterday after a trial postponed by four decades of psychiatric treatment.Victor Wilson, now a gaunt 62-year-old with thinning, grey hair, was found fit to plead after a mental health tribunal ruled that he could no longer be considered clinically insane. His plea of guilty to double manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility was accepted by a crown court judge, who said none of the time spent in hospitals would count towards the sentence. Wilson is expected to die in custody because of the high risk that he would reoffend if he were released. In 1963, a rural police constable found Wilson next to the bodies of two women he had shot and strangled near a ruined Yorkshire abbey. Wilson, a farm labourer with a fixation for one of his victims, was saved from a murder trial, and possible death sentence, by the then Conservative home secretary, Henry Brooke, who intervened under the Lunacy Act to stop his committal to York assizes. Yesterday Wilson admitted shooting Gladys Tate, 53, and strangling 20-year-old Averyl Botterill, who were neigh bours at Stud Farm Cottages in the village of Meaux, near Beverley, where he lived with his grandparents. Hull crown court heard that he had kept five notebooks of drawings and notes of women being attacked and tortured, which included references to Mrs Botterill, a newly married pottery worker. She became central to a fan tasy which Wilson finally played out one Sunday afternoon, using his 12-bore shotgun to kill Mrs Tate and her dog, Trixie, before strangling Mrs Botterill with a nylon stocking. The court heard that Wilson, who was 20 at the time, had told police he had assaulted Mrs Botterill before PC John Pepys arrived and arrested him. "If he had been a bit later I would have shot myself. That is what I intended," he said in a statement to detectives at the time. Wilson was finally sent for trial in 2003 from Rampton hospital after a mental health tribunal decision in 2003 that he should no longer be held in secure psychiatric care. Judge Michael Mettyear said it was quite likely a jury would have convicted Wilson of murder, but he had accepted the manslaughter pleas in part because the victims' families did not want a trial to reopen old wounds.