Until August 2002, few people had heard of Soham. Now it has joined a terrible litany: Dunblane, Hungerford, Lockerbie. Each name synonymous with tragedy.Yesterday many residents were silent and tearful as they welcomed the verdicts that they had awaited for so long. Others gathered on the high street of the little town to vent their anger at their former neighbours Huntley and Carr. "You can almost touch the kind of feelings that people have," said the Rev Alan Ashton, the town's Methodist minister. He says parishioners initially needed reassurance that "it's ok to be normal again, it's ok to smile or laugh in the street", and that doing so did not mean letting down the Wells or Chapman families. In fact, the community has taken its lead from the girls' parents, who have sought to recreate some kind of ordinary family life for their remaining children. "The way that Holly and Jessica's families have coped has been a strength to everyone," said Geoff Fisher, the girls' headteacher at St Andrew's primary. He singled out Jessica's "amazing" mother Sharon Chapman, who returned to her job as learning support assistant at the school - where Carr had been a colleague - within weeks of the murders. "What choices have we got?" Holly's father Kevin Wells asked a friend. "Do we lie in bed all day and cry ourselves to sleep or do we carry on?" The disappearance of the girls made the families and the town public property, however reluctant. In the visitors' book at St Andrew's church, the same words appear again and again: God bless you; Rest in Peace; You are in our hearts. But the signatories come from as far afield as Lille, Melbourne and Texas. "We had six people every morning coming to open the letters, and those were just the ones addressed to me," said the Rev Tim Alban Jones, vicar of St Andrew's. "Initially we were touched and surprised by the number of people involved. As it went on, it acquired a life of its own which became a little unhealthy. There was voyeurism involved. After a while, people were beginning to say: we have had enough now." While the "irrational anxiety" which dogged parents has dissipated, and children have returned to the playground, "you don't have to scratch far beneath the surface to find some wounds which haven't healed and run quite deep", Mr Alban Jones said. "The usual things happen - Christmas and the pumpkin fair and all the parochial things little places like Soham do - but looming ever larger over those was this trial." The trial's completion brings a second cause for relief, too: 5 College Close, where the murders took place, will be demolished as soon as possible. "If it were left standing it would constantly remind pupils, school staff and the local community of the horrors that took place there," said John Thorogood, chairman of Soham village college governors. There has been plenty of professional support, from police family liaison officers to the educational psychologists working in the schools, and the churches, health workers and other agencies have created a support group. But, most of all, the residents have drawn strength from each other and taken solace where they can: in letters from those bereaved at Aberfan and Omagh; in the stained glass window at St Andrew's primary commemorating the two pupils; most importantly, perhaps, in the conviction of Huntley, who lived in Soham but was not one of them. "The fact it was someone from outside means we can push some of it away," admitted Mr Alban Jones. "People didn't have to keep looking at each other in a new light."