A saboteur who injected insulin into saline given to three patients who later died at a hospital may still be on the wards, police have warned.Tracey Arden, 44, George Keep, 84, and Arnold Lancaster, 71, have all died at Stepping Hill hospital in Hazel Grove, Stockport, in the past few weeks after the saline solution was deliberately sabotaged.A fourth patient is now critically ill. The man, in his 40s, who has not been identified, now forms part of the wide-scale police investigation involving a team of 60 detectives.Greater Manchester police said they could not rule out the person responsible still being at the hospital.The critically ill patient is one of 14 people on two acute medical wards – A1 and A3 – who have been affected after the saboteur tampered with 36 ampoules of saline in a storeroom.Police were called in a week ago after an experienced nurse realised a large number of patients had a sudden, unexpected drop in blood sugar levels. A fifth patient, a woman who became seriously ill and suffered a seizure, is now recovering.Officers have ruled out making quick arrests in the case, which has been under investigation for a week. It is perhaps inevitable that the killer may still be on the site as there have yet to be any arrests. But it is the first time the police have publicly expressed the view that the saboteur may still be at the hospital.Greater Manchester police's assistant chief constable, Ian Hopkins, told a press conference at the hospital that the investigation was starting with 14 patients who may have come to harm, including the three who died. "Our investigation in the initial stages is concentrating on people that work within the hospital or [have] visited the hospital," he said on Tuesday."We are not ruling out it could be someone outside the hospital but our focus has been on staff and visitors to the hospital at this stage." He said once officers had a clear suspect, they would then look at historic deaths.Police believe insulin was injected into saline containers that were used by at least two wards at the hospital. Security has been stepped up and staff have been told to work in pairs to check and administer drugs. A single keyholder has to be asked for access to locked drugs cabinets. Names and the times that individual drugs are given to patients are also being recorded.Insulin was always kept in a locked treatment room, the hospital said. All the saline has now been locked away. There is a core staff of medics on the wards but also occasional agency staff, a press conference at the hospital was told. Senior police officers and NHS bosses have started daily review meetings.Detectives are still awaiting the results of further toxicology tests by a Home Office pathologist, to establish a definitive cause of death for the three patients. Until the cause of death is established, their deaths are being treated as unexplained.Chris Burke, chief executive of Stockport NHS Foundation Trust, said staff were "shocked, horrified and angry" at the situation."They are alarmed that a place that should be for care has become a crime scene. This is a criminal act, perpetrated by someone with malicious intent. We do not believe it could have been anticipated," he said."This is a bad person doing a malevolent thing. This is about someone wanting to inflict harm, pain and possibly further, as a deliberate malicious act," he said. "That is nothing to do with care."He said he could understand why patients would be worried about going to the hospital. "But I can say that it is safe. We hope to stop further incidents like this happening," he added. The hospital chief executive said he could not see a reason why relatives should be concerned about previous deaths.Meanwhile, the South Manchester coroner John Pollard briefly opened inquests into the three patients. They were adjourned until a later date at the request of Superintendent Julian Ross, who is leading the inquiry into the deaths.