Once again shocking violence towards children has come to light and questions are being asked about why more was not done to prevent it. And the Doncaster case carries an extra chill, because not only were children the victims, but it was children – two brothers aged 11 and 10 – who were the perpetrators.The brothers were from Doncaster and were on the council's child protection register. Social care for children there was judged very poor last year, having failed to prevent a number of deaths.There may well be something particular to the ways social services are managed in Doncaster that contributed to this tragedy. The brothers were notorious for antisocial behaviour in their neighbourhood and well known to the police as well as social workers. The boys were placed in foster care rather than in more secure accommodation. The basis for this decision is certainly questionable. Social workers are often forced to make resource-driven decisions to place children in what they regard as inappropriate placements, so it will need to be established what options were available and the kind of investments in residential care the council had made.Neighbours are said to have been asking social services to do something about the boys for months. It is typical in such cases for social workers to face such demands and for neighbours to be unaware of the efforts that are being made to help the family, because confidentiality rules do not allow the sharing of such information. In some instances, the time devoted to such families is considerable. But often it is not, either due to a lack of resources or too much time lost to bureaucracy.The attack has predictably prompted comparisons with the James Bulger tragedy of 16 years ago. But more striking to me are the similarities with the sorts of cases social workers handle every day. Their mother was separated from their father. She lived in poverty and had a chaotic lifestyle, apparently misusing drugs, and neglected the boys.It is important to understand that the majority of parents in multi-problem families like this one are extremely needy and vulnerable. Some express this by being angry and uncooperative. Others are compliant and constantly seek help. But while even the most compliant of chaotic parents may not be evidently cruel and can even seem benign, their children are often being harmed.Through reviews of cases that have gone wrong, we are coming to understand how difficult it is for social workers involved in such cases to stay focused on the children's needs while also having to help mothers and, where present, fathers, to parent better. Research at the University of East Anglia into a large sample of case reviews shows that it is common for childcare professionals to give up on older children who are seen as challenging. This is not done in a callous or overtly irresponsible way. It's more that professional systems become exhausted and demoralised in the long term.The emotional impact on staff is an important factor in what goes wrong. Chaotic families and chaotic services often mirror one another. The disturbances in the family rub off on the professionals, who come to tolerate poorer standards than they should. Countering this requires good management systems run by professionals who are aware of these dynamics and who can help workers deal with the emotional aspect of their work – and recognise whether they are responding effectively to the children's need.Doncaster social services might even have felt as though they were making progress with this case. They had managed to take the boys into care in the first instance, and then place them with foster parents who were in their 60s, and so presumably wise and experienced.This may seem naive now that we know the levels of violence the boys are capable of. But no matter how unruly the boys were, it is unlikely that any professional could have predicted that they were capable of such extreme behaviour. Social workers are often caricatured as naive and only seeing the good in people, even when they have done terrible things. Most practitioners are in fact much wiser, and the profession takes pride in its achievements in working compassionately with the most marginal in society. However, a key lesson of the Baby P case was the limits to this kind of compassion: professionals neglected to take seriously the impact of childhood abuse on his mother's incapacity to care for and protect him.A key implication of this case is that social work has to improve its capacity to assess dangerousness, and become much better at confronting the reality of the harm that abuse and long-term neglect has on people's capacities to become safe, caring individuals. I stress "individuals" because, as the Doncaster case shows, childhood abuse can create not only adults but children who are capable of violence and neglect.The more therapeutic intervention directly addresses the harm children have experienced, and the earlier it does so, the better the outcomes will be for them and for society.