Six days after she disappeared from her Bristol flat the distraught parents of Joanna Yeates today spoke of their fears she that has been abducted and possibly killed.The 25-year-old landscape architect, who has not been seen since Friday, was a "sensible" and "professional" young woman, who had no reason to vanish of her own accord, her father David, 63, said in an emotional interview. "My personal feelings, she's been abducted," he said, fighting back tears. "We've got no idea of the circumstances of the abduction because of what was left behind."I've got to believe she's alive. There's too much life in her.His voice faltering he added: "If it turns out that she isn't. I still want her back. I still want to hold her one last time. That's what I want, whatever state she's in, I just want her back." He implored anyone holding her: "If you have her, if she's dead, then please tell somebody where she is. We want her back."Joanna, known as Jo to family and friends, went for a Christmas drink with work colleagues on Friday night leaving the Ram pub in Park Street, Bristol at 8pm. She then stopped in Waitrose and carried on to a Tesco Express on Regent Street at 8.40pm.As police continued one of the biggest missing persons' inquiries since the disappearance of university chef Claudia Lawrence, 35, in York last year, her parents appealed for witnesses to come forward, no matter how insignificant they thought the information they had might be.Police believe Joanna returned to the rented flat she shared with her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, 27, in Canynge Road, Clifton, because receipts for her shopping were discovered there, along with her keys, purse, bank cards, phone and cream coat.Her boyfriend had been visiting family in Sheffield at the weekend and reported her missing on returning home on Sunday night. He had tried unsuccessfully to reach her by telephone during the weekend.Her mother, Theresa, 58, a supermarket cashier, said her daughter had plans for the weekend, which included Christmas shopping and baking mince pies, which she was taking to her parents' Hampshire home where she and her boyfriend planned to spend their first Christmas together. She was also organising a party for friends in Bristol, which should have been held on Tuesday."I'm missing being able to hold her," said her mother, "and cuddle her, and make sure everything's all right."If someone's got her, don't keep her, give her back to us. We miss her so much. I know that's obvious, and no one can feel the pain that we feel."Joanna was "devoted" to her boyfriend, who was "going through hell", said her father, who works in IT and who last saw his daughter at her post-graduation ceremony last month.One of the couple's worst fears was that she was alone, lying somewhere in the snow. "With all the snow around I sometimes picture her, if she had … collapsed or been discarded, and if she was alive in all the snow and the cold … I just can't bear the thought," said her mother.Detectives are examining private CCTV footage of Canynge Road and appealing to witnesses who may have seen her or noticed something else unusual to contact them. Part of their inquiries centre on a Tesco Finest pizza box. Detective Chief Inspector Gareth Bevan said she had bought the tomato, mozzarella and basil pesto pizza, but there was no sign of it, or the box, in the flat.Police are examining a phone and computer belonging to Reardon, also an architect, as part of routine inquiries.The couple met at BDP, the company they both work for, and had been in a relationship for two years. In an emotional interview this week, he said: "I desperately want her back – I thought we would be together for ever. She was my future."Her parents said they could not believe she had chosen to go away. "She had a graduation a couple of weeks before. She and Greg were totally in love. They were devoted to each other. She had all the space she wanted, she had no work worries, no money worries, nothing that was worrying her," said her father."If she chose to go away, she would have taken some of the things with her. Like a phone, a purse, etc. I don't think for a second she would ever leave of her own volition."Greg has been away before and he's come back and anytime he's come back Jo's been there."Jo does her own thing during the weekend and always keeps in touch with Greg, and this time there was no answer when he rang, and we actually rang as well."He added she did not always answer her phone "in a timely manner", so her not answering "wasn't totally out of character".In a direct appeal to his daughter, in case she was watching, he said: "Please come home, Jo. Our hearts are breaking up with not having our little girl with us. Greg is going through hell. Please contact us, we don't know what to do without you."Anyone with information is asked to contact the Operation Braid incident room on 0845 456 7000 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.