The mother of the murdered schoolgirl Arsema Dawit today accused police of failing to protect her daughter after the family reported a man had threatened her.Speaking out as a 21-year-old student appeared in court charged with Arsema's fatal stabbing, Tsehainesh Medhani said in a statement read out by her lawyer: "I came to this country from Eritrea to live in safety."When my daughter was threatened, I went to the police seeking protection. Sadly, this did not happen."I am absolutely devastated and cannot believe what has happened to my daughter. I feel as though a light has gone out of my life."Arsema, 15, was found lying in a pool of blood in the lift of the block of flats where she lived with her family near Waterloo station, central London, on Monday. She had been stabbed up to 10 times.Thomas Nugusse, of Ilford, Essex, appeared today before Camberwell Green magistrates court accused of Arsema's murder. He was remanded in custody to appear before the Old Bailey on August 21.The Metropolitan Police has launched two internal reviews of their response to the family's complaint that Arsema had been attacked and threatened on April 30. In May, an officer spoke to Arsema at her school, the Harris Academy in Bermondsey, but she claimed to have "no knowledge" of the incident, the Met said. The force has also referred the matter to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. Police said today they had nothing new to add to details already released. Medhani wept and leaned heavily on accompanying relatives as she released her statement outside the family's home. Her lawyer, Daksheenie Abeyewardene, read out: "I have lost a precious, beautiful and much-loved daughter who was kind, generous and loving."I hope no other family has to go through the anguish that we are going through."Arsema, who had celebrated her 15th birthday on Saturday, was described by the principal of her school as popular, friendly and well-behaved. She was a member of the choir at the Eritrean orthodox Christian community church in south London, which she had attended for about three years. Arsema was the 16th teenager to be killed in London this year.