The doctor accused of killing 15 patients invented a history of angina for one of his elderly victims, buttressing his story with false computer entries after murdering her with a massive dose of morphine, a court heard yesterday.Harold Shipman, a Hyde, Greater Manchester, GP was also alleged to have told the pensioner's daughter that "there's no point sending her to hospital", shortly before the devastated woman found her mother dead at home with her sleeve rolled up and bruising on her arm."He basically made me guess my mum was dead," Kathleen Adamski told the jury at Preston crown court. Shipman denies killing her 73-year-old mother, Winifred Mellor, and 14 other women patients. Another of Mrs Mellor's three daughters, Susan Duggan, and her former parish priest also described how they were shocked by the doctor's abrupt manner. Father Denis Maher said: "I was very upset and angry. It was very uncaring and extremely insensitive." Mrs Duggan said her mother was so fit that she delighted her grandchildren by playing football with them. She described the GP's manner as so dismissive that it "was as though she hadn't been a patient of his for 18 years". The court heard that Shipman's computer notes that Mrs Mellor had seen him about chest pains the previous August and January had been entered within two minutes of one another on the day she died. A third entry supposedly immediately after her death at her home in Hyde on May 11 last year, saying that she had refused treatment, had been made the following morning. Mrs Adamski said that she had been "totally shocked" when Shipman telephoned her and asked abruptly whether she knew that he had been treating Mrs Mellor for angina for over a year. She assumed the GP was calling because her mother had been taken ill, and asked if he was sending her to hospital. When Shipman replied that there was no point, Mrs Adamski told the jury that she had asked: "Do you mean she's dead?" and he had replied: "I see you understand." Mrs Adamski said that she had then gone to the home of her mother, who had never mentioned angina and had been in good health, and found her wearing a track suit, with her glasses askew, her sleeve rolled up and her arm bruised. She angrily denied suggestions from the junior defence counsel, Ian Winter, that she had added the detail about bruising - which might follow an injection - during months leading up to the trial. She accepted that bruising was not mentioned in her statement to police in August last year, when Shipman was under investigation, but added: "I remember telling police about it. Her arm was bruised. I must have said it after I made the statement." The trial continues.