A former solicitor has alleged that the fraudster Giovanni Di Stefano ruined his practice when Mr Di Stefano worked for him as a clerk 13 years ago, by making unauthorised withdrawals of hundreds of thousands of pounds from client accounts.Barry Shaw was struck off in 1990 for failing to supervise adequately and breaches of the solicitors' accounts rules. The Guardian last week revealed that Mr Di Stefano, who appeared on television as the lawyer of Harold Shipman, is not entitled to practise law in the UK because he has failed to provide proof of his legal qualifications to the relevant authorities. He disputes this, but is currently the subject of separate investigations by the police and the Law Society.Mr Di Stefano was convicted of fraud in 1986, but claims he successfully overturned this conviction on appeal. However, the Guardian has a copy of the 1987 judgement in which his appeal was dismissed. The 1986 conviction is unconnected to the 1990 Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal proceedings. Mr Shaw said that failing to supervise the Italian conman cost him his business, his profession, his home and his marriage after he took him on as an assistant in the late 1980s. "I feel very bitter," Mr Shaw, 49, told the Guardian. "I couldn't believe it when this man popped up again this week, claiming to be mass-murderer Harold Shipman's lawyer. He ruined me." No criminal proceedings were brought, and Mr Shaw said his only mistake was trusting Mr Di Stefano. But a Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal in 1990 barred Mr Shaw from practising and ruled that no UK solicitor could employ Mr Di Stefano - then using the first name John - in any capacity without permission from the Law Society. The tribunal happened in Mr Di Stefano's absence after he left for the USA, and he was not represented. Mr Di Stefano now claims to be an avvocato, a qualified Italian lawyer, but refuses to provide proof although he has since represented high-profile clients such as the property tycoon Nicholas van Hoogstraten. In response to the Guardian's questions about the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal, Mr Di Stefano would only say that he was in the USA in 1990, and raised a series of questions about how a solicitor or articled clerk could continue to carry out legal work, even if struck off. "If a solicitor or articled clerk is struck off or precluded employment by a solicitor or law firm in the UK, what would be the case if that person employs a solicitor rather than the solicitor employing the articled clerk or struck off solicitor as agent to carry out legal work?" he said. "What is the rule for an avvocato who was once enrolled in one of the 263 local bar associations removes himself/herself for incompatibility or is removed by disciplinary proceedings, can that person using EC directive 77/249 practise in other jurisdictions?" He recently denied that he was the John Di Stefano involved in the 1990 Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal. But Mr Shaw insists he is. "The second I heard his voice on the radio I knew it was him, and later I saw him on television," he said. "I can't believe he has the gall to come back to England. He should be in jail, not on television." Mr Shaw was working for another solicitors' firm, Compton Carr in Holborn, when he first met Mr Di Stefano in 1988 through one of his clients, a travel agent with substantial property interests. Mr Di Stefano was at that time working for this client as a general administrative assistant. After several months, Mr Shaw set up on his own. "I got an office in Piccadilly and took Di Stefano on as an assistant - he never claimed to be a lawyer then. He is a clever man and very plausible, and soon he was acting as company secretary for this client and signing off cheques. "Then he took off to the US to get involved in business there, and the client complained to me there was money missing from his accounts. "I said I knew nothing about it, but it was obvious what had happened and money had gone missing from my other client accounts as well. The client called in the Law Society and that was that. Di Stefano was in America when the tribunal was going on and he never contacted me again. "I was stupid to have trusted him but he talks a good story. He had an explanation for everything. His house in Cambridge was pretty ordinary, but he told me he was wealthy." "God knows how many other lives he's ruined," said Mr Shaw, who now runs a small consultancy from his home in Essex. "He shouldn't be allowed to get away with it."