A pub landlord who was assaulted with a pint glass today criticised a judge for the "ridiculous" U-turn that spared his attacker from prison because he cried in the dock.Daniel Hardman, 21, broke down at Liverpool crown court after being sentenced to six months for throwing a pint glass into Christopher Glover's face and for witness intimidation.As Hardman was led away by a security officer, Judge Denis Clark asked that a careful eye be kept on him in jail to make sure he did not harm himself, the Liverpool Daily Post reported.A few minutes later, the judge called Hardman back into court and said he had decided to suspend the sentence for two years.He also ordered Hardman, of Leigh, Greater Manchester, to serve 200 hours' community service and pay his victim £500 compensation at £100 a month.Judge Clark told the court he had changed his mind after seeing Hardman's remorse. "I have 18 years' experience and I saw your demeanour when you left the dock and saw your genuine fear, regret and remorse at the thought of going to prison," he said."I am prepared to reconsider my original sentence. The court is not in the business of destroying people. The few weeks you would spend in prison might destroy you."Judge Clark pointed out that Hardman had an excellent work record, had pleaded guilty at the magistrates' court, and that the throwing of the glass had been reckless rather than deliberately aimed at the landlord.Mr Glover today described the judge's decision as "ridiculous"."He has given a green light for people to attack landlords," he said. "My job is hard enough as it is without people thinking they can attack me and then get away with it by turning on the waterworks in court."Hardman pleaded guilty to assault causing actual bodily harm to Mr Glover, the licensee of the Wheatsheaf pub in Leigh, last September.He threw a pint glass that hit the 35-year-old in the face, causing a gash to his lip, which had to be glued shut. The attack was witnessed by Mr Glover's young children.Hardman later shouted abuse and threats at Mr Glover about the impending court case. He appeared to show little remorse when interviewed by BBC Radio Five Live today. Asked if he was crying for himself, he replied: "Yes, I didn't want to go to prison."When asked if he was upset about his victims, he replied: "No, I was just more bothered about going to prison. I don't deserve to be in prison - at least I don't think so, not with what people get away with nowadays."Clive Elliot, of the Victims of Crime Trust, told the Daily Post: "I am genuinely shocked and appalled. I've never heard of anything like it."The judge says he wasn't born yesterday, but what he has done opens up the floodgates to any perpetrator to lay it on in the hope of a more lenient sentence."Mr Glover added: "Would the judge be so forgiving of it was him that had been attacked with a pint glass in front of his kids? If it had been normal glass, instead of toughened glass, it would have cut my face to pieces."A lot of people would have given him a hiding, but I can't do that because I would lose my job, whether I cried or not. I did things by the book, and he's totally got away with it. That's British justice for you."