The mother of a five-year-old girl mauled to death by a pit bull terrier today told a court how the dog was jealous of her daughter and "hated her".Lindsey Simpson, 25, revealed that whenever her daughter, Ellie Lawrenson, visited her grandmother's house, the terrier became jealous because it was put outside.Ellie died after the dog attacked her at the home of her grandmother, Jackie Simpson, in St Helen's, Liverpool, on New Year's Day. She suffered 72 separate injuries.Simpson, 46, denies the charge of manslaughter through gross negligence. Giving evidence at Liverpool crown court today, Ellie's mother told the jury how the dog, named Reuben, would be put outside whenever they visited Simpson."It was jealous of her and hated her," she said. "I used to look through the windows and say, 'Never let this dog get in the house'."It would look in and I could see it was jealous because it was outside and she was in."It was common knowledge for the dog not to come in. Everybody knew what it could do if it got a child." The court was told that Ms Simpson, who has another child, Joshua, had always resisted having the dog in the house at the same time as Ellie.She said she believed the birth of her son in 2006 would force the family to get rid of the dog because she did not want it around her children."I couldn't wait for Josh to be born because it wasn't coming in the house again - I hated the dog," she told the jury.As her mother sat in the dock crying, Ms Simpson said her mother knew she had to keep Reuben away from Ellie.She said that her mother had even had a hand in making the rule, so there was no need to remind her of it on New Year's Eve."Every time we went through the back door we would make sure the door was locked and the key out because Ellie loved the dog and the key would be out of her reach," she said. "Mum agreed to that arrangement. She used to tell it to us. We all said, 'Don't let the dog near the kids'." Ms Simpson was with her partner, Ellie's father, Darren Lawrenson, when the attack happened.The court heard how Simpson had taken drugs and alcohol on the day that she had been taking care of Ellie.The pit bull, which was later shot by police, belonged to Simpson's son and Ellie's uncle, Kiel Simpson.He admitted to owning a dangerous dog, and was jailed for eight weeks earlier this year.The case continues.