Jerking one's knee has, I suppose, its merits. It provides excellent exercise for one's mouth and one's pen, if not one's brain. Thus, Michael Winterbottom's latest film, The Killer Inside Me, has provided some excellent knee exercise for certain commentators and critics who have deemed the film, and Winterbottom himself, "gratuitously violent", "misogynistic" and "a nasty blockhead".Having never met Winterbottom, I cannot vouch for the shape of his head. Having seen the film, though, I can say that I have had plenty more "gratuitously violent" nights at the cinema and certainly much, much more misogynistic ones. In truth, Winterbottom has made an unexpectedly moral film, one that puts many of Hollywood's most common cliches to shame, and if some critics don't see that, it is because they can't see the screen through their knee-jerks.It is nearly impossible to go to the cinema and not find yourself watching some violence. I find this both baffling and annoying as I'd far rather see two characters, say, doing a karaoke version of Oklahoma! (When Harry Met Sally, obviously) than punching each others' faces in. But perhaps I am alone in this, because the ubiquity of violence in movies suggests there is a market for it. Or maybe it's just easier for screenwriters to write "A punches B" than realistic conversations and funny jokes.The Killer Inside Me, adapted from Jim Thompson's novel, is incredibly brutal – shockingly so to a generation who grew up in the era of Guy Ritchie, who stylises violence as lovingly as a ballet fan would stage Swan Lake. The scenes in which Lou (played by the superior Affleck, Casey) beats up his girlfriend (Kate Hudson) and Joyce, his mistress who is also a prostitute (Jessica Alba), are shot in bone-crunching close-up. As I said, I'd rather not see any violence at all. But if a movie is going to feature it, it is surely preferable to show it honestly than idealistically, euphemistically or even aspirationally.There is a big difference between a film depicting violence and one that glorifies it, and similarly a movie that features a misogynist is not necessarily a misogynistic film.The day after I saw The Killer Inside Me I happened to watch Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. Now there is a film that glorifies violence, because it equates it with being cool, and makes a punch in the face look like something one recovers from as easily as a bit of grit in one's eye. The Killer Inside Me shows violence as something that causes irrevocable damage. It is not sexy, nor set to some adrenaline pumping hip-hop or rock'n'roll soundtrack. Even though Affleck is the main character, he remains wholly unglorified. This differs from pretty much everything in the oeuvre of those modern- day auteurs of glorified violence, Ritchie and Quentin Tarantino.Stella Duffy complained on The Review Show that "we don't need to see [Jessica Alba's] head being smashed and smashed . . . Pull the curtain!" But coyness is precisely the wrong way to depict violence, particularly domestic violence. Domestic violence does not make for a glitzy thriller as Sleeping With the Enemy seemed to think, where the camera can always tastefully pan away. It makes for a woman crying "why?" as her partner pummels her.Another criticism has been that Joyce says she loves Lou even after he beats her. But masochism is a common, and tragic, component of violent relationships, as Roddy Doyle showed in one of the best books ever written about domestic violence, The Woman Who Walked Into Doors, in which the main character stays despite the beatings. And Doyle, like Winterbottom, is unstinting in his descriptions of the violence.Similarly, it is far more misogynistic and "blockheaded" to suggest that the life of a prostitute or call girl has a fairytale ending (Pretty Woman, The Hangover) than to show her as a deeply damaged character who is unlikely to end up with her prince. Even tarts with hearts don't end well.So as I said, I've had more misogynistic nights out, but I've also had more enjoyable ones. This movie ain't no laff-a-thon, but then, neither is domestic violence. If you want to see a movie that the leading actors should be ashamed of appearing in – as one columnist said of Alba and Hudson – go see Sex and the City 2. Guy Ritchie, meanwhile, should see this.A killer and a sex tourist There has, understandably, been much talk about whether anything in Cumbrian killer Derrick Bird's life should have given any kind of advance warning, and how to prevent a repeat tragedy. Theories ranging from denying anyone on anti-depressants gun licences to frequent psychological testing for cab drivers have all been advanced – yet the most telling detail from Bird's life has been omitted from such discussions: his reported fondness for going to Thailand to have sex with prostitutes.I have been to Thailand many times because, in general, I love it. One thing I hate about it, though, is the Caucasian men – almost always middle-aged, almost always looking a lot like Bird did – who hang around bars, groping the Thai women who wear more makeup than Ivana Trump but whose bodies suggest they are probably about 14.Once, I was privileged to sit next to one of these gentlemen on the plane back and he explained that, actually, he was performing a benevolent service because he was "helping the nation's economy". It takes no small amount of psychosis to pay a broke teenager to have sex with you and to enjoy it, let alone think she's enjoying it. Thus, anyone who goes on one of these holidays shouldn't just be denied gun licences, they should be denied all human rights.