There are some messages that bear repeating, if only in the vain hope that one day they'll finally sink in: so here goes. When a woman dresses in a low-cut top or a skirt that barely covers her arse: that's not an invitation to rape her. When she has had a few too many to drink: that's not an invitation to rape her. When a woman is in a relationship with a man: that's not an invitation for him to rape her. And if a woman has already engaged in some form of intimacy with a man, again, that's not an invitation for him to rape her.But don't just take it from me."This is not an invitation to rape me" is the name of a campaign currently being run by Rape Crisis Scotland that aims to challenge the very rape myths I've highlighted here. The myths that say that when a woman is dressed provocatively she's "asking for it," or that when she gets drunk it's her own fault if some sexual predator comes along and takes advantage of her. The myths that have become so deeply embedded in British society that in survey after survey a significant proportion of respondents have had no hesitation in claiming them as fact, and that are so endemic they even find their way into our court rooms, influencing both juries and judges alike.While the rape conviction rate in England hovers shamefully around the 5.6% mark, in Scotland the situation is even more depressing. There, only 2.9% of rapes reported to the police result in a conviction, and as the campaign website notes: "societal attitudes continue to play a significant role in limiting justice for women who have experienced this crime." Indeed, a survey carried out by the Scottish Executive last year found that when it comes to rape, as many as 27% of Scots believe a woman is partly to blame if she's drunk, while 26% think she's partly to blame if she's wearing revealing clothes. Up to 32% of Scots meanwhile, feel that if a woman's flirting, well, let's face it, she deserves whatever happens to her.And it's not just in Scotland that the woman-blaming meme persists. The Scottish Executive findings virtually mirror the findings of an Amnesty International survey that was carried out across the UK into public attitudes around rape, as well as the findings of a similar survey that was done in September with students in Northern Ireland.These attitudes are nothing new of course. Fern Britton has recently disclosed that when she was 21 she was raped by a man she'd invited into her home: "It was a long time before I told anyone. I knew I had put myself in a dangerous position." She recounts in her memoirs:I'd invited this stranger into the flat so it was my fault it had happened. I had agreed to a dinner date. I had let him do what he did.Did I report it to the police? No. Because I didn't have bruises and he didn't hit me.There are thousands of women up and down the country who will be able to identify with Britton's response to the crime committed against her all those years ago. Women who, because of the messages they've received from the society around them, will have felt themselves culpable in some way, and who will have stayed silent about their assaults for fear of the opprobrium that would inevitably have been heaped upon them if they had dared to speak out.But hopefully that's all about to change.On top of the myth-busting Rape Crisis Scotland campaign, we also have a ruling from the court of appeal that looks set to shatter another popular rape misconception: this time the one that says that when there's a delay in the time it takes a woman to report a rape, the chances are she's making it up. Following Friday's ruling, judges in rape trials will now be able to explain to their juries how the trauma of an attack can cause feelings of "shame and guilt" in the victim, and how that can deter them from reporting to the police straight away. This is a welcome judgment, especially as it comes from an establishment that isn't exactly renowned for showing any sympathy towards the victims of this heinous crime.When Helen Mirren stuck her oar into the debate recently with her: "It's such a tricky area, isn't it? Especially if there's no violence," campaigners worried that she would put even more women off from reporting their rapes. These latest developments couldn't have been timed better, and should go some way towards counteracting the thinking Mirren and her ilk perpetuate with their "stranger rape is the only real rape" shtick.While the Rape Crisis campaign is currently limited to Scotland, I know I'm not the only one hoping we can find some way to get it extended across the UK, or who's planning to download the posters (pdf) and stick them up in every public space they can find this side of the border anyway. These are vital messages, and ones we can't afford to ignore if we want to see real justice for rape victims. It's time to put an end to the myths that so many from coming forward, and it's time we stopped telling women constantly that whatever's happened to them, at the end of the day if they weren't dressed in a burka and supping on soft drinks only when they were assaulted, they've only themselves to blame. A woman has the right to say no to sex whatever state she's in, however she's dressed, and no matter what her relationship or previous sexual experience with her assailant. And if he can't take no for an answer, or if he carries on regardless without checking for consent first, then the blame lies solely with him. It's not her fault.