An obsessive sadist and gun fanatic faces life in jail after a jury convicted him of threatening, stalking and ultimately murdering a talented young showjumper after she had broken off their engagement.Mark Dyche had drawn up a horrific list of brutal fantasies about 26-year-old Tania Moore before he dressed in a pesticide-spraying suit and balaclava, rammed her car off a quiet country road and shot her in the head.A three-week hearing at Nottingham crown court was told that Dyche, 36, had a record of stalking women and had once threatened his former wife at knifepoint.After the verdict, Derbyshire police admitted that their investigations of the threats and a violent robbery at Ms Moore's stables had not been up to standard.Ms Moore, who was trapped in her car when shot at point-blank range, had sent police a list of Dyche's threats - including gouging out her eyes and breaking her legs - but it was only opened on the day of her death. The killer also made no attempt to cover his traces during his year-long campaign, sending text messages to Ms Moore from his mobile and telling friends about his plans for revenge.Both lived in rural Derbyshire, where Ms Moore pursued her jumping career. Dyche had criminal friends while Ms Moore moved in a world of hunt balls. They met at a Young Farmers' dance and shared a love of country sports.Dyche, a digger driver who lived with his mother at Marston Montgomery on the river Dove, showed no remorse throughout the hearing or after the verdict. He was also found guilty of conspiracy to rob Ms Moore. The jury resumes deliberations today on a similar charge against Jason Bloor, 32.Crucial evidence was provided by four other men who admitted conspiracy, including Colin Colley, who drove with Dyche to the fatal ambush, believing that the aim was just to frighten the young horsewoman. After the murder, the pair burned their getaway car and were picked up by Dyche's new girlfriend, Helen Smith, who was told that she "did not need to know" what they had been doing.Ms Smith was also told to lie to police and tell them that Dyche had been with her all evening on the day of the murder in March last year. In desperation Dyche offered Colley £50,000 if he would take the blame for the shooting.Peter Joyce QC, prosecuting, told the jury of eight men and four women before they retired: "This murder was the finishing point. The starting point was that Dyche used to watch her, threaten her and steal things from her."[He] then approached others to rob her. He wanted her hurting. He stalked her, robbed her, threatened her and finally killed her. It was he who pulled the trigger."Dyche told the court that Ms Moore had spread rumours about him and at one stage claimed that she had boasted to friends about stealing £30,000 from him - an allegation he later withdrew.He was arrested for harassment soon after the break-up in 2003 and bound over to keep the peace. But before long he was arranging with three men from Stoke, Craig Stonier, 41, John Booth, 23, and a 17-year-old who cannot be named for legal reasons, to steal back a watch he had given Ms Moore and her mobile phone. The three have all admitted conspiracy to rob.Mr Justice Bean said Dyche would start a life term in prison at once, although sentencing will be delayed until the verdict in Mr Bloor's case. Outside the court Tania's father Peter Moore called for the return of capital punishment for such cold-blooded and premeditated killings.He also criticised police for their response to Dyche's torrent of threats against their daughter. "If they had done a proper job we would not being having this trial," he saidDetective Superintendent John Briggs of Derbyshire police said: "We have learned quite a serious lesson and we will now move forward and up the standards for the future."The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating the case.