The home secretary, David Blunkett, last night hinted strongly that he wants to introduce compulsory lie detector tests for the first time for convicted sex offenders released from prison.A decision on the introduction of the tests is to be taken by the government this summer. The reliability of polygraph tests has proved controversial in Britain but the results of a small voluntary pilot scheme in the north-east has shown their use was welcomed by probation staff involved in supervising sex offenders. Mr Blunkett also announced that new American satellite tagging technology is to be tested in England and Wales later this year to track the whereabouts of serious offenders at all times. Mr Blunkett, speaking during a Labour Big Conversation event in Oxford, said he regards the development of tough tracking measures to protect the public from offenders released from prison as a key part of Labour's third term programme on law and order. Mr Blunkett hopes this new generation of electronic tagging will allow the police to know when offenders have been near the scene of a crime and boost public confidence in the supervision of offenders in the community. He sees such tracking as one of the key developments in the criminal justice system over the next 10 years and it is expected to form a major part of the government's five-year plan on crime and disorder. A new register of violent and sexual offenders, to be managed jointly by the police and probation services, will give the police instant access to accurate and detailed information on all known dangerous offenders. The lie detector pilot scheme is seen as an effective means of providing reassurance about an offender's inclination to commit a further crime so that action could be taken, said a spokesman for Mr Blunkett. The results also convinced ministers that convicted sex offenders are less likely to lie under pressure of a polygraph test about their current behaviour or past history. The machines would not be used to gather evidence to be used in court. The controversial tests claim to detect when people are lying by measuring variations in blood pressure, breathing, heart rate and perspiration. The decision on the introduction of lie detector tests this summer is to be taken at the same time as the pilot scheme gets under way on the electronic tagging technology. Different types of criminals, including convicted sex of fenders and the perpetrators of domestic violence, are to be included in the pilot scheme. If the pilot proves successful, Labour will make it a third term priority to extend its use for a broader range of offenders, Mr Blunkett said. The legal powers already exist for prisoners released on licence to be tracked in this way but ministers want to extend them to those on community penalties. The new technology, which has been employed effectively in several US states, uses global satellite positioning equipment to enable police and probation staff to pinpoint the wearer to within three metres. Some versions are capable of providing details every day of where the offender has been. This information can be recorded remotely and used to build up a profile of the user to help predict if they will offend again. As with existing electronic tags, the device is fitted to the offender's ankle but, instead of being linked to a telephone line in his home, has a wireless connection to a mobile phone that must be carried at all times. If the phone is separated from the tag an alarm is triggered in the probation service's monitoring centre. Mr Blunkett hopes that the technology will prove crucial in helping to ensure that the highest risk offenders stay away from locations, such as school playgrounds or particular addresses, where they have been banned. But it will also enable the police to know whether they have been near the scene of a reported crime.