Private security guards in shopping centres and council officers are among those to be given the power to issue fixed penalty fines of up to £100 under legislation to curb antisocial behaviour announced yesterday.The battery of new powers for the police and local authorities to deal with antisocial neighbours, graffiti, truanting children and to curb the growth of "yob culture" are to be enforced by local "community justice" mini-courts. They will be used to enforce the kind of "instant justice" that will give environmental health officers the power to give neighbours who make excessive noise at night a 10-minute warning before they face a £100 fine and the threat of confiscation of their stereo or television if they do not pay. The measures are contained in the government white paper, Respect and Responsibility - taking a stand against antisocial behaviour, published yesterday by the home secretary, David Blunkett, and are to be enshrined in legislation to be introduced next month. The short consultation period led to accusations yesterday that the package was little more than Labour window dressing for the local elections. The white paper does not include measures once pushed by Downing Street including docking the child benefit of the parents of persistently truanting children. The controversial idea of the former social security minister, Frank Field, to deduct the housing benefit of antisocial tenants will be subject to further consultation before it is included in a separate housing bill later this year. Mr Blunkett said yesterday he believed that "no one in this country should beg". The bill will provide the courts with the power, after three convictions, to impose a community sentence, including drug treatment. Drug treatment charities last night warned about criminalising beggars. Mr Blunkett said the white paper encapsulated his "vision of a something for something society" which would deal with the kind of the low-level criminality that blighted communities and ruined people's lives. But the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, raised fears that another government bill - the 15th dealing with crime and disorder since Labour came to power - would do little to cure the problem. "The fact is that the boys in the gangs on the streets are strangely unaware of your laws because they are so little enforced," he claimed. For the Liberal Democrats, Simon Hughes said more effective use of existing powers rather than new legislation was needed and claimed that the timing of the bill demonstrated that it was little more than "window dressing for the May local elections". Fixed penalty fines will be issued by the police, community safety officers, street wardens, private security guards, environmental health officers and education welfare officers and others, accredited by a chief constable and vetted through a new security industry association. The fines were introduced for disorder offences in 2001 in four pilot areas, with 60% paid within 21 days and only 2% of cases ending up in court. Community justice mini-courts will deal with all low-level disorder offences and antisocial behaviour. They will give access to drug treatment and debt counselling and order reparations to the community. Police and school staff will be able to issue fixed penalty fines to parents who condone or ignore truancy. They will get a parenting order where a child has been excluded from school for serious misbehaviour. There will be intensive support schemes for families, with intensive fostering schemes as an alternative to putting the children in custody in extreme cases. The white paper also targets antisocial use of fireworks and air weapons, fly-tipping, graffiti and fly-posting. Noisy pubs and clubs may be closed and licences refused if there are disorder problems in a particular area. To tackle prostitution, persistent kerb crawlers could lose their driving licences.  Main points  · £80-£100 fixed penalty fines for a wider range of anti-social behaviour, including 16-17 year olds for first time · Dock housing benefit and make it easier to evict 'neighbours from hell'; power to confiscate noisy stereos and televisions · Local authority powers to close noisy pubs and clubs · Rogue private landlords to lose local authority licence to receive direct housing benefit payment · Housing associations empowered to act against anti-social tenants, including faster eviction and removing the right to buy · Police power to disperse intimidating steet gangs of youths · Fines, parenting orders, residential parenting classes for parents of disorderly and truanting children; intensive fostering of children of persistently dysfunctional families · Action to close 'crack houses' within 24 hours for 3 months or longer · Begging to become recordable offence so that courts can order drug treatment · Media ban on naming children subject to anti-social behaviour order to be lifted · Ban on airguns and replica guns, age limit for ownership raised from 14 to 17 · Ban on spray paint sales to under 18s, and fines for graffiti, litter and fly-tipping · Kerb crawlers to lose driving licences · Local mini-courts - community justice centres - to deal with anti-social offences