The ban on handguns is to be extended to replica firearms, amid police fears of a new trend among teenagers to carry such "weapons", the Home Office minister, Charles Clarke, said yesterday.He was opening an exhibition at the Houses of Parliament of more than 30 replica weapons, including a deactivated Uzi machine pistol, an SA-80 assault rifle and handguns. "Our aim is to get to a position where replica firearms are banned," said Mr Clarke. "But the definition of what is a replica firearm is a question that needs careful consideration. Would toys of a much smaller size than the real thing fall under such a ban, and what about the kind of imitation that is used on stage?" The exhibition was staged by the Gun Control Network, which campaigned for the ban on handguns after the Dunblane school massacre. The group claims that imitation weapons pose a real threat and are freely available by mail order and in some toy shops and army surplus stores. Gill Marshall-Andrews, its chairwoman, welcomed the government's backing for its latest campaign but called for legislation. "We do want to see something happening about this soon. The proliferation of these weapons is alarming." Commander Mike Fuller of the Metropolitan police's anti-firearms Operation Trident, said: "One undesirable trend we are seeing is young people carrying these imitation and replica firearms as fashion accessories. It's an unhealthy fashion, but there is a cultural aspect to it within a section of black youths who follow 'gangster rap' and that type of music." He said the Met supported a ban on replica firearms being carried in public places but acknowledged that legislation would have to be carefully drafted to enforce the ban. A Home Office spokeswoman said a ban was unlikely to involve plastic toys such as water pistols: "What we are most concerned about is replicas which look like real guns with anything short of a close inspection." Gun sports enthusiasts claim that gun crime has risen since the ban on handguns was imposed in 1997. They cite official figures showing that gun crime rose to a peak in 1999-00 when 42 people were shot dead and guns were used in nearly 3,700 crimes.