Cem Duzgun was gunned down during a spike in violence between Turkish crime gangs who used hired killers to do their dirty work. Two years on, police are appeal ing for information about the perpetrators. It is only one of a series of unsolved contract-style killings, which are among the hardest homicides to unravel.Close examination of murder statistics across London shows that the number of contract killings is higher than official figures initially suggest. In 2009, the year Duzgun died in a Hackney social club – an innocent victim, police believe, of a botched reprisal attack – homicide figures suggested there were no contract killings. But analysis of the statistics, the style of the murders and the weapons used suggests there were at least four professional hits in 2009.Last year there was an apparent rise in these murders, with at least eight across the capital, including one of the most sensitive investigations for the Metropolitan police since the murder of Russian Alexander Litvinenko – the assassination of a leading Pakistani politician, Dr Imran Farooq – who was living in exile in London.Contract killings range from budget murders, where hitmen, often young men, some in their teens, are paid a few hundred pounds, to more professional killings, including one in which a Kosovan gunman shot three men in two days, killing two and wounding the third.Detective chief superintendent Hamish Campbell, commander of the homicide and serious crime unit at Scotland Yard, explained the difference between official statistics and reality."We can look at some murders – the weapon used (contract killings are mainly, but not exclusively, firearms) the lack of a connection between the victim and the perpetrator – and we can say this has to be a contract killing. But even if we say this we are some way off proving it and the frustrating thing is that often we never get to the bottom of what was behind the killing."Although the figures are a small percentage of the total number of murders a year – which average about 130 – the killings present investigators with some of the greatest challenges."Using a contract killer creates this gap between the victim and the killer which challenges investigators," said Campbell. "These people do not put anything in writing, there are no email links or text messages. These are people who have planned their killing, arranged their getaway and done everything they can think of to avoid leaving a forensic trail."Duzgun's murder was one of a series which police believe were carried out by Turkish crime gangs using young black men as hired killers. They include the murder last year of Gulistan Subasi, 26, a Turkish mother shot dead on her east London doorstep by 15-year-old hitman Santre Sanchez Gayle, who was paid £200. Although Gayle has been convicted, those who hired him remain at large.On the second anniversary of Duzgun's death this month, his mother Ipez Duzgun said the family were struggling to cope. "We cannot sleep at night knowing that the people responsible for Cem's murder walk freely without a care in the world," she said.Three months before the murder of Duzgun, 21, Ryan Musgrove was the victim of another contract killing, executed with precision. Intelligence suggests Musgrove was known in the criminal underworld as an enforcer for drug gangs. His past apparently caught up with him as he arrived for football training at Sparrows Den playing fields in West Wickham, on the border of Greater London and Kent, on the evening of 16 July 2009.As he arrived, the killer emerged from behind a tree, his face covered in a hood. Aiming a handgun, he fired two shots and killed Musgrove instantly, before jumping on a mountain bike and cycling away. Investigators have discovered that the gunman had carried out a reconnaissance visit three days before. Police investigating the murder have been frustrated by the lack of information from the criminal underworld.Last month counterterrorism officers investigating the murder of Farooq posted a £20,000 reward for information.The politician, a senior figure in Pakistan's MQM (Muttahida Quami Movement) party, was stabbed and battered to death outside his north London home in September last year and discovered by neighbours who believed they had witnessed a fight.Police, who recovered two kitchen knives, believe his killers carried out reconnaissance outside Farooq's house in the days leading up to the murder. Detectives say the attack would have required careful planning and they believe the killers may have been helped by a number of people.This year, Ghanaian born Randy Osei-Boateng, 27, became one of the latest victims of contract-style killing. He was shot dead by a lone gunman as he sat in a car in Shepherd's Bush, west London, with his girlfriend. Police, who arrested and released two teenagers, are still hunting the killer.Despite the difficulties faced by detectives investigating professional hits there have been arrests and convictions. Last month, Kosovan-born Hajdar Kasumaj was convicted of a double killing and the attempted murder of another man over two days in July last year. Kasumaj had shot all the victims at close range and detectives found two handguns in his possession when they caught him after circulating details of his getaway car.Kasumaj, 51, claimed he was settling debts. He was sentenced to life with a recommendation he serve a minimum of 20 years in prison.