Detectives have launched a murder inquiry after the discovery of a girl's severed limbs dumped in a canal and on nearby allotments in Loughborough, Leicestershire, it emerged yesterday.The arm was discovered floating in the Grand Union canal near the Belton Road bridge on Sunday afternoon and the two legs were found by a woman out walking her dog on nearby allotments on Alan Moss Road less than 24 hours later. Yesterday police said that a postmortem examination had revealed the limbs belonged to a girl aged between 11 and 15. They had been wrapped in black bin liners and disposed of over the weekend. Last night divers continued to search the canal and teams scoured the surrounding area to find the rest of the corpse. Officers were conducting house-to-house inquiries, liaising with local schools and checking other forces' lists of missing people in an attempt to identify the girl. The victim is thought to have been between 5ft 5in and 5ft 11in tall, with a shoe size of approximately seven. Detective Superintendent Bob Small, who is leading the inquiry, said tests had shown she was not of Afro-Caribbean or North African descent, but might have been of "dual heritage", and that she died after last Thursday. "We would appeal for anyone that had any useful information that will help us identify this young girl to come forward," he said. "I would ask particularly for people that have missed either a friend or a relative or anybody they know that fits the description and has not been seen since last Thursday. "Certainly this crime has been committed over the weekend and the activities of the person involved may have changed and their normal lifestyle may have altered. "There are still body parts that we are searching for and we would ask the public to be vigilant, particularly if they see anything suspicious in black bin liners." The police are keen to talk to anyone who was in the Belton Road or Alan Moss Road area between 6am on Friday and 3pm on Sunday. "I would urge them to think back to see if they remember seeing or hearing anything suspicious or unusual," Det Supt Small said. "If anyone has any information, no matter how insignificant it may appear, I would ask them to speak to us. It may prove of vital importance to the investigation." Anyone with information should contact police on 0116 222 2222 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.