The racing industry was preparing itself to face a betting scandal that stretches to the top of the sport yesterday, after police officers investigating allegations of race-fixing arrested 16 people, including the current champion flat jockey, Kieren Fallon.If any or all are charged with conspiracy to defraud, the evidence against them will have been gleaned from phone records and computer databases, and not the fingerprints on a dope-filled syringe. Its impact on racing, though, could be more dramatic than anything that Dick Francis might imagine. Two more jockeys, Fergal Lynch and Darren Williams, were also among those arrested, along with a successful trainer, Karl Burke. Also detained in a total of 19 early morning raids was Miles Rodgers, a disgraced former owner who was banned from the sport for two years by the Jockey Club in March this year. It was the inclusion of Fallon among those detained yesterday that caused the greatest shock in racing circles, however, for all that his career has always veered giddily between peaks and troughs. Fallon emerged as a tough, uncompromising apprentice jockey in the late 1980s, displaying aggression both during and, on occasions, after a race. He was banned for 10 days in 1994 for hitting another jockey with his whip, and soon afterwards was so enraged by the riding tactics of Stuart Webster in a minor race at Beverley that he hauled him from his saddle after passing the post. He was banned from riding for six months as a result. His determination to succeed made him a firm favourite with the punters, though, and his career path turned sharply upwards in 1997 when he was appointed stable jockey to Henry Cecil. He rode his first Derby winner for Cecil two years later, only to be sacked by the trainer soon afterwards following claims - which Fallon denied - of an affair with Cecil's then wife, Natalie.  Out of the saddle  The pattern of rapidly changing fortunes has continued for Fallon ever since, with six championship seasons in the last seven years punctuated by a near-fatal fall at Royal Ascot in June 2000 that kept him out of the saddle for six months. Fallon is currently awaiting a hearing at the Jockey Club on a charge of bringing racing into disrepute following an undercover investigation by reporters from the News of the World that was published this year under the headline "The Fixer". If he is charged with conspiracy to defraud following yesterday's arrest, one of the great postwar riding careers could be heading towards a miserable conclusion. Central to the evidence compiled in the case will be client betting records provided by Betfair, the internet's leading betting exchange. Betfair brings online gamblers around the world together at a single website where they can place bets and, crucially, accept money from other backers. Since Betfair's launch less than four years ago, it has proved wildly popular with punters, who will usually get significantly better odds than a backer with a conventional bookmaker. However, it has also faced persistent criticism that it allows clients with inside information - for instance, that a horse is off its feed, or recovering from illness - to earn easy money from punters who are not "in the know". Rodgers, another of those arrested yesterday, has already been banned from racing by the Jockey Club for doing just that. In March, he was found guilty of accepting bets on two horses owned by the Platinum Racing Club, of which he was a director, which were subsequently well beaten. Rodgers was later revealed to have also accepted substantial bets on a horse called Ballinger Ridge, which was narrowly beaten in a race at Lingfield in February when Fallon, its jockey, eased down prematurely and threw away a five-length lead. It is unclear, though, whether this race forms part of the latest investigation. Betfair's database logs and stores every bet struck on a given race. Paradoxically, this means the site could become an important new tool in the regulation of the sport as sophisticated software is also in place to highlight unusual betting patterns, for instance when a certain client enjoys a surprisingly high success rate on horses ridden by a particular jockey. The City of London police, who took over the latest investigation into alleged race-fixing after receiving information from the Jockey Club earlier this year, have a wealth of experience when it comes to analysing such data, and teasing out patterns that suggest collusion. The racing and betting industries must wait as the investigators sift through the evidence recovered during the raids, before deciding whether charges can be laid. The Jockey Club seemed resigned to the likelihood that Fallon's arrest would generate poor publicity for the sport in the short term. He is an immense figure on the British turf, and his association with fresh headlines involving race-fixing, regardless of whether charges are laid against him, is inevitably damaging. A high-profile trial which casts a light into some of the murkier corners of the racing business might also produce a number of embarrassing revelations. In the longer term, however, there is a growing belief that if the club is seen to be doing its job by rooting out corrupting influences, it can only be good for the standing of a sport on which British punters gamble many millions of pounds every day.History of scandal February 1998 Kieren Fallon wins £70,000 damages after high court jury decides he had not conspired to cheat when riding Top Cees at Newmarket. The Sporting Life had alleged the horse was not doing its best to win. November 2002 Graham Bradley banned for eight years for misleading the Jockey Club over ties with alleged drugs baron Brian Wright. Ban is later cut to five years. A high court ruling on a further appeal is due shortly.  December 2002 Brian Wright is "warned off" from British racecourses indefinitely - charges included placing bets using "privileged inside information".  June 2003 Club charges trainer Alan Berry, jockey Paul Bradley, farrier Steve O'Sullivan and amateur Dale Jewett with laying Hillside Girl to lose on betting exchanges knowing or suspecting she was lame. The filly was pulled up at Carlisle. A July Jockey Club hearing was adjourned until September 14.  October 2003 Bradley and Fallon confronted in Panorama's exposé, The Corruption of Racing. Former champion amateur jockey Dermot Browne tells how jockeys were offered cash, cocaine and prostitutes to fix races for Brian Wright.  March 2004 News of the World reporters, posing as punters, claim Fallon told them a horse called Rye would win a Lingfield race in which Fallon was riding Ballinger Ridge. After racing clear, Fallon eases up and is caught close to the line by Rye. Fallon receives 21-day ban  March 2004 Jockey Sean Fox is suspended for 21 days for "stepping off" Ice Saint at Fontwell. The horse had drifted suspiciously in online betting. Fox denied the claim. An appeal is due shortly.  March 2004 Miles Rodgers, of Platinum Racing syndicate, is warned off racecourses for two years after betting on two of his horses to lose; they did.  April 2004 Fallon and John Egan to face a Jockey Club inquiry after News of the World report. A hearing has yet to be fixed.  Ron Cox