The family of Karen Buckley said they were “absolutely heartbroken” after remains found on farmland outside Glasgow were confirmed to be those of the missing student.In a statement read by Det Supt Jim Kerr, her father, John, said: “Marian and I, together with our sons Brendan, Kieran, and Damian, are absolutely heartbroken. Karen was our only daughter, cherished by her family and loved by her friends. “She was an outgoing girl who travelled the world, where she met lots of people and thoroughly enjoyed her life. We will miss her terribly.”A 21-year-old man is to appear in court on Friday after his arrest on Wednesday in connection with the death of the 24-year-old occupational health student from Cork in Ireland, who disappeared during a night out with friends in Glasgow.A report has been sent to the procurator fiscal, who will present the case in the hearing at Glasgow sheriff court, said a Police Scotland spokesman. A decision will then be taken on any charges against the man.Kerr said on Thursday: “I can now confirm that the body discovered by officers at the farm in north Glasgow last night is that of Karen Buckley. “We cannot imagine the pain and suffering of Karen’s family and friends and all our thoughts are with them at this very sad and distressing time. “We would like to take this opportunity to thank the public and the communities both here and in Ireland for their significant assistance during this investigation. It was very, very helpful. “We would also like to take this opportunity to thank the news media for their sustained effort and support throughout this inquiry.” Friends raised the alarm on Sunday morning after the student failed to return from the Sanctuary nightclub, leading to a four-day search that culminated in the discovery of her remains on High Craigton farm on the outskirts of Milngavie.Police remained at the farm off the A809 Bearsden to Drymen road on Thursday morning, with several officers standing guard at the entrance to the site, which is eight miles from where she disappeared. Officers have asked nearby residents whether they had seen any bonfires over the past few days, Sky News reported. Ireland’s minister for foreign affairs, Charlie Flanagan, said his thoughts and prayers were with her parents, John and Marian. He said: “On behalf of the government, I wish to express appreciation for all that has been done by the Scottish authorities, and especially Police Scotland in Glasgow, to find Karen and to support the Buckley family throughout this very difficult time.”Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, said: “My thoughts today are very much with the family and friends of Karen Buckley.”Karen’s friends said she arrived with them at the Sanctuary nightclub on Dumbarton Road at about 11.45pm on Saturday. At about 1am she said she was going to the toilet but she failed to return and left her jacket. She was last seen on CCTV in the early hours of Sunday outside the nightclub. She reportedly travelled in a man’s car to a flat about two miles from the club.On Wednesday, the focus of the search moved from Dawsholm Park in Glasgow – where her handbag was found on Tuesday – to High Craigton farm on the city’s north-west outskirts. Officers had previously conducted a fingertip search on a property in north-west Glasgow’s Dorchester Avenue. Police dogs, divers and a helicopter crew were all involved in the hunt for the student.She had moved to Scotland in February to study occupational therapy at Glasgow Caledonian University. She was previously a nurse at the Princess Alexandra hospital in Harlow, Essex.Martin McGuinness, the deputy first minister of Northern Ireland, said: “Very sad news this morning that Scottish police in their search for Cork student Karen Buckley have found a body. Heartbreakingly sad.”The Scottish Conservative leader, Ruth Davidson, said: “Terrible news from the police regarding Karen Buckley. Thinking and praying for her family and loved ones this morning.”Labour’s shadow Scottish secretary, Margaret Curran, said: “Awful news about Karen Buckley. My thoughts are with her family and friends.” Karen’s friends have raised £50,000 to help her family on the crowdfunding site GoFundMe.com. In a statement posted on Twitter, Glasgow Caledonian University said: “The GCU community is deeply saddened by the recent police reports in the media regarding Karen Buckley. Our thoughts are with Karen’s family, friends and classmates at this very difficult time.“GCU’s student support service, our academic staff and the advice centre at GCUSA are available to any students who need support.” 