Kevin London has never forgotten the moment he learnt his friend Stephen Lawrence was dead. It was Friday, 23 April 1993, the day after the murder, and a girl burst into his classroom at Crown Wood secondary school in Eltham, south London. 'She was sobbing because she had just heard the news,' says London. 'Five of us got up and just walked out. The teacher tried to stop us, but he couldn't do nothing.' Now aged 22, London says it was a rare example of black power at the predominantly white school. Six years on, however, London is the one feeling powerless. Last week he revealed for the first time how he had also been a victim of a racial attack involving two members of the same white gang suspected of murdering Lawrence. One of his attackers, Gary Dobson, was particularly well known to him because they had been schoolmates. He believes another was Neil Acourt, who together with Dobson and Luke Knight were later acquitted of Lawrence's murder at the Old Bailey. London says he was attacked in November 1992 outside the house of his then girlfriend in Eltham. He says police interviewed him then, and again five months later, when he called about a diary allegedly containing information about the Lawrence killing. 'The diary belonged to Michelle Casserley, who was a friend of my girlfriend and knew the Acourt brothers. I hadn't seen it but it was supposed to say who killed Stephen, and what they had done with the knife.' If London is telling the truth, then his information was right on the button. Under cross-examination at the Lawrence inquiry last summer, Detective Sergeant John Davidson, a member of the original murder team, admitted he had recovered a diary from Casserley's home. Scribbled at the bottom of one page was the entry: 'Acourts stabbed black boy up Well Hall Road. Jamie and Neil, Gary, David, Lukie.' That entry is thought to refer to Jamie and Neil Acourt, Gary Dobson, Luke Knight and the fifth member of the gang, David Norris. However, last week Scotland Yard issued a statement, disputing London's claims that he had either reported the attack in 1992, or approached the police with information about the diary in 1993.'Acting on information received in April 1993, officers from the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry team approached a 16-year-old man in connection with an allegation of assault. He was spoken to over a period of time and in September 1994 declined to make any further statement.' So who is telling the truth? Davidson told the inquiry that the key factor hindering the investigation was the reluctance of local teenagers to give evidence against the five. But London maintains that, if they had followed up his complaint in 1992, there is a chance Lawrence would still be alive. 'It makes me really angry because it's the same geezers that attacked me that attacked my friend Stephen and the police didn't do nothing about it. London's name was mentioned at the inquiry, but it was only when a producer from London Weekend Television placed an advertisement in a south London newspaper that, reluctantly, he came forward. Moreover, his story gains credence from witnesses traced by LWT who described similar racial attacks involving the gang - attacks which, despite being reported to the police, also failed to result in convictions. But what makes London's story fascinating is the light it throws on Dobson's relationship with Acourt. Dobson and Neil Acourt were both in the year above London at Crown Woods (Jamie, Neil's younger brother, would have been in London's year, but was expelled for fighting). But London says he never suffered racial bullying at school. 'Inside school Gary was okay. It was only when he was with the other lads outside school that he started his little stupidness.'. The first inkling of Dobson's Jekyll and Hyde character came when London was 15. He was kicking a football around in a park one lunchtime when he saw Dobson and his mates running towards him. 'They just rushed me really, started punching and kicking. I was badly beaten up.' Then, a year later, came the incident the police claim to have no record of London believes the 1992 attack as sparked by the fact that his then girlfriend, Katie Lynch, was white. 'I was walking Katie to her mum's house when a bunch of white lads across the road started calling me names. We started arguing back and forth and I saw that one of them was Gary. He's going 'nigger this' and 'nigger that' and I was going 'Gary, what's wrong with you Gary? I know you. You go to my school.' The next moment the group had crossed the road and Lynch was dragging London towards the house. 'Gary's getting ready to punch me, when I see this knife flash by. I think it was Neil Acourt, but I can't be sure. It was only because Katie pulled me backwards that it missed my arm.' London says he was reluctant to report the incident but his mother made him. 'They came round and took details said they'd get back to me. They didn't get back to me until after the Stephen Lawrence situation.' Dobson and Acourt deny the allegations and were never prosecuted over the incident. But Neil Acourt's taste for knives is well documented. In 1993 a white man, Stacey Benefield, alleged that Neil Acourt and David Norris had stabbed him in the chest with a sword, apparently in a row over drugs. However, the case never made it to court. And in the video secretly recorded by police at a flat rented by Dobson in Eltham in 1994, Acourt is seen repeatedly demonstrating an unusual overarm stabbing action with a knife. Was Neil Acourt the key influence on Dobson and other members of the group? It is certainly a reading supported by the surveillance tape on which Dobson says 'some (blacks) are all right', only for Acourt to insist that blacks are 'cunts'. London has little doubt that Acourt's influence is the key and cannot contain his sense of outrage that he and the other four Lawrence suspects have escaped prosecution. 'I hate them because I know they done it, they know they done it, and they're still getting away with it. But no one believes me, so I don't know why I'm bothering to go on about it.' Given all we now know about the police's bungling of the Lawrence investigation, who can blame him? 