David Blunkett will herald a return to traditional 'bobby on the beat' policing this week when he argues that every citizen in Britain should know the name of their local police officer and play an active part in the fight against crime and antisocial behaviour.During a speech to the Police Superintendents' Association conference, the Home Secretary will urge middle-ranking officers to embrace changes proposed in a forthcoming White Paper on police reform allowing local communities to trigger action against members of the community who cause a nuisance. PSA president Chief Superintendent Rick Naylor said he backed the Home Secretary's calls for a move back to the concept of the beat bobby. 'Authority needs a name, otherwise you don't know who to blame when things go wrong. This is all about local accountability. If it's harking back to the days when you personally knew the officer on the beat, then so be it.' The superintendents will call for a national police service, as part of the reform package, to replace the present 43 forces in England and Wales. A Home Office spokeswoman said Blunkett had not ruled out change to the local structure of Police Authorities and forces headed by chief constables, but was yet to be convinced of the need for a centralised national force. She said the results of a nationwide public consultation exercise have persuaded the Home Secretary that the public's priorities are often very different from those of chief constables. 'We are listening to what communities tell us. They are concerned by antisocial behaviour and low-level crime. This is about little old ladies frightened to leave their homes.' A source close to Blunkett said the first phase of police reform was 'unfinished business that Michael Howard was afraid to deal with as Home Secretary'. This included renegotiating police terms and conditions, setting up a national Police Standards Unit and introducing community support officers. Blunkett believes the second phase of reform will prove more controversial because it will take power away from chief constables and allow local communities to define local priorities. The Bichard Inquiry into failures around the Soham investigation discovered inconsistencies of approach between forces and a failure to share crucial information. The PSA believes a layer of the present structure could be removed, with local policing dealt with by one of the country's 250 Basic Command Units under the control of chief superintendents answerable to a national leadership. The Association of Chief Police Officers is known to be concerned that any reform to the structure of the police service could lead to instability.