On May 6 Tony Blair reaffirmed his government's commitment to the reform of public services. There is, however, one Cinderella service that is in danger of being overlooked again. Legal aid has been denied for too long its place as one of the major frontline public services, tackling social inequality. Access to justice, a key element of the Attlee reforms, is one of those principles with which everybody agrees, but little has been done in the lifetime of the first two Labour administrations to make the principle a reality.We need an effective strategy that resolves the problem of less and less legal help being available to the most vulnerable people in society. There is some scope for saving money in the system through better management of the criminal justice process and reduction of bureaucracy. But the case for additional investment in legal aid is overwhelming.The government boasts that annual spending on legal aid has increased from £1.5bn to £2bn. However, most of this is being swallowed up by the escalating costs that have resulted from the raft of criminal justice legislation and new crimes introduced by the government. This has increased the number of arrests and prosecutions and therefore the numbers of people that need to be defended in court. So the bill goes on rising. The government has failed to assess the impact of changes in the criminal justice system. As more and more is spent on criminal legal aid, there is less available in the single pot to help people with their civil problems: family disputes, housing, debt and social welfare. While we continue with a fixed single budget for legal aid, civil legal money will continue to be filched. The government needs to see investment in legal aid as a central tool in tackling social disadvantage. For the moment, though, increasing numbers are without access to advice on a range of civil matters, from dealing with corrupt or inefficient landlords to custody arrangements for their children. It makes sense to offer legal aid to redress social injustice before criminal activity kicks in, not after exclusion and antisocial behaviour has become habitual. Dealing with antisocial behaviour is a key plank of Labour's manifesto. Likewise, the government is tightening up the legal process to get people into the courts more quickly and to make sure that those who commit the most serious crimes spend longer in prison. But it is worth remembering that communities subject to disruption, violence and criminality need support not only through Asbos, but through other support structures. These structures must include access to legal advice and support so that they can put their homes and families in order and prevent, or at least minimise, the circumstances which we know contribute to behaviour that leads to crime. If this new government wants to prove its social justice credentials, then an effective legal aid service must be included among its top priorities. Legal aid has limped along for far too long, relying on the astonishing commitment of solicitors and barristers working to help the most disadvantaged, not to mention volunteers in law centres and Citizens Advice Bureaux across the country. There must be a radical shift in approach if it is to deliver on the aspirations it has set out for everyone in this country. · Janet Paraskeva is chief executive of the Law Society inquiries@lawsociety.org.uk