Depressed, suicidal and seeking solace? Then Nicholas van Hoogstraten, the notorious property baron who was freed from Belmarsh high security prison on Tuesday where he was serving a 10-year sentence for manslaughter, may be your man.Mr Hoogstraten, variously described as a self-styled emissary of Beelzebub, ruthless property baron and scourge of all ramblers, has joined the Samaritans. "I am a good listener," he insisted yesterday, which may come as a surprise to those who remember his description of tenants as "filth" and of ramblers as "scum". Mr Hoogstraten was freed after serving 12 months of his sentence for the manslaughter of rival landlord Mohammed Raja, a conviction he overturned after a complicated legal battle. The three appeal judges who ruled on the case yesterday said that "the interests of justice" required him to be retried for the killing, but the current state of the law did not allow it. The multi-millionaire tycoon, who once described his politics as "to the right of Attila the Hun", apparently spent much of his stint behind bars honing his "befriending and listening" skills and generally being nice to people. As a result he is now the proud owner of an official Samaritans certificate which allows him to apply for a post as a voluntary counsellor. HM Prison Service document 10380 declares: "This is to certify that Nick van Hoogstraten has been trained by the Samaritans of Bexley/Bromley in listening and befriending skills at HM Prison Belmarsh." The Samaritans, set up in 1953 as an emergency phone service for suicidal people, says volunteers need a good listening ear and patience - qualities that have rarely been associated with the man reputed to be Britain's most vicious landlord. Ten years ago when a fire broke out at one of his properties in Hove, he described the five people who died in the blaze as "lowlife, drug dealers, drug takers and queers". But Mr Hoogstraten said he helped a number of distressed fellow inmates by listening to them and offering legal advice. Among those he took under his wing was a Jamaican Yardie, who was acquitted last month of a murder in South London but is back in prison awaiting deportation. In an interview with his local paper, the Brighton Evening Argus, a more familiar side of the tycoon comes through: "I have been too straightforward in the past. If you are, you are going to get hammered... Belmarsh is a good place for learning. I'm all right as long as you don't upset me."