A university keen to broaden its vocational base. A police force desperate to increase its presence on the streets. It may have been a marriage created through political expediency, but it has blossomed into a full-blown love affair. Two years ago, Buckingham Chilterns University College in High Wycombe built the John Grieve centre for policing and community safety and started the first undergraduate degree in policing to include training as a special constable as a course module. Already it has become recognised as a centre of policing excellence. Its first cohort numbered just 14 students; last year, it had a full complement of 40 and had to turn some applicants away. This year there will be still more students, as the number of courses has been expanded to include forensic psychology and community safety. Next year there will be a full postgraduate programme. After that, who knows? It's the perfect example of a new university not competing with the old, but finding a separate identity in niche academic areas. It has certainly gone down well with the university's director and chief executive, Professor Bryan Mogford. After two years under the auspices of the social sciences department, the John Grieve centre is about to become a faculty in its own right. The public's concern about rising levels of crime, together with a rethink from the police, both on how it deals with criminal behaviour and - in the wake of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry - how it widens its intake and eliminates racism within the force, would have boosted any university police centre. And the appointment of Paul Evans as head of Britain's police standards unit has been the icing on the cake. He was formerly the Boston police commissioner who cleaned up the city's mean streets through his community policing approach. But the main reason for the centre's success has been Dr Allyson Macvean, the department's head. Macvean studied at Buckingham Chilterns, before going on to take a PhD in policing and joining the Home Office crime investigation unit. "I was delighted to be asked to come back to run the new centre," she says, "and my first move was to work closely with the local Chiltern Vale police force and other law enforcement agencies about how best to structure the course." The decision to make training as a special constable an integral part of the course was pragmatic - any course needs its USP - and also follows the government's new higher education agenda of mixing the academic with the vocational. But it went down extremely well with Chiltern Vale. "There is a drive to get more bobbies on the beat because that's what the public wants," Detective Chief Inspector List points out. "Though it's largely a matter of reassurance and deterrence, because it's been worked out that the average police officer on the beat would interrupt a burglary once every eight years. "Resources are tight everywhere, but in Chiltern Vale we have the added problem of high living costs without any salary weighting to compensate. So we often find that our officers leave to work for the Met, where they can earn more, which makes it hard for us to keep our numbers up. The undergraduate course offered us an innovative way to get more faces out on the street." Recruiting more specials is another Home Office priority, but none of the students feels they are guinea pigs for a new government agenda. Most of them are studying policing because they have always hankered after a job in law enforcement but didn't want to miss out on university. Getting an early feel for the job out on the streets is no chore: it's a definite bonus. Gurpreet Nizzar didn't bother with A-levels at West Thames College, Isleworth. He knew where he was headed and opted for the public service course instead. His lecturer told him about the new course at the John Grieve centre and he signed up to become one of the first intake. He's now in his third year and has completed his first as a special. "Of course you're nervous when you first go out," he says. "It's always in the back of your mind that you might get an emergency call. But I've had tremendous support from both my lecturers and the police. The regular officers now see me as one of them and I feel quite confident." So confident, in fact, that he's already made nine arrests - mostly for public disorder offences come pub chucking-out time in downtown Slough. "You get a feel for when something's about to go off." It's policing at the sharp end, the type of experience that no amount of studying can ever prepare you for. "Quite often when I'm on the streets I get Asian men shouting that I've sold out for joining the police," Nizzar continues. "I have lost some friends since I've been a special, but you take that as part of the job." The course doesn't confer any special privileges. Students are not fast-tracked at the end of it and if they want to become officers they still have to complete their training at the Police College at Hendon or elsewhere. But what the students seem to want most of all is time: time to enjoy themselves and time to make an informed decision about where they might end up. "We cover everything from policing and forensic psychology to customs and excise, the secret services and the probation service," Macvean points out. "So it's far from certain they will all end up in the police." Not that this worries DCI List. "Having an insight into so many areas might eventually lead to more cooperation between the different services," he says. "At the moment, there is often a duplication of resources."