David Cameron has predictably used the utterly tragic case of two young Doncaster boys brutally terrorised by two brothers of similar age, to continue his "broken Britain" theme. Cameron accuses Labour of "moral failure", and of presiding over social as well as economic recession. In response, Labour has stressed the rarity of such extreme violence, especially committed by children, and complains that the Conservatives are "talking Britain down".Like so much current political debate, there is an uncanny air of deja vu. Back in 1993, newly appointed shadow home secretary Tony Blair seized upon the horrific murder by two boys of the Liverpool toddler James Bulger as a symbol of more general social sickness, pledging to be "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime". And the Tories countered by accusing New Labour of making political capital from an exceptionally brutal incident.One significant difference is that the present Doncaster case coincides with the publication of crime statistics showing that crime overall, including most types of violent crime, is continuing to fall. This appears to refute predictions by criminologists (including myself) of a "credit crunch crime wave". It is quite probable that the crime-generating consequences of recession have not yet been played out, but so far so good. By contrast, the James Bulger murder came at an all-time peak of crime as recorded by the police and the British Crime Survey (BCS), following more than a decade of huge increases in crime and disorder. So in 1993 there was more warrant in the statistics for pointing to an overall breakdown of law and order.The Tory attack on Labour for breaking Britain overlooks the spectacular rise of recorded crime over which they presided in the 1980s and early 1990s. Unlike the recorded crime increases before that, which owed much to increased reporting and recording, the 1980s explosion was almost entirely a real increase in victimisation, as the BCS showed. The drop in recorded crime under Michael Howard when he was home secretary, and the rise under New Labour in its first years in office, were also largely attributable to changes in recording practices. The BCS, which for all its limitations as a complete barometer of crime, is more reliable as a measure of trends, suggests that a fall in overall crime began in the last couple of years of Tory rule, and has continued under Labour until today.Labour, however, has treated this as a success that dare not speak its name. A 2007 review by the prime minister's Strategy Unit concluded that 80% of the crime reduction was due to economic factors. Yet this estimate is somehow omitted from the version of the report currently on the cabinet website, which concentrates almost entirely on criminal justice solutions. A central part of the law and order consensus that New Labour espoused in the early 1990s was that tough policing and punishment do work. Research paints a much more complex picture, however. Criminal justice policy has certainly played some part in bringing crime rates down. But it is the "smart" rather than the "tough" elements of policing, prevention and punishment changes that should be credited: intelligence- and evidence-led targeting of resources on the most vulnerable targets and most serious offenders.Crime does not occur in a hermetically sealed ghetto. Cameron is right to point to wider moral and social factors. But he fails to dig deeply enough. As I showed in my book Law and Order, a plethora of evidence indicts the key aspects of neo-liberalism: inequality is strongly related to violent crime, unemployment and marginal employment to property crime, and both are strongly accentuated by the egoistic and narcissistic culture of consumerism.The roots of the moral failure and social breakdown Cameron identifies lie fundamentally in the world historic disaster unleashed by the embrace of unfettered free-market economics by his party in the 1980s and by their buddies around the world. The bitter fruits are now paraded in a plethora of scandals, from bankers' bonuses to MPs' duck-houses. Labour's part in the mess is its failure to break away from the path laid out by the Conservatives, rather than original sins of its own.