A succession of police officers, social workers and parents believed Thomas Hamilton was a danger to children for many years before he killed 16 primary school children and their teacher in the Dunblane massacre, yet little action was taken to tackle him.Previously secret documents released in Edinburgh yesterday revealed widespread concern from parents and authorities over Hamilton's inappropriate and often aggressive behaviour towards children. But, despite the concerns, he was allowed to slip through the net.One police detective believed Hamilton should have been prosecuted for lewd, indecent and libidinous practices and behaviour three years before the March 1996 massacre. But, although the officer was so concerned he went to the procurator fiscal's office to personally petition him, he was told Hamilton's actions did not merit "criminal contact".Social workers and a firearms officer also expressed concerns about Hamilton, but the 3,000 documents released yesterday show there was little joined-up thinking from the authorities.In a report, a detective sergeant reveals that he approached the procurator fiscal seeking a search warrant for Hamilton's home in 1993. The officer had received numerous complaints that Hamilton had been taking photographs of boys in "skimpy" swimming trunks during a summer camp he was running.However, the procurator fiscal told the officer the photographs were not enough to seek Hamilton's prosecution and he denied the search warrant. He also told the officer not to submit any more reports on Hamilton's photographing of children.This and other documents from Lord Cullen's inquiry were made public at the National Archives of Scotland yesterday for the first time after the lord advocate, Colin Boyd QC, decided to revoke a 100-year secrecy order placed on them.The documents debunk several of the conspiracy theories surrounding the massacre, but parents of the victims say they expose widespread incompetence.In 1992, a firearms officer who was sent to assess Hamilton's gun licence renewal said he "found him polite enough but a bit strange". But this, he noted, was not enough to deny his application.By 1995, a police officer sent to assess Hamilton's latest gun application was more strident, saying he "didn't feel comfortable in his presence and was glad to get out of the house". The officer said he believed Hamilton had tried to "intimidate" him by showing him a revolver in an oilskin. But, again, he saw no reason to deny the firearms application.Statements from witnesses reveal that Hamilton bore a bitter grudge in the months leading up to the massacre. One witness who had known Hamilton for 15 years said he had "a thing, almost paranoia, about the Scouts, police and parents in Dunblane".The documents also reveal what happened in the immediate aftermath of the tragedy. One woman lent her mobile phone to a policeman at the scene. Part of the policeman's conversation was inadvertently recorded on an answering machine. It went:"How many's dead?""Eh, several, over a dozen - it's Tommy Hamilton. He's a fuckin' nutter."