In the dark wood bar of the Brewery Tap pub, tucked away on the edge of the tiny Hertfordshire village of Furneux Pelham, a real-life game of 'Cluedo' was being played out last night.Following the murder of an 83-year-old war veteran, Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Workman, blasted in the chest with a shotgun on the steps of his cottage, the 100 or so residents of the secluded hamlet, where violent crime is virtually unknown, fear there may be a killer among them. The colonel, a widower known to his friends as Riley, was a regular in the pub, having lived in the village for the last 27 years. One resident, Violet Rich-ardson, said many in the area are almost hoping someone from the village is responsible. 'It's better if it turns out to be someone with a grudge against him, rather than a random killing. Until you know what the motive is, you just don't know what to think.' 'It's awful,' said another neighbour, Petrina Ridler. 'Everyone here lives a very quiet life. The whole village is baffled about what's happened. It's a shock to all of us, it's only just sinking in.' Several of the colonel's neighbours recalled hearing a gunshot around the time police believe the murder happened, but said such noises were common in the area and they thought nothing of it. 'It's very rural around here. Virtually every home has one or two shotguns lying around,' said Shaun Kehoe, who lives in the area. Detectives say they are considering asking every member of the local community to allow them to test their guns so that they can be eliminated. At a press conference at the village school, Detective Superintendent Richard Mann said police had so far drawn a blank on why anyone would want to kill the pensioner, whose body was found on Thursday morning. Nothing had been stolen from the victim's house and there was no sign of a forced entry or a struggle. Mann said: 'We have found no reason or motive whatsoever, at this stage. Of everyone we have spoken to, no one has a bad word to say against him. People have described him as a well-spoken, educated, charming man. He was very independent and still drove his car. 'His carer is very upset - she has been with him for several years and previously looked after his wife.' One possible lead is a 999 call made around an hour before the body was discovered. The call was made from a phone box at the village of Braughing three miles away. 'They asked for the ambulance service and mentioned the village of Furneux Pelham, but gave no specific details. An ambulance arrived at the village, but when no one presented themselves, they continued with other calls.' Forensic experts removed the handset from the phone box to examine it for finger prints and other officers examined the area around the box for footprints and other clues to the mystery caller. The incident room has received more than 50 phone calls from the public, but officers are still in the dark. Mann said extensive checks were going on to establish who the dead man knew, who had visited him and who he had dealings with. Those checks will also look at his military background. A team of 70 detectives are carrying out inquiries throughout Furneux Pelham, also home to the Liberal Democrat peer, Shirley Williams.