The men who carried out the Tonbridge robbery may this morning be pondering the old saying, "Be careful what you wish for, because it might come true." While in their imaginations they may have dreamed of pulling off a £50m grab, the fact that it is such a large sum brings with it just the kind of problems that could get them caught.First, if the sum had been just a couple of million and not a record-breaking amount, the publicity would have been minimal. Now, everyone in the country and many people across Europe, where they might have hoped to launder it, will be well aware of it. Any suspiciously large sums floating around will prompt the question: could it have come from that Tonbridge job?"They've got to stash it," one experienced armed robber said yesterday. "They won't spend a penny of it. They'll sit back and watch."He was not surprised that a team of robbers would attempt to pull off such a large job. "It's not before time. Nothing's gone off for a while. Who did it? I would think it would be a team from south London."Their problem is the number of people they needed. They were six-handed at least, probably more."The more people involved, the greater the chance that an associate or relative will have suspicions which they are willing to share with the police in the expectation of a slice of the £2m reward.The next problem is that there is a limited number of professional criminals capable of carrying out such a complex robbery. Police are already drawing up a list of the likeliest suspects. There is no shortage of people "known to the police" in Kent, even if the most notorious one, Kenneth Noye, has a cast-iron alibi: he has been in jail for murder since 2000. Bruce Reynolds, the Great Train Robber, in his book Crossing the Line: the Autobiography of a Thief, wrote: "From the outset it was obvious we would be targeted ... There were only a couple of other firms capable of work like this - a view repeatedly put forward by the top jollies at the Yard."He also realised that the amount of the haul would ensure police spared no efforts in catching them: "We had thrown down the challenge and the establishment had picked it up."The third problem is informers. While the £2m reward will bring in a lot of tips from members of the public, the people likely to have the best information are themselves criminals. When the train robbers were operating in the 60s, there was still a rule within the criminal fraternity not to inform. That culture no longer exists, so any underworld figure with a clue as to who is involved will cheerfully offer the information both for the money and in exchange for any crimes that he might want to be taken into consideration.Fourth, there is the possibility of notes being traced. Over the last 10 years, banks have become much more sophisticated in tracking stolen notes, particularly if any of them run in sequences. Some of the notes stolen from Tonbridge were used but many were new, and they will be the simplest to trace. Gone are the days when it was possible to take a stash of money into a casino, buy a few hundred thousand pounds' worth of chips and cash them in a few hours later. Casinos, like banks, now have to report their suspicions to the police.Fifth, police are leaning towards the theory that someone with inside knowledge may have been involved. The insider is usually the weakest link. Unused to being questioned by detectives and not coming from a background where one routinely learned to say nothing under questioning, they are always the likeliest to offer up information.In the 1983 robbery of £26m of bullion from Brink's-Mat at a Heathrow trading estate, the inside man was Tony Black, a security guard and brother-in-law of one of the robbers, Brian Robinson. Flying Squad detectives were puzzled that Robinson would have used someone so obviously close to him. Black had no criminal pedigree and was soon cooperating in exchange for a six-year sentence, while the others received 25 years. Here, too, the robbers were undone by the sheer size of their haul: they had been expecting between £1m and £2m worth of bullion.Sixth, the proliferation of security cameras means that someone, somewhere has the men on a CCTV camera, because they would have had to carry out a reconnaissance of the depot. If footage is kept beyond the normal 24-hour period, there may well be clues there.Finally, the odds are against them. The really big robberies in this country, from the great train robbery through Brink's-Mat and the Knightsbridge safety deposit box heist, almost always end up being solved."You played for high stakes," is what judges like to tell the men they sentence for major robberies, "and you lost."As the robbers dispose of their ski-masks and all the clothes they used on Tuesday night, they may be feeling those first shivers of realisation that, for the police pursuing them, the stakes have been raised by the size and publicity the robbery has received. They may have won the lottery today, but they may never get the chance to spend their winnings.