Yesterday morning Boris Johnson eschewed smart West End and City venues for a community centre in Edmonton to stage the big event marking his final push for the last month of the mayoral race. I can't pretend that I know Edmonton, the down-at-heel end of the London borough of Enfield. Superficially it resembles the down-at-heel end of my borough - Southall.Twenty years ago, I dated a girl from Enfield so the trip around the North Circular from Ealing seemed strangely familiar. The road appeared largely unimproved since then beyond the installation of about 30 speed cameras. It being school holidays the trip was very easy except for a delay as I approached Edmonton due to an accident and a quick look at the A - Z sorted that out. I was there within the hour and parked up for free without any drama - by public transport I might have spent two hours doing the same journey. It was doubly a pleasure not to pay Ken Livingstone's £8 a day transport tax if one drives into London.As reported elsewhere there were eager volunteers on strategic corners to guide people in. I asked a couple if they knew where the nearest greasy spoon was - they hadn't had the chance to get away from their posts. I found a place run by a Turkish guy - a bacon sarnie for £1.40 and tea for 50p, bargain. When I got to the Bounces Road community hall it was already packed and I had to scramble for a seat to eat my sandwich. The Asian lady sitting next to me was a volunteer from Wanstead, new to politics, who had got an invite from the Conservative Women's Organisation. She complained that it was pretty Labour around where she lived. Roger Evans, the Tory assembly member for Havering and Redbridge, turned up and came to sit with us. My new friend was pleased to meet her assembly member and he was pleased to meet a new volunteer. I have been struck, more than once during this campaign, by Boris' ability to pull in people new to politics.Ray Lewis from Eastside Young Leaders' Academy hosted the event. As a one-time Edmonton boy himself, he was not shy about pointing out why we were in Edmonton. Of the 11 kids murdered in London already this year, four have come from Edmonton. The crux of Boris' remarks was a desire to address London's teenage death toll. It is all too easy to say it is too hard. This is what the mayor has effectively said by blaming street crime on Thatcherism - saying it's out of his hands and is all about societal change. Boris countered: "If a mayor does not give a lead, if a mayor does not throw himself wholeheartedly into the struggle then what is the point of a mayor?"I discussed this issue with an 18-year-old kitchen hand who works for me. He too has a dead contemporary. He reckons that a large number of kids at his sixth form in south-west London carry knives. On Sunday, Labour government minister Ivan Lewis used the News of the World to propose 10-year sentences for carrying. The sentence for carrying a bladed weapon only went up from two years to four years on February 12 2007, but even when it was "only" two years, the criminal justice system was letting off 80% of offenders with non-custodial sentences. Posturing Labour MPs will not solve this problem. My kitchen hand will be better off when the first lad in his school gets sent down for four years for carrying. It will be hard on that first boy but every kid in the neighbourhood will instantly be safer.Maybe a London mayor, chairing the Metropolitan Police Authority, riding the police hard to prioritise this issue will catch that first boy and another 50 like him across London and a bit of political weight will persuade the Crown Prosecution Service to send them down. If Boris achieved only this, he would have done enough to be some mother's hero.For more Cif blogs about the London elections, click here.