A man who plotted to covertly film a "hit list" of stars, including Amy Winehouse, taking drugs so he could sell the footage to newspapers was jailed for two years yesterday.Johnny Blagrove, 34, and his girlfriend Cara Burton, 22, sold footage of the singer apparently smoking a crack pipe to The Sun for £50,000, but the video was later passed to police.In the final scene of the tape, which was viewed by a judge at Snaresbrook crown court, east London, Blagrove laughs to himself after telling his reflection in a bathroom mirror: "You have succeeded. You have done it. You are going places. It's taken a while, but I've finally got what I want." Blagrove was sentenced yesterday for offering to supply class A drugs twice at the party - once to Winehouse, and class B drugs on another occasion. Judge Tudor Owen stressed he had not supplied the pipe or the substance Winehouse was apparently smoking in the footage. Burton avoided prison, receiving a two-year supervision order for offering to supply class B drugs on the other occasion. Police who searched the couple's home in Dalston, east London, following their arrest, found a list of celebrities they had intended to target, the court heard. Paul Raudnitz, prosecuting, said: "It would appear the defendants proposed filming other people taking drugs for the purpose of selling it to the newspapers." Officers also seized video equipment and a notebook headed "rules", detailing how they would sell the footage.The tape of Winehouse at a party at her flat, made by Blagrove in January, showed her snorting a substance from a card, singing incoherently and openly discussing drugs. The Rehab singer was arrested in connection with the case in May, but no charges were brought against her, because it could not be proved that the substances she was seen taking were illicit drugs. Andrew Henley, representing Blagrove, said: "Amy Winehouse was interviewed, and admitted she had taken drugs, believed to be crack cocaine and MDMA. But she questioned what they were because they had no effect on her." Judge Tudor Owen said: "You see Ms Winehouse given something, snorting it, and then the obvious reaction. Her voice changes, from how it has been to a rather curiously high-pitched voice. "And the crown says it should not find it was a prohibited drug?" The video shows Blagrove boasting to others at the party: "I've got coke. Proper wicked coke. Banging coke." At one point Winehouse asks whether he can "shift" ecstasy and he tells her he can give her a "little bump". Sentencing, the judge described the case as "peculiar". "I have seen the video footage and it gives an informative insight into the seedy world of those who take controlled drugs," he said. He added that the sentences would have been "considerably higher" if it had been proved that the couple had actually supplied drugs. "Notwithstanding what is clearly visible in the video, there is no evidence of drugs being supplied or even used." Burton, who obtained straight A grades in her A-levels at a Catholic high school in her home town of Scunthorpe and has no previous convictions, arranged to sell the video to a journalist from The Sun, for which she received £50,000. She planned to buy a house with Blagrove with the profits, but her bank account has been frozen, the court heard. Blagrove has 28 previous convictions, including offences of possessing cannabis and charges of dishonesty.