The growing disquiet over the constitutional role of the attorney general has been given added impetus by Harriet Harman. He should stop attending so many cabinet meetings, she told the Financial Times.Past attorney generals used to keep away, unless invited to discuss specific issues; that's how it should be, she argued. Gordon Brown, it is understood, has similar reservations.Harman's intervention should be seen in the context of another question. What job is she angling for under Brown (assuming him to be the next prime minister)? She is close to him and clearly in the running for a big appointment. Here's a clue. In the same FT interview she argues that the constitutional affairs secretary - currently Lord Falconer, unlikely to stay under Mr Brown - should be accountable to the House of Commons. Moreover, the department may well (though it's not certain) be expanded by taking on some Home Office responsibilities, and become a Ministry of Justice.Harman would be an obvious choice to head it. But why then is she bothering to stand for the Labour deputy leadership?Angry solicitors demonstrating outside parliament last week judged that men and women in suits might not be beguiling enough to persuade the media to publish pictures of the event. So the protest was led by a young woman lawyer attractively dressed as Justice - the woman in a toga holding a sword in one hand and the scales of justice in the other.In addition, controversially, the protester was blindfolded. True, many statues of Justice similarly prevent her from seeing, on the basis that "justice is blind".I believe this is a wrong interpretation. Blind has the metaphorical meaning of impartial, not the literal one of unable to see. On the contrary, justice must be far-sighted and watchful, on the lookout for trickery, oppressive conduct, unfairness or dishonesty.Blindfolded justice is blind to perversions of justice. That can't be right. I note that the most famous Justice statue in Britain, perhaps the world, on top of the Old Bailey, is totally sighted, with no impediment.There's been much gossip about the sudden departure of Jonathan Ames, the editor of the Law Society's journal, the Gazette. It is the house magazine for the solicitors' profession, but the Gazette has distinguished itself by daring to be critical of its boss, the society.Perhaps no more. It's whispered that the newish regime at the Law Society wants a journal that toes the line. The almost incomprehensible statement by a spokesman says that "repositioning the Gazette as a more effective means of member engagement that projects and protects the core values of the profession requires a fresh perspective". Which, I think, means boring and slavishly uncritical.Judges are, after all, human - a fact soon to receive official recognition. From next month, a judicial helpline will provide "practical and emotional support from trained personnel", 24 hours a day, every day of the year.I'm surprised such comprehensive cover should be needed. At a press conference last week the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Phillips, went no further than to point to stress as an occupational hazard. Drink problems were not mentioned, though I don't believe they will be entirely absent from 3am conversations on the new helpline.