Name: Royal Mail letter boxesAge: 206 yearsAppearance: Varied. There are about 115,500 letter boxes in use in the UK, in at least 800 subtly different styles, some circular, some oval, some square or rectangular, some hexagonal. The classic pillar box, first installed in Jersey in 1852, is now most often seen in busy urban areas. The wall box is smaller, and can be fitted flush into a wall, or attached to a pole, most often in rural locations. Most are cast iron. At least 98% of the population lives within half a mile of one. Each has the “cipher” of the reigning monarch when they were installed.Blimey. You know a lot about post boxes. “Letter boxes” please! And my knowledge is nothing in comparison to the members of the Letter Box Study Group, the recognised authority on such matters.I had no idea the things were so admired. Oh, yes. In fact, people love them so much they’re stealing them. Four went in Norfolk in January. In April, four more went in Stockton. About 100 are stolen every year.How on earth do you steal a letter box? They’re often buried, bolted or concreted in place, and some weigh nearly half a ton, so I agree it isn’t easy. But where’s there’s a market paying £5,000 on eBay, there’s a way.If they end up on eBay, doesn’t it make them easy to find? Not necessarily. The boxes may change hands a few times first, and don’t have serial numbers or anything, so Royal Mail are now planning to fit some with electronic tags or metal-marking technology. There are quite a few legitimately owned ones, too, as the authorities used to sell decommissioned boxes, but in 2003 they started reusing them instead, which may have pushed the price up.Well, I never. Decommissioned letter boxes that can’t be moved have to be painted black and have their slots sealed. Some are actually listed.Fascinating. Why do people want the things? To look eccentric, mostly. They might put one in their garden to receive post, or perhaps just to look pretty.But now they just make you look like an eccentric thief? I suppose they do.Do say: “Where did you get that lovely letter box?”Don’t say: “Ah yes, there’s a funny story attached to that. Some criminals I met on the internet ripped it out of a wall in Stockton with a hammer drill and a Transit van.”