The Law Society risks losing its powers to regulate solicitors as a report out today reveals it has failed to meet all but one of six government targets for dealing with complaints against the profession.The society's performance on key targets is worse than its record the previous year, says the legal services ombudsman, the watchdog overseeing its complaints handling process. The ombudsman, Zahida Manzoor, was satisfied with the society's handling of com plaints in only 53.3% of the cases brought to her from April 2003 to March 2004, down from 67.2% the previous year, and well short of the 75% target set by the Department of Constitutional Affairs. The latest figures come despite an all-out effort by the professional body for solicitors in England and Wales to fend off government threats to strip its power to regulate the profession. Critics ask whether it can regulate and represent the profession at the same time. The public's complaints included protests about delays in making wills and winding up estates, failure to keep them informed about the progress of conveyancing, and that their solicitors were acting at the same time for other clients with conflicting interests. There were also criticisms that solicitors were overcharging and failing to spell out how much a case might cost from the start. Those grievances were compounded by the society's failings once complaints about its members had been brought. The report cites Dr B, who sued the solicitor who represented him in a personal injury claim for negligence. He won compensation, but his com plaint to the society over the solicitor's poor service took three and a half years. Just as a decision loomed, the solicitor was struck off for professional misconduct in another case. Today's report will make it more likely that Sir David Clementi, the Prudential chairman chosen by the government to review the regulation of legal services, will recommend an independent body to take over the role when he delivers his report at the end of the year. Against a goal of 60% of cases to be closed within three months, the society achieved 46.7%, compared with 52.9% the previous year. It closed only 67.2% of cases within six months, against a 75% target. The only turnaround target met was to close 85% of cases in a year. It achieved 88.4%. Another indicator is a rise in ex gratia payouts volunteered by the society where it accepts its complaints handling has been faulty. In the first quarter of 2004 these totalled £165,364, compared with £28,414 in the first quarter of 2003. Ms Manzoor has told Sir David she thinks the society should lose its complaints role. She supports an overarching independent regulator of legal services, with an independent complaints body reporting to it, leaving the society to deal with serious disciplinary offences. Last year, after several warnings, the government activated the Access to Justice Act 1999 to appoint a legal services complaints commissioner with power to set targets and fine the society up to £5m if it fails to meet them. Ms Manzoor, who combines that post with her ombudsman role, expects to set new targets soon. After reviewing more than 2,000 complaints personally, she identified the main fail ings of solicitors as "excessive delays, excessive costs, poor responsiveness to communications, failure to act in the client's best interests, failure to clarify the implications of actions, bad communication". The society's chief executive, Janet Paraskeva, said: "Over the past 12 months the Law Society has resolved over 1,500 more cases than we have received. Fifty per cent of cases are now dealt with within three months and 70% within six months."