"Super-selectivity" is the kind of concocted word beloved of politicians and policy wonks. I hadn't heard it until a couple of weeks ago when Rob Whiteman, chief executive of the UK Border Agency (UKBA), used it to describe the government's immigration policy at the Detention Advice Service's 20th anniversary conference.Whiteman argued that, within this newly labelled policy, foreign national prisoners were regarded as a specific category of people who really, really should be deported – presumably, super-super-selectivity. He was referencing a speech earlier this year by then immigration minister Damian Greene to the Conservative think-tank Policy Exchange when the minister talked of super-selectivity or (in the alternative) "double-plus selectivity" (yes, seriously).In the context of the 10,861 foreign nationals in our prisons, "super-selectivity" means one thing: "you're not staying here". Such blanket judgments – treating a class of people as "a homogenous mass" as Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, neatly put it at the conference – need to be challenged.The notion that the European Convention on Human Rights is routinely abused in defence of foreign nationals also needs to be challenged. "It's shameful that child killers and rapists can abuse human rights laws to escape deportation," said Charlie Elphicke, the Conservative MP for Dover & Deal recently. "What about the right to family life of the families they have destroyed?"Foreign national prisoners achieved pariah status following the "crisis of 2006 when it was revealed that more than 1,013 were released without being considered for deportation – an issue so toxic that it led to the swift departure of Charles Clark as home secretary.According to the Prison Reform Trust, foreign national prisoners in UK prisons come from 156 countries and over half are from 10 (Jamaica, Poland, Ireland, Nigeria, Pakistan, Romania, Lithuania, India, Vietnam and Somalia). They aren't all child killers and rapists, nor are all of them violent – 46% of foreign national women are inside for drug offences (compared to 21% of British nationals) and 16% for fraud and forgery offences. According to the female prison welfare project Hibiscus, half of foreign national women have children under the age of 18.The total number of foreign nationals in our prison nearly doubled between 2000 and 2010 — compared to a 20% increase in British nationals. In 2009, some 11,268 untried foreign nationals went into custody – that's a staggering 136% increase since 1999 (by contrast there has been a 28% decrease in terms of untried receptions of British nationals).Foreign prisoners are also treated differently – or at least strongly feel that they are. At the DAS conference, Martin Kettle, policy lead on foreign national prisoners at the HM Inspectorate of Prisons, went through the results of a survey of 5,352 British national and 750 foreign national prisoners on perceptions of life in prisons. Apparently, 81% of British national prisoners knew where they were going when they were coming to a prison compared to 66% of foreign nationals; 75% of British nationals felt safe on their first night compared to 69% of foreign nationals; and 17% of British nationals as against 22% of foreign nationals felt unsafe at that point in time.Kettle spoke of the 'damage of uncertainty': "If you walk into an immigration removal centre you can feel it in the air."The immigration regime was tightened in July specifically to prevent the abuse of article 8 rights – the new rules state that it will only be "in exceptional circumstances that the public interest in deportation is outweighed". A report by the Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration last November found that between February 2010 and January 2011 about a third of appeals lodged by foreign national prisoners against the decision to deport was successful (425 in total) — primarily on article 8 grounds. In the same year, 5,235 foreign national prisoners were deported from the UK.As of April next year and the introduction of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act, it will be impossible for foreign national prisoners who wish to challenge deportation proceedings to get legal advice from a solicitor unless they are able to pay for it themselves. "It is not right to subject someone to a serious sanction of deportation without giving them the means to understand the situation and to assert the rights provided for them by law," commented DAS director Nigel Caleb. Quite. By the way, all deportations papers served by the UKBA are written entirely in English.The 2006 crisis led directly to the introduction of the UK Borders Act 2007 with a new regime of automatic deportation for any non-EEA national (including those granted indefinite leave) who gets a custodial sentence of 12 months or more. So rather than the facts of individual case determining a decision to deport, it is the length of prison sentence.The so-called crisis has also fundamentally changed the attitude of the Home Office staff from senior managers to caseworkers, Steve Symonds of the Immigration Law Practitioners' Association told delegates at the DAS event. According to Symonds, in nine out of 10 cases where detainees are released, they are released as a result of the decision of a court. "That is obviously because the UKBA and its casework staff cannot countenance the idea that they release someone," he said.Symonds made the case for scrapping the automatic deportation provisions. He called it "a stupid policy position which does not give any more power to deport anybody, but which prevents sensible consideration of the circumstances of every individual rather than just the homogenous mass".It is a proposal that is hard to disagree with, bit it won't be introduced until more enlightened times.