Two weeks ago a teenager, Kodjo Yenga, was being stabbed in a Hammersmith street while a different gathering was taking place across town in a Westminster one. Some 30 uniformed police officers were gathered in a marquee outside Westminster Cathedral to search the bags of those attending a performance of Verdi's Requiem because there was a VIP in the audience. I had two policemen to myself. They opened my bag, made me unlock my laptop, opened various packages and even tipped pills on to a table. "You can never be too safe, sir," they said against my mild protest.You can clearly be less safe in Hammersmith. Later that night a harried policeman said on television that there were no resources to find out about gangs in the area. Knife crime, he implied, was out of control. No, they could not patrol every street. He did not mention the higher priority attached to security at Westminster Cathedral.The policing of the capital under Home Office targets is now so skewed in the direction of VIP protection and the war on terror as to defy common sense. There must be 50 constables at any one time manning the 200 yards between Downing Street and parliament, more than in the entire rest of the West End. Armed to the teeth with automatic weapons, they guard every important building and cram the entrance to every important event. The merest suggestion of a demonstration has busloads of them on call.I therefore read Tony Blair's new crime and policing review yesterday in a daze. Its past-v-future graph might have been lifted wholesale from a Fabian pamphlet of the 1960s. In the future, said Blair, we should emphasise the causes of crime, community service for non-serious offenders, less police red tape, special units for mentally ill prisoners, more contact with prisoners' families, more drug rehabilitation, and keeping "career criminals" separate from the rest. There was even a nod in the direction of restorative justice - a form of post-crime reconciliation of proven success, yet it has been rejected by each of Blair's home secretaries for fear of appearing wimpish in the tabloid press.The prime minister suddenly seems to be aware of a vicious circle of drug abuse, mental illness and imprisonment that the criminal justice system has been powerless to break. He wants to "target offenders not the offence", notably a "hard core of persistent criminals" (remember them?). He wants to seize their assets (again?) and make sure that they stay out of jail when released (again?).The chief inspector of police, Sir Ronnie Flanagan, is to reorganise the police "to cut red tape", which is exactly what Blair asked Flanagan's predecessor, Sir Denis O'Connor, to do four years ago, before ditching O'Connor's proposals. This reorganisation-itis of Blair is beyond parody. Meanwhile, the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, added on radio that it might be a good idea if the police were left "to get on with it in local neighbourhoods, to identify where the crime hotspots are" - as if the idea had just come to him, and to nobody else, in the bath.The most intriguing part of the review concerns prisons. Britain's jails are the unacceptable face of the public sector. The record number of prisoners, the paltry facilities for education and rehabilitation, and the appalling treatment of women has been mob-appeal government at its most lurid. Does this mean hope after all for Baroness Corston's call, earlier this month, for the closure of all Britain's women's prisons, some of which are barbaric? Their record 4,300 inmates (many of them foreigners) are overwhelmingly victims of Britain's archaic drug laws. Women who need incarceration, said the Labour peer, should be held in special hostels.The Blair review's status is a mystery. Is it an executive order or merely the product of a weekend of musing at Chequers? Is it a billet doux to Gordon Brown or a bid to restore good relations with Cherie's liberal friends before the Blairs leave office? What does Blair mean by "reorganise" the police, when he has spent his entire office trying to reorganise them? Is Blair's speech a final apologia, like a medieval grandee making his peace with his church and his God after a lifetime of usury, sex and licence?In his spin on the review, Lord Falconer, desperate to appease the press, added that for all the emphasis on alternatives to prison, "if you are dangerous and convicted, you should stay in prison for as long as you pose a danger". He seemed unaware that incarceration at executive discretion is not British law and is a symptom of totalitarianism. Falconer's eagerness for "tabloid sentencing" produced the 2003 Criminal Justice Act and some 155 crimes for which he and his colleagues can tell judges their job. According to the Prison Reform Trust, Britain now has more people locked up at the government's discretion (8,800) than France, Germany, Italy and Turkey put together. Are Blair and Falconer turning their back on this wretched record, or was yesterday a one-day liberal brainstorm?There is hardly a bad idea in Blair's review document, but then there is hardly a new one either. The real challenge to Britain's criminal justice system has never been to find answers to questions. Every other country in Europe has found better answers than Britain. The challenge is to find ministers with the guts to implement them, and that search has proved fruitless. Instead the police are encouraged to regard Westminster Cathedral as top priority in what Blair continues to call "the most serious direct security challenge facing the UK" - the war on terrorism. Tell that to the people of Hammersmith.All that is really new in what the prime minster said yesterday is that he said it. But saying is not doing, and saying when about to leave office is hardly saying at all. The best that can be concluded from this bizarre affair is that such things are at least better said than not said. And we must hope that the Tories do not feel obliged to obliterate Cameron's recent sanity on law and order by accusing Blair of going soft on crime. He has not. He has merely sounded sensible.simon.jenkins@theguardian.com