The mental health advocate of the Moors murderer Ian Brady has been arrested on suspicion of preventing the burial of Keith Bennett, one of Brady and Myra Hindley's five young victims.Jackie Powell told a documentary maker of the existence of a letter written by Brady, to be given to Keith's mother after the serial killer's death. It is suspected the letter, in a sealed envelope, may contain details of where the 12-year-old was buried in 1964.In an interview with the Guardian, Paddy Wivell, the producer of a forthcoming Channel 4 documentary on Brady, said Powell told him her obligation was to Brady and she would return the letter to him."I was really shocked and found it breathtaking," he said. "But if you've worked so closely with someone for such a long time, perhaps she felt a loyalty towards him … apparently she took it back to him." The documentary company informed the police at the end of July.Police on Friday said a 49-year-old woman had been arrested in south Wales on suspicion of preventing the burial of a body without lawful exercise. The force later said she had been bailed for three months. Although police wouldn't name the suspect it is understood the woman is Powell, who was appointed Brady's advocate under the Mental Health Act in 1999.Wivell said he had not seen the letter. "It is all just speculation. I wonder if it is part of a bigger game involving Brady."At the time the documentary was being made, Brady's mental health review tribunal hearing – his legal move to be declared sane and transferred from Ashworth high-security hospital to a prison, where he could refuse tube-feeding – had been cancelled due to his poor health. Powell told Wivell that Brady looked as if he could "die within days".Wivell said he was taken aback when Powell was arrested, despite her revelations about the letter. "In any event, I haven't seen it [the letter] and I don't know if it even exists."He said he felt for Keith's mother, Winnie Johnson, who had suffered "unimaginable torture" over five decades.Keith was on his way to visit his grandmother when he was taken and murdered by Brady and Hindley on 16 June 1964.Like the other youngsters snatched by Brady and Hindley – Pauline Reade, John Kilbride, Lesley Ann Downey and Edward Evans – he was killed and buried on Saddleworth moor above Manchester.Neither Brady nor Hindley, who died aged 60 in 2002, has revealed where Bennett's body was buried, despite repeated pleas from Johnson.Greater Manchester police said they had recently received information that led them to believe that Brady had finally disclosed details of the location of the body to one of his "long-term visitors" at Ashworth hospital in Merseyside.A police spokesman said: "Officers in the cold case unit made inquiries to verify the accuracy of this report and have since had extensive contact with Ashworth hospital and Keith's close family. As a result, warrants obtained under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act were executed at Ashworth hospital and a private address in south Wales."Martin Bottomley, head of investigative review of Greater Manchester police's major and cold case crime unit, said: "The Moors murders cast a long and dark shadow over the history of our region but in 2009 we reluctantly concluded there was no longer any specific information to identify new search areas and the investigation to find Keith entered a dormant stage. However, we have always stressed this is a case we will never close."He added: "I want to be explicitly clear about this: Ian Brady has not revealed to police the location of Keith's body. What we are looking at is the possibility – and at this stage it is only a possibility – that he has written a letter to Keith's mum, Winnie Johnson, which was not to be opened until after his death. We do not know if this is true or simply a ruse but we clearly have a duty to investigate such information on behalf of Keith's family."The Guardian understands that officers seized documents from Powell's house, but believe there is no clear evidence that Brady has revealed the location of Keith's grave.It is thought that Johnson, who is seriously ill in a hospice, is not yet aware of the developments. Her lawyer, John Ainley, told the Press Association: "Winnie has always believed that Ian Brady knew where her son was buried. She never thought anything else. He had a dialogue with Winnie some years ago and she was certain that he could have provided information that would have given her closure in this harrowing case."The documentaries commissioning editor and editor for Cutting Edge, Emma Cooper, said: "No one can verify the contents of the envelope and therefore what information it does or does not contain, but given the enormity of the implications as suggested by Brady's letter, we felt we had a responsibility to inform the family via their family liaison officer."Winnie's poor health was foremost in our decision-making and this is why we have decided to bring forward the broadcast of the film and make the existence of the envelope public."The film, Ian Brady: Endgames of a Psychopath, will be broadcast on Monday at 9pm. In an interview she gave for the programme, Powell said she had received a letter of instruction and a sealed envelope from Brady via his solicitors. She explained that the letter of instruction stated the additional envelope contained three letters – one apparently addressed to Johnson.Powell, who has professional obligations in her capacity as executor and her role as Brady's mental health advocate, told the documentary she had not opened the sealed envelope so could not be certain of its contents. But she told the Daily Mirror that Brady did not want "to take his secrets to the grave", adding that the document could afford Johnson "the means of her possibly being able to rest".Brady wants to be transferred to a Scottish prison and be allowed to die. He has been tube-fed since refusing food 12 years ago.David Wilson, a professor of criminology at Birmingham City University who is an expert on serial killers, expressed doubt about the existence of the letter. "There is no new information here."Ian Brady went back to the moors in 1987 and said to the police officer: 'Who moves that mountain?' They stopped the investigation then because it's quite clear he didn't have a clue where the body was. This is not about Keith Bennett, or Winnie Johnson, it's about Ian Brady."He is a master of trying to inject what is broadcast and printed about him and making sure we interpret the story in the way he would like us to interpret it. He's unique in the sense that most serial killers don't want to talk and communicate. Ian Brady communicates all the time. When you assess what he writes it is usually self serving nonsense not remotely reliable."Lord Pendry, who was the MP for Stalybridge and Hyde for 31 years, told the Guardian he was responsible for persuading Brady to re-visit the moors in 1987 and to "match his words with deeds"."I convinced him to go up and look for the boy Bennett's body. Then I went to Manchester police and they took him up there – he couldn't find it."It was an almost impossible situation. Myra Hindley took them to Lesley Ann Downey's grave. He was anxious to upstage her."Pendry said: "I don't know what's new about the situation. He has been up there previously and couldn't find it then."He questioned whether Brady was "leading more people up the garden path".