This week it was announced that Britain's police officers are to be issued with portable computers to help protect the public against crime. The thought is that so many people have been mugged for their laptops that now the police are going to walk round with them as well to try to spread it about a bit.As a whole string of technological accessories were announced for our law enforcers, the futuristic fantasy of Robocop finally came true. Or maybe it's more Dixon of Dock Green with a pager.PC Plod is being taken to PC World to save him having to spend hours back at the police station filling out endless forms and statements. So as the armed gang screech away from the bank heist, police officers will now rush to the scene and instead of producing a little black notebook, will whip out their laptop computers. "So you say you saw the getaway car?" "Yes, I memorised the number plate and everything. Quick, get it down before I forget it." "OK, hold on. Press 'File', then 'Open', then 'Enter'. Hmmm ... 'Windows file path invalid'..." "It was a red Nissan, registration X 148..." "Hang on, hang on, 'File not configured'; look, you don't know anything about computers do you?" "Registration X418, no - erm, try pressing 'Help'. I think it's F1." "Ah yes, let's see: 'Specify font when converting files'. Hmmm. Can we borrow your computer sir?" "Sorry - it's just been stolen." Even if police computers crash as often as their cars, I suppose they'll still have their uses. To protect all that complex micro-technology, laptops now have a tough titanium alloy casing - so they could always use them to whack someone over the head when they've forgotten their truncheons. The introduction of pagers is another clever New Labour step forward. At the last Police Federation conference, Jack Straw was nearly booed off the stage. Next time the home secretary speaks, all the officers in the audience will get messages on their pagers saying: "Applaud now!", "Cheer!" and "Standing ovation!" Another innovation will see video identity parades replacing the traditional police station line-up. For the witness, this will remove the fear of coming face to face with your assailant, making it just like watching an ordinary video. So before you get to the main feature there will be an endless string of over-long trailers: "Coming soon from Scotland Yard Pictures," says the deep American voiceover, "a story of six men, and the criminal who lurked among them. From the director of Identity Parade 5 - a thrilling story of one man's search for justice." And then there'll probably be a trailer for The Perfect Storm and Meet the Parents because there always is, and the witness will shout: "That's him! That's the one who did it. I'd recognise him anywhere!" "No madam, that's Robert de Niro." All this is presuming that the officer in charge didn't record over the tape by mistake, replacing essential footage of the chief suspects with last night's edition of Top Gear. However, giving policeman camcorders also brings new risks of facilitating miscarriages of justice. Will all participants in the identity parade be filmed in the same neutral manner? Or when they get to the bloke they want to see banged up, will they zoom violently in and out and then use the caption facility to type in "Guilty!" in big letters across the screen? Maybe the best judicial cock-ups could appear on their own video clips' TV show, called You've Been Framed. Like all tools in the fight against crime, modern technology can be used for good or ill. There's always a civil liberties issue, but no point would be served by holding the police back and saying that they were only allowed to use blue phone boxes and whistles. The use of modern technology really took off with the spread of CCTV cameras which, though they helped reduce crime, also had a downside as we were forced to endure endless newspaper articles about the realisation of Orwell's nightmarish vision. I used to be against CCTV, but earlier this year my wife's handbag was stolen in a coffee shop and there was the culprit caught red-handed on camera. Then he tried to buy petrol with her credit card and there he was again, number plate and all. Fantastic! Obviously nothing was ever done to follow any of this up, trace his car or bring any charges, but you can't expect everything. So we should welcome any technology that assists the police in their vital work and it is clearly much easier to alter a defendant's statement on a computer than it is on handwritten sheet of A4. And we should not be deterred from proceeding to the next stage by the expense of buying our policemen new laptops, pagers, palmtops and camcorders. As it happens the fight against crime will not cost as much as you might expect. Apparently there's a bloke down the pub who can get all this stuff for them half price, no questions asked.