There is nothing in the damp stairwell of the North Peckham estate to record where schoolboy Damilola Taylor bled to death. Only glistening stalactites leach away concrete from the condemned 1960s complex.But the first anniversary of the killing - allegedly by a teenage gang, which sparked a national debate on policing and inner city deprivation - was not forgotten yesterday. Tony Blair and his wife Cherie opened a youth centre in a nearby south London street commemorating Damilola's life. The ceremony, attended by Metropolitan police commissioner Sir John Stevens, followed a church service led by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The prime minister joined Richard and Gloria Taylor, Damilola's parents, to unveil a plaque bearing an image of the 10-year-old alongside words he had written shortly before he was murdered. In a speech, Mr Taylor recalled: "When Damilola was killed my life was devastated, I was destroyed. I blamed everyone - my country, this country, everyone. "But his death awakened many things in many people. It made the authorities sit up and take notice, it forced those who make the laws to face harsh realities. But most of all, I believe, it made parents, communities and officials more aware of their responsibilities towards young people." Mr Blair told the audience: "Damilola was obviously a remarkable young boy in his own right. The publicity surrounding his death, and what has happened subsequently, has brought him to the attention of many people." The prime minister praised Lord Harris of Peckham, who grew up in neighbouring streets and has contributed £400,000 towards refurbishment of the building now to be known as the Damilola Taylor Centre.Mr Blair added: "I hope Damilola would have seen the people here today and been proud of what he did achieve in his short life." The plaque bore the inscription written by Damilola on one of his last drawings. "I will travel far and wide to choose my destiny and remould the world," he said. "I know it is my destiny to defend the world which I hope to achieve during my lifetime." Damilola and his family had come to Britain from Nigeria so that his sister Gbemi could receive treatment for epilepsy. He told his parents that his ambition was to qualify as a doctor so he could carry out research into the condition. Away from the ceremony, some local residents said they feared the teenage gangs roaming the area. Last week a 13-year-old boy was reportedly surrounded and robbed of his mobile phone. "At least the police patrol the estate in twos every so often," said Alicia Johnson, who organises a local church choir. "They used either not to come in here at all or five at a time for security." Four teenagers are awaiting trial on charges of murdering Damilola Taylor. The North Peckham estate is in the process of being demolished and replaced with terraced, low-rise homes. But the block where Damilola died may be spared until after the trial so that the jury can inspect the scene.