Electro-shock stun guns, handed out to some police forces here but banned for export, must be subjected to full medical trials before they are deployed throughout Britain, Amnesty International said yesterday.It said high-voltage "Tasers", named after the US maker, had not been properly tested. The decision to give them to five police forces was taken on the basis of experimental evidence from the manufacturer and US police forces, described by Ministry of Defence scientists as "not substantial" and "limited". Amnesty warned of the potential for abusing the Taser advanced M26 - which fires darts that can deliver a 50,000-volt electric shock - as it launched a report highlighting the growing trade by what it calls "pain merchants". Since 1990 Amnesty has documented electro-shock torture in 87 countries, and has found 57 companies in the EU that offer to sell, distribute, broker, or make stun weapons over the past three years. Three are based in the UK, said Amnesty. In at least three EU member states - Greece, Spain and Austria - there have been reports of electro-shock torture. US police forces have used Tasers since the 1970s. A number of people fired on have died, though no direct link between the deaths and the weapon has been established.Kate Allen, of Amnesty, said yesterday: "That UK police can use a stun gun on British citizens that is banned for export from the UK because of its use in torture around the world is startling enough. "But to do so after trials that amount to little more than a literature review, described by government scientists as 'not substantial', is frightening." Five British police forces are taking part in a 12-month trial - Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, North Wales, Thames Valley, and the Metropolitan police. The Taser was first used on a suspect by the Met on August 3 in Hounslow, west London, and has been fired a further seven times. The Defence Scientific Advisory Council's sub-committee on the medical implications of less lethal weapons, known as Domill, stated that manufacturers appeared to have conducted very little experimental research into the M26 advanced Taser, said Amnesty. This week a report from the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) said some officers had expressed concern about the reliability of the stun gun, particularly its battery packs. However, the device was thought to have significant "deterrent effects" and "a number of operational benefits for police". An Acpo spokesman, Derek Talbot, described Amnesty's report as "unhelpful" and added that the trials were being carried out under "strict constraints". The Met Police Federation said last week that Tasers should be widely distributed to police officers in London. Peter Able, of Amnesty, said yesterday it supported the controlled use of Tasers, provided that police adopted them only as an alternative to firearms. "Amnesty wants Tasers to be firmly locked in the firearms box," he said. The Home Office said that no final decision about Tasers would be made until the trial had been completed and assessed. They were covered by an export ban because they had been used in some countries for torture or other cruel treatment, a spokeswoman said.