It was my turn to introduce myself. “My son Alex Henry was wrongfully convicted of murder by joint enterprise. He was 20, and ran in to protect his friend Janhelle Grant-Murray, who was being attacked by four older men. He threw a mobile phone at one. He didn’t know that the man who ran in behind him had a knife in his bag. He got 19 years.”Janhelle’s mum, Barbara, was next. She tried to speak but she was too grief-stricken. It was too soon. Janhelle had also been sentenced to a minimum sentence of 19 years – which means that, like Alex, he has to serve every single one of those years before he is considered for parole, and then only if remorse is shown for a crime committed by someone else.Joint enterprise law: what is it and why is it controversial? We were at our first meeting at JENGbA (Joint Enterprise Not Guilty by Association), a campaign group mostly made up of mums and other family members fighting for justice on behalf of those imprisoned under the law of joint enterprise.“Harness your anger,” organiser Gloria Morrison tells us. When the verdict was announced at the Old Bailey, and we realised that our sons had been found guilty of murder, it was a traumatic shock. Everything sounded muffled; I kept repeating to my daughter Charlotte over and over again: “What did they say?” Yet I had heard, because I could hear my own wailing, and feel my pulse in my ears as sobs shook my body. It felt like I was drowning and falling, I could not move, could not breathe . And then I felt the hands of the security guards as they tried to remove me. I could hear screams of agony: “Don’t take my baby, don’t take my baby” as Barbara fell to the ground, the shock so bad that an ambulance had to be called.That was two years ago, and I am still horrified by the injustice. This week campaigners at JENGbA began to see the result of a long, hard fight to reform the doctrine of joint enterprise.The grassroots of JENGbA started with four angry women. We now support 650 Joint Enterprise prisoners aged 13 and up, mostly from black and minority ethnic backgrounds. There are approximately 4,500 men, women and children serving long sentences, usually life, for crimes they didn’t commit, and are languishing in prison with no hope of early parole.In February this year, the supreme court ruled that for the last 30 years our justice system had got it wrong on joint enterprise. Ameen Hassan Jogee was convicted of murder even though it was his friend who stabbed the victim, and the supreme court’s decision led to a retrial. Through the sheer determination of his mother and his QC, Jogee was found not guilty of murder earlier this week. A manslaughter convicted was reinstated in its place. But will further miscarriages of justice be prevented? The supreme court ruled the evidential bar had been set too low We will see more results of further appeals in due course. But will further miscarriages of justice be prevented? The supreme court ruled that the evidential bar for guilt had been set too low in joint enterprise cases. It had convicted bystanders (secondary offenders) based on whether the jury was convinced that this person “foresaw” that the killer (primary defendant) might commit the act.However, the evidence for the foresight element has always been based on inferences – that is, friendship and often mere presence. The prosecution could use the friendship between codefendants to insinuate a meeting of minds ,creating a slippery slope from being a witness to having a guilty mind.Now the prosecution must prove that the defendant intentionally assisted or encouraged the person to commit the act. But in the absence of a definition for what constitutes assisting and encouraging, the evidential bar remains low.And so the risk is that joint enterprise remains a dragnet; whether that is for manslaughter rather than murder remains to be seen. It captures the guilty and innocent alike. Not just to criminalise ethnic minorities, but also to rid our streets of young people who are vulnerable, with mental heath problems, developmental and learning disabilities (like Alex, who has autism) and in some cases physical impairments (like Jordan Cuncliffe, who was imprisoned for a murder committed by someone else when he was aged 15, despite being blind).Unsurprisingly, many prisoners convicted by joint enterprise maintain their innocence and refuse to show remorse for a crime they did not commit. For some, this means they do not progress from category A prisons to category B – and for many there is the threat of delayed parole.Joint enterprise law wrongly interpreted for 30 years, court rules The change in the law means we are now faced with the prospect of further injustice as prisoners who are able to appeal under the Jogee judgment may be faced with a dilemma: Accept a charge of manslaughter or continue to maintain your innocence. Prisoners are desperate to return home to their loved ones, but balk at the idea of admitting to something you didn’t do.Alex is 23 now and has been imprisoned for three years. He is a vulnerable adult in a category-A prison; and, of course, he is still my baby. Like people in many other cases, he will be requesting permission to appeal soon, and we hope he will finally get a fair trial. There is more work to be done to ensure justice prevails, as it has for Ameen Jogee, whose mother did not stop fighting for him. The thought of a retrial terrifies me and the toll it takes on Alex is immeasurable. But we continue to harness our anger.