A QC was discharged from a murder jury yesterday after a judge said his presence might be prejudicial to the defendant, raising fears the judiciary could scupper new legislation allowing judges and lawyers to sit on juries.The senior barrister's knowledge of court procedure, Judge George Bathurst-Norman said, would allow him to understand legal matters that other jurors might miss. The QC had told court staff that he recognised prosecuting counsel after being sworn in with 11 others at the Old Bailey. Following objections from defence counsel he was told he would be replaced before the trial started. The judge said the same may apply to anyone with specialist knowledge sitting on a jury. He said he did not know how legislation allowing barristers, solicitors and judges to sit on juries was expected to work: "Where do you draw the line? It deeply troubles me. At the end of the day, I have to ensure a fair trial. "I just don't know how this legislation is going to work intelligently if judges are to sit on juries. It is not for me to undermine the will of parliament, but at the same time, I have to ensure a fair trial." The incident comes as a senior appeal court judge, Sir John Dyson, faces a call-up for jury duty. Lord Woolf is to issue guidance to judges on how they should conduct themselves if summoned for jury service. The legislation followed government concern there was a "middle-class opt-out" from jury service. Entire occupations including judges, lawyers, magistrates, police and clergy were ineligible, while doctors and nurses were exempted. The change was part of a shake-up of the criminal justice system after Lord Justice Auld's review of the criminal courts of England and Wales in 2001. The review recommended no one should be exempt from juries on the basis of occupation and pointed out judges and lawyers sat on US juries. Opponents of the change argued that lawyers and judges would know, if nothing was said in court about a defendant's good character, that he had a criminal record. A second objection was they would unduly influence jurors.