Police investigating the deaths of a doctor and her five children in a house fire last month believe their home may have been burgled after the family had gone to bed and before the blaze was discovered.Sabah Usmani, 44, daughter Hira, 12, and sons Sohaib, 11, and Rayyan, six, died at the scene after emergency services fought to save members of the family in Harlow, Essex, early on 15 October. Son Muneeb, nine, and daughter Maheen, three, were taken to hospital in critical condition but later died.Their father, Abdul Shakoor, who works as a doctor in the town's Princess Alexandra hospital, suffered minor injuries as he fought to help his family at their home in Barn Mead. The cause of the fire is still under investigation.Detectives from the Kent and Essex serious crime directorate revealed the new developments in a statement published by Essex police. A laptop bag containing papers belonging to Shakoor was found 11 days after the fire and inquiries have revealed there were two other unsuccessful break-in attempts in the town on the same evening as the fire.Police said they wanted to speak urgently to a boy aged 15-16 who was wearing a tracksuit, and a "slim" girl in the uniform of Burnt Mill school, who were seen throwing the laptop bag away near garages in Whitewaits, Harlow.They also asked for help in finding Shakoor's Toshiba laptop. The doctor remembers leaving it in his living room before going to bed on the evening of the fire. It was bought in Saudi Arabia and had a two-pin connection used with an adaptor.Police wanted to speak to six young men seen outside the house in the early hours of the morning the fire was discovered. Four were aged between 16 and 19, wearing tracksuits and baseball caps, while two others were on bikes. The first of these was said to be 15-18, with ginger or light brown hair, on a light-coloured bike. He was wearing black jogging bottoms with stripes down the legs, and a hip-length, anorak-style jacket with a hood. The other, aged 16-18, was riding a black mountain bike and wearing a light grey top.Detective Superintendent Rob Vinson said that from the start, detectives had regarded the house fire and a nearby car fire as suspicious."Scientists have been sifting through the remains of the fire and have confirmed that to date there is no evidence of a flammable liquid being used. It is, however, important to emphasise that detailed forensic testing remains ongoing," he said."Behind the scenes detectives and specially trained staff have been working around the clock piecing together information and intelligence which has led us to this point."This remains one of the most complex cases the investigative team has ever dealt with but we remain steadfast in our approach and confident the answers lie within the local community. We will continue to gain intelligence and work to find answers to the questions of what happened that resulted in such a tragic loss of life."Shakoor said: "It is impossible for me to put into words what the loss of my wife and children means to me and the devastating effect it has had on all of my family. I cannot express the pain of losing my devoted wife, Sabah, and my beautiful children, Hira, Sohaib, Muneeb, Rayyan and Maheen. Maheen died in hospital just days before her fourth birthday."In the space of just one night I have lost everything dearest to me," said Shakoor. "Any father, any mother, anyone who has family who they love, will understand the pain that I and all my family are suffering. Allah has given me courage to face this tragedy with patience, and so many people from across the community have supported me with their love and words and comfort at this terrible time."The doctor said: "I do not understand why my little children who were so happy and full of life, who had so much to live for, are no longer here. I ask from my heart that anyone with information comes forward to help, so that I may understand the tragedy that has befallen my beautiful family. Even a small piece of information may make a difference and, however difficult it may be, I ask anyone who knows what happened, to do the right thing, to come forward and to talk to the police."Those with information can contact police on 0800 0560 944 or via email at SCDappeals@essex.pnn.police.uk. Information can also be passed anonymously to Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.