They were immediately dubbed, to the distaste of at least one of them, the "angels of Woolwich" – a handful of women who, in the moments after Lee Rigby's murder, stepped forward to try to help him, or to remonstrate with his killers.Ingrid Loyau-Kennett shot to public attention, and attracted the praise of David Cameron, after she jumped out of a passing bus to try to help. She was filmed by many passersby talking to Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale as they waited for the police to arrive, still clutching weapons in their bloodied hands.She had tried to talk them in a low voice, to distract them from attacking others, she said later. "I said: 'Do you know what? It's only you and there are many of us. What do you expect out of that?' 'I don't care,' he said. 'I will have my war here.'"It was her training as a Cub Scout leader, she said, that enabled her to stay calm after the men made it clear that they would not harm women, but she was far from the only person who went to help.Amanda Donnelly and her daughter Gemini Donnelly-Martin approached Rigby's body; the mother cradled and stroked the dead soldier, "provid[ing] some comfort and humanity to what had unfolded", as the prosecuting QC told jurors.Tina Nimmo was in a passing car with her daughter and baby grandchild when she saw the attack; she insisted on jumping out to see if she could help Rigby and to try to stop his attackers, before directing others away from the scene. "She only wanted to help the poor guy – she's a mum," her son said. "That's what mums do – motherly love. No man should die like that, alone and unhelped."Amanda Bailey, who was driving past, could only stare, horrified, as she saw Rigby's attackers hack at his neck. She managed to drive off but leapt from her car when she saw two classes of schoolchildren crossing the road towards the scene of the murder, and told their teachers to take them to safety. Vikki Cave ran to the body and said she was a trained first aider and was "around to help". She then asked the two men if they were going to hurt the others. "No," one replied, "the women and children are safe."A number of men, including Samuel Williams, a passing lorry driver, tried to approach the scene to help, but were shouted back by the women after the attackers made it plain that only they were safe. "We did what anyone would do," Donnelly-Martin later said. "We just wanted to take care of the man. It wasn't brave."Anyone would have done it. It had to be done." Although she and Tina were grateful for the kind things that had been said about them, "The only thing people need to worry about is that poor man's mum."