In the early hours of 2 June 2010, Derrick Bird travelled from his home in Rowrah, Cumbria, to Lamplugh and shot his twin brother, David, 52, at his home in High Tree Farm.He then passed his home in Rowrah en route to the home of his solicitor, Kevin Common, at Mowbray Farm, Frizington Road, and shot him in his driveway.From there he went home and stopped at another address in Rowrah. Getting no reply he went to Whitehaven town centre where he shot taxi driver Darren Rewcastle at the taxi rank on Duke Street.Bird drove around the one-way system and returned to the taxi rank to shoot Donald Reid, who survived.He headed along Duke Street and Scotch Street where he shot and injured Paul Wilson. Bird then turned on to Coach Road and shot Terry Kennedy and Emma Percival, who were in a taxi. They both survived.From there, he took a minor road through the village of Sandwith and Rottington to St Bees.Driving along Out Rigg he reached the market town of Egremont where he shot and killed Susan Hughes at Hagget End.Then he turned right at the junction of South Street and drove a short distance to Bridge End, where he killed Kenneth Fishburn.Heading to Cringlethwaite Terrace, he shot Leslie Hunter, who survived.From there, Bird travelled out of Egremont on the main A595, turning south towards Thornhill where he left the main road and drove into Thornhill estate where he shot at Ashleigh Glaister on Thorny Road. The bullet missed her.He began driving along the partly surfaced, single-lane country tracks past the village of Carleton. On the Egremont to Haile road, he shot Isaac Dixon on the roadside before turning towards Wilton then back to Egremont.Bird did a U-turn near Grange and drove back to Wilton, where he killed Jennifer Jackson. At Town End Farm he did another U-turn and drove back to the village where he shot Jackson's husband, James, and Christine Hunter-Hall, who survived.He then drove through Haile and shot Garry Purdham on the A595 at Calder Bridge. He turned to Seascale on Gosforth Road and killed James Clark.Under a narrow railway bridge he shot and injured Harry Berger before driving along the seafront on to Drigg Road, where he killed Michael Pike and Jane Robinson. He then shot and injured Jacqueline Lewis on Old Shore Road.Bird continued past Drigg towards Holmrock, where he travelled towards the Eskdale valley.At Eskdale, he took a circuitous route via Irton to Santon Bridge and then doubled back through Irton to the Bower House pub. He continued to Eskdale Green, where he shot and injured Fiona Maretta.Travelling to Boot, Bird shot and injured Nathan Jones and Samantha Chrystie. He also shot at Christine Alty, Craig Ross and Phillip Lowe.Bird travelled along the valley road, colliding with oncoming vehicles and a stone wall before turning off the road signposted 'no through road' to Doctor Bridge, Boot. A tyre fell off the wheel, bringing the car to a halt near a stone bridge. He travelled to woodland on foot where he shot himself.