The country's most senior police officer admitted yesterday there was "no way on God's earth" of eradicating corruption from the Metropolitan police, despite the great strides that have been made in recent years.Launching a new anti-corruption strategy at New Scotland Yard, the Met commissioner Sir John Stevens conceded that in a service of nearly 40,000 staff, there would always be a small number of people who would succumb to the temptations of making money on the sly. He insisted the battle to root out corrupt officers would continue unabated, but there is growing frustration within the force over the tactics used by some of those who have been suspended pending criminal or disciplinary hearings. Ian Blair, the Met's deputy commissioner, said yesterday he had written to the crown prosecution service and senior judges at the Old Bailey to see if there were ways of speeding up cases due before the courts. The force says while it is a defendant's "legitimate right" to explore all legal avenues, some officers have played "every trick in the book" to delay coming before the courts. In the longest running case still to be resolved, two Met officers have been suspended on full pay for the past five years. Their case, which was thrown out before it reached trial, is to be heard by a disciplinary panel in November. Figures released yesterday show the Met has found it difficult to turn allegations of corruption into convictions. Over the past four years 121 people have been charged with corruption offences. Forty were police, 15 were former officers and 66 were criminals. Convictions so far stand at 64 - 19 officers, seven former officers and 38 criminals. Sir John said there was "absolutely no doubt" corruption still existed in the force, but the Met intended to build on the successes of the past four years. "If we don't deal with these people, it will grow like a cancer. There is no way on God's earth that we can get rid of this kind of corruption. We must ensure we go as far as we can to prevent it." He said corruption had been allowed to fester and grow again after a purge by a former commissioner, Sir Robert Mark, because everyone "thought it had gone away". "The threat of police corruption is systemic. Organised crime needs corrupt officers and the threat is unlikely to diminish in the near future. That is why sustained vigilance remains so important." The Met's five-year "professional standards strategy" focuses on prevention. Security around the Met's computer databases is to be reviewed, and officers will undergo more integrity tests. There is concern that senior officers have not had enough control over junior ranks, which has been exploited by some staff. In a recent case, two detective constables from Barkingside police station in east London, Martin Morgan, 39, and Declan Costello, 36, abandoned their duties to help a criminal in Surrey. The officers, who were convicted in June, were able to leave their patch without anyone asking where they had been. Sir John said the new strategy aimed to give support to supervisors so that this could not happen again. Deputy assistant commissioner Andy Hayman, who heads the Met's 360-strong anti-corruption group, said corrupt officers had changed their methods. In the past, squads of officers had been caught, but the trend was now towards individuals seizing opportunities, often when approached by criminals.