In 1981, after six years of researching, writing and updating a book called The Facts of Rape, I decided I was never going to tackle anything again that I couldn't joke about. But 25 years on, with abysmal conviction rates for rape again in the news, I was struck by a shocking comparison. In 1980, 1,225 cases of rape were recorded by police in England and Wales. The same year, 416 men either admitted they were guilty or were found guilty of the crime. Between April 2004 and March 2005, the total number of rapes of women by men recorded by police in England and Wales was 13,322. In 2004, just 702 either admitted the crime or were subsequently found guilty of it.That's over 12,000 more reported crimes than in 1980, but only a few hundred more convictions. In 1980, one in three reported rapes ended in convictions; in 2005, one in 20. Not only were the figures astonishing, they were depressing beyond belief. Did they mean rape was out of control and the system even less equipped to deal with it? Or that the thousands of women who wouldn't have reported the crime in 1980 were now reporting it but were even less likely to see their assailants punished?The answer had to lie somewhere in the chain of events between the crime and the jury returning its verdict. The most obvious place to start looking for it was the crown court. On a horrible Monday in December last year, I went to Southwark, south London, in search of a trial where the complainant and the defendant were known to each other and where the case hinged on the issue of her consent. These are the critical features in the vast majority of rape allegations, and 25 years ago they were also the reasons most never got to court or, if they did, were most likely to end in an acquittal.My plan was to work backwards: to use the trial as a springboard into the system to see exactly what was happening to create the awful state of affairs suggested by the statistics. I chose Court 13 only because it was a single defendant and the charge was rape. This is the story of an allegation made on April 21 2005 and its outcome nine months later. I'm calling the complainant A and the man she accused B. I'm not naming the barristers or judge either, because they asked me not to.April 21 was a Thursday. Some time between 7am and 8am, B, who is in his mid-50s and weighs 17 stone, dragged A, in her late 40s and nine stone, up the stairs of her house in south London, to her bedroom on the first floor. He pushed her inside and locked the door. She pleaded with him. She said she had her period but B pushed her back on to the bed, pulled her pyjama bottoms off then got on top of her. A struggled to free herself. She said she would scream and other people in the house would hear her. But B put a pillow over her face and said if she didn't shut up, he'd kill her. When he had finished, he ran out of the house, jumped into his car and sped away.A went down to the kitchen, found her phone, then went back to the living room and sat on the settee. She hadn't been able to speak when a lodger in the kitchen had asked her if she was OK. The phone rang. Her nephew, who lived nearby with his girlfriend, had heard the sound of the car and looked out of his window. Aware that A was frightened of B, he wanted to know if she was all right. She told him B had raped her. He arrived at the house within minutes and then fetched his girlfriend's mother, Mrs C, who also lived nearby. She called the police.Five hours later B was arrested on the building site where he was working. He agreed he and A had had sex. She had consented to it, he said. He had gone to the house, having telephoned in advance, to collect some tools; she had made him a cup of tea, he had kissed her and she hadn't objected. She had suggested they go upstairs to talk so they wouldn't wake anyone else in the house. They had started to have sex but stopped because she was having a period. He'd left in a hurry because he was late for work and that was why she was angry.Until two weeks previously, A and B had lived as man and wife. They had been partners for 29 years. She had thrown him out after he had made sexual advances towards one of their lodgers and she didn't want him back. Now here they were in Southwark crown court in front of a jury of eight men and four women whose job it was to decide if he was the rapist she said he was. And there I was, thinking: forget it.It was her word against his, there was no physical evidence of injury or of resistance, they had had consensual sex weeks earlier and probability wasn't going to come into it. The jury would have to be sure. The judge would tell them, both defence and prosecuting counsel would tell them, that if they weren't sure B was guilty, they must acquit him.In 1980, the case wouldn't even have got to court. Rape between a husband and wife wasn't a crime until 1994. Even if they had had no prior sexual relationship, it is doubtful the police would have prosecuted because juries were warned not to convict on a complainant's uncorroborated evidence. It seemed to me a miracle that A was in the courtroom at all, even if the 2001 British Crime Survey found that 54% of rapists were current or former partners or boyfriends of victims.But it soon became clear that both the investigative and legal processes were infinitely kinder to the victim than they had been in 1980. The corroboration requirement had been dropped in 1994; section 41 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act of 1999 had outlawed the cynical use of a complainant's sexual history (although this week a report sponsored by the Home Office found this still occurs); and the Sexual Offences Act 2003 had addressed the problems of consent - both what it was and what a reasonable belief in it might be.According to a Crown Prosecution Service directive, "a person consents if he or she agrees by choice to the sexual activity and has the freedom and capacity to make that choice. All the circumstances at the time of the offence will be looked at in determining whether the defendant is reasonable in believing the complainant consented. People will be considered most unlikely to have agreed to sexual activity if they were subject to threats or fear of serious harm, unconscious, drugged, abducted, or unable to communicate because of a physical disability."A's argument was that she had had sex with B because she was terrified and he had persisted despite her protests. B's was that he had had no reason to believe A wasn't consenting. The prosecuting barrister established the facts in his opening address, which was based on A's videotaped interview with a sexual offences investigative techniques (SOIT) officer on the day she made the allegation.SOITs were introduced to sexual offence investigations by London's Metropolitan Police as part of its Sapphire programme, launched in 2001 to provide a better deal for the victim and a higher standard of investigation. In 1980, police officers, both women and men, were notoriously brutal with complainants on the basis that any cross-examination in court would be even more so. In 2001, I soon discovered, specialisation is favoured throughout the system for crown solicitors and barristers, doctors and judges, as well as the police.The crown barrister, a 42-year-old family man called to the bar 19 years ago, was issued with a licence to prosecute sexual offences in 2002 when the CPS overhauled its system and created rape specialists in its own offices. The trial judge, who had been appointed to the high court in 2003, was invited to join the panel who can try sexual offences in 2004. Only the defence counsel, an unmarried man in his 30s with 14 years at the bar, had no special accreditation, although sexual offences accounted for one in four of his cases.The crown's case was clear, prosecuting counsel told Court 13 that Monday. It was agreed that intercourse had taken place but A said it wasn't consensual and several elements proved it was not. B put a pillow over A's face. A was menstruating. A threatened to scream. B dragged her up the stairs and locked the door behind them. But central to the case was the break-up of the relationship, which he intended to chart.A, prosecuting counsel said, had gone on holiday to Tenerife with her daughter-in-law, and when she had returned her son had told her that B had made advances to one of their lodgers. She had called a halt to the marriage. B had moved out of the area but on April 17 had moved back to stay with A's daughter, his stepdaughter. All the while he was telephoning A on both her mobile and her landline saying he wanted to get back together. If not, he would kill himself or her. The phone calls weren't disputed. B said A had phoned him too.On April 18 at 6am, he had gone round to the family house and tried A's locked bedroom door. She had let him in. At 6.20, her daughter had phoned because B had left her house. She had hurried over when she discovered B was with her mother because she was worried. B had threatened to smash the house up and burn it down. He had collected some tools he needed. A had asked him to return his keys to the house and he had, but A had realised that a key to the patio door was missing and asked her nephew to change the bolts. On April 19 B had gone to the house again to collect more tools. There had been a heated exchange but later he had asked for forgiveness. A had told him the marriage was over. On April 21 he had phoned at 6.40am and arrived at the house an hour later. He had raped her. Before the police had even arrived, he had phoned her, full of remorse.It was a sorry story, with only A's distress to mark its horror. But where A might never have been given the time of day in 1980, the current starting point with rape investigations is that the woman is telling the truth. In London, all rape reports go straight to the Sapphire Unit and a SOIT officer is appointed. In A's case, this was DC Dean Harrison, one of six in the Greenwich unit, which also has five specialist investigators. DC Harrison had taken A to the Haven, a sexual assault referral unit discreetly attached to Kings Hospital in Camberwell, where she had been seen by a crisis worker and by Dr Ruhi Jawad, the full time forensic gynaecologist. The examination, designed to preserve forensic evidence but also to reassure her, had taken two hours.The unit is as cosy as such a place can be, a far cry from the police stations where examinations used to take place. There's a sitting room and somewhere to shower, and a change of clothing is available. It receives 85 referrals a month and, Dr Jawad says when I visit her, they preserve evidence even when the victim doesn't want to proceed, in case she changes her mind.After leaving the Haven, A had recorded her statement in the videoed interview with DC Harrison. This is standard procedure. The interview can be used in court if the victim is unable to give evidence herself. It had taken two hours. Next day, DC Ashley Hayward from the Greenwich Domestic Violence Team had taken charge of the investigation, and it was he who saw A through to the trial's outcome. "My job was to build the case," he tells me. "Penetrative sex was admitted. I had to rely a lot on A's evidence and the supporting evidence. B had been ordered out of the house. The phone calls had been pestering."Corroboration might not be required, but the jury would be looking for evidence to confirm A's story. There was the immediate complaint to her nephew, the details of the rape she had described to Mrs C, A's daughter's evidence of the breakdown of the marriage, the history of B's calls (supported by phone records), and the medical evidence of an injury to A's vagina that might have been consistent with force. It hadn't been enough to persuade the jury at an initial trial in July 2005. They had failed to reach a verdict, so the judge had ordered a retrial. This is why everyone was back in court in December.The fact that A had had the strength to continue was a tribute to the way in which her case had been handled, I thought. But it was clear that this case was far from typical. DI Paul Meaden, head of the Greenwich Sapphire Unit, talked me through a snapshot of rape allegations made to the Met during April and May 2005, and where they stood by the following September.Of 677 allegations made, one of which was A's, 511 were classified as crimes, 416 suspects were identified, 381 suspects were arrested, 201 cases were submitted to the CPS and by September, 96 men had been charged. Some of the investigations were presumably ongoing, but what had happened to the rest?Part of the problem in detection, DI Meaden says, is the number of cases involving drink. "A number of women who report crimes have a very limited memory of what happened because they were so drunk." His personal view is that many more women are reporting rape because the police are more approachable - but the problem now is not that they won't be believed, but that the evidence won't be enough to satisfy someone along the line.I put the attrition rate to Claire Ward, a London CPS rape specialist. "In consent cases we don't always prosecute, but when we do prosecute, we don't often get a conviction."According to Martin Whitehouse, head of the CPS office that considered the evidence against B: "The test for the CPS is not 'Would a jury convict?' but 'Could they?' Even cases you're not sure about doesn't mean you don't prosecute. You don't know in the end what juries are going to make of all these things. The whole idea is that they bring to the jury room their experience of everyday life. They bring their prejudices and all the rest of it. We say that is the best way, but it carries the risk that they will judge not strictly on the evidence."By the third day of B's retrial, I had no idea what the jury was making of the case against him. Defence counsel had pressed A to explain the extent of her struggle to resist. He had asked her to explain in sexually explicit terms what had gone on. They had listened to B give his evidence and insist that he had only ever wanted to repair his relationship and believed on that morning that he was doing so. They must have wondered about the emphasis the prosecution placed on A's period, as if it were bizarre beyond belief that a woman might have sex while menstruating.In summing up, prosecuting counsel asked them to consider if A had had a motive to lie. The big problem for the defence was that, if B was telling the truth, there was a huge level of connivance against him. Defence counsel had reminded them they had taken an oath to try the case on evidence. The Crown had tried to persuade them to try it on emotion. The only evidence was of the unfortunate breakdown of a long-standing relationship. There was no evidence of rape.The judge's direction to the jury weighed the cases point for point. It was a matter for them but they must decide so that they were sure. He sent them away to consider their verdict on the evidence at midday on Wednesday. At midday on Thursday, they returned their decision. It was not unanimous: a 10:2 majority found B guilty.Five weeks later, the judge, taking into account A's victim impact statement, which described the violence in her marriage and the devastation of her life, sentenced B to five years in jail. "Physically she wasn't injured; psychologically she was," the judge noted. DC Hayward was a little disappointed. Five years is the starting point for rape convictions. By this time A had changed her name, moved house and had a panic button installed. She had also written a letter of thanks to the police.So what did the trial and outcome prove? To me, that B's conviction, welcome though it was and cause for hope though it is, was secured against ridiculous odds. A had been helped every inch of the way by a sympathetic police force, but there was no accounting for the result. She had been lucky where most others are not.A Home Office consultation paper called Justice for Victims of Rape acknowledged the problem and considered ways of tackling it. It considered changes to the rules of evidence, the introduction of expert witnesses for the prosecution to testify to the emotional and psychological state of the complainant, and the notion of capacity as it applied to victims who were drunk. But none of the lawyers I spoke to could see any merit in further tinkering with the law.The prosecuting counsel was thoroughly opposed to parliament's interference. Although he didn't believe the acquittal rate was a reflection of how many true cases were brought before the court, he thought juries reached verdicts based on the rules brought before them: "There are things supra to the legislation. The personalities of the barristers, the personality of the judges and more especially the quality of the evidence as it's presented in the witness box."The defence counsel didn't think the conviction rate was abnormally or unfairly low. "If anything," he said, "section 41 jolts the scales of justice away from the defendant. It restricts evidence concerning the character of the complainant, specifically pertaining to a prior relationship between the accused and the complainant. Frequently there has been some form of relationship and this is relevant. Men are useless at reading women. Most rape allegations are made in a fog of misunderstanding when very often either or both parties are drunk."The judge declared, "You can always understand when [juries] acquit why they acquitted. Although people are treated better, there are better investigations, it doesn't necessarily mean [the defendants] have got to be convicted. It means more people are coming forward, so that perhaps weaker cases are getting to a jury that would never have got there in the first place."In 1981, it seemed to me that if the law's function was to influence behaviour and keep it within the limits of social acceptability, nothing would change before it and its practice changed. Both have. But social acceptability? There's the problem. The comments of the lawyers would seem to suggest that it is socially acceptable that in 2004 13,000 women reported they had been raped but only 700 rapists warranted punishment. And more significantly, that the law and those who practise it not only cannot but should not attempt to influence it any further.This must be nonsense when the crux of the problem is the way in which evidence is viewed. It is all very well to say juries are doing the best they can with a difficult circumstance. What needs to change is the climate in which the difficult circumstance is judged - and that, it seems to me, should be thoroughly understood by the specialist whose influence must eventually have some impact on the fog of misunderstanding. The trial judge, who had handled the trial of B impeccably, seemed perplexed when I suggested to him that women are far more likely to say yes to sexual intercourse when they mean no than the other way round.Admirable though innovations are to ensure a better deal for the victim, the best deal she can get is justice. Specialisation can and should do more than produce a better working knowledge of the system and a sympathetic ear. It can address the bias in attitudes to women's sexuality (Amnesty International reported last year that one in four in the UK believe women contribute to their own rape). It can consider the impact of our happy-slapping culture's growing brutalisation, which allows a rapist and also a jury to believe that as attacks go, his wasn't so bad.DI Meaden provides a chilling perspective. "The interesting thing is how closely linked domestic violence and rape are. The man who will commit rape is very much the man who will commit domestic violence. They almost go hand in hand. If you're willing to slap a woman, you're willing to rape. It's just another form of abuse." This month it was revealed that as few as 4% of men convicted of domestic violence go to prison.The wretched answer to the question I asked myself about the statistics is maybe. Maybe thousands of women who wouldn't have reported rape in 1981 are now reporting it because the system is kinder. But according to the British Crime Survey, tens of thousands more aren't, and this will be because the climate is not. When the Home Office launched a campaign earlier this year alerting men to the novel concept of being sure of consent, the Daily Mail ran a cartoon of two barristers standing by a bed with a man and a woman in it waving a contract because the very idea is a joke. Maybe it was funny, but who's laughing? ·