Searches at one of Britain's high security prisons holding suspected terrorists are so lax that inmates have successfully concealed mobile phones in their underpants.The report published today by the chief inspector of prisons on Belmarsh, in south-east London, also criticises the conditions in which seven alleged "international terrorists" are being held without trial. Although plans had been drawn up to move some of them to Woodhill prison, near Milton Keynes, it is believed that they might remain at Belmarsh until the House of Lords has ruled on the legality of the emergency legislation under which they are held. The report by Anne Owers also says that some young adults awaiting trial in Belmarsh are being held alongside the most serious convicted adult prisoners and should be removed immediately. She says that if they were sentenced it would be illegal to hold them in Belmarsh. The overall verdict from the chief inspector is that the prison, which combines the roles of maximum security and serving the local courts, is struggling to meet the basic needs of its prisoners, despite recent improvements and the efforts of managers and staff. "On all the indices we use - showers, phones, association, time out of cell - prisoners' experience of the regime at Belmarsh was significantly worse than the average in other local prisons. Only 1% of Belmarsh prisoners said they had association more than five times a week, compared with a 35% average for other local prisons." She says that security is given a high profile at Belmarsh and category A restrictions were applied to all prisoners, but managers and staff spent so little time in the company of prisoners that "dynamic security" was little developed. The result was about 300 reports of security incidents each month, including bullying, drugs and gangs operating in the prison. Ms Owers' report says: "There had been recent reports of mobile phones in the prison and four of these had been found in May 2003. One prisoner found in possession of the phone admitted he had concealed it in his underpants during a strip search; searchers had failed to lift the upper clothing to reveal the extra pair of underpants where it was hidden." Prison service sources say mobile phones have become so small that inmates now hide them in their body crevices. She says the inspection team spoke separately to the seven people detained indefinitely at Belmarsh under anti-terrorism legislation. She provides no evidence to substantiate claims by their lawyers that they are being held in "concrete coffins" but she acknowledges the lack of support systems to help them cope with their unique situation. Ms Owers says that the anti-terrorism detainees who were brought directly to Belmarsh from their homes, rather than via a police station, were initially refused a telephone call to legal representatives or family until their contacts had been cleared by the security department. "Many other matters raised by the detainees were equally applicable to other prisoners at Belmarsh, such as lack of regular association, access to telephones, and in the case of prisoners whose first language was not English, access to interpreters and information in a language they understood." The chief inspector says that the detainees were reluctant to move to Woodhill prison because they preferred to be accommodated on wings with other prisoners in Belmarsh rather than together in a small unit in another prison. The director general of the prison service, Phil Wheatley, said that at the time of the inspection - four months ago - Belmarsh had been operating an emergency regime due to staffing pressures. "That is not the case now," he said. "Belmarsh has turned around its sickness levels and will be nearing full staff by the end of the year."