A domestic violence charity is to take legal action against a police force and the Crown Prosecution Service for allegedly failing to protect a woman who was murdered by her abusive husband despite her repeated calls for help.Sabina Akhtar, 26, was stabbed through the heart by Malik Mannan last September at her home in Manchester. Her killer was jailed for a minimum of 17 years following a trial in March.Sandra Horley, chief executive of Refuge, said she hopes the civil action against Greater Manchester police and the CPS will be a test case "which will force the Home Office to revise police priorities and ensure that the police take domestic violence seriously". She also hopes the criminal justice agencies will be galvanised into action.Horley said under human rights legislation the authorities had a duty to protect people and it was believed in this case, the police and CPS "failed spectacularly". She said, had they handled the case better, "she might still be alive today.The human rights barrister Lady Helena Kennedy QC said she was not "someone who would automatically reach for the law to solve policy problems". But she added: "The police failure to act in domestic violence is something well known to us and in fact they have improved their game considerably – but in some forces it is not good enough."At Mannan's trial, Manchester crown court heard that his wife had reported him to police, telling them he had battered her on 25 occasions and made threats on her life.Last July he told her to prepare for death by reading passages from the Qur'an, adding: "I am going to get a knife and when I return I am going to slaughter you."He was arrested later that month and released on bail while police made further inquiries. His bail conditions included instructions not to contact his wife or visit her home, but he repeatedly breached the order and was rearrested in September. He was released without charge and his bail conditions were dropped.Later he sent a text message to his wife that said: "I am a free man since 1.30pm. Case file closed. Isn't it great." Mannan stabbed his wife a few days later.The court heard that the couple had an arranged marriage in Bangladesh in 2003. Akhtar joined her husband in Britain two years later, when she was pregnant with their son, who is now three.She discovered he had a gambling problem and that he had a longstanding mistress with whom he had two young children. The jury heard that he would squeeze Akhtar's windpipe when they were arguing and made at least three threats to kill her. He assaulted his mistress in the same way.Akhtar, fearing for her safety, had a security alarm fitted at her home. In her last known conversation, the day before she was killed, she told her aunt she was scared of her husband and what he might do to her.Greater Manchester police said it deals with 68,000 cases of domestic violence each year. The chief constable, Peter Fahy, said his officers gave support to victims."But clearly, I can't have an officer with every victim 24 hours a day and that's the real difficulty of the system," he said. "It is ironic that these particular people are talking about using the court system to try and sue us when it is actually that court system which fails to protect victims of domestic violence."The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating the police's handling of two other cases where women were killed by their ex-partners. Katie Summers, 24, from Bolton, was killed by her ex-boyfriend Brian Taylor. He is serving life in prison. The IPCC is also investigating Greater Manchester police's handling of the death of Clare Wood, 36, of Salford, who was killed by her ex-boyfriend George Appleton.The IPCC inquiry into Akhtar's case was dropped after the CPS apologised to her family.