Carers who neglect or ill treat people with dementia or severe learning disabilities will commit a new crime carrying a maximum five-year prison sentence under provisions in the mental capacity bill, published yesterday.The bill will also close what has been acknowledged for decades as a legal black hole for people in England and Wales who lack the capacity to take their own decisions. Under existing law no one, not even the courts, can take proxy decisions on health and personal welfare for adults who lack the power to decide for themselves. The most the courts can do is grant declarations that doctors would not be acting unlawfully in taking a particular step in the patient's best interests. Current law allows individuals who are in full possession of their faculties to appoint friends or relatives to manage their financial affairs if they later become mentally incapacitated - as a result of an accident, for example. The measures, expected to come into force in 2007, will allow a nominee to be appointed to take medical decisions as well, including refusing or authorising treatment on the patient's behalf. The bill also gives statutory effect to advance directives or "living wills", documents by which individuals with full mental capacity can state their wishes not to have life-prolonging treatment if they later lose the capacity to refuse or consent. The bill has its roots in a Law Commission draft bill of 1995. The then government planned to take it forward but got cold feet after a Daily Mail campaign claimed it would lead to legalised euthanasia. Labour has subjected the proposals to exhaustive consultation, including sending to to a joint committee of peers and MPs for scrutiny and conducting discussions with the Catholic church. Lord Filkin, minister responsible in the Department of Constitutional Affairs, was careful yesterday to try to dispel fears that the bill promoted euthanasia. There had been discussions with the Catholic Archbishop of Cardiff, Peter Smith, on safeguards against euthanasia, he said. These had led to a number of changes in the bill. Around 2 million people in Britain are thought to lack mental capacity. Currently 700,000 suffer from dementia, but this is likely to rise to about 840,000 by 2021.