The lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, has backed government plans for more non-custodial sentences for first-time burglars.His comments come after criticism of the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, who said last month that many burglars should be spared jail. Tabloid criticism intensified after burglar Mark Patterson remained free because he wanted to become a poet - although he had pleaded guilty to aggravated burglary. But Lord Irvine said today that the government had made it clear that "people should be sent to prison only as a last resort and always for no longer than necessary". He went on: "I don't accept that people are disturbed at first-time burglars or even second-time burglars - where there are no aggravated elements in the burglary - not going to prison," he said. "Prison is not good at preventing people from re-convicting. "The evidence is that community sentences are better at preventing people from re-convicting. "I don't think people have as great a faith in prison as tabloid newspapers suggest. "In other words, I think that people are more worldly wise, better informed than some of the critics of the lord chief justice credit," Lord Irvine told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme. Patterson, who had 31 previous convictions, was arrested breaking into a neighbour's home with a machete while she was in hospital. He was given an 18-month drugs treatment and rehabilitation order, in the wake of the guidelines set out by Lord Woolf last month. The current prison population of 72,000 was insupportable, Lord Irvine said, adding that the figure need not rise if government advice was heeded. "Let me make it absolutely plain that of course burglary is an enormously upsetting offence," he added. "The invasion of the privacy and security of one's home is very, very disturbing. "And if there are any aggravating features, then of course a prison sentence is appropriate. "In the case which has caused the great excitement, it has been largely ignored that the lord chief justice and the two other judges sitting with him sanctioned very substantial sentences of imprisonment for the three burglars that were in front of them. "But what they were making plain was that there was a category of burglary without aggravating features where community services should be tried." Lord Irvine said certain serious violent crimes, such as rape and aggravated burglary, could only be punished by prison. But jailing people for lesser offences might be counterproductive, he told the programme. "If the prison population continues to expand beyond the capacity of the prison estate to accommodate prisoners, then all the beneficial things that can be done in prisons which are not overcrowded cannot be achieved and prison is more likely to be nugatory," he said. "At the end of the day, surely the issue is how is the public to be best protected? "Are the public best to be protected by ever-increasing sentences of imprisonment with all the cost for the state that entails? "Or are they to be better protected by giving a vigorous programme of community service?" Lord Irvine also defended the pilot schemes that saw magistrates courts sitting early in the morning and late at night in London and Manchester. An initial assessment has reportedly branded them costly and inefficient. But the lord chancellor said: "It was a very, very sensible pilot to carry out. It was carried out in Manchester and Bow Street magistrates court. "You are wrong to say that it was wholly unsuccessful. We are in the course of appraising the evidence at the moment. "The early morning hearings may in fact be very useful for people who are remanded overnight, because it means they can be dealt with early in the morning... "The indication so far is that the late night court did not work very well because there wasn't the volume of business to justify it. "But it seems to me it was perfectly sensible to conduct a pilot in these two locations. "And I think that whenever a sensible pilot is carried out and a conclusion is arrived at which is a negative one - and we have not arrived at a negative conclusion yet - it is not right to cry gimmick." The internment of foreign terror suspects without trial flew in the face of "traditional civil liberties" but was justified by the threat faced by Britain in the wake of September 11, Lord Irvine said. "Exceptional circumstances call for exceptional means, and I agree that traditional civil liberties lose out," he said. "Foreign nationals that have been locked up on the grounds I have described to you are not being accorded the traditional civil liberties any more than during the last war when under the notorious Regulation 18B people were locked up. "That too was offensive to a traditional view of civil liberties. "But exceptional circumstances where nations are under exceptional danger and threat call for exceptional remedies." 