Tony Blair is facing a cabinet and backbench backlash over plans to dock child benefit from the feckless parents of persistent young offenders.Senior ministers, including the deputy prime minister, John Prescott, appeared to have been caught unawares by the plan, which aims to tackle youth crime by targeting parents who do nothing to discourage truancy and criminality. Mr Prescott gave only a lukewarm response yesterday, telling the BBC: "We need to tackle the truancy. If that is a possibility of how you might deal with it, I would be prepared to consider it." The chancellor, Gordon Brown, as well as Alistair Darling, the work and pensions secretary, are mounting practical objections, including fears that the withdrawal of universal child benefit would be administratively difficult to integrate with the means- tested child tax credit. Any family that loses universal child benefit could find the loss mitigated by increased child credit, so possibly nullifying the punishment. One minister said: "There are lots of practical and political difficulties with this. If our key target is tackling child poverty, withdrawing benefit might not be the best idea." Other ministers fear it will conflict with the goal of keeping potential runaways in the family home. Downing Street's social exclusion unit is soon to publish proposals to reduce the number of runaways.  Opposition politicians, the Police Federation and poverty groups dismissed the proposal as a cynical piece of populist gimmickry designed to get Labour through difficult local elections on Thursday. Downing Street conceded that the proposal, one of a number being examined by a cabinet committee, was still in its infancy, but insisted that the idea would eventually bear fruit. The prime minister's spokesman pointed out that Mr Blair's proposal to require young offenders to pay on-the-spot fines had initially been ridiculed, but was now being implemented by police forces through fixed-penalty fines. Estelle Morris, the education secretary, stressed that benefit sanctions would only be used as a last resort. She has already supported the removal of education maintenance allowances from 16 to 18 year-olds who fail to attend classes. From September she is also extending mandatory parenting orders to parents of regular truants. She will develop the tough approach today by giving headteachers new powers to tackle bad behaviour in the classroom. The idea of docking child benefit originated with senior figures in the No 10 policy unit determined to instil parental responsibility. Mr Blair has put himself under pressure by pledging to have street crime under control by September. He has been struck by figures showing that as many as 80% of the children picked up in police truancy sweeps are accompanied by an adult, often their parent. The proposal also chimes with popular anger at the apparent indifference of some parents to their children's behaviour. Ms Morris told a truancy conference last week that truancy sweeps would soon start in 80 crime hot spots, with police attached to the 100 worst schools. If the child benefit penalty is implemented, it could cost a family with one child £15.75 a week, rising to £17.55 for a lone parent with one child, plus £10.55 for each additional child. The Conservative leader, Iain Duncan Smith, said: "There have already been 50 announcements - gimmicks - over the last nine months by the present home secretary, many of which have fallen by the wayside." The Labour backbencher Alice Mahon said she would be demanding a rebuttal of this "daft idea" from ministers. She said the proposal was causing outrage among her fellow MPs.