Rasheed Sadegh-Zadeh is worried. In the past two years, he has seen referrals of racially motivated crimes to Victim Support Enfield - where he is borough manager - increase by more than 70%. In the financial year to 2005, his team dealt with almost 150 racially motivated acts of vandalism, verbal abuse, property damage and physical attacks. In the year to 2006, that figure rose to more than 250.As he is aware, the increase can be read in one of two ways: either people are coming forward to report such crimes in greater numbers - for which the area's approach of reaching out to victims must take some credit - or racially motivated crime in the north London borough is soaring.Either way, Sadegh-Zadeh is taking no chances. Enfield shares its border with the Hertfordshire borough of Broxbourne to the north and Epping Forest to the east, which have six British National party councillors between them. Although he makes no direct link, Sadegh-Zadeh is under no illusions about the potential influence of such groups. "It may be that in future, if we don't put up a robust fight against these elements, they will become stronger."Until recently, Sadegh-Zadeh was chair of Enfield's Racial Incident Action Group (Riag). Created in 1994, the group pioneered new ways of encouraging victims to report racial incidents, including third-party reporting sites in local community centres to cater for those who didn't want to deal directly with the police.Six months ago, Riag joined forces with the Enfield Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Network and Enfield Disability Action to become the Hate Crime Forum (HCF), of which Sadegh-Zadeh is chair.All hate crimes reported in the borough, whether to police or through Enfield's five reporting sites, are now examined by a police officer and the HCF coordinator. If appropriate, they are referred to the HCF. The forum meets once a month, bringing together police, the local authority's education and social services, housing services and members of voluntary and community groups, who give their time freely to consider possible follow-up action."We find a way to offer practical help to the victim," says Sadegh-Zadeh. "If there is racial abuse involving the children of housing association tenants, we will liaise with the tenants' representatives to oblige parents to take more charge of their children. If it's abusive graffiti in a playground, we will take it up with the school."The approach also helps build a fuller picture of the extent of victimisation. "If five or six incidents occur around the same address, the police know there could be a persistent problem. Even if there is no identifiable perpetrator or victim, it can help them adjust their policing in that area," says a Victim Support spokeswoman.Victim Support - whose recent research found that the majority of hate crime victims did not report their experiences to police for fear of not being taken seriously - is working on new guidance for staff that is due to be rolled out next year and is likely to draw heavily on HCF's approach.Richard Cranston, 63, turned to Victim Support Enfield when he was racially abused by a neighbour. He says its support, which included dealing with the police, helped him through a difficult time. "They helped me feel I was not so isolated in my worry. They helped me stand up for myself against a bully." www.victimsupport.org · Any comments on this article? Write to society@theguardian.com