The home secretary, Jack Straw, yesterday described his flagship criminal justice and police bill as a package of measures to increase police powers to tackle crime and disorder - from yobbish behaviour to rape and murder.The bill is expected to be introduced in the Commons at the end of the month, and parts could make it to the statute book before a May general election. Its main provisions include:  'Yob culture'  Fixed penalty fines: to deal with "drunken and anti-social yobs". Implements Tony Blair's promise that it is "time to end yob culture" made in his party conference speech last September. But the Home Office has been forced to drop its plans to issue the fines to 16- and 17-year- olds, and they will now apply only to over 18s. The range of offences includes, as expected, drunk and disorderly behaviour, being drunk and incapable, using threatening words, and buying alcohol for someone under age. But plans to issue them for littering and dog fouling have been dropped. Instead they cover damaging property, throwing fireworks, making hoax 999 calls and throwing missiles on a railway. The bill includes fines for wasting police time. No figure is in the bill as to how much the fixed penalty fine will be: £100 was floated last September. Offenders will be given the choice of paying the fine or going to court. The amount will be no more than "half the amount of the maximum fine for the offence", says the bill.  Disorderly pubs and clubs:  can be closed for up to 24 hours by police order. Expected to apply to 800-1,000 premises a year.  Unlicensed "drinking dens": more powers to close them, particularly those that are a focus for city centre crime at night.  Underage drinkers: Tougher clampdown, including legalising the use of children for undercover "sting" operations by off licenses and publicans. Legal duty on bar staff to ask for proof of age.  Drinking in public places:  Banned in declared "dry zones". Police will have power of arrest and can confiscate alcohol. Family picnic sites exempted.  Drunks at the bar: All bar staff get legal power to refuse to serve drunks.  Anti-social antics  Child curfews: power to raise the age limit from 10 to 15 years for those banned from being out in specific area after 9pm. This power appeared in 1998 act but has not been used. New legislation will enable police, in addition to the local authority, to apply to the court for a curfew order. The curfew can last up to 90 days.  Anti-social behaviour orders:  explanatory notes with the bill disclose the extent of official dismay at the failure of this initiative, introduced in the 1998 legislation. The Home Office had hoped that 5,000 orders a year would be issued, but applications are running at only 100 a year. Bill extends police power to provide witness protection from intimidation and fear of violence, to encourage more applications. For the first time such powers are to be used in civil cases.  Police powers  Seizure: power to overturn the "Bramley judgment", which ruled that Derbyshire police had wrongly seized a computer hard disk containing confidential correspondence between a suspect and his solicitor. The bill allows police to seize such "inextricably linked" material.  Kerb crawlers: police given new power of arrest to take suspect to police station and to obtain DNA sample. At present he can only be summonsed by post and is free to go after giving name and address.  Hit and run: police get new power to arrest a driver suspected of failing to stop or, having stopped, of leaving the scene in cases where someone has been injured.  DNA and fingerprints: the bill overturns a House of Lords ruling banning retention of DNA samples and fingerprints in cases where charges are dropped or the accused is acquitted. About 50,000 such samples were held last year and will now have to be destroyed, as legislation is not retrospective. The bill gives the police power to retain and use DNA samples given voluntarily, eg by village residents after series of rapes. Police Federation opposes this measure for its members, saying constables should not be forced to give DNA samples, on human rights grounds. Nurses as well as doctors are allowed to take intimate samples for DNA profiling. Ministers hope to expand DNA database from 1m to 3m samples within three years.  Pilot schemes: schemes to test changes to police powers to stop and search and detain suspects are allowed without par liamentary approval.  Suspects' rights:  right to object to videotaping of interviews scrapped.  Granting bail: courts to give reasons if they grant bail against prosecution and police advice.  Passports: convicted drug traffickers' passports to be confiscated.  Importing child pornography: an arrestable offence.  Records: confidentiality of Inland Revenue records removed for all criminal investigations, and much greater powers given to Department of Trade and Industry inspectors.  Police training  Right to silence: removed in police disciplinary hearings.  New ranks: ranks of deputy chief constable and chief superintendent reintroduced. These were abolished in 1995, but half the forces retained them, even though there was no legal basis for them.  Colleges: new independent central training college.  Funding: for national criminal intelligence service and national crime squad.  Age ban lifted: people over 70 can serve on police authorities.