When the young die in brutal and tragic circumstances, as a society we should register abhorrence, shock, horror and a sense of how unjust our world can be and is. Hearing about the senseless killing of 16-year-old Ajmol Alom, I felt a knot in the pit of my stomach. He could have been one of my students. My heart went out to his family for their loss and unspeakable pain.In reading more about Ajmol, the eighth teenager to be murdered in London this year, I repeatedly came across qualifiers that told me he was a "star student", "a good and caring" person with "a bright future". I am in no doubt that the picture of Ajmol created is the truth of who this intelligent and generous young man was. Yet the fact this narrative is being routinely called upon as a kind of justification for the public at large to sit up and take note of his death fills me with a deep unease. Unease because what it exposes is the notion that only certain bodies matter. Would the pain and tragedy of parents whose children, enmeshed, say, in gang violence and dead as its result, be any less tragic? What, too, of parents of children whose academic and social achievements can only be described as "ordinary"? And perhaps no less emotive a question, what does it say about our society when the only deaths we are seemingly able to galvanise an emotional response to are of those young people who have lead exemplary lives and are deemed "innocent"?It might seem easy to dismiss the deaths of youngsters involved in gangs as not newsworthy, and therefore somehow permissible, because these youths entered such an awful existence with their eyes wide open. Yet in doing so, what we tacitly agree to is the notion that such violence is acceptable only if and when it does not threaten our door. Such violence can be cordoned off when it happens to those perceived as deserving their fate. But this is a depressing moral outlook, if far from pragmatic, for the spillover of such violence into different spaces and communities is surely inevitable.I am not advocating for the reporting of every instance of a fatal stabbing or shooting. That would only achieve an increase in the underlining sense of danger and threat many young people today already feel on our streets. That road leads us to moral panic and an unfounded racist and/or classist fear of, let's be honest, young black men. What I want to bring into focus is what we lose when we attribute value only to certain lives.Such thinking is used to justify inaction and indifference by the state, the police and the public at large. In the days, weeks and months following the murder of Stephen Lawrence, the Metropolitan police were slow to conduct a thorough investigation because they believed he was just another victim of "black on black violence" (whatever that is supposed to mean). In the same way, without the brilliant investigative journalism of the Guardian, Ian Tomlinson's death during the G20 protests could have been left unquestioned and chalked up as an unsurprising ending to a life plagued by alcoholism and homelessness .Likewise, framing our discussion of violent deaths around the victim's "innocence" serves to make blame easily attributable only to the perpetrator of the crime rather than engaging society in a wider discussion. That is not to take culpability away from the perpetrators of such horrific acts but to suggest that without trying to look at the issue from a systemic level – for example, considering what preventative work the government should fund – then it is a problem we will inevitably find ourselves revisiting. It is not enough to be shocked by a tragic loss; we need to uncover why it could ever have happened in the first place. And in so doing, we would be serving all our young.