With 27 young people dead in 2007 and – after the weekend's violence – 23 killed already this year in London alone, you can't help but wonder what is going on, on our streets. I have been inviting ex-gang members, community workers and others into parliament to discuss the gun, gang and knife crime situation in the UK. The dialogue is always intense and intriguing. One teenager, Jeremy, stood up and confronted journalists who were there. "You have made me a victim. You labelled me and my friends a gang, now a high-profile gang want to challenge us, we were just young people hanging out." Elijah, a former leader of the Peel Dem crew turned his life around in prison. When I asked why, he laughed: "I always wanted to be a businessman, never a gangster. But no one ever showed me how or gave me the opportunity." The PDC tattooed on his neck now has alternative meaning – Poverty Driven Children, and his new record label PDC (Public Demand Cartel) entertainments.I once heard Andrew, a young black man from my constituency in Brent, north London, say: "I don't expect to live beyond 25." I waited for him to laugh – but he wasn't joking. But when you consider that black people are four times more likely than their white counterparts to be a victim of homicide, Andrew's view may be some young people's reality. It's an interesting fact that young people who are involved in crime grow out of it by the age of 25 (according to research by the Barrow Cadbury Trust), and with 61.6% of young people in Brent obtaining five or more A-C grades – higher than the national average – I have a personal quest to "keep young people alive beyond 25". It's often overlooked, but many young people are achievers, and the media and politicians must all play our part in stopping the demonisation of youngsters. I believe crime will only get better if the community, and our society, gets stronger. There are still a multitude of problems in society that can beat the hope and aspiration out of the young – all the negative publicity, the labels, celebrity culture. Sometimes it seems that technology has replaced simple conversation. Today's young people need adult interaction – without this we can't prepare them for the transition from childhood to adulthood. I have created a website, mylifemysay.co.uk, which will never close. I am also organising a week-long debate in parliament during Local Democracy Week (October 13-19) in the presence of ministers and other politicians, to ensure that young people's voices are listened to. I have challenged the home secretary to match public solutions to current and future government policy. I think it is time to move away from civil servants' solutions and aim for civil society solutions. We may be pleasantly surprised by the results.