A man who gave information to detectives investigating a gangland killing has been awarded £134,000 in compensation after police mistakenly gave his name to the suspects' lawyers.In what is thought to be the first case of its kind, the high court in Sheffield ordered Greater Manchester police to pay the damages to Ken Ralphs for failing to keep his identity secret. Mr Ralphs, 39, and his partner, Hazel Kerrigan, 56, were forced to enter the witness protection programme, adopting new identities and fleeing their home in Stockport, Greater Manchester, after they received death threats written in blood and their fast-food business was petrol bombed. CS gas was sprayed in Mr Ralphs's face and a knife held to his throat. A former community leader and vice-chairman of the local Hazel Grove Labour party, he gave detectives an individual's mobile phone number in response to a police appeal for information. He was assured by police his assistance would remain confidential and his identity would not be revealed. But his name openly featured in legal documents. Mr Ralphs, who now uses another name, said his life had been devastated and called for the resignation of Greater Manchester's chief constable, Michael Todd. The couple had to move hundreds of miles from their home, their foster son moved abroad because of the attacks and other family members were relocated. Mr Ralphs added: "No amount of compensation can ever pay for the scar that the police blunder has left on our lives. If citizens cannot rely on the police to protect their anonymity when they are responding to a call for information, then the public will stop helping the police to fight crime. "A public inquiry should now be established to look into how and why this happened." He sued Greater Manchester police for negligence, breach of confidentiality and breach of human rights. The force admitted liability about a month before the case was due to go to trial, but disputed the amount of damages. The award was made by Mr Justice Davis last week but announced yesterday.