An 11-year-old girl, a woman with 96 previous convictions and the daughter of a successful businessman were among hundreds of defendants appearing before magistrates on Thursday in the wake of the recent riots and looting.More than 110 of those charged by police in Manchester appeared overnight before a special sitting at Manchester magistrates court. Police there have arrested 145 people, mainly for offences committed on Tuesday night. They include an 18-year-old man on suspicion of arson after a Miss Selfridge store was torched.One of the people dealt with by the court overnight included a woman with 96 previous convictions for theft who pleaded guilty to stealing alcohol, cigarettes and mobile phone accessories. Linda Boyd, 31, was one of a series of defendants who appeared before Manchester magistrates court, which sat late into Wednesday night.The court heard that she had been drunk and found an orange binliner filled with the stolen goods in Manchester city centre, and had begun dragging it away to share with friends.Her case was adjourned until 16 August, when she will be sentenced at Manchester crown court. Boyd stalked from the glass-walled dock telling the district judge who presided over the magistrates court to "go away, shut up".At Nottingham magistrates court an 11-year-old girl from Nottinghamshire pleaded guilty to criminal damage and attempted criminal damage during Tuesday night's riots.The girl, who cannot be named because of her age, admitted smashing the window of a clothes shop in the city centre and throwing stones. She received a nine-month referral order, which involves a youth offenders panel drawn from the community coming up with a non-jail penalty.The judge, Maurice Cooper, said the sentence of nine months was "longer than normally given for breaking windows" but reflected the seriousness of other events that occurred in the city that night.The girl, due to begin secondary school next term, had been in McDonalds when a group of 30 or 40 boys walked past. She decided to join them saying in court that "everyone was egging me on".In court her father said his daughter was "easily led on". He had urged her to apologise in court and her solicitor said that she wanted to plead guilty to acknowledge wrongdoing. She had previously been cautioned for criminal damage last year.At Westminster magistrates court a 21-year-old law student was among 16 young people charged over violence in St John's Wood in the early hours of Wednesday when rioters allegedly targeted a restaurant. Marouane Rouhi appeared at City of Westminster magistrates court this morning charged with violent disorder over the alleged attack on Les Bijou Lebanese restaurant and a nearby cafe in Lodge Road.Among the suspected rioters to appear over the alleged attack was Samir Drissi, 18 who pleaded not guilty, and a 16-year-old who did not enter a plea..Crown prosecutors at City of Westminster magistrates court say they have never done such frantic work. Some have worked for two night in succession. District crown prosecutor Becky Owens described the situation in the cells as "chaos".City of Westminster magistrates have taken turns to hear cases overnight as the suspected rioters continue to file through. An estimated 100 preliminary cases have been heard in the past 12 hours and a further 30 defendants are expected in court throughout Thursday.Many of the suspected rioters now appearing in the capital's magistrates courts were arrested in co-ordinated police raids following the riots. As of Thursday morning officers had arrested 888 people across London.A university graduate who had been pursuing a career in social work pleaded guilty to theft on Thursdaymorning after handing herself in to police on Wednesday.Natasha Reid, 24, of Rosemary Avenue, Enfield, was in a McDonalds on Sunday night when she saw looting in the area and decided to join in. She stole a television worth £269.99 from Comet.Her solicitor said she was racked with guilt and had not slept since. Reid admitted theft and entering with intent to steal. She was bailed to return for sentencing on 1 September.Solihull magistrates sent 20 people to prison in an all-night session. They included a man who stole £3,500 worth of cigarettes and another who stole £5,000 worth of perfume.In total 26 defendants came before the court between 7pm on Wednesday night and 6.30am on Thursday morning on arson, theft, violent disorder and burglary charges. Ryan Kelly, 20, was jailed for six months after he admitted looting £3,500 worth of cigarettes from a Birmingham newsagent. Justinder Douglas, 24, admitted stealing almost £5,000 worth of perfume from House of Fraser on Wednesday and was remanded in custody until September, when he will be sentenced at Birmingham crown court.Six of those in court were juveniles, including a 16-year-old who was remanded into secure accommodation after pleading not guilty to looting rings from a Wolverhampton jeweller.Other overnight defendants in Solihull were a 21-year-old man who denied stealing £500 worth of trainers from Footlocker, a 23-year-old man alleged to have stolen a Blu-ray player from Richer Sounds and a 44-year-old man on suspicion of carrying CS and pepper sprays. All were remanded in custody.West Midlands police have arrested about 330 people since disturbances started on Monday, including a 14-year-old girl from Wolverhampton who was escorted to a police station by an uncle who suspected her of coming home with stolen clothing. She was arrested on Wednesday night on suspicion of theft and remains in custody.A dedicated phone line to handle information about the disturbances (0800 096 0095) has received more than 500 calls form the public since it was opened on Tuesday.Chief Constable Chris Sims said: "We will not tolerate violent behaviour in the West Midlands and will arrest anyone who commits acts of violence or criminality. Offenders can expect to be put before the courts and will face the full force of the law."More people suspected of being involved in the disorder are appearing before magistrates on Thursday, with courts in Sandwell and Wolverhampton having sittings dedicated to dealing with them.On Wednesday undergraduate Laura Johnson, 19, was granted bail by magistrates in Bexley, south-east London, on five counts of burglary in connection with the theft of goods from stores in south London.The former grammar school pupil achieved four A*s and nine As at GCSE and is the daughter of a successful businessman who owns a large detached farmhouse in Orpington, south-east London, according to reports. She was bailed to return to court on 21 September.