Civilians are set to interview crime suspects in a controversial new scheme to free more officers on to the beat.The Wiltshire police project is thought to be the first of its kind in western Europe, but has been criticised by the Police Federation which said it raised serious concerns about using civilians in such a specialised role. Under the system the new prisoner handling team investigators will mainly deal with "bulk" offences such as criminal damage and theft although police chiefs have not ruled out the possibility that they could handle more delicate interviews for rape and murder cases. As well as interviewing suspects, their duties will include taking fingerprints, processing description forms and preparing a file on the offender for the crown prosecution service. But civil rights lawyer Mark Stephens, of Finers Stephens Innocent, branded the scheme "policing on the cheap" saying it sacrificed quality for price. "Trained police officers are uniquely placed to conduct a proper forensic examination to comply with the law when they do it," said Mr Stephens. "Civilians, however well intentioned, are going to be nothing more than interfering do-gooders. While there's nothing in the Human Rights Act to stop this happening, I have grave reservations that effectively untrained people are going to be involved in the collection of evidence, which will result in more errors than are presently made, and more guilty people walking free." Superintendent Martin Abbott, divisional commander for north and west Wiltshire, said that far from making the system error-ridden it would prevent time wasting. He said: "It has never been done before in this way and we hope it will make the system slicker and more efficient. The scheme will give the visible representations of the police that people require so much. "It will release them to operational duties outside. It is quite a challenge for us in an area where police officers are traditionally seen as the only ones who can do the work. "I have every confidence it will be successful and will be extended elsewhere. If it is not effective we will not continue with it." The two-year pilot scheme is being run in a division, which takes in Ashton Keynes and Codford, near Warminster. Three police officers will be backed by five civilians, based at the divisional headquarters in Chippenham. After an arrest, officers will book suspects in as usual but will then hand them over to the prisoner handling scheme. It is hoped that the scheme will reduce the time officers spend preparing paperwork and waiting for solicitors. The job advertisement in local newspapers reads: "This is a new initiative and an exciting opportunity for civilian members to join the Constabulary in a supportive role. "Interviewing skills as well as an enquiring mind, a methodical approach to work and the ability to work to deadlines are essential." The force already employs civilians as investigation assistants - who take witness statements - and the scheme is seen as an extension of that. However, PC Philip Davenport, spokesman for the Wiltshire branch of the Police Federation, said: "My first concern is this is the first time it has happened anywhere in the country. "There may be issues which have not been researched. I would hope the people who the police employ do have the appropriate skills. "Those officers going on to CID, who investigate serious crimes, hone their skills through interviewing suspects throughout their service." The Home Office said: "How any individual chief constable deploys officers is entirely a matter for the chief constable and is an operational decision for the police force."