Thieves have taken a bicycle belonging to Olympic gold medal-winning cyclist Philip Hindes, who shared the winner's podium at London 2012 with Jason Kenny and Sir Chris Hoy in the team sprint event.The bike, which Hindes used to train on, was taken, along with his car, in a raid on his home in West Didsbury, a suburb of Manchester popular with celebrities and media executives. His burnt-out car was found later on Princess Parkway, a local dual carriageway.The burglary took place sometime between 7.30pm on 23 August and 11pm on 26 August. Robbers smashed through patio doors and ransacked the house, which was unoccupied at the time. They took the bike as well as keys to a blue Volkswagen Golf which they used to flee the scene. Hindes's gold medal was not stolen.Described as a red, white and blue Pinarello Paris, the bike has a Sky sticker and Hindes's name on it.Police have appealed for information. Detective Constable Rob Southern of Greater Manchester police said: "The reason we have publicised this theft is so that we can catch the people responsible and return the bike to its rightful owner. I would therefore ask anyone who is offered a bike matching this description and the image we have released to call police immediately."It might be the thieves try and offload the bike on to a sports memorabilia collector so I would urge anyone who is offered the chance to buy such a bike to call police immediately, as you could be vital to helping get this bike back. I would also ask anyone who has information about the burglary itself, or who might have been involved, to come forward."The stolen car was found burnt out on Princess Parkway so again if you saw anything then we need to hear from you."Following the Olympic team sprint victory over France, BBC Sport's commentator Chris Boardman highlighted the contribution of 19-year-old Hindes, who was born in Germany.Boardman said: "What an exciting final, and for me it was all about young Philip Hindes. He had to do the ride of his life there, and all three of them are in the form of their lives."Hindes, who competed for Germany as a junior, switched allegiances in 2010 and was soon drafted into the GB team sprint squad.He was involved in a controversy during the Olympics after apparently saying to the media that he had crashed deliberately during the competition for tactical reasons. British Cycling said the comment was a misunderstanding, the result of him speaking English as a second language.Hindes made the remark immediately after helping to propel Hoy to a fifth Olympic gold on a dramatic opening night at the London 2012 velodrome.Anyone with information about the burglary is asked to call police on 101 or the independent charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.