More than 9,000 police officers will be required at the peak of the London 2012 Olympics, in an operation that Scotland Yard is describing as the biggest ever policing challenge faced in Britain.Officers will be drafted into the capital from across the country, and volunteers and community support officers will be called upon to ensure the force does not buckle under the strain, according to the newly-appointed head of the Olympic security directorate.Deputy assistant commissioner Richard Bryan, in his first interview since taking up the full-time post last week, said the games would put unprecedented demands on the Metropolitan police.But with debate still raging about the escalating cost of the games after the total budget soared to £9.3bn, Mr Bryan called for people to focus on the benefits of the games. "I think we are obsessed by costs at the moment," he said. "The benefits are colossal - and that's where the focus needs to be."The bid included £190m for security, but the 7/7 tube bombings that punctured the euphoria the day after London won the games prompted a rethink, and the revised budget sets aside an extra £600m. Privately, the government and senior police officers believe it is impossible to pin down security costs five years in advance - and indicate they could rise further.Mr Bryan, who has 27 years in the service, said: "The Olympics is the biggest single policing challenge we have faced by quite some way. It is not just about a couple of weeks in the course of the summer. The impact of the event is about 60 days by the time you have the Olympics, the Paralympics and all the other events that sit alongside. The Notting Hill carnival falls at the same time, and on top of all that you have the Queen's Jubilee and all the usual business which carries on in London, such as ceremonial events."Although headlines may concentrate on the very real terrorist threats, Mr Bryan insists policing concerns are more diverse - from public safety and publicity-seeking demonstrations when the eyes of the world are on London, to petty crime and pickpocketing.He said the focus would not just be on the Olympic Park at Stratford, but right across London at other venues, cultural events and parties associated with the games. "The whole rhythm of life in London will change as a result of these events and for 60 days we have to take charge of that and make it safe in a way that people can enjoy themselves. That's the scale of the challenge and that's huge."There are 30,000 officers in London, but Mr Bryan said: "9,000 officers at the peak is one heck of an ask - and that's just one day and you've got to put it in the context of a 60-day period." The Met, which is used to exporting expertise to other forces, is likely to draw resources from around Britain.Mr Bryan's staff have already been drawing up a detailed diary for the summer of 2012. "It demonstrates the spike of resources will hit us in a way that we've never previously experienced - we actually need to police things differently because of the kind of demands that will be placed upon us. If we work conventionally, we will not be able to sustain it for very long."Mr Bryan said: "The simple way to do it would be to cancel all police leave. The other way is to think how we work with volunteers and special constables."He hopes to use some of the 70,000 volunteers being sought by London 2012 to help manage crowds and give tourist advice to visitors, freeing the police for more difficult tasks.The Met expects London 2012 to be the "first digital games", with "flash mob" crowds sometimes gathering spontaneously through internet and mobile phone alerts. He said there will be a positive policing legacy from the games, with more advanced use of CCTV and car number recognition technology. Improvements in command and control mechanisms could help London cope with potential emergencies such as major flooding in the capital.He said: "This is a celebration of what London is about and a celebration of the Olympics."It is not about security or safety. Making the games as accessible as we can, without security being obtrusive, is the trick we have to pull off."Policing numbers9,000 Police officers required at the peak of the London 2012 Olympics£790 million Security costs identified so far in the Olympic budget24 Number of agencies the Met is working with, including fire, ambulance, and the London 2012 organising committee240,000 Spectators arriving by train at Olympic Park, Stratford every hour70,000 Volunteers sought by London 2012 to help stage the games500,000 Extra visitors expected to London in 20129.5 million Tickets available for events at the Olympics and Paralympics