Was yesterday's official launch by the prime minister of a new serious organised crime agency a victory for zoot-suited FBI missionaries? No. Yesterday's model is not a British FBI. To begin with, counter-terrorism will remain in the hands of MI5, special branch and the anti-terrorist branch of Scotland Yard. Second, the new man in charge of the Home Office's police standards unit, Paul Evans, the former Boston police chief, will be there to stop British commentators over-romanticising the FBI. Remember in some circles in the US, the initials stand for "famous but ineffective".So do we need the new agency? Most certainly. Organised crime is way down Joe Public's priority list - below burglary, mugging, and even community vandalism - but it remains an insidious evil, which if left uncontrolled, seeps into legitimate businesses tainting all those with whom it comes into contact, as well as corrupting the accountants, bankers and lawyers laundering the illicit profits. As the home secretary noted yesterday: "Modern organised criminals are sophisticated, organised and well-resourced entrepreneurs. They believe they are beyond the reach of justice and out of our sights. That is not the case - no one should be untouchable."The Guardian began campaigning for a national crime squad in the 1980s. A national criminal intelligence service was set up in 1992 targeting criminal gangs and an operational national crime squad followed in 1998. Both made sense with organised crime not recognising national borders, let alone the boundaries of 43 separate police services. But it is now time to merge them along with the investigatory arms of Customs and Excise and the Immigration Service. There are currently too many agencies and too little cooperation and coordination. There are three tests against which the new unit should be judged: remit, accountability, management. The first looks right, concentrating on drug trafficking, people smuggling, illegal gun dealing and money laundering. The full plan, due next month, should be wary of too specific a definition of organised crime. It can spread out in all directions, as the cockle-picking investigations in Morecambe may document. Accountability still has to be clarified. The Home Office will want its line, but parliament should have one too. The current units operated behind far too securely shut doors. We need more openness and more independent inspection too. A different management culture will also be needed, with much more emphasis on cooperating teams and shared information. The new unit is not a first step to a national police service as the proposed reforms for neighbourhood and regional policing make clear. Support from the chief constables, who historically have opposed such a unit, suggests extra funds for the new unit have been guaranteed. What will need most intense scrutiny, is Mr Blair's call for a lower burden of proof in trials of organised criminals.