The Homicide Act remains one of the most biased laws in the country. Campaigners like Justice for Women and Southall Black Sisters have long highlighted the contrast in treatment between men and women, where a man who kills the wife he suspects of having an affair is convicted of manslaughter, whereas the woman who finally cracks and kills the man who has been abusing her, is convicted of murder.But in the first review of the legislation since its introduction in 1957, a forthcoming Law Commission report on defences to murder in the context of domestic violence could provide a long-awaited opportunity for reform.The defences of provocation and diminished responsibility were introduced by the act to reduce a murder conviction to manslaughter, in cases where the killing, while intentional, was mitigated by particular circumstances of "human frailty". But in practice, they tend to be applied down strict gender lines. Consider the following cases. In March 2002, Leslie Humes, a solicitor from Rotherham, killed his wife in a jealous rage by stabbing her 12 times in front of their four children. He claimed that he was driven to it by her revelation that she had feelings for another man. The Crown Prosecution Service decided that he need not stand trial for murder and accepted his plea of guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of provocation. He was sentenced to seven years and will be eligible for parole next year. In May 2000, 33-year-old Joanne Cole went to her boyfriend's flat, where they argued and he started attacking her. As they struggled, she grabbed a knife that he had threatened her with. She then tried to escape, but he caught her, and she stabbed him as she ran from the flat. He pursued her, but collapsed in the shop below his flat and died three days later. When Joanne handed herself in, a doctor made note of injuries she had sustained. In January 2001, she was convicted of murder and is now serving a life sentence. Joanne Cole now resides in the lifer unit at Bullwood Hall prison, one of nearly a dozen women in that unit alone who have contacted Justice for Women with similar stories. This illustrates a legal loophole in man-made law that perpetuates miscarriages of justice experienced primarily by women. The problem lies partly with the defence of provocation, which enables a defendant to evade a murder conviction by arguing that their victim did or said something that made them lose control. Provocation has its roots in ancient notions of defending male honour. Loss of self-control, in this context, is the response of anger, just snapping. It is perfectly designed for the jealous boyfriend or dishonoured family patriarch. However, women who are trying to survive in a violent and controlling relationship can rarely afford the luxury of anger. Indeed, they become experts in controlling their emotions, learning to second-guess their violent partner's every response. When such women are driven to the edge and kill, their dominant emotions are usually fear or despair, not exactly a "loss of self-control".  Where an abused woman kills her violent partner, she may wait until he is sleeping or taken unawares. And that, as far as the law is concerned, is a pre-meditated murder, unless she has some diagnosable psychiatric disorder to explain her action and can plead diminished responsibility. Justice for Women's proposal to the Law Commission is to explore alternative defences, while in the mean time reforming the defence of provocation by curtailing its use in "nagging and shagging" cases. This could be achieved by limiting provocative conduct to violence (or threats of violence where there has been a previous violent history) which caused the defendant to suffer "extreme emotional disturbance". The defence of provocation, as reformed, could be renamed "reactive homicide", so that the cultural notion that it can be justified to react in violent anger to a partner's perceived misdemeanors ceases to have validation in the statute books. A replacement for provocation could be achieved by reforms to self-defence, including the introduction of new partial defences of "excessive self-defence" and "pre-emptive self-defence". Why was Joanne Cole unable to persuade a jury she killed in self-defence? Juries seem extremely reluctant to acquit women who kill their violent partners. They don't understand why she didn't simply leave the relationship. The force used in self-defence must be proportionate to the threat and there should be no obvious means of escape. But the reality is that in a typical domestic violence relationship, where one partner is physically stronger and more confident in the use of violence, the victim may have an elevated fear of the danger. In those circumstances a knife is often used to defend against a fist, and sometimes the perpetual victim may kill to pre-empt a further attack. If experts were used to explain the dynamics of domestic violence, and judges gave directions that enabled juries to take into account such dynamics, perhaps this defence would work not just for men who fight outside the pub. There is no good reason why the lifer units in women's prisons are filled with damaged women who have finally struck out after years of abuse and violence. It is time we moved into the 21st century. We need a little more understanding for victims of abuse and a little less sympathy for those driven by obsessive jealousy. With the domestic violence bill due to be considered by the Commons later this month, there is still potential for amendments in relation to the Homicide Act. This would provide the government with an opportunity to show its commitment to ending gender discrimination in the criminal justice system. · Harriet Wistrich is a solicitor at Birnberg Peirce and Partners, and a founding member of Justice for Women justiceforwomen@easynet.co.uk