A “manipulative” and “devious” man who murdered his wife after he had trawled Facebook for a replacement has been jailed for life.Jamshaid Khan, a 30-year-old Pakistani immigrant, had repeatedly failed in his “desperate” attempts to be allowed to stay in the UK despite his marriage to European citizen Milena Yulianova, from Bulgaria.When the 27-year-old refused to help in Khan’s latest bid for permanent residency, he stabbed her 14 times at his home in Forest Gate, east London, in January last year.The court heard how, before the killing, the construction worker had tried to find other eastern European women on Facebook to help his residency bid and even claimed that Yulianova had died in a car crash.Khan denied murder and claimed he had acted in self-defence after his wife of 15 months produced the knife during a row. But the jury found him guilty of murder at the Old Bailey in London on Monday. Khan must serve a minimum of 20 years. Sentencing him on Friday, judge Stephen Kramer QC said: “I am satisfied you are a manipulative, devious and deceitful man who wriggled and writhed your way through the trial.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Milena Yulianova was murdered in east London. Photograph: Metropolitan police/PAOn the events leading up to the killing, he said: “Whether or not the marriage was a marriage of convenience and a sham from the outset, I am satisfied by 2013 you wanted Milena’s help to further your application for permanent residency in this country.“You pursued more than one application for residency here. Your application was rejected. You were in dire need of her support. Matters came to a head on the afternoon of 28 January when you failed to go with her to a bank to open an account. You killed Milena in anger because she would not help and support you in your application.“While the marriage existed in 2014, you were already looking for other eastern European women who you thought could help. You were chatting with them on Facebook. You told one of the women on Facebook that Milena had died in a car accident. Those conversations indicate you were already contemplating you might feel the need to replace her.”In mitigation, Sarah Forshaw QC had told the court that Khan had been traumatised after witnessing Taliban killings on the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan.He arrived in Britain in 2011 and had converted to Christianity, the court heard. As a result of his murder conviction, he is likely to be deported to Pakistan upon his release.The trial was told that passersby tried to revive Yulianova after hearing of the stabbing.A man in a nearby takeaway rushed to help and saw Khan come out of his house with blood on his hands and stop a passing car. Paramedics who were called to the scene treated Yulianova for stab wounds to the chest and arm. A kitchen knife was found on the floor of the living room and Khan was arrested at the scene.Yulianova was taken to Newham general hospital where she died that evening. The fatal wound to the heart was 8cm deep. Kramer commended the “immense public service” of three of the trial witnesses who had come to the victim’s aid and awarded each of them £500.