From The Sun:Courts must be given new powers to send child rioters to tough Borstal-style schools, Boris Johnson insists today.Oh really? The claim is made on the basis of a letter from the Mayor to justice minister Ken Clarke, "seen by The Sun" - copied to it by the Mayor's office, in other words, initially exclusively. What does the letter actually say? At my request, City Hall has kindly sent me a copy too. It contains no mention of "tough, Borstal-style schools" but a suggestion that under-18s "for whom a full custodial sentence is not deemed appropriate but where a community sentence is a totally inadequate response," be sent to pupil referral units [PRUs] for a period.The Sun's report mentions PRUs, but either doesn't know or care that these are not "tough, Borstal-style schools," (whatever that actually means) but places of learning specifically designed for, as the PRUs' national body puts it, "Vulnerable young people [who] include those with emerging personality disorders, severe anxiety and depression as well as other mental health and medical needs." It adds: "Unfortunately much good work is undermined by negative stereotyping and labels in the press like 'sin bins'." Or, perhaps, "tough, Borstal-style schools."In fact Boris's case for PRUs being involved is a bit subtler than The Sun suggests. I quote the relevant section in full: Depriving the offender of their customary school place is something which would hit home. It would isolate them from their peer group during the school day, preventing bragging rights on school premises and sends a salutary warning to other pupils that such behaviour will result in temporary ejection from the school community. Referring them to a PRU puts them in a unit where teachers are already skilled in addressing unacceptable behaviour but at the same time ensures that their education is continued. I believe that such an approach would provide a welcomed, firm response, penalising the offender and at the same providing magistrates a much needed option between a community sentence and full custodial incarceration.It adds:I am copying this letter to Michael Gove.In passing, let us note that Gove - whose main contribution to the post-riots debate has, of course, been to seek to prevent one - said in January that "Most local authority-run pupil referral units are not up to snuff." As for Boris's idea itself, it is the last and, in my view, weakest point his letter to Clarke makes. I'm more persuaded by the following:All those involved should be held to account for their behaviour and the capital will feel badly let down if the punishment available to the courts does not support this objective. I am very concerned to learn that some younger offenders appear to feel that they will be able to avoid any meaningful sanctions, believing that they will not be subject to a custodial sentence and that any community sentence is not a significant deterrent. As a starting point, I would hope you do all within your powers to ensure that ALL those convicted as a result of the disturbances in the capital are required - as part of their sentence - to meet with representatives of their victims to hear first hand the impact that their criminal actions have had on businesses and residents alike and to apologise for their disgusting behaviour. I am sure this can be delivered under existing legislation via the YJB, NOMS and the London Probation Trust, and would urge you to do everything you can to support this. I do not believe there would be any shortage of Londoners willing to spell out in detail just how these events have damaged their lives.In my vision of a civil society, the concept of making perpetrators make reparation to those who have been adversely affected is a sound one. I see no reason why all those convicted should not automatically be expected to have an element of unpaid community service included in their sentence to help restore the damage they have brought about in their community. If ordinary law-abiding citizens can respond so positively to the call to help their neighbours and community in their time of need, surely we should expect nothing less from those responsible.I don't suppose Boris - or his cunning election campaign strategist - will be too dismayed by the somewhat selective reporting of his letter by his friends at News International - it sends a message to which not only core Tory voters in the capital will respond. That said, the letter is not out of line with Boris's promise to me on Friday that he's trying to develop a "considered assessment" of what the riots have revealed about London and how best to prevent them recurring. His Telegraph column today steers a careful course between the cliches of Left and Right alike, neither wholly damning nor endorsing either. Is this mere triangulation, and perhaps the latest example of Boris's cake-and-eat-it approach to life, or the start of something deeper? Can his rivals for the mayoralty do better?