Daniel, a small-time petty criminal from Kent was drinking in his local pub when he felt a tap on his shoulder. 'I know you, you're a drug dealer,' said a man behind him.Daniel turned and recognised a local police detective: 'He had this stupid smirk on his face,' he said. 'He knew he had me bang to rights, but I didn't know what he wanted. I just denied it and walked away. 'A couple of days later he phoned me at home and told me my house was under surveillance from the drug squad and that I was about to be raided. He read out some details from a note on their operations board. I started to panic because I had a load of puff in the house and I was worried I'd end up back in prison. He said he'd see what he could do. Then he told me I owed him a big favour.' And so Daniel agreed to become a police informant. Within two weeks he had collected a reward of £400 for 'grassing up' the location of a small cannabis shipment. After that he found it difficult to turn back. 'For the most part it was just a question of keeping my eyes and ears open,' he says. 'Because I was moving around in that circle, people were always coming up to me and asking if I wanted a cheap video or some designer clothes. You'd soon learn that they'd knocked off a lorry load or some warehouse, and I'd just pass it all on. Sometimes it would end in a couple of arrests, sometimes not. No one ever suspected anything. People get caught all the time. That's just the risk anyone involved in crime takes.' In a world where tens of millions of pounds of drugs, stolen goods and stolen cash are changing hands on a regular basis, informants are often the only people consistently managing to make crime pay. Last week's attempt to stage the world's biggest robbery and steal £350 million of diamonds from the Millennium Dome may have ended in dramatic failure for the gangsters, but the shady underworld character who provided the tip-off is set to be rewarded handsomely. In the case of major robberies, rewards average 10 per cent of the value of the goods involved in the theft - often amounting to tens of thousands of pounds or more. But according to John Wagstaff, of the Association of British Insurers, the amount can vary enormously. 'As a rule, insurance companies don't like paying rewards,' he says. 'Imagine if we offered a £200 reward for every car stolen and recovered, we would have people queuing up.' Like insurance companies, the police do not encourage large rewards, but Customs routinely pay up to £1,000 per kilo of heroin or cocaine recovered. Payments of £250,000 or more are relatively common. 'It sounds an enormous sum of money,' says one seasoned investigator, 'but a good tip-off will tell you when the drugs are coming in, who is picking them up and where they are taking them to. The amount of manpower, the number of hours and the huge cost of the operation you would have to put in place to find all that information on your own makes even a quarter of a million pounds seem like a bargain.' Despite controls being introduced to clamp down on the practice, a number of professional villains still manage to make a respectable income by informing on colleagues and twisting the system to their best advantage. Law enforcement officials are well aware that the only people with access to information about who has been involved in the planning of a crime, or who is helping to dispose of the proceeds, are the criminals themselves. Every bank raid of more than a few thousand pounds will generate the offer of a substantial cash reward which can often outweigh the cut a low-ranking member of the gang could expect to earn. The pages of Trace, a monthly magazine covering valuable stolen goods, are filled with details of rewards offered for rare items of furniture, clocks and other objets d'art which amount to far more than an unsophisticated thief could ever hope to make by selling the item on the black market. According to a spokesman for Lloyd's insurance, high-value paintings stolen from country homes will never find buyers at serious prices. Rewards of £50,000 or so can prove tempting at least to one member of the gang. Although the pitfalls are many, the Audit Commission has repeatedly recommended that police increase their use of informants, as the most cost-effective method of tackling crime. Indeed, without information being provided by criminals and, to a lesser extent, members of the public, a phenomenal amount of crime would go unsolved. Between January and September this year, the charity Crimestoppers received 43,000 calls and provided information leading to nearly 4,000 arrests and the recovery of £2.5 million of property, and in September alone £3 million worth of drugs were recovered. Although rewards of £5,000 are regularly paid out by the charity, only 6 per cent of those eligible bother to claim them. The informant network is able to operate because real-life criminal gangs are nothing like those portrayed in film or on television. There are few families or firms where every single member will be willing and able to take part in every venture that crops up. Sometimes one key team member will be in prison or simply unconvinced about the viability of the job. On other occasions they will not have the necessary skills to ensure the operation can run smoothly. It is then that those in charge of the forthcoming job will put the word out among underworld pubs and clubs that they are looking for a getaway driver, a fork-lift truck operator or someone with inside knowledge of telecoms or a specific building. It is during these inquiries that informants gather as much information as they can, hoping for a big pay day or simply to store up credit should they themselves be arrested. The man responsible for grassing up the Dome raid gang is believed to have been offered a role in the robbery but declined, choosing to pass on the information instead.  Although informants and grasses are despised throughout the underworld, few of the villains at the top of the criminal tree can operate effectively unless they are also working as registered informants. Not only does such status give them access to hints about what activities the police are most keenly looking at, but it also provides a handy element of mitigation should they ever find themselves before the courts. Few can resist. According to documents obtained by The Observer, even David, the son of Mad Frankie Fraser - the notorious gangland legend famed for his hatred of grasses - has provided information to the police as an informant. 'All self-respecting villains in the underworld find such people contemptible,' Mad Frankie said on numerous occasions, yet during the mid-Nineties his 52-year-old son held dozens of meetings with members of the South-East Regional Crime squad, often close to his home in Streatham, south London, during which he provided tip-offs about Ecstasy and cannabis imports.Double killer Kenneth Noye, a man linked to the Brink's-Mat bullion robbery who once stabbed a policeman to death and was more recently convicted of the road-rage murder of Stephen Cameron, also had a long career as a police informant. He collected large sums for pointing the Flying Squad in the direction of villains, many of whom were rivals he simply wanted out of the way. The history of informers is littered with cases of detectives getting too close, often with messy results. Nurturing an informant requires a close relationship between detective and criminal open to abuse by both sides. Detectives have been known to give informants free rein in their criminal careers, so long as the information continues. Others insist on splitting rewards. Many informants, Kenneth Noye for example, use the system as a way of getting rid of the competition. The temptations and opportunities for corrupt practices are everywhere. In the early Nineties, finance company American Express was asked by officers from the Midlands Regional Crime Squad to provide upfront rewards of up to £100,000 to be paid to informants who had provided information about the forging of £17 million worth of travellers' cheques. In fact, at the time the first payments were made, no cheques had been produced: The money was needed by the crooks and their police counterparts to purchase the printing equipment. Inside factsOn average, each of Britain's 43 police forces pays out £20,000 to informants each year. There are around 1,200 active registered informants in the country at any one time. A survey of CID officers found that 43 per cent had no registered informants, 22 per cent had one and 17 per cent had five or more. One of the most notorious informants of recent times was David Norris, a petty criminal who passed information about literally thousands of crimes during the Eighties. He was so prolific that many crooks attempted to use a 'Norris defence' to get themselves out of trouble, claiming in court that Norris had set them up. The use of this defence came to an abrupt halt in April 1991 when Norris, then 49, was shot dead outside his south London home. Attempts by police to utilise Jamaican informants to penetrate Yardie gangs backfired badly. One, Eaton Green, received money for information, but continued to commit vicious robberies. In one he held up 400 people in a Nottingham nightclub and robbed them one by one, shooting one man in the leg when he tried to resist. In 1988 Roy Garner, at the time one of the three most important gangland figures in London, earned more than £250,000 by informing on his colleagues and rivals.