Police said yesterday that a 15-year-old boy who was killed in a hail of bullets as he cycled home from a party was the victim of mistaken identity and was "in the wrong place, at the wrong time".They said there was no intelligence to suggest that Jessie James, who was murdered in Moss Side, Manchester, was a member of or was affiliated to any gang.Jessie died as he rode his BMX bike home through a park after a party in the early hours of Saturday. He was the youngest person to be shot dead in the city since January 1993, when 14-year-old Benji Stanley, who was also not linked to any gang, was killed.At a press conference yesterday afternoon, Detective Superintendent Tony Cook of Greater Manchester police said: "The motive is unclear and we are keeping an open mind. Probably the most likely explanation is that Jessie just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. There is not one shred of intelligence to suggest Jessie was a member or affiliated to any gang. I think it perhaps was mistaken identity."He said Jessie had been shot with a semi-automatic pistol, suffering two gunshot wounds to his torso and one near his appendix. The scene at Raby Street, near Moss Side community park, remained cordoned off. Bunches of flowers were left in tribute, although some floral tributes were taken to his family home.Jessie's mother, Barbara Reid, 47, said she could not understand why her son, who she described as "loved by everyone", had been killed."He was everyone's friend and didn't care about people's background, colour, religion or anything - he was a just an open-minded, friendly person who loved being around others; he mixed with everyone," she said. "He was well liked within the community and he would be the first to offer to clean people's windows or cut the grass. He loved the outdoors and was adventurous. Everyone loved hanging out with him."Mrs Reid said Jessie loved watching his team Manchester City and he also played football, swam, lifted weights and liked to fix bikes. He had hoped to become an electrician after studying for his GCSEs at Manchester academy, where his favourite subject was art. Like many teenagers, he loved music and was into hip hop, garage and R & B, she said.He died where he was shot, his bicycle beside him.Mrs Reid, who described Moss Side as "like a war zone", was alerted when a friend of her son hammered on her door in the early hours. She ran from her home to the park, but police, who had been called at 2.40am, were already there.She was told by officers there was nothing she could do and was advised to go home."I just feel a great gulf of loss in my life. I don't know what to do without him," Mrs Reid added.Jessie's sister, Rosemary, 28, said: "All I feel is emptiness. We are a close family and anything that Jessie couldn't tell mum he would always tell me. We used to talk a lot and we shared everything."