Any parent faced with the death of their son in such circumstances would have been devastated. But for Stephen's parents, Doreen and Neville Lawrence, their sense of despair has been compounded by the failure of the criminal justice system to deliver them justice to secure the conviction of those responsible. And I think, Madam Speaker, that I can speak for the whole of this House when I say that Mr and Mrs Lawrence's campaign for the truth has been pursued by them with huge dignity, courage and determination. Madam Speaker, I would like to pay my personal tribute to them today. I first met the family in early 1997 and saw both parents again shortly after becoming Home Secretary in May of that year. They persuaded me of the case for a thorough independent scrutiny of the investigation into their son's murder. In July 1997 I therefore announced to this House that I had appointed a former judge of the High Court, Sir William Macpherson of Cluny, to conduct a full judicial inquiry. This was the first such inquiry under the Police Acts since Lord Scarman's into the 1981 Brixton riots. The terms of reference of this new inquiry were as follows. To inquire into the matters arising from the death of Stephen Lawrence on 22 April 1993 to date, in order particularly to identify the lessons to be learned in the investigation and prosecution of racially motivated crimes. The inquiry examined the handling of the case in comprehensive detail. .It held 69 days of public hearings, heard 88 witnesses, and received some 100,000 pages of evidence, and I wish to put on record my deep gratitude to Sir Willliam Macpherson and his three advisers. And I would also like to thank the inquiry team for their commitment and sensitivity in handling this very important inquiry. Madam Speaker, the report is divided into two parts. The first part covers the police investigation into the murder of Stephen Lawrence, the second part covers the wider lessons to be learnt. The main findings of the first part of the inquiry are these, and I quote: The conclusions to be drawn from all the evidence in connection with the investigation of Stephen Lawrence's racist murder are clear. There is no doubt there were fundamental errors. The investigation was marred by a combination of professional incompetence, by institutional racism and by a failure of leadership by senior officers. A flawed Metropolitan Police review failed to expose these inadequacies. The second investigation could not salvage the faults of the first investigation. That first investigation of the murder, the inquiry finds, was palpably flawed and deserves severe criticism. And the inquiry concludes, and again I quote, there can be no excuses for such a series of errors, failings and lack of direction and control . Madam Speaker, a review of the case was conducted in autumn 1993 by Detective Superintendent John Barker. The inquiry has found that his review was factually incorrect and inadequate. The inquiry was concerned that no senior officer at any level tested or analysed the review and that Mr Barker had produced, and again I quote, a flawed and indefensible report. In 1994 a second investigation of the case was established and this attempted to salvage the situation. The inquiry makes clear that this second investigation, led by Detective Superintendent William Mellish, was conducted with great imagination, skill and sensitivity by the officers involved. The inquiry also identified work by police officers and others at other stages of the investigation which they said was exemplary. Those officers are praised for their unstinting commitment to bring the racist killers to justice. But their efforts, in the view of the inquiry, were not sufficient to overcome the catalogue of errors and basic incompetence in the handling of this investigation. I should also tell the House, Madam Speaker, that the report concludes, and again I quote, that no collusion or corruption is proved to have infected the investigation of Stephen Lawrence's murder. Madam Speaker, the Government accepts the finding and conclusions of the first part of this inquiry which relates to the investigation into Stephen's murder. The House will share my sense of shame that the criminal justice system and the Metropolitan Police in particular failed the Lawrence family so badly. The commissioner of the police, Sir Paul Condon, has asked me to tell the House that he shares that sense of shame too. He has also asked that I should tell the House that as head of the Metropolitan Police service he fully accepts the findings of the inquiry, including those which are made relating to him. Madam Speaker, Sir Paul Condon took over as commissioner of the Metropolitan Police in February 1993. Since he came into office he has given strong personal leadership to improving the quality of service which the Metropolitan Police provides to all sections of the community. A great deal has been achieved, for example reported crime in London is at its lowest for nine years. And Sir Paul is tackling the problems of police corruption with great vigour. I have asked Sir Paul to continue to lead the Metropolitan Police to deliver the programme of work which is now required. He has agreed. He will use the remaining 10 months of his office to take that work forward, including the agenda set by this report. I will be supporting him and his successor in the work which lies ahead. Madam Speaker, the central and most important issue for the inquiry was racism and whether and how this affected the handling of this case. The inquiry addresses this matter with care and with sensitivity. On the critical issue of institutional racism the inquiry's definition is as follows: Institutional racism consists of the collective failure of an organisation to provide an appropriate and professional service to people because of their colour, culture or ethnic origin. It can be seen or detected in processes, attitudes or behaviour which amount to discrimination through unwitting prejudice, ignorance, thoughtlessness and racist stereotyping which disadvantage minority ethnic people. And the inquiry found that on this definition, and I quote, institutional racism exists within both the Metropolitan Police service and in other police services and other institutions countrywide. The report says that institutional racism was apparent in a number of areas of the police handling of the case. The inquiry, however, emphasised that their finding s do not suggest or imply that all police officers are racist or that the Metropolitan Police service is racist in its policies. Indeed the inquiry emphasises that by the establishment under Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve of the Metropolitan Police's racial and violent crime taskforce, and again I quote, the signs are that the problems are being recognised and tackled. The report then expresses the hope that the catharsis of this inquiry will lead to constructive action and not to further divisive views or outcomes. This is a new definition of institutional racism which I accept and so does the commissioner. The inquiry's assessment is clear and sensible and in my view any long-established white-dominated organisation is liable to have procedures, practices and a culture which tend to exclude or to disadvantage non-white people. And the police service in this respect is little different from other parts of the criminal justice system or from government departments, including the Home Office, and many other institutions as well. Madam Speaker, the report makes 70 wide-ranging recommendations and I welcome them all.  I'm sure that Honourable Members will not expect me to go through each of the recommendations in turn today but what I will instead do is lay a detailed response, an action plan, before the House, prior to the promised full day's debate on the report.  But Madam Speaker I want to use this opportunity to spell out how we are implementing the main recommendations of the report as part of our major and continuing programme of change for the police service and for the criminal justice system.  First the police service. I have ordered an immediate inspection of the Metropolitan Police Service by Her Majesty's Inspectorate Constabulary. This will include a thorough scrutiny of unsolved murders and reviews of such cases.  Picking up one of the recommendations of the inquiry, her Majesty's Inspectorate Constabulary already incorporate much of the approach of Ofsted in their inspections of the police service and they will be moving further in that direction.  A new police discipline regime will be brought in from April 1 this year. I will ensure that this is subject to effective monitoring and I will consider any further changes in the light of that experience.  I will make an improvement in the trust and confidence of policing in ethnic minority communities a key ministerial priority for the police and I will use my statutory powers to ensure that every police force sets clear objectives better to deal with racist crime and to establish effective ways of demonstrating fairness in all aspects of policing.  I will set targets for the recruitment, the retention and the promotion of ethnic minority police and civilian staff. I announced last October our plans to ensure that every force reflects the ethnic diversity of the communities which they serve.  And I will chair a national conference of all chief constables and police authorities on this issue in April.  Madam Speaker, stop and search powers under current legislation will remain unchanged as recommended by the inquiry.  But I will ensure that these powers are used more effectively and fairly.  Londoners, for the first time, will be given a proper say in the running of their police service. From July next year a police authority for London will sit alongside the new mayor and assembly. And legislation for this is already before the House.  Clear standards of performance will be put in place to ensure more effective police investigations into racist crimes. As the House knows, we have already changed the law to establish new offences of racially motivated crimes.  Madam Speaker, the report makes wider recommendations for the criminal justice system. From next month, new guidelines will enable parties to an inquest to receive advance disclosure of evidence and of documents and I've asked the Law Commission to consider the inquiry's proposals that the court of appeal be given power to permit prosecution after acquittal when fresh and viable evidence is presented.  As the inquiry proposes, we are already ensuring that victims, victims' families and vulnerable witnesses are treated more sensitively and fairly. The Police Justice and Criminal Evidence Bill currently before parliament will extend greater support to vulnerable witnesses and yesterday I announced a 50 per cent increase in funding to victim support.  I should also tell the House, Madam Speaker, that next week I'll be publishing the report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary which examines police community relations across the country.  The Inspectorate's report supports and reinforces the message which emerged from this inquiry.  Madam Speaker, this report challenges us all, and not just the police service. And I want to use the opportunity which the report gives us to tackle discrimination wherever it is found. So today I can announce to the House that we shall be extending the Race Relations Acts not just to cover the police as the report recommends, but to cover all of the public services.  That means the civil service, the immigration service and for example the National Health Service, the law will back those who have been the subject of discrimination. The new law will allow the Commission for Racial Equality to investigate what is happening within individual police forces and other public services.  Now Madam Speaker, companies and other organisations in the private sector have long been subject to this legislation. But the government so far has failed to keep its own house in order.  Madam Speaker, the Macpherson inquiry has demonstrated the failings of one very important public institution, the police service. The police do have a special responsibility in our society because day by day they are the immediate guardians of fairness and justice. But we would all be deluding ourselves if we believe that the issues thrown up by this inquiry reflect only on the police. Indeed the implications of this report go much, much wider and the very process of the inquiry has opened all our eyes to what it is like to be black or Asian in Britain today. And the inquiry process has revealed some fundamental truths about the nature of our society, about our relationships one with another. Some of these truths are uncomfortable but we have to confront them.  So I want this report to serve as a wartershed in our attitudes to racism. I want it to act as a catalyst to permanent and irrevocable change, not just across our public services, but across the whole of our society. This report does not place a responsibility on someone else. It places a responsibility on each one of us.  We have to make racial equality a reality. The vision, I believe is clear, to create a society where every individual, regardless of colour, of creed, or race, has the same opportunities and respect as his or her neighbour. On race equality let us make Britain a beacon to the world. Now many countries already admire our record on race relations. Race relations legislation of the 1960s and 1970s has made a significant difference to the treatment of black and Asian people in our country. But it has plainly not been enough, so over the coming weeks the Prime Minister and I will spell out what the Government will be doing to drive home this programme of change.  For this report must mark the beginning of this process and not the end. Madam Speaker, in her evidence to the Lawrence inquiry, Mrs Lawrence said this: I would like Stephen to be remembered as a young man who had a future. He was well-loved and had he been given the chance to survive, maybe he would have been the one to bridge the gap between black and white. Madam Speaker, this report was born of the courage and determination of Neville and Doreen Lawrence, of their desire to get to the truth of what happened, of their desire to ensure that their son was never forgotten.  This report is a testament to them and upon this report we must build a lasting testament to Stephen. 