A 16–year–old youth was today given a life sentence, and ordered to be detained for a minimum of 12 years, at the Old Bailey for stabbing to death David Idowu, 14, in a clash between two local schools.Elijah Dayoni was found guilty of the murder last month after a two-week trial. The judge, Justice Calvert-Smith, lifted a ban on naming Dayoni, of Catford, south-east London.Calvert-Smith said Idowu was a model student and son, while Dayoni had been given a supervision order for burglary the day before the killing in Southwark, south London, on 17 June.Police said Dayoni approached Idowu while he was playing football in a park close to his home. Dayoni attacked without warning and stabbed him in the heart. As Idowu tried to escape, the attacker chased him. Dayoni was caught on CCTV laughing and smiling.Idowu collapsed on the street where passers-by helped to keep his heart going, but it stopped twice. He was flown to the Royal London hospital by air ambulance but never came out of his coma.The court heard that Dayoni was arrested two days later still wearing a T-shirt with Idowu's blood on it.Dayoni, the court heard, had been summoned to the park by his younger brothers, after a conflict between boys from their school and Walworth Academy, which Idowu attended.It emerged after the attack that Idowu had been due to talk at a public debating competition against the knife and gun culture that claimed 30 teenage victims in London last year. Speaking after their son's death, Grace and Tim Idowu said he "wanted to change the world, like Bill Clinton".They released a picture to the Guardian of their son as he lay dying in hospital in order to discourage knife crime among the young. His father said: "All he had done was go across the park to play football with his brother."That's all children want to be able to do, to go to the park, to go around the corner to buy sweets, to go into a shop and buy some trainers. Why is it that they can't do that safely anymore?"Idowu's parents watched from the public gallery as Grace's impact statement was read to the court by the prosecution counsel, David Waters QC.She said: "He left for school saying 'See you mummy'. Nothing told me that would be the end of seeing my son alive."She described how she, her husband and three other sons watched helplessly as Idowu suffered after being knifed in the heart. "Our dream child lost his struggle to live," she said.Grace described her son as "a handsome, athletic 14-year-old" who was doing well at school and wanted to be an aeronautics engineer.She said: "We will never recover from the loss and from witnessing the pain he endured."The knife which pierced David's heart will keep the wounds open in our hearts forever."