A man charged with the murder of Mohammed Raja Shafiq, a father of seven who was hit over the head with an iron bar and stabbed in a park as he tried to protect his son, changed his plea to guilty yesterday midway through the trial. Three other defendants also admitted lesser charges for their role in the attack.Mohammed Bilal Bhatti, 21, admitted at Manchester crown court that he murdered the 50-year-old by stabbing him with a seven-inch knife in Burnley, Lancashire, in March. His three co-accused also changed their pleas to guilty. Shazad Akhtar, 17, admitted manslaughter and violent disorder. His brother, Shahdab Akhtar, 19, and Omar Khalid, also 19, pleaded guilty to violent disorder. The court previously heard that Shafiq had been trying to intervene to protect his son Umar, 18, who had been targeted by the group as a result of a long running feud. The four defendants, all from Burnley, had armed themselves before going to Thompson park "with the intention of involving themselves in a fight during which someone might die", according to the prosecution.Louise Blackwell, prosecuting, said: "Mr Raja Shafiq's intention was to speak to Shahdab, and what he wanted was to resolve this ongoing problem but without resorting to a fight." However, the four defendants were armed when they arrived at the park; Shazad Akhtar took a metal bar, his elder brother carried a belt, Bhatti took a Rambo-style knife and Khalid carried a wheel brace. The court had been told Shafiq was hit on the head with the metal bar by Shazad Akhtar and was stabbed with the knife by Bhatti, who was later heard to shout: "Run, I've just stabbed him."As the gang ran off leaving Shafiq in a pool of blood, Shahdab Akhtar shouted: "Which one of you stabbed the dad?" Bhatti lifted his hand and Akhtar responded: "Nice one." He showed off the bloodstained knife in the car and boasted about the attack. Shahdab Akhtar had been charged with assaulting Umar Shafiq five months earlier and was on bail. In the weeks leading up to the incident he and his brother and Bhatti had been trying to apply pressure to force Umar Shafiq to drop the case. The day before his father was killed, "further pressure" was applied to Umar Shafiq at a takeaway restaurant.A fight had been arranged between two groups of youths on March 4 and the plans were overheard by security guard at Burnley College, where many of the participants were students. The guard told police and Shafiq also tried to contact the officer dealing with his son's case to warn him. However, the officer was not on duty that day and did not pick up Shafiq's message until much later. Shafiq died in hospital several hours after the attack from blood loss. He also sustained a fractured skull. The trial judge, Mr Justice Henriques, adjourned the case for sentencing on September 26. He told the defendants: "You have committed matters so grave that a loss of liberty is inevitable, so bear that in mind. This case has not been adjourned with it in mind that you will regain your liberty."Yesterday the Independent Police Complaints Commission investigation into how the Lancashire force handled a call from Shafiq found failings by a call handler. The IPCC said Shafiq was told the officer who had been dealing with the assault on his son was unavailable. He told the call handler he had been told a group of men was following his son and was concerned about his welfare. The call ended with the handler advising him to distance himself from the incident and call police should there be any problems.The IPCC concluded that the call handler had failed to recognise the seriousness of the situation and analysis of the conversation revealed that she missed key information because she was speaking over Shafiq, failed to adhere to recognised standards and practices, and failed to recognise the need to dispatch police. It has not yet been decided what course of action will be taken against the handler.