A 14-year-old girl stabbed her older sister to death with a carving knife while her helpless mother looked on, a court heard yesterday. The teenager, who cannot be named for legal reasons, knifed her 16-year-old sister in the back during an argument, Bradford crown court was told.Tom Bayliss QC, prosecuting, said the sisters fought after the younger girl insulted her sister's boyfriend. The court heard that the teenagers lived with their mother in Halifax, West Yorkshire, and had previously got on well. But the mother told the court that their relationship soured in the year before the fatal stabbing, on March 26.The 14-year-old denies murder, but has pleaded guilty to manslaughter.Mr Bayliss said the older girl had been out with her boyfriend after school and the defendant had been out with friends before returning home. "When their mother arrived home, she found the two girls in the sitting room and they began to argue, which escalated into a physical assault."He said the younger girl left the lounge and said: "You are gonna get it." She returned with a large knife. Her mother shouted at her to put it down, but she said: "I don't care, I'm going to have her."The younger girl stabbed her sister in the back before dropping the knife. Her injured sister retaliated by stabbing her in the leg, the court was told.Both girls were treated at Calderdale Royal hospital, but the older girl died early the following morning, a postmortem showing that she had suffered massive internal bleeding as the knife had punctured her lung.The girls' mother told the court: "The younger one said that her sister's boyfriend wouldn't amount to much and he would end up working in Morrisons." Her sister then just flew at her from across the room and they started fighting, she said. The older sister grabbed the 14-year-old by the hair during the fight.She managed to part the girls, thought things were fine, and went to the bathroom. But when she came out, the younger sister came past her with the kitchen knife. After she was stabbed in the leg, the younger sister was screaming in pain and shouting "I'm sorry, I love you." The mother thought her older daughter was all right at first. "But then I heard her cry that she couldn't breathe and couldn't see. I helped her into the armchair and then called an ambulance."Mr Bayliss said: "The prosecution don't suggest that this was anything other than an impulsive act, carried out by a young woman who had lost her temper. The prosecution do say that this was a deliberate act and that she at least intended to cause serious bodily harm."The trial continues.