In yet another bid to secure the rightwing tabloid vote, Conservative leader Michael Howard today returned to the "prison works" mantra he tried so hard to flog during his days as home secretary. The highlights of his speech, delivered in Tony Blair's Sedgefield constituency, included the passage: "Build more prisons and fewer criminals will be free to commit crimes. It's common sense."He also promised that a future Conservative government would "make prisoners serve the full sentence imposed by the court". This would involve passing legislation that would require judges to set a minimum and maximum sentence. The former would be served in full, but prisoners who "behaved well and were deemed no longer to pose a threat to the public" would be released earlier.Let us examine these two proposals. First, building more prisons. I presume this means private jails, given that the last state sector prison went up some 13 years ago. Prisons run by the likes of Group 4, Premier Prisons, Wakenhut or United Kingdom Detention Services. Confused? So are those in the probation services, who struggle daily to keep pace with the different practices of each private company as it opens another jail. These prisons have been allowed to operate without any debate on the contentious issue of privatising punishment. A few of them are well run; many are in a mess, with prisoners running amok. Perhaps Mr Howard wants to copy the US system, which locks up over two million of its citizens, the vast majority from underprivileged ethnic minority communities. Second, the issue of minimum and maximum sentences. Do you think that somebody ought to take Mr Howard to one side and tell him that such a system is already in place? It's called parole. Under the parole system, a convicted offender will serve a minimum of half the prescribed sentence; but only if the prisoner has undertaken all the relevant offending behaviour programmes - and not put a foot out of line. If the inmate refuses to "show remorse" by participating in such programmes, then he or she will serve a minimum of two-thirds of the set sentence. If they go further and behave badly in prison, they are likely to lose most of their remission and serve the lot. So what's new, Mr Howard? The Conservatives are intent on abolishing the early release system - the only part of the penal system that actually works. Mr Howard despairs that 2% of those released early commit further offences. Dreadful statistics indeed. However, set against the roughly 80% of young offenders - and women prisoners - who reoffend within two years of "normal" release, they are positively uplifting. There are - sadly - only a few "resettlement prisons" operating in England and Wales. In these establishments, prisoners work in the community to prepare them for release. Again, these places actually work. They give inmates a sense of worth along with getting them used to the idea of working. One of Mr Howard's acts as home secretary was to shut down most of these excellent schemes with the stroke of a pen. And, just in case anyone is inclined to fall for this "common sense" approach; let us remind ourselves that it was the Tory leader who once approved of pregnant prisoners being chained to their hospital beds during their confinement. Hard labour indeed.