Twice in four days Lord Phillips, the lord chief justice, has felt the need to react publicly to one of the home secretary's many, increasingly desperate, initiatives aimed at reducing prison overcrowding. This should not become a habit, especially as Lord Phillips's comments are being treated by the media as part of the frenetic political story surrounding Mr Reid's general performance.Reid thrown lifeline by judge ..., Top judge comes to aid of Reid ... were two of the headlines. This is not how Lord Phillips would have regarded his carefully worded, low-key interventions; he certainly does not see himself in the business of rushing to the home secretary's defence. Yet that is how his modest comments are being interpreted. When Mr Reid appealed to judges to jail fewer non-violent offenders, Lord Phillips merely pointed out that this was "a helpful summary of the present position and is consistent with existing sentencing legislation and well-established sentencing principles".On Saturday he issued another statement, on the relationship between sentencing and prison overcrowding. There was long-established authority, he said, that for certain kinds of offences "it is appropriate that, when imposing sentence, the judge should have regard to the present state of the prisons". In other words, both statements by the lord chief justice emphasised that there was nothing new in Mr Reid's plea; the judges should be doing what he asks anyway. That's hardly taking sides with Reid.But why did Phillips feel he needed to go public in this way? Mr Reid's request for less jailing was not couched in critical terms, but it could still be seen as an attempt to tell the judges what to do, which is not the job of the secretary of state. Many judges resented his direct approach. Lord Phillips's interventions were partly aimed at assuaging judicial feelings by playing down the importance of Mr Reid's request, and partly to remind judges of the law they had to follow - which, on this particular occasion, happened to coincide with the home secretary's feelings.So, no harm done, but the lord chief justice should be warned against reacting too often to specific ministerial actions or indeed provocations. The danger is that he, and the judges, will be dragged into the political arena, where they are bound to lose the arguments as well as their credibility.· Good news, for a change, for people wanting a direct say in the content of our laws. From February 5, the Law Commission, the government's legal thinktank and reforming body, is opening its website to anyone with ideas on new laws needed or old laws requiring reform. This invitation does not, however, apply to those urging policy changes. Others can consult www.lawcom.gov.uk.