Police are investigating a possible grudge attack on a village in the annual Britain in Bloom contest, whose displays have been devastated by a poisoner using banned weedkiller.Villagers who have created lavish flower beds at Cayton, on the Yorkshire coast between Scarborough and Filey, have been told by detectives that the care and planning put into the attack smack less of vandalism than of a "calculated and malicious act".Thirty separate sites in the picturesque village have been targeted and specific prize plants treated with sodium chlorate, which was withdrawn from shops last year as too toxic for garden use. Plants have been left wilting and blackened, and there is an estimated bill of £20,000 to replace 200 tonnes of polluted soil if the bid for floral glory is still to have a chance this year.Detectives are also checking back to a carbon-copy attack seven years ago at Saltburn by the Sea, 40 miles up the coast, when the plant poisoner was never found. Inhabitants of the Teesside resort, which was also reckoned a likely medal winner at the time, suspected an inside job motivated by jealousy.Cayton's rapid rise to finalist in this year's large village section of Britain in Bloom began in 2002 and has seen locals join in enthusiastically. The village won silver-gilt awards in 2006 and 2008 and has steadily increased the number of local participants.Les Hutchinson, chairman of Cayton in Bloom, whose website reveals the attack in a section headed 'Sad and worrying news', said: "The whole village is devastated by what has happened – we are a very close-knit community."He said that villagers had noticed white powder granules on display beds at the same time as plants began to wilt and lose their colour to scorching. The poison had clearly been laid by someone with gardening experience who knew what they were doing, he said. Few plants had been left unaffected.A spokesman for North Yorkshire police said: "Someone out there knows who is responsible. Please do the right thing and report them, either direct to the police or anonymously via Crimestoppers." Names were suggested in Saltburn seven years ago, where a local farmer's water bowser is thought to have been spiked with weedkiller, but evidence was never found.The Teesside town was inundated with offers of help and replacement stock, including 250 new hanging baskets to add to its traditionally inventive displays, including ships and a miniature version of the pier.Cayton is also determined to bounce back, said Hutchinson, provided funds can be raised. "It will cost a lot of money, as we have to remove tonnes of soil," he said. "But we are still competing and the competition judges are aware of what has happened."Samples of the powder and contaminated soil have been analysed at the government's Food and Environment Research Agency near York, which has confirmed the use of sodium chlorate. The poison lingers in beds, further damaging Cayton's prospects of a comeback.Roger Burnett, manager of countryside and parks for Scarborough council, who is also chair of the Royal Horticultural Society's Britain in Bloom judging panel, called the attack an "affront". He said the whole village had been targeted, not just the organisers of the displays, in an attack on "the very environment we all live in".