A woman seduced two City businessmen and spiked their drinks with the date rape drug rohypnol before stealing thousands of pounds worth of designer clothes, watches and shoes from their luxury homes, a court was told yesterday.While the men, who were targeted on separate occasions, lay semi-naked and unconscious on their beds, Selina Hakki, 37, helped herself to their property and returned to her home in east London. Hours later when the men woke up they could remember little of the events of the night before; the only traces of Ms Hakki's presence in their flats were left on cigarette butts discarded in wastepaper bins and fingerprints on wine bottles. In the empty but wine-stained glass at one of the men's London homes scientists found traces of rohypnol, a sedative used frequently in date rape crimes, Middlesex Guildhall crown court was told. Volker Vogler, a City banker who met Ms Hakki at the Windows on the World bar in the Hilton Hotel, woke the next day feeling so dizzy and groggy he was unable to go to work. His rubbish was strewn all over the kitchen floor and he later discovered the black Versace jeans and jumper he was wearing the night before had been stolen, along with three pairs of shoes, an £850 Omega watch, £100 in cash, a Tiffany alarm clock, another watch, a pair of trousers and a bottle of wine, all estimated to be worth around £1,500. Describing how he felt when he woke, Mr Vogler, now 38, said: "I felt very dizzy, I could hardly walk, I almost fell over when I went to the bathroom ... This was certainly not a hangover, it was much more out of control." Richard Milne, prosecuting, said the men were drugged after meeting Ms Hakki in bars in London. "She got herself invited back to their flats and while at the flat she slipped them a 'Mickey Finn'. She spiked their drinks, knocked them out and used the opportunity to steal from them." Ms Hakki, of Bow, east London, denies two counts of administering a stupefying or overpowering drug, namely rohypnol, with the intent to commit theft, and two counts of theft between January 2001 and September last year. Mr Vogler said he had gone alone to the rooftop bar at the Hilton, which was 10 minutes from his Knightsbridge home, after dining out with a friend to celebrate his 36th birthday. At the bar he noticed an attractive woman - Ms Hakki - and walked over to chat to her. At one point he returned from the toilet to see her talking to a man in his 50s, who Ms Hakki said had offered her money to join him in his hotel room. But she told Mr Vogler she liked him better and asked if they could go back to his flat, the court heard. Back at the flat Mr Vogler opened a bottle of wine and poured two glasses, pausing only to go to the toilet. "I remember she said: 'Why don't you drink more, why don't you finish it off?' I drank more, about two-thirds of the glass," he said, adding that things progressed very quickly. "She had taken off a bit of her clothing and she said, 'Why don't you loosen up and go to the bedroom and I will follow you.' I remember I got up, went into the bedroom and that's it, that's the last thing I remember." The next morning he was woken at 10am by a call from his boss asking him why he was not at work, where he had been due at 7.30am. He staggered to the kitchen to see his rubbish had been emptied over the floor. He left for work but had to turn back. He slept for another six hours and woke around 4.30pm to discover he had been robbed. Police later discovered two Benson and Hedges cigarette butts in his wastepaper bin which contained Ms Hakki's DNA. When police arrested her last March they found a Tiffany alarm clock at her east London home which Mr Vogler said yesterday was his property. Cross-examined by Bernard Eaton, defending, he denied having sex with Ms Hakki before falling asleep. "Unfortunately I did not," he said. Alexander Jovy, the second victim, was seduced by Ms Hakki after meeting her at the Aura bar in central London in September last year. Traces of rohypnol were found at his flat and traces of her DNA were on the wine bottle they shared. The case continues.