Some of the government's planned changes to the criminal justice system could lead to innocent people being convicted, legal groups warned today.The Law Society, the Criminal Bar Association and civil rights group Justice told the all-party home affairs select committee that the home secretary's reform of the court system and police procedures may result in miscarriages of justice.The chairman of the Criminal Bar Association, Peter Rook QC, criticised comments from the home secretary, David Blunkett and the prime minister, Tony Blair, that the court system should be "rebalanced" in favour of the victim. "There is too much talk of winners and losers in the criminal justice system," he told MPs. "What matters is the integrity of the trial process." He added: "The reforms proposed to vulnerable victims and witnesses, and making juries more representative we would support. But I don't think you can say you are being conservative if you believe that certain fundamental liberties should not be eroded." Measures to overhaul the legal system are expected to be outlined in a new criminal justice bill this week, and some of the moves are likely to put ministers on a collision course with the legal establishment. Lawyers have criticised plans to water down the double jeopardy rule so offenders acquitted of serious crimes like murder, rape and armed robbery can face second trials on the same charges. They also worry that plans to tell jurors of a defendant's previous convictions, to allow hearsay evidence in court and to let judges try complex cases without a jury will lead to innocent people being convicted. David Winnick MP asked the witnesses if the legal profession was simply being "determined to defend restrictive practices and defend the status quo". Mr Rook replied: "I would suggest that that is not a correct view. To cast us as resistant to change just because we feel it is right to retain jury trial cannot be right." Roger Smith, director of Justice, said he agreed with the government's aim of keeping non-dangerous offenders out of the prison system, and of using other kinds of punishments instead of jail. "But we fear the provisions in the bill will in fact have the opposite effect," he said. The committee is carrying out a report on the proposals in advance of the Home Office's publication of the bill, expected on Thursday.