More than 1,000 amateur UK investors, many of them elderly, were duped out of £70m by some of Britain’s most successful swindlers using a web of pop-up front companies in secrecy jurisdictions around the world.Documents from the Panama Papers show how tax haven law firm Mossack Fonseca hosted the registered offices of two of the main front companies in the British Virgin Islands.Globe Trade Services was formed by the BVI office in 2005 on instructions from a Hong Kong intermediary. Shares in Globe – which is unrelated to a San Diego firm of the same name – were owned by the company’s sole director, another company giving a post office box address in Belize.How Mossack Fonseca missed warning signs of £70m boiler room fraud Unbeknown to Mossack Fonseca, Globe was part of an international web of fraud created by the Australian confidence trickster Jeffrey Revell-Reade. His victims were UK amateur investors.Revell-Reade was known to police for years. He specialised in boiler room frauds – pop-up stockbrokers selling worthless shares through cold-calling.The Panama Papers suggest Mossack Fonseca made few checks before forming Globe, and that, despite being the company’s registered agent, it failed to alert the authorities when a complaint was received.In large part this was because, under BVI law, an intermediary requesting the formation of a company is presumed to have made the proper checks.The Panama Papers, obtained by Germany’s Süddeutsche Zeitung, were shared through the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) with the Guardian and other media.In 2005, a retired brewer from Lancashire contacted Mossack Fonseca after buying £22,000 worth of shares through Madrid brokerage Price Stone. He became worried because his share certificates had not arrived and his money had not been sent to Price Stone but to Globe.After being unable to contact Price Stone, he turned to Globe for an explanation, which meant dealing with Mossack Fonseca staff in the BVI.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The Panama Papers: how to hide a billion dollarsHe told them of alarming internet searches about the company, forcing employees to investigate further. An email was sent to the Hong Kong intermediary who first requested Globe be incorporated.Globe replied that the matter had been straightened out and also sent a letter stressing the company “does not and will not violate in any respect any law or regulation of any governmental or official authority”. The letter did not address concerns raised by the UK investor.However, the UK’s financial regulator had published warnings that Price Stone was a potential front for confidence tricksters. There was also concern about Price Stone in online chat rooms.In truth, Globe and Price Stone were fraud factories. In 13 months, £27.2m washed through Globle’s Hong Kong bank account. All warning signs, however, went unseen or unheeded by Mossack Fonseca.In August 2006, the flow stopped after a complaint to the bank. Money was then diverted to another laundering company, Global Clearing Services. It, too, used Mossack Fonseca’s BVI offices.In total, Revell-Reade and his accomplices – based in Hong Kong, Switzerland, Spain and Australia – took more than £70m. They have since been arrested and 10 prison sentences followed. Revell-Reade is serving a nine-and-a-half-year sentence.Mossack Fonseca said: “We were persistent in lodging the appropriate questions related to the nature of the business being conducted by this company, and … we were successful in securing that information both from independent outside counsel, and the newly incorporated company itself.”