A British woman whose body was found in a French lake had previously threatened to kill herself, a court was told yesterday.Robert Lund, 55, is on trial in the French town of Albi, accused of murdering his wife, Evelyn, for her life insurance.Mrs Lund went missing from the farmhouse she shared with her husband in the remote village of Rayssac, south-west France, on December 29 1999. Her body was found two years later, slumped on the back seat of her Toyota Landcruiser in a lake 15 miles away when a severe drought caused the water level to fall by 30ft.The jury heard that Mrs Lund had squandered the inheritance left by her wealthy first husband, and at the time of her death was so poor that she could not afford Christmas presents for her family.Barbara Bullen, a retired nursing assistant who had known Mrs Lund for more than 20 years when she went missing, said that behind a public facade of wealth, the 52-year-old hid a battle with alcohol.Mrs Bullen, who moved into the farmhouse in 2003, told the court: "Evelyn wouldn't accept that she had a drinking problem, and after she moved to France, she got more and more depressed and drank more. She was a very kind person who was destroyed by alcohol."One day, Mrs Lund locked herself in the shower at the remote farmhouse she shared with her husband and threatened to overdose on tablets, Mrs Bullen said."Robert was very good with her - very patient. Evelyn would drink herself into a stupor, but the next day, it wouldn't be talked about."Mrs Bullen said that Mrs Lund, who had three daughters from her first marriage, rang her on Christmas Day in 1999, distraught and very drunk."She was upset that she couldn't send her children any Christmas presents - she said she had no money. Everybody thought she was well-off, but she had no money, and had even got into debt. She spent her money on silly things, and she was very, very generous, especially with her family."Mr Lund, from Darwen in Lancashire, has always maintained that he played no part in his wife's death, and claims that she died after driving into the lake by accident.Herve Renier, the lawyer for Mrs Lund's children, asked Mrs Bullen why she moved into the farmhouse. He asked: "Several witnesses have said your relationship with Mr Lund was more than just friendship. What do you think about that?""I think it's a load of crap," Mrs Bullen replied.On the fourth day of the hearing, the cour d'Assises de Tarn heard from two British journalists who interviewed Mr Lund in December 2003. Clare Cook, then a reporter with the Lancashire Evening Telegraph, said that the defendant had seemed at ease."On the one hand, he spoke very lovingly about her, but on the other, he talked about money all the time, and he said the relationship had started to become violent. To me, the relationship seemed tragic, but he never tried to hide anything, and I asked some difficult questions."Neil Johnson, the photographer who accompanied Mrs Cook, said he was surprised at the ease with which Mr Lund led them to the spot where the car was found. Mr Lund said the place was well-known to local fishermen and hunters, and he had seen it in newspapers and on television.The hearing continues.