The spectre of an ancient collision between civil liberties and the question of justice is raised by the strange case of the chief constable threatened with jail for contempt of court.Avon and Somerset's chief constable, Colin Port, is refusing to hand back 87 hard drives that he believes may contain "indecent" images of children to a discredited but prestigious expert witness, Jim Bates.Police suspected him of making use of images acquired in his work as an expert witness. They want to check the disks to see if any children are at risk.The case exposes new challenges to criminal justice and civil liberty. The question is: whose rights matter?• children whose bodies, actual and virtual, circulate beyond their control?• pro-active – rather than passive – investigators?• expert witnesses clinging to material that in another context constitutes an offence?The internet creates an entirely new technology for anyone interested in sex with children, and anyone investigating it.Bates claims the hard drives attract legal privilege because he is an expert witness. The police say Bates had been rejected as an expert and, therefore, had no right to the material. Bates sought a judicial review of the police, and Lord Justice Richards and Mr Justice Owen ordered the police to return the equipment.The story started in 2008 when Somerset and Avon police rejected Bates as an expert in the trial of a man charged with conspiracy to possess child abuse images. The defendant chose another expert, Chris Magee of Cyber Forensics.But Bates was a ubiquitous presence – Magee took Bates with him as his "driver" and later engaged him as his "assistant".The police became suspicious and got a warrant to search his home. They found piles of up to 2,500 images around the house, 87 hard drives and several computers, so the senior investigator extended the search warrant to seize the stuff.Police wanted to check whether the photographs and the hard drives were connected, whether these computer images had been circulated, and whether any children were at risk of abuse.But their suspicions were not supported by their search warrant – it did not specify particular drives and computers.Police told the judicial review on 8 May that the Crown Prosecution Service circulated prosecutors in 2006 advising them not to use Bates as an expert witness – because he had inappropriately retained material from child abuse cases. In 2008 he was given a suspended prison sentence for making false statements and perjury. That is why he was rejected as an expert by Avon and Somerset.John Carr, the internet expert who has helped modernise Britain's investigation capacity, argues that you don't need to gaze at actual images to track internet trade routes and transmission. Avon and Somerset police agree.They should, of course, comply with proper process. But this case reveals a trap: if justice demands that the police offer prima facie evidence in support of search warrants, how can they get the evidence if they can't investigate? And whose rights are at stake? Civil liberty is an expensive business – often it's a rich man's liberty.