Two gunmen who murdered a schoolboy in his bed after mistaking him for his brother were jailed for life today and told they must serve a minimum term of 30 years.Michael Dosunmu, 15, was hit by four bullets from a submachine gun as he slept, wrapped in his duvet, at his home in Peckham, south-east London.Mohammed Sannoh, 19, of Peckham, and Abdi Noor, 22, of Camberwell, south-east London, showed no emotion as they were sentenced at the Old Bailey.The judge, Stephen Kramer, told them: "This was a planned and premeditated killing. It was an execution. You both, quite probably acting with another person or others, carried out this killing in an act of revenge."Your target was Michael's older brother, Hakeem. Mistakenly and tragically, Michael was killed. It was a death that could only invoke in all right-minded people feelings of outrage, shock and sympathy for Michael's family."Michael's sister, Shakira, was woken by the gunfire on February 6 last year and hid under her duvet in another room. She raised the alarm after she heard Michael gasping for breath and went to his bedroom.The prosecution alleged the men were after Michael's brother, Hakeem, 26, who they believed had cheated them out of proceeds from security van robberies. They also wanted revenge after the murder of another man a few days earlier.Hakeem Dosunmu had been out at a club trying to sell drugs when his brother was killed, the court heard. He was sentenced in April to two years in prison after admitting his part in the robberies, in which he acted as the getaway driver.Jonathan Laidlaw QC, prosecuting, told the jury Sannoh was part of the gang that carried out a series of armed raids on security guards. After the last raid, Sannoh's friend Javarie Crighton, one of the robbers, was stabbed to death after confronting the organiser, Orando Madden, about money, the court was told.Madden surrendered to police, leaving only Hakeem as a target for revenge, Laidlaw said. There were rumours Madden had cheated the younger robbers and that Hakeem had the money, he told the court.Firearms residue was found on Noor's clothing and a partial DNA match was found on a casing of one of the bullets fired from the machinegun, the jury heard. Scientists found low traces of gunpowder on hooded tops belonging to Sannoh."This boy's brother killed my friend," Sannoh told police. "I don't care about the murder. I don't care what happened to that boy."Hakeem, who had once been a Sunday school teacher, struggled to adapt after five years in the army. He served with the 32 Engineers during the invasion of Iraq, and later in Bosnia, and was well-regarded by officers, but was court-martialled over an assault after what he claimed was a racial incident.Hakeem gave evidence in the murder trial and helped secure the conviction of Madden for the murder of Crighton. After yesterday's verdict against Sannoh and Noor, Rasak Dosunmu, Michael's father, said the family was sticking by him. "He is feeling guilty that he brought all this on us. He is our son, we love him. We cannot discard him. He made a mistake in life."