The sudden and unexplained disappearance of Amanda Dowler, known to her family as Milly, quickly became one of the biggest and most complex investigations ever handled by Surrey police.The 13-year-old vanished while walking home from school in Walton-on-Thames on March 21 2002. Her remains were found by mushroom pickers on Yateley Heath, in Hampshire – 30 miles from her home - six months later.On the day of her disappearance, Milly left a cafe where she had been spending time with friends and began walking to her home a mile away. When she failed to return, a huge hunt was launched, and police soon concluded that she had been taken by an opportunist abductor. Surrey police have been building a case against Levi Bellfield, a 39-year-old bouncer, since he was arrested by the Metropolitan police in November 2004 in connection with a series of murders and other attacks around west London. He was jailed for life last month for murdering Marsha McDonnell and Amelie Delagrange, both students, and another attempted murder.Bellfield could not be publicly linked to the Milly investigation while he faced other charges, but officers now believe they have compelling circumstantial evidence linking him to the crime.Following Bellfield's conviction, Surrey police relaunched an appeal to help trace a red Daewoo Nexia that was captured on CCTV in Walton-on-Thames minutes after Milly disappeared. A car of the same colour and model was owned by Bellfield's then girlfriend, Emma Mills. She reported the vehicle stolen from a pub car park in Hounslow, west London, several days after Milly vanished. The car was never found, and police fear it was crushed. A CCTV camera on the roof of the Unilever building recorded the car at the junction of Copenhagen Way and Station Avenue at 4.33pm on March 21. Forensic experts believed the rear of the car appeared to be lower than normal, suggesting it was carrying a heavy load.Despite sending the footage to the FBI for state of the art analysis, police were unable to identify how many people were in the car or any further details.The incident, written off by Surrey police as a "non-crime", was not initially linked to the Milly investigation.Detectives cannot account for Bellfield's movements on the day Milly disappeared. His mobile phone was switched off, but they know he was familiar with both Walton-on-Thames and Yateley Heath.Five people had previously been detained in connection with Milly's murder. The last, a 57-year-old registered sex offender from London, was released in late 2005. In June that year, a 52-year-old prisoner was arrested and questioned. A month before that, police arrested a 36-year-old man in Chertsey, three miles from Milly's home, but he was released the next day.Detectives have put together a database of more than 11,000 people, including several possible suspects.