A bigamist will serve at least 25 years in prison after being found guilty of murdering the second of his wives to cash in her life insurance and solve his financial problems. Pierre Legris, 61, also known as Alain Baron, killed nurse Rui Li by hitting her over the head with a blunt implement. He then wrapped her, while she was still alive, in a building sheet at the home they shared in Bournemouth. Her body was found in the boot of a car a week later. Winchester crown court heard that Legris competed in a dance competition with his other wife, Irene Smith, the day after attacking Chinese national Li. The judge, Mr Justice Dingemans, said that as well as a financial motive, Legris may have murdered Li, 44, because of her decision to adopt a child.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Rui Li, who was killed by Pierre Legris. Photograph: Dorset Police/PAHe said: “It may equally have been the fact that Pierre Legris, as a controlling person, was not prepared to deal with the decision that Ms Li had made to adopt a child from China which would have compromised his way of living.” Before the start of the trial, Legris pleaded guilty to an offence of bigamy by marrying Li in 2007 while having been married to Smith since 1987. He admitted he had moved her body but said he had done this after finding her dead. His son, Jonathan Legris, a former racing car driver from Bournemouth, was convicted of assisting an offender by driving the Fiat Punto with Li’s body inside. He was jailed for two years. Pierre Legris’ other wife, Smith, 66, was found guilty of perverting the course of justice by providing a false alibi to her husband, whom she did not know had married again. She was also convicted of assisting an offender by hiring a storage facility to hide his clothes. She was jailed for three years. Jonathan Legris and Smith were both cleared of a charge of conspiracy to murder. In a statement released following the trial, Li’s 18-year-old daughter Lu Yao said: “My mum was a wonderful person, a great teacher and the perfect mother to me. I have and will always love and respect her unconditionally. She will always be in my heart and she is missed every day.” Yao, who is studying medicine at university, described how Legris was “controlling” and forced her to become distant from her mother. She said: “I hope my mum is proud of me and it’s because of her support that I am here today doing what I love. I one day want to be a doctor like my grandfather.” Detective Inspector Marcus Hester of Dorset police said Pierre Legris killed Li “out of greed”. He said: “He lied repeatedly to the police and went to great efforts to hide her body. I hope the sentences handed out today will bring some closure to Rui Li’s daughter and her family in China.” The court was told that Li, who drove a Porsche Boxster, also ran a massage company with her husband which provided “sexual services” – and that Legris would sometimes join in. The couple were also involved in local swinging networks, the court heard. 