A 15-year-old boy stabbed to death at London's Victoria station may have been killed in a pre-arranged fight, the detective leading the murder investigation has said.The victim was chased through the ticket hall during rush hour on Thursday evening by a gang of up to 10 youths, all in school uniform.He was surrounded and repeatedly stabbed. The boy, named in reports as Sofyen Ghailan from Acton, west London, died in hospital and a postmortem confirmed stabbing as the cause of death.Police are holding 19 boys aged between 15 and 17, mainly from south London.At the scene, police and paramedics went to the victim's aid as other police arrested fleeing suspects who were trying to board buses. Several teenagers were held in nearby Vauxhall Bridge Road and behind the Stag pub in Bressenden Place.Detective Chief Inspector John McFarlane of the Metropolitan police said: "I believe this was a pre-planned fight. A number of individuals travelled by various bus routes to Victoria carrying weapons, however I retain an open mind [regarding] motive at this stage."We continue to appeal for witnesses to come forward and tell us what they saw on that Thursday night. The incident took place during a busy rush hour and I am appealing for anyone who was there to speak with us."More than 1,300 people joined a group called RIP Sofyen on Facebook. One of them, George Jolley, wrote: "RIP Suf it has been a shock to everyone, you will be missed by your friends and family and hopefully those involved will get what they deserve."Salimaa Deej Salvatore wrote: "You will always remain in our hearts Sofyen."A Scotland Yard spokesman said weapons had been seized and were undergoing forensic examination. At least two knives were recovered from the scene of the attack.A man in his 30s was arrested and released with no further action to be taken.The victim had been a pupil at the Henry Compton school in Fulham, west London. Police say he may have been the victim of gang rivalries between schools in the capital's south and west. There had been another violent confrontation between schoolboys in Victoria station the night before.The attack began at about 5.20pm on steps leading into the station in Terminus Place and ended in a ticket hall for the Circle and District tube lines.A postmortem examination today at Westminster mortuary confirmed stab wounds as the cause of death.Witnesses said the attackers were wearing dark blue school blazers and the victim wore a white T-shirt and red sweatshirt.Sarfraz Ahmed, who manages a shop in an arcade at the station, said youths had been causing trouble for a few weeks."One day last week a gang chased a boy into a shop and attacked him and trashed the place. They are about 15 or 16 and come here on their bikes. This place has been like a bloody jungle."