A 16-year-old girl was kidnapped, raped and forced to take heroin and crack cocaine before being murdered by a gang of six men, a jury was told yesterday.Reading crown court heard how Mary-Ann Leneghan was stabbed to death in a park in May 2005 after she and her 18-year-old friend, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were abducted. The friend survived, despite being shot in the head.On the opening day of the trial, Richard Latham QC, prosecuting, said that six men shared joint responsibility in the girls' ordeal. Mary-Ann and her friend had been sitting in a car in a pub car park when they were abducted. They were bundled into a car boot and driven to a guesthouse, where the men booked a room.According to accounts given by the friend, who is expected to give evidence next week, the men lay towels on the floor as soon as they entered to avoid leaving traces of blood. Mr Latham said the women were subjected to "a concentrated sequence of controlled acts of violence and degradation" over a long period. They were made to strip, were hit with a pole, cut with knives, and raped.A gun was put into the 18-year-old's mouth while the men laughed. They crowded round her while she was on all fours and told her they were going to cut off part of her genitals and feed it to her.The girls were taken to Prospect Park, where a pillow was placed over Mary-Ann's head. She was repeatedly stabbed to death. A pillow was also placed over her friend's head. A loaded gun was placed against her forehead and discharged. She fell unconscious and was left for dead.Mr Latham said the six men had targeted Mary-Ann and her friend in revenge for setting up one of them, Adrian Thomas, 20, to be robbed the previous month.Mr Thomas, Llewellyn Adams, 24, Indrit Krasniqi,18, Michael Johnson, 19, and brothers Jamaile and Joshua Morally, 23 and 22 - all from London - deny nine charges: one of murder, one of attempted murder, two of kidnap, three of rape and two of causing grievous bodily harm with intent. Jamaile Morally also denies a further charge of raping Mary-Ann.Mr Latham told the jury that, based on Mary-Ann's friend's evidence, the psychological torture was intended to continue until the moment of death. In Mary-Ann's case, the jury heard, the men wanted her to die slowly.Some of the men asked Mr Thomas for permission to burn or stab them. Her friend, Mr Latham said, was told that her own last memory was to be the sight of Mary-Ann being butchered in the park. He told the jury that in the hotel room the girls were repeatedly told they were to be killed.Mr Latham said: "We say that not only were these two girls raped in that room, they were tortured - physically tortured and psychologically tortured. It is difficult to imagine anything more awful than being notified that at the end of the physical assaults that you are suffering and have been going on for hours, not minutes, that you are going to die."Mr Thomas, had been renting a flat in Reading and he became known to Mary-Ann and her friends. Mr Thomas was assaulted and his belongings stolen from the flat. Mr Latham said: "Thomas believed Mary-Ann had set him up for that robbery. During their ordeal, the girls were asked by those there if they had stolen their drugs. And they were asked: 'How did you expect us to let you get away with it?'"They were told they must have known they [the men] would come for them."The trial continues.