Police hunting the attacker of a young mother who was stabbed in the neck as she walked on a quiet village path with her son were yesterday questioning a man and woman who came forward following police appeals.Abigail Witchalls, 26, was in a critical condition in hospital after being attacked as she pushed her 21-month-old son Joseph in a buggy on one of her regular walks near her home in Little Bookham, Surrey. Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper said the 28-year-old man and 29-year-old woman attended Leatherhead police station "voluntarily" yesterday afternoon after repeated police appeals throughout the day. Both were arrested and remained in custody at a Surrey police station last night. A blue Peugeot car owned by the man has been seized. Mrs Witchalls' family has been informed of the development. DS Harper said: "This is an important development in our line of inquiry. But I don't want anyone to jump to the conclusion that the investigation is over." The late development followed police appeals for two people in an "older-looking" blue Peugeot seen driving at speed towards the scene of the attack. The new lead is thought to have come in a phone call to police on Thursday morning from three landscape gardeners who were working in the area. They reported that shortly before 4pm a blue car travelling in the opposite direction to them nearly collided with their white transit lorry. The gardeners said the car was "out of keeping" with the area. They also reported seeing a woman with dark hair pushing a buggy, but detectives do not believe this was the victim. Mrs Witchalls was found 20 minutes later on a path off the same road with a three-inch stab wound to the back of her neck. The man is described as white, clean-shaven and in his early 20s. He was wearing earrings and a chunky gold chain. The female passenger was white, also in her early 20s, of slim build with blonde shoulder-length hair. Police said it was too early to confirm whether the car seized yesterday was the same car that had been spotted nearby. Ms Witchalls, a former teacher described as "a model citizen", was yesterday in intensive care at St George's hospital in Tooting, south London, where her mother, Sheila Hollins, is director of psychiatry. Though her condition had improved slightly since the attack on Wednesday morning, she was still unable to speak and was heavily sedated. Her family, who are devout Catholics, are keeping a vigil at her bedside. Her husband, Benoit, an engineer, was described by his father as "grief-stricken". A family friend said she was communicating with her relatives by blinking. The woman, who did not want to be named, said: "She can't say anything. She just communicates with blinks, but she says she's happy." Doctors fear the attack, which damaged her spinal cord, will leave her paralysed. Police hope her condition will improve enough to be interviewed about the attack. It emerged yesterday that Ms Witchalls' condition was so severe that the family's priest read her last rites on Wednesday night. The family said they felt unable to attend a press conference at Surrey police headquarters yesterday because they believed "their place is at Abigail's side". In a statement released by police, they said: "We, Abigail's family, are experiencing intense pain and sorrow at what has happened. "We ask everyone to join with us in praying for Abigail and live in hope for the future." Ms Witchalls had been walking on the village common with her son Joseph on Wednesday afternoon. She was attacked at around 4.15pm. No property was stolen. Neighbours from two nearby houses rushed to help after hearing her screams. Robert Hall, a publisher who comforted her as she lay bleeding, said: "I rushed over and saw the woman with a small boy. She was lying on the ground. "She was in disarray but she was conscious. She could only whisper, she could not talk." He said Joseph was covered in mud but physically unhurt. "He was not hysterical, he was absolutely numb," he said. The scene of the attack off a private road was sealed off yesterday by police while forensics examinations of the area were carried out. DS Harper said Surrey police were treating the incident "extremely seriously" and were "throwing the entire resources of the force into solving it". A local police spokesman said the area was one of the safest boroughs in the safest county in the country. "This kind of attack is very unexpected in this area," he said. The motive for the attack remained unclear last night. Detectives were examining CCTV footage of the local area and carrying out house-to-house inquiries. They are not expected to question the boy. No weapon has been found. DS Harper described Ms Witchalls as "a very loving, caring lady that gave to the community. "She is a model citizen." Anybody with information is asked to contact Surrey police on 0845 125 2222.