The good news is that the home secretary yesterday published a five-year strategy for tackling the high rate of reoffending by means of a range of alternatives to custody. Do not underestimate the importance of this fact, as some pressure groups did too readily yesterday. The pressures - real and imagined, self-imposed and external - on Labour's three home secretaries since 1997 continue to push against the practical, unhysterical problem-solving approach to offending that marks Charles Clarke's new document. Theirs, and ours, is a world dominated by a 24-hour news cycle in which, as the Downing Street strategy chief Matthew Taylor put it this week, there is almost a conspiracy to maintain the population in a state of self-righteous rage. In such circumstances, the original balance in Tony Blair's familiar mantra about toughness on crime and toughness on the causes of crime was long ago cast aside in favour of a cult of toughness at the expense of effectiveness. In Labour's 2005 manifesto, action against reoffending was almost an afterthought, overshadowed by the celebration of thousands of extra prison places, longer prison sentences and the weakening of the rights of defendants.Yet the awkward realities, as Mr Clarke again pointed out yesterday, are that prison does not work in all cases and that more than half of the crime in this country is committed by people who have already been through the criminal justice system. If we want to cut crime, we have to stop people from reoffending. And if we want to stop people from reoffending, we need a tailored and extensive system of alternatives to prison at the heart of that strategy - along with the investment and space to make them work. It was good to hear a home secretary expound these principles to MPs yesterday, and perversely gratifying that Mr Clarke's words lured Michael Howard - the original proponent of the "prison works" dogma - back from the political undead to attack them.But there is bad news too, in the form of a familiar Home Office Catch-22. Mr Clarke's fine words will only be effective if there is proper investment. But there will only be proper investment if the strategy can be shown to be effective. Turning the current vicious circle of reoffending into a virtuous circle of rehabilitation will only work, if at all, when ministers feel confident enough, and the Treasury is flush enough, to drive the programme through. Since neither of these things is true at present, the fear is that in practice Mr Clarke's fine words will butter all too few policy parsnips.