The problem remains with all religions that literal interpretations of sacred texts, favoured by fundamentalists, leave vulnerable people open to exploitation by those whose purpose is evil (Well-trodden path from criminality to extremism, 25 March). Clearly, mainstream Muslim leaders must challenge such aberrations. But seeing the pictures of the young Khalid Masood at school, Keir Starmer’s words “if you want a really effective criminal justice strategy, you don’t build bigger prisons, you invest money in young kids” (Interview, 25 March) ring out most effective.David MurrayWallington, Surrey• Though now a lapsed, recovering, Catholic, from 1947 to 1965 I was fully versed daily by priests, monks and nuns in Christian lore and practice. Contrary to your editorial (27 March), we were commanded to “turn the other cheek” and to pray for, not to slaughter or even harass, non-believers. Medieval Christians did mercilessly torture and murder selected heretics in order to steal their assets; but that was politics as usual, not religion.Noel HodsonOxford• Your editorial boldly asserts “there are no religions whose message is entirely pacifist”, but Jainism is an ancient Indian religion that has always taught – and practised – non-violence towards all living beings. In addition, many Christian sects (and individuals) have repudiated violence in all forms, most notably the Quakers, who have always adhered to a strictly pacifist position, ultimately rooted in the conviction that Jesus Christ himself was a pacifist. And, although Anglican bishops might bless nuclear subs and bombers, there is an Anglican Pacifist Fellowship, established in 1937, whose membership has included such noteworthy peacemakers as George Lansbury, Vera Brittain and Archbishop Desmond Tutu.Fr Alec MitchellDenton, Greater Manchester• Your editorial is to the point but misses the fact that religion divides people and encourages disliking followers of other faiths. History is proof of that. We have not forgotten the Holocaust and the millions killed and dislocated after India was partitioned. Now we see Islamist extremists killing anybody who disagrees with them. I am an atheist now and believe it is better to believe in humanity instead of fairytales of “holy” books.Sharif LoneNidderau, Germany• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com•  Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters