I love Britain. I adore chip shops and Cat Deeley and tea with milk and lots of other things British, including my husband. But producing the freckled Hearts-supporting, "tosser!"-hissing ginge that I call my spouse pales in comparison to the utter genius of Britain's decision to ban Martha Stewart from its shores because she is a dangerous criminal.Mind you, I don't think that Stewart would get up to any wanton insider trading if she were allowed to "visit the Royal Academy of Arts in London, as well as [carry] out a number of other engagements," although she might. She's foxy, that one.Sure, she might say that she's only interested in a natural and legal expansion of her enormous but extremely tasteful lifestyle empire, offering Britons reasonably priced housewares and home décor items, and possibly baking the occasional modern-yet-classic ivory wedding cake for a gay celebrity wedding. And maybe once upon a time we could have believed her - but Stewart's been to prison and prison hardens a gal.British authorities no doubt quite rightly fear that, given half a chance, she'd viciously replace England's Burberry plaids with soul-deadening beige – and I can hardly contemplate what damage she might do to Scotland's tartans. Yes, keeping her out is the right decision. Bravo, Britannia!If I may, however, a word of advice. You know that American bloke who had tea and crumpets with the Queen earlier this week? Might want to keep your eye on him, too. Word has it he started a couple of wars, engages in extraordinary rendition, endorses torture, fiddled while Rome burned, er, make that strummed a guitar while New Orleans drowned, hates gays, isn't a fan of women's autonomy, wiped his ass on America's constitution, and pissed on habeas corpus – which, as it happens, is another British export of which I'm really fond.He's never done any insider trading, at least none for which he's been convicted, but I suspect, despite his pleasant visage, he might actually be far more dangerous than Martha Stewart. Just a hunch. For whatever it's worth. From an admirer across the pond.