A headteacher and a university vice-principal yesterday paid tribute to a 19-year-old student who was stabbed to death on a train on Saturday.Thomas Grant, from Churchdown, Gloucestershire, died instantly when he intervened to help a woman involved in an argument with a man on a mid-morning train from Glasgow. He was travelling home from the University of St Andrews, where he was in the first year of a degree course in history and Arabic.Mr Grant left Oakham public school in Rutland last June and had been a model pupil, said the head, Dr JAF Spence. "All who study and work at Oakham school have been deeply saddened to hear of the tragic and violent death of Tom Grant," Dr Spence said."Tom enjoyed a fine career at Oakham school, where he was the leading cadet in the Combined Cadet Force and captain of the soccer 1st XI."Tom had many friends and touched the lives of all his teachers and peers. He was a vivid personality and a role model for younger pupils. Always alert to the needs of others, he will live long in the memories of everyone who knew him."Stephen Magee, the vice-principal of the University of St Andrews, said he was "deeply saddened" by the news of Mr Grant's death."Tom was a bright, extremely able student who had made many friends in his first year with us and was a very popular and active member of the university community."There is a palpable sense of shock here. To have lost someone so young in such circumstances is utterly tragic. Our deepest sympathies are with Tom's mother and father."Mr Grant was a member of the university's Officer Training Corps and lived in Andrew Melville Hall.A university spokesman said chaplains had contacted Mr Grant's family and support was being offered to his friends and fellow students at St Andrews. A memorial service would be held later this year.Mr Grant's father is a retired RAF training officer and lives with his wife, Patricia, in Gloucestershire. The couple were not at home yesterday.A neighbour, Alison Williams, 32, who is a training officer at the base, said: "I worked for Tom's dad when we were both in Brüggen in Germany. My heart goes out to him - this must be a terrible shock for him and his wife."I didn't really know Tom but Kenny was very proud of him. He was a very bright lad."Yesterday Thomas Lee Wood, 21, of Skelmersdale, Lancashire, appeared before magistrates in Kendal, Cumbria, charged with Mr Grant's murder. He was remanded in custody after a 10-minute hearing. No plea was entered and no application for bail was made. He will appear at Carlisle crown court on June 7.