A woman who died in a house fire after pushing her teenage son to safety through an upstairs window may have been killed by a firework put through their letterbox, fire investigators said yesterday.Mary Fox, 59, managed to save her 17-year-old son, Raum, after the two became trapped in a bedroom on Thursday, but she was overcome by smoke and flames before rescue teams could reach her.Neighbours at the house, in Bodmin, Cornwall, alleged that a firework was put through the family's letterbox by a gang who had bullied her son because he has learning difficulties.One neighbour, Doreen Rowe, 59, said: "With it being bonfire night, there were loads of kids on the street last night armed with fireworks. Police have told us one of them has put one through Mary's letterbox. She was not the only one targeted, because my next door neighbour had one thrown at her house too."My husband saw a whole gang of youngsters carrying fireworks not long before it happened."I'm devastated about what has happened. Mary was such a lovely lady. I used to be able to hear her singing from my garden sometimes – she had a beautiful voice."Rowe said Fox, who also has four daughters, was a "dear old soul and a hero" for saving her son's life. He suffered only minor injuries from the fall.Fox's friend, Kerry Ollerenshaw, 36, said a gang had been letting off fireworks near the family's home for days and said Raum, who reportedly changed schools because of bullying, had been a victim of intimidation."Her son had learning difficulties and the kids on this estate can be very harsh," she said. "They hang around in groups, harassing and intimidating. Raum was a victim of that."I can't believe someone would be callous enough to put a firework through a letterbox."Steve Halstead, group manager of Devon and Somerset fire and rescue service, said investigations into the cause of the fire were still being carried out."There are several avenues of investigation," he said. "Obviously, with it being November 5, the possibility that fireworks were involved is something we are looking at. We are carrying out tests for all kinds of accelerant, which is normal procedure."Fire crews arrived at the scene to find a severe fire. There were flames already visible from the windows. We were made aware there was a person inside and crews made their way to the first floor ... Unfortunately the fire was fully developed and they found the casualty was already deceased."A spokesman for Devon and Cornwall police said they were keeping an "open mind" about the cause of the fire, but "nothing had been ruled out".The incident comes nearly two months after an inquest heard that Fiona Pilkington, a 38-year-old single mother, killed herself and her teenage daughter, who also suffered learning difficulties, after years of sustained abuse by a gang of youths.