Failures in the vetting procedures used for expert witnesses have emerged after a court ruled that a computer analyst who helped train hundreds of police officers and gave evidence in scores of trials is a liar and a fraudster.The Crown Prosecution Service is now launching a review of a number of serious cases that drew on evidence supplied by Trevor James 'Jim' Bates, 67, a former television repair man, who has been found guilty of making a false written statement claiming he had a degree in electronic engineering, and perjury.He is to be sentenced on 11 April. A CPS spokeswoman said: 'We intend to take into account anything the judge may say when making sentence.'Although cases cannot be reopened, Bates's conviction has prompted questions to be asked about the credibility of his evidence in many trials, including at least one rape case, and the police's role in promoting him as an expert witness.Copies of emails obtained by The Observer show that Bates was still being invited by police to put his CV on the database of expert witnesses in June 2006 - more than two years after they had started to investigate him.Bates and the CPS confirm he gave evidence as a defence and prosecution witness in scores of cases involving computer crime. But Bates established himself as a key defence witness in trials involving men who claimed that they had been wrongly accused of accessing child pornography websites and also used his reputation to launch attacks on the police for their handling of Operation Ore, the police investigation into British users of a Texas-based sex site that sold images and video clips of child porn. Through his company website, Bates suggested that many of the 4,000-plus men arrested in the UK for accessing the site may have been innocent.He argued that in many cases the men's credit card details - used to make payments to the site - had been used fraudulently. 'The scale of the fraud, especially hacking, just leapt off the screen,' Bates said at the time.He also provided defence evidence in the case brought against Detective Constable Brian Stevens, a police officer who was assigned to liaise with the families of the murdered Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, and who was arrested on charges of possessing child porn. The case was dropped but Stevens was later jailed for concocting an alibi to escape the porn charges.Bates was also involved in the case of Gurpal Virdi, a Sikh police officer with the Met, who was accused in 2000 of 14 counts of sending racist letters to himself and several colleagues.The Met alleged Virdi sent the emails to frame other officers because he was angry at being passed over for promotion. During the wide-ranging police investigation, Bates produced evidence that appeared to show that the letters, written using Microsoft Word, had been composed on Virdi's computer at his police station in Ealing, west London.By checking the size of the letter files, Bates said he could prove when and where they were written. Bates concluded 'it was a mathematical certainty that the documents were printed at the times indicated,' according to an internal Met report into the affair.But the conclusion - that Virdi had written and sent the letters - was wrong. It later transpired he was nowhere near his computer when the letters were written. But this emerged only after Virdi was thrown out of the Met, following what he described as a 'kangaroo court' verdict.Virdi believes that Bates's evidence was crucial in leading the Met to draw the wrong conclusion. 'If somebody had looked at the evidence properly, the case wouldn't have gone ahead,' Virdi said. 'But because somebody said they were an expert and they had all these qualifications, people believed them.'The former police sergeant took the Met to an employment tribunal, which found in his favour after hearing expert witness testimonies that contradicted many of Bates's claims. Virdi was reinstated in 2002, but he believes his career has been blighted by the case.Despite the trial verdict, Bates continues to maintain his innocence. 'I've always done what I thought was the honourable thing,' he said. Bates alleged he was part of a police conspiracy to put him out of business for undermining Operation Ore. 'I know people are continuing to tell lies, and I will continue to say what I have to say because people have died and families have been ruined because of what I have now decided is police corruption. In due course the truth and the proof will be published.'And he denied suggestions that the undermining of his credibility raised wider questions about the quality of the evidence he had given at trials. 'My expertise and impartiality have never been questioned,' Bates said. 'There has never been any question that my claim to a degree has made any difference to any case.'But Bates should have been aware that he was breaking the law each time he took the stand. A copy of his expert witness statement declares: 'I hold a bachelor of science degree in electronic engineering', and that he makes the declaration 'knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence, I shall be liable to prosecution if I have wilfully stated in it anything which I know to be false or do not believe to be true'.Now questions are being asked about why the police - who used Bates in numerous complex fraud trials in the Nineties and as a lecturer at its Bramshill Training College in Hampshire - failed to check his credentials and have him removed from the National Centre for Policing Excellence Expert Advisers list, the police database of expert witnesses.Even the most cursory of investigations would have found that Bates was not the impressive-sounding expert he claimed to be on his CV. Indeed, not only did he wrongly claim to have a BSc but he also gave false information about his time in the RAF, in which he claimed to have served for five years. Instead it emerged during his trial that three years after joining the RAF in 1958 Bates was discharged from the force with 'hysterical amnesia' after being judged to have an 'inadequate personality'. He was treated in a Leicester mental hospital where he was one of the first people in the UK to receive LSD for psychiatric purposes.Later Bates found work as a television repair man for the company that went on to become Dixons and where he quickly developed an interest in computers.The court heard how Bates's big break came in the Seventies when he wrote an article in a computer magazine about how to tackle a new sort of virus. This attracted widespread attention in the technology world and prompted the police to approach him to be a lecturer at Bramshill.It was to be the start of a lucrative relationship: Bates went on to sell a number of software packages to the Metropolitan Police. Today he still enjoys a close relationship with some of its senior officers who gave evidence in his support at his trial.His spectacular fall from grace has raised worrying questions about the way the credentials of expert witnesses are verified by the police and the CPS. No one, it seems, asked to see his qualifications and instead simply took his word as a guarantee.The scandal is the latest involving expert witnesses who have lied about their professional qualifications. In 2005 Jessica Rees, a lip-reading expert, falsely claimed to have a degree in English from Oxford University, but it transpired she had never finished the course. Gene Morrison was jailed for five years in 2007 for fraudulently passing himself off as a forensic psychologist in hundreds of court cases.Experts now hope that, as a result of the Bates scandal, lessons will finally be learnt. 'It is critical that those who serve as expert witnesses are credible on an ethical basis and do not have any alternative agendas which may affect their independent status,' said Jim Gamble, chief executive of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, which brought the case against Bates.'The expertise of such witnesses is something on which the court decides. However, whether or not they are witnesses of truth is a matter for us all.'