Police were today seeking a taxi driver, after the decomposed bodies of a woman and three children were found at a house near Manchester.Detectives, who have launched a murder inquiry, want to speak to taxi driver Rehman Arshad, 36, the fifth occupant of the house where the bodies were found last night.Officers think he may be the father of the children - two boys and a girl aged between five and 11 - and the husband of the adult woman but said they were not yet certain of his links to the deceased.The bodies were found at a semidetached home in the village of Cheadle Hulme, after neighbours expressed concern about the occupants of the house, an Asian family of Pakistani descent.Detective Superintendent Martin Bottomley, of Greater Manchester police, said today that the bodies had been in the house for around four weeks.He said Mr Arshad had been missing for the same amount of time and appealed for help from any of the public who may have seen any of the occupants of the house.Mr Bottomley said Mr Arshad's silver 320 diesel BMW sports coupe was missing. Its numberplate is SC06 HLZ.He said he was not sure whether Mr Arshad was still in the country. All police forces in Britain have been put on alert to try to trace Mr Arshad, and Greater Manchester police are also in contact with forces abroad."We are keen to trace the fifth occupant of the house, Mr Arshad," Det Supt Bottomley told reporters. "We are concerned for his welfare. We are treating it as a murder inquiry, therefore we need to speak to him. There are a number of strands to the inquiry, but the most immediate one is to trace the whereabouts of Mr Arshad."Police have not yet released a cause of death for the victims and are awaiting the results of postmortems.Mr Bottomley said the bodies were not all found together, but would not elaborate. He said the bodies were in a decomposed condition because of the length of time they had been there and the summer weather. Officers involved at the scene last night have been offered welfare support, he said.A spokeswoman for Greater Manchester police said officers made a "forced entry" to the home.One neighbour told the Manchester Evening News: "It's a sad time. I thought they were on holiday. I hadn't seen them for a while. The man who lived there was a taxi driver and he had a BMW. They had a couple of kids who were aged four or five."A local vicar, Reverend Rob Iveson, told the paper: "We are very concerned for anyone involved in this situation and our thoughts and prayers are with the local community at this time."