There is a remarkably close similarity between Labour's Queen's speech yesterday and John Major's last legislative programme in 1996-7. Both programmes were designed as a shameless, populist appeal to the swing voters in marginal seats.For the single-minded focus of those who assemble a government's final legislative programme is middle England, and their enemies - drunks, drug pushers, benefit fraudsters, car thieves, kerb crawlers, teenage yobs, and liberal judges. Thus, in the autumn of 1996 Mr Major published no less than five law and order bills, beating Mr Straw's current four. Michael Howard, the then home secretary, described his programme "as the most radical attack on crime this century", highlighting plans to impose mandatory minimum sentences on people convicted more than once for drug trafficking or burglary. Like Labour yesterday, Mr Major also added a social security fraud bill and introduced measures to give councils powers to confiscate alcohol being consumed by anyone under-18 in public places, a theme to which Mr Straw has returned with his anti-yobs package.The Conservatives' hope in 1996 was that Tony Blair's "tough on crime" message could be punctured by manoeuvring Labour into opposing sentencing measures that had outraged the judiciary. Mr Blair saw a political trap and declined to oppose any of it. It was left to the appeal court judge Lord Bridge to fulminate against "the Satanic pact between the two main political parties to see that this ill-considered legislation is forced through". Mr Blair even urged Mr Howard to introduce extra measures to hit paedophiles and stalkers. Fearing he was being outbid in an anti-crime auction, Mr Howard hastily tabled the measures. Four years later, Mr Blair has now returned to the same auction with his own package. The message was supplemented last night with an anti-crime TV political broadcast advertising the Crimestoppers number. Mr Blair has been prompted by a stream of eloquent messages from his pollster, Philip Gould, in the spring that William Hague was gaining ground on crime. Fear of crime is on the rise. Labour strategists also concede that the overall drop in police numbers in this parliament could be its achilles heel in the election. The shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, certainly intends to cite the figures in every TV studio in the country right through the election campaign. As to the bills themselves, Miss Widdecombe will not oppose them - just dismiss them. Labour clearly hopes that the headline measures, such as fixed penalty fines and extended curfews, will reassure its doubters. Most Labour MPs yesterday swallowed the anti-crime gimmickry as a necessary evil. But they fear overall that the speech looks too thin and too obviously constructed with a spring election in mind. The relative thinness is, in part, because Labour struggled with its previous legislative programme, due to its lack of overall majority in the Lords. Again a comparison with the 1997 election run-in is instructive. In the run-up to the May 1997 election, the house started meeting from October 23 to March 21 with 86 sitting days over 718 hours. The late start to this session, the latest for decades, leaves only 14 weeks before Mr Blair will fire the election starting pistol. But Labour strategists insist there is enough to keep the New Labour coalition together. There is a nod to Labour activists through the fox hunting measure, even if Mr Straw does not expect the bill reaches the statute book. Human rights activists may be mollified by jam tomorrow on arms exports.The laws needed to impose the NHS plan may be obscure, but they are a sign of intent, along with the shedloads of cash for the NHS in the summer spending review. And in the end it will be the economy and the state of public services which will determine this election.Bills in brief Education Children with disabilities and special educational needs will have greater rights to be educated in mainstream schools under the terms of a bill unveiled in the Queen's speech. Schools, colleges, universities and local authorities in England and Wales would have to ensure they do not treat disabled pupils less favourably than non-disabled children.  Northern Ireland A radical overhaul of the criminal justice system in Northern Ireland is planned in the Criminal Justice System in Northern Ireland (Draft) Bill, which seeks to put in place a raft of recommendations of a review group set up under the Good Friday agreement. The draft bill, which will be published in April 2001, will seek to implement the review's conclusions - which range from banning the practice of saying: "God save the Queen" when a judge enters a court, to setting up a commission for the appointment of judges, to ending the RUC's role in prosecuting 30,000 minor offences each year. Armed forces Military law will be updated to bring it in line with civilian law in the armed forces bill, which is introduced every five years to iron out anomalies. Procedures for investigating offences committed by service personnel will be altered, to bring them in line with the Police and Criminal Evidence Act.  Child protection The powers of the children's commissioner in Wales - a post introduced this year in the wake of the Waterhouse report - will be greatly extended ensuring the as-yet-unappointed commissioner can review and monitor arrangements for complaints and advocacy on behalf of children in schools and NHS hospitals, not just those in the care of local authorities.Will Woodward and Sarah Hall