Traces of blood have been found in the holiday apartment where Madeleine McCann was last seen, it was reported today.The blood was discovered on a wall in the holiday apartment in Praia de Luz early last week by British sniffer dogs trained to find remains of bodies, the Portuguese paper Jornal de Noticias reported.However, Portuguese police have refused to comment on what has been found.Meanwhile police in Belgium are carrying out DNA tests on a drink bottle used by a girl resembling Madeleine. It is part of an investigation into a possible sighting of the missing four-year-old in the Flemish town of Tongeren, near the Dutch border.Madeleine's parents, Gerry and Kate McCann, have repeated that they are optimistic they will be reunited with their daughter.The McCanns, who are still in Portugal, are planning a media event on Saturday to mark 100 days since Madeleine's disappearance. They still hope there will be a positive development in the meantime.Mrs McCann has been giving a series of interviews this week. She told the Marie Claire website of her frustration that time was passing without a major breakthrough by police.She said: "There's no doubt we have some very low times. The hope is still there. We're still trying very much to be positive. We have to keep going for us and for the twins. And also for Madeleine."She spoke of feeling like the "unluckiest person on the planet", but added her relationship with her husband had helped her through the past months."We are very lucky that we have a very strong relationship. We always have had."We always talk a lot and it's even more important now that we do that."It has also been reported that Portuguese police have been keeping a second suspect under surveillance for weeks.Police think the unnamed man, a Portuguese speaker in his 30s, may have been an accomplice in the kidnapping, according to the Daily Mirror.A second search at the home of the only formal suspect in the case has apparently turned up no evidence. While Portuguese police remain tight-lipped about the result of the re-examination of the villa Robert Murat shares with his mother, a source close to the investigation told the Diario de Noticias newspaper that nothing was found.A dozen Portuguese and British police officers spent two days searching in and outside 33-year-old Mr Murat's villa, Casa Liliana, which is just yards from where Madeleine went missing.Portuguese police first searched the villa on May 14, when Mr Murat was taken in for questioning.The following day he was formally named an "arguido", or suspect, in the investigation.But he has always maintained his innocence and said he hoped the results of the search would be taken as confirmation of this.