Two commuters who suffered appalling injuries in the Aldgate bombing on 7 July 2005 today paid tribute to an off-duty police officer who saved their lives.Elizabeth Kenworthy, still a Metropolitan police officer, pushed her way from the fourth carriage where she was travelling to the bombed second carriage to look for survivors. Lady Justice Hallett, the coroner at the inquests of the 52 who died on 7 July, called her an "exceptional person". On arriving there, she said, she discovered the carriage had been "torn apart" by the force of the blast.The carriage was sooty and dark, Kenworthy told Hallett, but she had been able to see some passengers were clearly dead and others were severely injured, a number of whom were crying for help. Though much of the floor had been ripped into a large furrow by the bomb, she was able to reach two passengers who had suffered appalling injuries to their lower limbs, but who were still conscious.She took off her jacket and helped one passenger, Andrew Brown, to bind it around his left leg, while she shouted to another uninjured passenger to fetch T-shirts and belts from other commuters, one of which she tied around one of the legs of Martine Wright. The two, sitting next to each other, had been feet from the bomber, Shehzad Tanweer.She held their hands and shouted reassurance to others until emergency services arrived at some point after 9.20am, she said — more than half an hour after the explosion. Kenworthy said she had become angry at their slow arrival.Martine Wright, now Martine Wiltshire, said of Kenworthy: "I assume, and I know in my head, that she saved my life." Brown said: "She was talking to us and engaging with us, telling us to stay awake." Both lost both their legs in the explosion.Kenworthy also recalled seeing another young man a little way along the carriage who was writhing on the floor and calling for help, who she later learned was Richard Ellery, a camera shop worker from Ipswich. She had considered trying to reach him but wasn't sure she would be able to clamber back over the rubble to Brown and Wright, and she believed he was less badly injured. In fact, he died before he could be evacuated. Six others also died in the Aldgate bomb."When I heard that he died I was very shocked," she told the inquests. "I was very, very upset because I had thought that he would be alright. Perhaps I had a false hope, but he seemed the least injured to me. But I had to make my decision, and I made my decision, and I have to live with that."The inquests continue.