Six men plotted to flood the island of Jersey with £1m worth of cannabis, a court heard today.Among the gang was Curtis Warren, 46, of Liverpool, who was the man with the "clout and influence" to lead the conspiracy, the royal court in St Helier was told.Warren and his co-defendants all deny conspiracy to smuggle 180kg (397lb) of cannabis, which has a street value in Jersey of £1m, significantly higher than in the UK.The prosecution said that undercover police officers followed the gang, bugging their cars and tapping their phones, for a number of months before they were all arrested in July 2007.Warren was the linchpin between dealers in Jersey and the Netherlands and the ringleader of the plot, which took place between 1 May 2007 and 23 July 2007, said crown advocate Howard Sharp. The plot was intended to be merely a warm-up for bigger conspiracies to come, he added."Warren was the senior figure, he was the man at the top who pulled all the strings. He had considerable clout and influence. We say he organised and orchestrated this conspiracy," said Sharp in his opening speech as the drugs trial began amid high security.He added: "Warren considered the planned importation, to quote him directly, as 'just a little starter'. He stood to make a significant profit had the conspiracy borne fruit." .The gang allegedly planned to buy the drugs in Amsterdam and transport the consignment by car to the coast of Normandy, France, where it would be placed on a boat to Jersey. The jury heard a tape which the crown said recorded Warren and his "right-hand man", Jonathan Welsh, 43, also on trial, checking out a secluded location on the island to land the drugs.Warren did not get his hands dirty with the nitty-gritty of the deal, Sharp told the jury. "Warren has a light touch. You won't see him handling the drugs or shipping bags of cash about. He leaves such chores, the really risky part of the drugs business, to others lower down the food chain. Warren was cautious. He often remained in the shadows, he rarely stepped out into the light."He made 112 calls from public phone boxes in Jersey and the UK during the five-week conspiracy period, said Sharp. He deliberately didn't use mobile phones or landlines to make it "difficult, if not impossible, to attribute the call to [him]", said Sharp, adding: "Warren's difficulty, as you will see, is that the police were watching."Also on trial is James O'Brien, 44, who the jury were told today has a conviction for importing 60kg of cannabis into Jersey by boat from Normandy in 2002.The other defendants are Jason Woodward, 22, Paul Hunt, 27, and Oliver Lucas, 23.The trial continues.