Tony Martin, the farmer jailed for life for shooting dead a teenage burglar, could be free within a year after his conviction was reduced from murder to manslaughter yesterday.Three appeal court judges accepted new evidence that Martin was suffering from a paranoid personality disorder when he opened fire on raiders at his remote Norfolk farmhouse. Martin's conviction for murder was quashed and replaced by one of manslaughter on the ground of diminished responsibility. His life sentence was reduced to five years, making him eligible for parole in 12 months. But the judges said the jury which convicted him was "surely correct" to decide Martin had not acted reasonably when he shot at the burglars. There could be no justification for the farmer taking the law into his own hands. The ruling angered friends and neighbours of Martin, who believed he should have been released at once, and the family of the burglar who was killed, 16-year-old Fred Barras, who were shocked that the murder conviction was quashed. Martin was pleased that he was no longer branded a murderer but insisted he believed "99%" of people would have acted as he had if faced with the same circumstances. His legal team has now asked for leave to take the fight to the House of Lords but Martin is likely to be released before any final judgment. Martin, 56, shot dead Barras with an illegally held pump action shotgun and wounded a second man, Brendon Fearon, after they broke into his ramshackle farmhouse in the village of Emneth Hungate, near Wisbech, in August 1999. The farmer said that he was terrified and acting in self-defence, claiming his home had been plagued by burglars. During his three-day appeal this month, Martin's team claimed that "compelling" new forensic evidence about where he was when he shot Barras added weight to the claim that he acted in self-defence. It also produced new evidence about his mental state, arguing that he was suffering from a paranoid personality disorder and depressive illness. The appeal court decided that the fresh forensic evidence would not have affected the jury's verdict but accepted the new psychiatric evidence. Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, said they understood Martin's frustration at the perceived failure of the police. But he continued: "Any shortcomings could not justify Mr Martin taking the law into his own hands... We must make it clear that an extremely dangerous weapon cannot be used in the manner which it was used by Mr Martin." After the hearing Martin, who sat impassively as the ruling was read, told his solicitor, James Saunders, that he was "disappointed" he could not put his case before another jury.