Ian Huntley today admitted that he knew Maxine Carr would back up his account of what happened on the evening of Sunday August 4 2002, when Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman died in his house.On the third day of his cross-examination at the Old Bailey, Mr Huntley, 29, admitted lying to journalists, knowing that his then girlfriend would not contradict him. However, he denied that the two had "agreed" a story.Richard Latham QC, prosecuting, asked Mr Huntley whether it would have been a "total disaster" had Ms Carr had said anything to indicate that what he was saying about the couple both being at home was wrong."That would have let the cat out of the bag to the wide world, wouldn't it?" Mr Latham suggested. "You could not risk that, could you?"Mr Huntley did not dispute either point, but insisted that he and Ms Carr had not agreed a story that she would back up when he started speaking to journalists."No, we had not agreed. We discussed it," he said. Mr Huntley conceded that the story that he and Ms Carr had told the journalists was the beginning of a series of lies he would tell the media about what happened to the girls.Mr Latham said: "Mr Huntley, you were just about to start off on what became a series of interviews in which you looked the camera and interviewer straight in the eye and told a pack of lies, weren't you?" "Yes," Mr Huntley replied.The prosecution QC then turned to an interview that Mr Huntley had given on Radio 1 last August, in which he described the girls as "giggly"."Then you were asked what direction they were walking away from and where did you think they were going?" Mr Latham told the court.He argued that Mr Huntley would have known the direction that the girls had come from, because he had seen them walk past his house prior to their meeting."You saw them walk past your house and on up College Road. You were watching them?" Mr Latham said. "No, I weren't watching them," Mr Huntley said.Mr Latham continued to quote Mr Huntley's Radio 1 interview, in which he said that while there was no news, there was still hope.The QC added: "All the time, you knew they were dead in the ditch." Mr Huntley agreed.Mr Latham said: "And you were quite capable of lying to cameras or microphones, weren't you, Mr Huntley?" Mr Huntley said: "I lied."Mr Latham asked: "You are quite capable of making it sound like you are telling the truth, aren't you, Mr Huntley?" Mr Huntley replied: "I'm telling the truth up here."The QC then turned to a BBC Look East interview given on the Saturday morning. In it, Mr Huntley said that the girls had seemed pleasant and were chatting when they left his house on the night of their disappearance.Mr Latham later put it to him that he had "carried on lying right up until now".Mr Huntley replied: "That is your opinion, to which you are entitled. That is not true." Mr Latham said: "You are certainly capable of telling lies, Mr Huntley." He answered: "I have done, yes."He also turned to Ms Carr's witness statement to police. "You were quite confident that, when Maxine went off into the dining room to make her statement, that she was going to do a job for you. It was going to be a formal legal document."You knew what a witness statement was because you had already made one, with a formal declaration swearing to the truth of the contents ... you knew she was going to do that, didn't you?"Mr Huntley replied: "I had a good idea she was going to do that. I did not know that she would actually do that on a legal document, no."He added: "We were discussing it just before the police arrived." Asked what he and Ms Carr were discussing, Mr Huntley said: "As to whether she would do that or not."Mr Latham suggested that the "die was cast". He said: "You had been talking to the press ... you had given the story that involved the two of you."Mr Huntley said that talking to the press and putting something into a legal document were "two separate things".Mr Latham asked him: "She appreciated that it was very serious, didn't she?" Mr Huntley said: "Yes, she appreciated that it was serious to lie to the police."Mr Latham then said to him: "Mr Huntley, if she had said something different, you probably would have been arrested within the next few minutes." He suggested that Mr Huntley had been absolutely confident of what Ms Carr would say to the police. Mr Huntley replied: "No, I wasn't."After Mr Latham closed his cross-examination Stephen Coward QC, counsel for the defence, began his re-examination of Mr Huntley.The defendant said that he still did not know what had caused Holly to die after she allegedly fell into water in his bath. Mr Coward asked Mr Huntley whether he could explain what had caused Jessica to die. "I would assume it was my actions," he replied. "Do you know what action it was of yours which caused Jessica to die?" Mr Coward asked. "Probably putting the hand over her mouth," the defendant replied. Mr Huntley added that he had no memory of doing anything else to the 10-year-old that would have caused, or contributed to, her death. Mr Coward had earlier asked Mr Huntley whether he had been "tempted" by the two schoolgirls. He replied: "No." "Did you do anything to either girl in the main bedroom in any way that hurt them?" the QC asked. "No, I didn't," Mr Huntley said. Mr Huntley was asked to describe how he felt after the girls had died and he bundled their bodies out of his house and into the boot of his car. "I just felt numb," he said. Mr Latham had suggested that the clean-up of Mr Huntley's house after the deaths was conducted "like a military operation". Mr Coward asked: "Did it feel like that at the time?" Mr Huntley paused, and appeared to take a deep breath before replying: "I just felt ... the whole thing just felt horrible."He was asked to think back to what had happened in the bathroom, and describe how he felt then. He said, under cross-examination, that it was easy to be rational about a theoretical situation, but that it was not rational then. Mr Coward asked: "Could you expand on that, what the difference is between talking about it now and being there then?" Mr Huntley said: "Hindsight. Standing here, or anywhere else, when you're not actually in a particular situation and somebody puts something to you, it's very easy to know what to do, which it is. Actually, in that position, things aren't like that." Mr Coward asked his client if it was true that Jessica was screaming because he had drowned Holly. "No, it's not," Mr Huntley said. He asked whether Mr Huntley knew the cause of Holly's death. Mr Huntley replied: "No."Mr Coward re-examined his client about questioning the previous day, in which the prosecution had claimed that Mr Huntley was "cold and ruthless". "What was your state, what was going through your mind, in your head, would you try to describe it?" he asked. Mr Huntley said: "Well, all I knew at that time was I had to get the girls out of the house." He told how he was "in turmoil" when he returned from dumping the girls' bodies at the remote ditch in Lakenheath, Suffolk, where they were found 13 days later.Mr Huntley met a police dog handler and walked with her as she began to search the Soham Village College site, where Mr Huntley formerly worked as a caretaker, for any trace of the youngsters. He said: "I was in turmoil, my hands were sweating, I was shaking."Mr Huntley admits that the girls died in his house and that he put their bodies into his car and dumped them in the ditch, where they were found 13 days later. He denies the double murder but has pleaded guilty to a single charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender. The prosecution allege she gave him a false alibi for August 4 last year. The trial continues.