The judge who sentenced Asian men to "excessive" prison sentences for their part in the Bradford riots failed to consider that they feared that they and their communities would be attacked by white racists, the court of appeal heard yesterday.Four men asked the three appeal court judges to cut their sentences of at least four years. Eight others sought permission to appeal against sentences of up to five years. The Asian community in Bradford says the sentences were unfair compared with those handed down to white men convicted for other public disorders. Michael Mansfield QC said the men had suffered "manifestly excessive" sentences from the recorder of Bradford, Stephen Gullick.The riots on July 7 2001, which caused £27m damage, followed an attempt by the National Front to march through Bradford, Mr Mansfield said. The trial judge had ignored the "matrix of fear" which gripped the Asian community. He said the "alien force" of the far right triggered the riot, as they had in Burnley a fortnight before and in Oldham two months earlier. "There is a theme in these northern towns and it is the presence of an alien force, a political force, that has targeted these towns," Mr Mansfield said. Asians in Bradford would have been aware of disturbances in two other northern towns and the mayhem rightwing groups had caused. Police banned a National Front march, but the group's supporters still turned up. Two hundred racists were reported to have arrived by plane from Belgium on the morning of the riots, with others reaching Bradford by train and car. The evening before, British National party leader Nick Griffin held a rally in the city, on an estate where two days later violence broke out. A smaller disturbance in the Ravenscliffe area of Bradford resulted in whites being charged with the lesser offence of violent disorder rather than riot, and receiving sentences of 12 months to three years. Mr Mansfield said the Asian community felt "fear, anger and frustration at the presence of the National Front and the perceived failure of the police to protect the Asian community from racist aggression". He said the judge had failed to take into account the origins of the riots, during which 1,000 police battled to restore order, and more than 300 sustained injuries. Mr Mansfield represented Sajid Mahmood, 24, jailed for four years for throwing a stone at the police, and Waseem Raja, 27, who also threw missiles at officers and made threatening gestures. They, like most others before the court yesterday, went to the police after their pictures were circulated. Most made full confessions. Mr Mansfield said the original trial judge reduced the sentences by a third because of the guilty pleas, but the sentence he based his reduction on was too high. The court of appeal was told Mr Gullick would have passed a six-year sentence if the men had contested their guilt. Mr Mansfield said the starting point for the sentences should have been two years. Last July the home secretary, David Blunkett, said those jailed should stop "whining" about their sentences. Before the hearing the family of some of those jailed and campaigners protested outside the court. Saarah Ali, the mother of Shazab Ali, one of the appellants, said: "We know the violence wasn't justified. We don't want riots. All we are asking for is proportional sentencing. This has had a devastating effect on us." The hearing continues.