A specific criminal offence could be created to deal with cases of domestic violence, the Law Commission has suggested in a consultation launched on Wednesday.The proposal follows comments made during the summer by both the prime minister, David Cameron, and Labour’s shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, supporting the introduction of an offence dedicated to dealing with domestic violence incidents.Any new offence would be a response to widespread concerns that domestic violence is not being effectively policed, the commission said. It would also alert social services in future to the fact that an individual had a history of aggression against a partner.“In addition to the wrong implicit in all unjustified acts of violence, domestic violence involves wrongs peculiar to it: abuse of trust and destruction of the sanctity of a relationship,” the consultation observed. “It has also been argued that the prosecution of offences of domestic violence has a part to play in correcting the power imbalance between the sexes.”But, the commission conceded, there are also fears that such an offence “would create a misleading impression that domestic violence is primarily an offence against family relationships, to be distinguished from ‘real’ violence.” Separate new offences of inflicting minor injuries and of transmitting infectious diseases might also help to clarify the archaic law, according to the body, which is charged with reviewing legislation.The proposals are contained in a paper which proposes far-reaching reform of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861. The legislation refers to legally outdated concepts such as “felony” and “misdemeanour”. It also includes virtually obsolete crimes such as “impeding escape from a shipwreck”.There are almost 200,000 prosecutions each year under the 1861 Act, including offences popularly known as ABH (causing actual bodily harm) and GBH (grievous bodily harm).Creating a separate offence of causing minor injuries would enable far more offences to be dealt with by magistrates courts rather than more expensive crown court trials. “Minor injuries, which are likely to receive short sentences, are generally more suitable for magistrates court trial,” the report said.A new offence of transmitting infectious diseases could help clear up the legal confusion surrounding communicating HIV and other infections, the report said.Professor David Ormerod QC, Law Commissioner for Criminal Law, said: “Violent behaviour results in almost 200,000 prosecutions each year. The harms caused can be grave and have a significant impact on victims and society. But the law under which violent offences are prosecuted is confusing and out of date.“Our scoping paper lays a substantial foundation for a clear, modern statute providing a coherent scheme of structured, clearly defined offences that can be readily understood and efficiently prosecuted. We are asking consultees to tell us how the law can best be reformed to achieve this goal.”