Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police deputy police commissioner, is to become the most powerful police officer in the country when he takes the top job at Scotland Yard, the Home Office will announce today.The Home Office and the Met both refused to comment last night. But sources told the Guardian that Sir Ian will be officially confirmed as successor to the current commissioner, Sir John Stevens, who retires in the new year. Sir Ian, 51, dubbed the "thinking man's cop", is highly regarded by the government and the Met Police Authority, for his modernising zeal and efforts to rid the UK's biggest force of racism and corruption. The Oxford graduate, who started his career 30 years ago as a beat bobby patrolling Soho, was widely viewed as clear favourite for the £225,000-a-year post, which will put him in charge of 30,000 officers for up to five years. He has worked hard behind the scenes on reform and long-term planning and his ideas have contributed to several key planks of government policing policy. His biggest challenge will be to keep London safe from terrorist threat, or to deal with the aftermath of an attack. "He is taking over one of the toughest policing jobs in the world, at a time of grave terrorist threat, but he is trusted as someone who will handle it sensitively and strategically," said a Scotland Yard source. Sir Ian will also have to respond to the findings of Sir Bill Morris' inquiry into con tentious disciplinary and grievance procedures in the Met. Married with two children, he joined the Met in 1974, after reading English language and literature at Christ Church, Oxford. He served in uniform and with CID, where he made a significant contribution to the way rapes are investigated and launched an inquiry into police corruption in north London before moving to become staff of ficer to Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Constabulary in 1991. In 1994, he was appointed assistant chief constable at Thames Valley police, and promoted to deputy chief constable there in 1997. He became chief constable of Surrey in 1998, where he was one of the first advocates of the controversial idea of community support officers, which the government has now introduced. He predicted policing in the UK would be altered beyond recognition by the critical report into the Met's handling of the murder inquiry of black teenager Stephen Lawrence, and in 1999, he urged police to stamp out the "canteen culture" of prejudice. Sir Ian returned to the Met as deputy commissioner in 2000, missing out on the top job to Sir John, who has said he will continue his inquiries into the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, and security force collusion with terrorists in Northern Ireland, after his retirement. Two other senior policemen interviewed for the commissioner's post, Ian Johnston, head of British Transport Police, and Ken Jones, Sussex chief constable, are considered likely candidates for the deputy commissioner's role.