The leaked Home Office letter warning over rising crime rates following the expected economic downturn has an element of old news about it. In late 2006 another leaked Downing Street document made much the same warning. Among the ragbag of ideas mooted to tackle the problem were "chemical castration" of sex offenders, ID chip implants, naming and shaming of offenders and bounty hunters. We will have to wait and see if the current government can come up with a more serious and coherent set of proposals.The relationship between official crime rates and economic trends is a complex one. From the early 1950s to the early 1970s the long-term trend of the British economy was of expansion and growth. GDP grew at an average annual rate of 3%, with relatively mild short-term oscillations of growth and recession during that period. From the early 1970s on, long-term growth rates have slowed down. The oscillations of growth and recession during this latter period have also been more exaggerated.While recorded crime rates have generally risen during this entire period, they have risen particularly rapidly since the early 1970s economic slowdown. This does not mean that the economic slowdown was the "cause" of the rise in recorded crime in any simple sense. Many factors influence crime rates, not least of all being the likelihood of crime being recorded by the police. Most behaviour currently defined as criminal remains unknown and unmeasured, making simple comparisons of economic trends and the official crime rate a dubious exercise.A stronger case can be made that what matters is levels of inequality within a society, rather than the aggregate level of national wealth. Income inequality rose significantly in the UK from the late 1970s on. During the same period homicide rates rose markedly. By the end of the 1990s around 300 more people were homicide victims each year than was the case in the late 1970s. The homicide rate has since largely stabilised, but at a much higher level, reflecting the higher rates of inequality.But it is the distribution of homicide risk that is the most telling feature, as research by Professor Danny Dorling of the University of Sheffield illustrates. He found that the risk of homicide for those living in the richest neighbourhoods fell during the 1980s and 1990s. The risk of homicide for those living in the poorest neighbourhoods went up sixfold.Placed alongside research by other scholars such as Professor Richard Wilkinson of the University of Nottingham, there is a compelling case to be made that unequal societies are more crime-ridden, violent and harmful. Economic downturns can also have more widespread harmful effects. In their research on banking crises, David Stuckler and colleagues from the University of Cambridge found that the stress of a severe banking crisis in the UK could result in between 1,000 and 5,000 more deaths from heart disease. Recession could literally break your heart.This places in perspective concerns that a recession might lead to a rise in burglary and other acquisitive crime. Some will no doubt succumb to the temptation of stealing their neighbour's fancy new widescreen television if they themselves are struggling to put food on the table or pay the winter gas bill. But these are individual responses to seemingly overwhelming economic and social processes, and are by no means the most harmful and damaging ones.