Criminology professor David Wilson criticises the notion that the justice system be reshaped towards victims (Moral panic in the dock, 6 November). He cites Sara Payne, whose daughter Sarah was murdered by a known paedophile; but I wonder if he read her report, Redefining Justice."I can think of nothing worse" than reshaping the system, he says, arguing that courts should not succumb to "the inevitable emotion that some victims of crime ... inspire. Leave reason and proportionality behind and we are on the slippery slope towards state-sanctioned vigilantism in our courts, with the law being administered according to media sensation and moral panic."But Sara Payne hasn't recommended that victims play a major part in deciding sentencing or that legal principles should be abandoned. She urged that the needs of those victims who never go to court (the overwhelming majority) are seen as "just as important"; that victims should be kept better informed, and sentencing should be made more understandable. These are simply fundamental decencies that the criminal justice system can surely not resist. In the six years since my sister and her son were murdered I have often heard of the distress caused to victims because they believed life meant life behind bars.Wilson says he's not convinced that the criminal justice system is "the best place for victims' needs to be addressed. I would have presumed that these were much better managed through, for example, the NHS – if counselling or health needs were paramount". But Sara Payne made a similar point in her report – that the justice system should address the full impact of the crime on the victim and that "in doing this we would open up the need for other statutory agencies from outside the criminal justice system to become involved".Wilson questions whether the family of a murdered child is "in the best position to advocate for these changes". Some will be. Think of the Lawrence family and, although not a murder case, the families of the Marchioness tragedy. These people had a major impact.Wilson says: "When justice is at the heart of our criminal justice system, we all benefit – victims, society, and, dare I say it, offenders too." But many feel investment in victims is inadequate; perhaps because the fates of some victims – suicide, poverty, unemployment – are not so well reported.Experiencing crime helps release some of us from the need to be treated oversensitively. When I meet Sara Payne in my role as a member of the government's victims' advisory panel, I find that she welcomes rigorous debate. If her report induces this it will be a significant achievement.Giving greater priority to victims of crime means that our response to criminals – including deterrence, security, punishment and rehabilitation – will be better informed; and second, that the victim will be treated respectfully by the criminal justice system.Frank Mullane is the co-ordinator of the charity Advocacy After Fatal Domestic Abuse, and a member of the government's Victims' Advisory Panel. He writes in a personal capacityinfo@aafda.org.uk