An unemployed man was jailed for a minimum of 30 years yesterday for the "awful and cowardly" murder of pregnant teenager Amy Williams.Philip Raymond Powell, 43, admitted killing and raping the 14-year-old as she walked home from a family Christmas party last year. Her body was found on December 27 in the grounds of a church in Telford, Shropshire. She had been strangled and was naked apart from her socks. "What you did was a terrible thing," said Mr Justice Wakerley at Stafford crown court. "You terrified a young girl who you happened to see going home that evening. Your mind was on one thing and that was sex." He said Powell had subjected the teenager, who was thought to be 24 weeks pregnant, to "sexual indignities" before killing her. Powell was caught after DNA samples taken from Amy's body were matched on a database to his profile taken when he was convicted of possessing an offensive weapon in 1999. The court heard Amy had left a party in Telford's Sutton Hill alone after 10pm on Boxing Day last year. The last sighting of her was shortly after, at 10.23pm, when she was caught on CCTV in the centre of Sutton Hill. Powell met the schoolgirl after going out for fish and chips. He told police he had seen her on a number of occasions but did not know her. He approached her. "It was a chance encounter," he told police. "I was motivated by sexual desire. "I grabbed at her clothing in order to attract her attention. She turned around. I said, 'Come with me.' I placed my arm around her. At some point she said, 'Don't hurt me, I'm pregnant'." They walked for half an hour to St Michael's church. The pair sat on a park bench. The court heard that sexual activity took place between the pair but Powell insisted he did not threaten Amy, nor she did scream or attempt to escape. He said he killed her because "I couldn't have people knowing what I had done". He strangled the schoolgirl with a lace from her trainers. The next day, Amy's body was found sitting on a memorial bench in the graveyard. A postmortem examination revealed Amy had died because of pressure to her neck, producing a shock in her heart that killed her within seconds. After the hearing, her sister Kelly, 17, said she was happy with the sentence. "Amy was a fun-loving, cheeky girl. She would've been a terrific mum and she will be dearly missed," she said.