The number of crimes dealt with by convictions in the courts has been overtaken for the first time by the number handled directly by the police through cautions and fixed penalty fines, it was disclosed yesterday.Figures from the Ministry of Justice showed that traditional court convictions fell by 2% last year and now account for just 49% of the "offences brought to justice" - a key government crime target.In the last two years the number of offenders dealt with by police cautions has soared from 268,000 a year to 379,000. Penalty fines and warnings for cannabis possession have risen rapidly to 232,000 a year since they were introduced in 2004.The figures came as the justice secretary, Jack Straw, announced an urgent inquiry into Leeds magistrates court after reports that hundreds of offenders had avoided prosecution between 1997 and 2003 because arrest warrants were not issued when they failed to turn up in court.The 2006 criminal statistics published yesterday showed that 1.43m offences ended in someone being "brought to justice", an increase of 100,000 over the previous year. A total of 694,000 offences were dealt with by a conviction in the courts. But 149,000 were given an on-the-spot fine for disorder offences, 83,000 issued with warnings for cannabis possession and a further 121,000 dealt with as 'offences taken into consideration'.The Ministry of Justice figures also show that only 104,546 out of the 201,197 fixed penalty notices issued between 2004 and 2006 were paid in full.Enver Soloman of the Centre for Crime and Criminal Justice Studies, King's College London, said in using the police to dish out cautions and penalty notices the government had ensured more offences had been "brought to justice". "In reality more people have been needlessly caught up in the criminal justice system net while there has not been an increase in convictions. Whether this state of affairs corresponds with what the public consider justice seems at best to be a moot point."The shadow home secretary, David Davis, also claimed that giving offenders a fine that half did not pay or giving them a "slap on the wrist" did not amount to "real justice". "This involves offenders being prosecuted, punished and rehabilitated," he said. But a Ministry of Justice spokeswoman said the use of cautions reflected the government's broader ambition to deal quickly and effectively with low-level offending outside court where it was appropriate."This allows police officers to spend more time on frontline duties as well as freeing up court time for more serious cases ... issuing an offender with a simple caution does not mean they are getting off without a penalty. It forms part of their criminal record and may influence how they are dealt with in the future."