There is a piquancy in Paul Boateng, the first black Home Office Minister, fronting the Government's response to the Lawrence inquiry.As a 30-year-old in the Eighties, Boateng, was a leftist chairman of the Greater London Council police committee. He was such a firebrand that even Rudy Narayan, the black radical lawyer, warned him that his anti-police rhetoric was going too far. On election to Brent South, Boateng memorably shouted 'Brent today, tomorrow Soweto'. Such passion has been tempered with age. 'We have all been on a journey,' he says, before defending the majority of the British police. 'I will not let them be stereotyped as hairy neanderthals,' he insists. Boateng faces a balancing act that epitomises the Government's problem as it works out its response to the Lawrence report. It has to prevent a backlash among policemen at being branded 'institutionally racist'. But it has to assure the black community that the report will truly mark a turning point. Many suspect that Boateng would have liked to have seen Sir Paul Condon resign as Metropolitan Police Chief Commissioner. There have been unfounded accusations that Boateng leaked parts of the report in an attempt to bounce Condon out. Certainly, at one dinner party recently, the two men did not appear to be on speaking terms. Boateng does not disguise his belief that Condon made mistakes, and was blunter than the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, in saying that Condon had lost the confidence of the black community. But Boateng is savvy enough not to drop hints about what he privately thought should have happened to Condon. Instead, he repeats the Government line that there would be 'no purpose in serving his head up on a platter'. Boateng is also one of many Ministers aware that some of the Macpherson recommendations start to infringe civil liberties and would have pressed this view at a Cabinet meeting last Thursday, described as one of the best discussions since the election, when it was suggested the Government should not overreact. 'We could end up doing the wrong things for the right reasons', said one Minister. The idea of criminalising racist remarks which may have been made in private, recommended by Macpherson, is seen as pretty close to a thought police. This point was made forcibly in Cabinet and the proposal will be shelved. Similarly the suggestion that defendants could be tried twice for the same offence would breach a fundamental tenet of law and is likely to die in the hands of the Law Commission. Ministers are also not enthusiastic about the proposal that offences should be categorised as racist-inspired if the victim believes it to be so. At present the police make this judgment. Some Ministers, including Straw, would also have to swallow hard to accept Macpherson's suggestion that the police be subject to a Freedom of Information Act. Others are alarmed at the proposal for school league tables listing racist incidents. Instead, they want a stronger anti-racist element in the teaching of civics. But Straw and Boateng clearly want to use the Macpherson report not just to reform the police, but to address 'the dearth of senior black and ethnic minority people in every level of society'. So the Straw package, due to be published in March, will be about equal opportunities as much as policing. Boateng is also anxious that Ministers learn the lessons of the 1981 Scarman report. He was always 'extremely sceptical', he says, that Scarman was ever going to be able to make an impact on Britain. 'The political climate was wrong. Thatcher demonstrated a lack of ease and comfort around the issues of racial diversity. That was manifest in her remarks about ''swamping''.' Boateng also claims the black community has changed. 'The contribution black and Asian youngsters make to British culture, is not the Rasta culture of the Eighties. That was strong, but essentially separatist. It was in essence Babylon Britain. That is not the case any more. Black British youngsters are at the forefront of what is happening now.' The big issues that he would highlight are the use of 'stop and search' where black people are five times more likely to be stopped than whites. 'The power cannot be removed - it is a vital tool in the armoury of the police. We must never lose sight in our response to the Lawrence report what brought it about - a gang of thugs on the street obsessed by knives. The police must have the power to stop and search for knives.' But he believes in a stronger supervisory role over the use of the search powers. In fact, his first act in the Home Office was to introduce such a measure - a reform that comes into force tomorrow. Boateng wants to go further: 'I can now see a strong case for any person being stopped being given a written record. It will help concentrate the mind. The issues of bureaucracy can be overcome.' He also promises the government will move urgently to reform the Race Relations Act to bring all public bodies within its ambit, something the Commission for Racial Equality has been seeking since the mid-Seventies. As to recruitment of black and Asian police, he says targets will come, but the issue is now as much about retention as recruitment. It is a massive agenda, but it does look as if Straw, Boateng and, of course, the Lawrence family have unleashed something that will not disappear.