A woman said she was lucky to be alive yesterday after she was pushed off a station platform on to a railway line in Kent for telling two young men to stop smoking.Linda Buchanan, 58, suffered bruising and a fractured wrist after the incident at Farningham Road station in Kent, which took place at 7am yesterday. The senior management consultant, who works in the City, was being comforted by a neighbour as she recovered at her home in Dartford. "I just feel I'm lucky to be alive. It could have been a lot worse than it is and I'm shocked by the whole experience," she said.British Transport police said Buchanan had confronted the men, who attacked her earlier in the week after she spotted them smoking in the station, which is illegal."She was walking past the same men when one of them pushed her and she fell on to the track," said Detective Inspector Bob Richardson. "The third rail carries 750 volts of electricity and she could have been electrocuted or even struck by an early morning train." Two commuters helped her to safety and an off-duty police officer chased the two men, but failed to catch them.Train services between Kent and London were disrupted because the live rail had to be turned off. Audrey Hescombe, a commuter, said: "The platform was packed, as it always is at that time. I saw the teenagers smoking but didn't say anything. The woman was braver than me and simply asked them to put out their cigarettes. They started hurling abuse at her and then pushed her on to the track. "Everyone was horrified because the station is very busy with trains at that time of the morning." Andy Hedenshaw said he was horrified when he heard about the attack. A Southeastern train service spokesman said: "We are appalled by this incident and hope the perpetrators are quickly identified."Smoking was outlawed on railway stations in July last year. Police said they were looking into a number of leads and were viewing CCTV footage from the station. One of the men was described as white, in his mid 20s, about 6ftand of stocky build. He had short cropped brown hair, was wearing beige shorts, a green round-necked T-shirt and trainers. The second man was white, in his early 20s, of medium build, wearing bright red shorts and a dark top. One commuter told how the woman was waiting for the 7.12am train to Victoria station in London when a scuffle broke out and she was shoved on to the tracks. The power was immediately cut off and a train was halted at signals further up the tracks. Another witness said: "There were quite a few people on the platform waiting for the train when it happened. A scuffle broke out and she was shoved on to the tracks then a Metropolitan Police officer who was off duty but on his way to work chased the two but they ran off the platform via an exit and managed to escape."Two male passengers got her up off the track ... it took about 15 minutes for an ambulance to arrive and take her away." Buchanan was taken to hospital and later released with her arm in a sling.