A callous father got away with the murder of his wife and children for more than a quarter of a century until his former lover's book began the unravelling of years of plotting and lies, a court heard yesterday.Anthony Allen, now 68, wiped his family out of history, official records and his own mind, the jury at Plymouth crown court was told, but his secret was never safe. Evidence of fights, rows, and overheard children's screams of "Daddy, daddy, you are hurting mummy" finally came together in a police dossier on the disappearance of Mr Allen's wife Patricia and his children, Jonathan, seven, and Victoria, five. "It is as if they vanished off the face of the earth," said Mark Evans QC, prosecuting. "The crown says there is only one candidate who appears responsible and that is Allen." The court heard that the family had last been seen together at their flat in Salcombe, Devon, in May 1975, when Mr Allen was involved in an affair with a local restaurant owner, Eunice Yabsley. Only a few weeks earlier he had written to her: "We will be happy together darling, I just know we will," and suggested that his wife would shortly be leaving him. Mrs Allen vanished soon afterwards, last seen being driven by Mr Allen in a distressed state from a nearby village carnival in their VW Beetle. Claiming she had left home, Mr Allen tried in vain to get friends and relatives to look after the children, who then disappeared in turn. Mr Evans told the court that Mr Allen, who worked as a manager in another Salcombe restaurant, had bought a boat shortly before these events and sold it shortly afterwards. He said no bodies had been found, but Mr Allen had a clear reason for wishing his family out of the way. "He was engaged in an affair with Eunice Yabsley. Patricia and the children were in the way. The motive was obvious," he said. He told the jury that they would have to ask themselves how a man could do such a thing to his own children and then spend 27 years behaving apparently normally. Mrs Yabsley told the court that Mr Allen, who was born Anthony Angel and had two children from a previous relationship when he was in the army, had told her at the time of their affair that his marriage was "on the rocks". The witness, who published a book about the family's disappearance in 1992, said her husband had died shortly before she met Mr Allen, but she was anxious about her would-be lover's wife. "I know I had embarked on an affair, which was wrong. But I did not want to break up his marriage," she said. "I came from a generation where living in sin was not taken lightly." The jury was told that neighbours had reported children's screams coming from the Allens' flat at the time of Mrs Allen's disappearance, and others said Mr Allen had scratches on his face and arms. He told police he had engineered a dispute with her to get her to leave him and then gave a contradictory series of explanations about where she and the children might have gone. Mr Allen had shown little concern about their disappearance, Mr Evans said, telling lies about them staying with his mother and later suggesting that his wife must have run off with a boyfriend or gone abroad. He had never reported them missing and had left his wife's bank account untouched. "After the disappearance he appears to have been entirely unconcerned," Mr Evans said. He had written a letter to solicitors in London saying his wife had left him to live with another man, obtained a legal separation and had him sign papers allowing them to take the children to Canada. These statements were "all complete lies", Mr Evans said. Police were suspicious but in 1977 the then director of public prosecutions decided that there was too little evidence to bring charges. Mr Allen denies three counts of murder. The trial continues today.