"The Conservative party wants to destroy the data that is available to help in the fight against crime," Gordon Brown in Stevenage, today.The claimGordon Brown, flanked by Linda Bowman, the mother of Sally Anne Bowman, said that her killer, Mark Dixie, was caught because his DNA was logged on the national police database after he was arrested but not charged after a pub brawl.The background   REALITY-CHECK_WEB.gifThe police national DNA database is the largest in the world with 4.8 million profiles. It includes the DNA profiles of more than 850,000 innocent people who have been arrested but never charged or convicted of any crime. The European Court of Human Rights ruled in December 2008 that the indefinite retention of the DNA profiles of unconvicted people was illegal and carried the risk of stigmatisation. The judges said they were "entitled to the presumption of innocence".The Labour government responded to the ruling by first proposing that the DNA of innocent people should be retained for up to 12 years, but this was rejected by parliament. The Conservatives dropped their opposition on Wednesday to a substitute proposal that innocent DNA profiles should be retained for six years to allow the Crime and Security Act to reach the statute book. But the Tories have said they would legislate early in the parliament to remove from the database the DNA of hundreds of thousands of people arrested but never charged for minor offences. However the DNA profiles of those arrested for violent or sexual offences would be kept but the Tories have not yet specified for how long.The caseSally Anne Bowman was raped and murdered in September 2005 two weeks after her 18th birthday. Mark Dixie, who was identified nine months after the murder through a DNA match, was subsequently sentenced to life with a recommended term of 34 years – the longest minimum term for a single murder.Brown said that the retention of DNA data of people who had been arrested but not charged had "brought to justice hundreds of people who are guilty of violent crimes who would not otherwise be brought to justice". He said it was a clear area of difference between the parties. Labour have already issued a Youtube campaign video which brands the Tories as "the burglar's friend" for their stance on DNA and CCTV. Brown said the DNA match also meant that the prime suspect in the case, Sally Anne's boyfriend, was cleared.The factsDixie's DNA was taken after he was involved in a pub fight in Crawley, West Sussex in June 2006 while watching an England game. His DNA was taken and matched with DNA found at the scene of the murder. But Dixie had at least 10 previous convictions including four for serious sexual assaults and so should already have been on the DNA database but wasn't. The Conservatives say that as his DNA was checked against the database immediately after arrest he would be covered under their proposals. They point out that, if anything, the case underlines the need to check all new profiles against the "cold case" database of DNA profiles collected at crime scenes and highlights the failure to store the details of all convicted criminals.VerdictBrown is being misleading in suggesting that the killer of Sally Anne Bowman would not have been caught using DNA under the Conservative proposals.