Sheffield city council has said it is “deeply sorry” after a former education official was jailed for 16 years for forcing teenagers to engage in sex acts to get grant payments. Roger Dodds, 81, was jailed on Friday after admitting indecently assaulting five people – one boy aged under 14 and four men aged 16 and over – from the 1970s to the 90s.Dodds allegedly lured one victim by promising a meeting with Sebastian Coe, the Olympic medal-winning athlete whom he had said he knew, but the encounter never happened.The council, which also came under fire for the Rotherham child abuse scandal, has been accused of moving Dodds to a position working with schools when complaints were made by his colleagues in the 1980s. Council officials not only knew about his behaviour but failed to report his activities to police and gave him early retirement with an enhanced pension, the BBC reported.Kenny Dale, who was abused by Dodds in the early 1990s and has waived his right to anonymity, told the BBC: “I was the victim of a horrible man and the council are to blame for that.”Dodds is also alleged to have abused colleagues while working for the council’s education department between 1953 and 1993. In the 1970s he was responsible for providing grants to college and university students. The court heard he had used his position to abuse teenagers, forcing students to engage in sexual acts in order to get grant payments.Dodds’ victims described how his abusive behaviour was well known at the council. They told a BBC investigation how he used his position dealing with student grants to gain access to young people and was investigated in the 1980s and 1990s with no apparent consequences.In the 1980s he was investigated by the council following complaints from colleagues but was moved to a different post, involving work with schools. Further allegations in 1993 led to a second council investigation, after which Dodds was allowed to take an early retirement package with an enhanced pension.A police investigation in 2008 did not result in any charges. One victim told the BBC: “I was the victim of a really horrible man. The council are so responsible. I even think at times the council are more responsible than he was. They allowed it to happen. Everyone knew. Everyone in the council knew but they chose to do nothing about it.”Another said there must be other victims who had not yet come forward. He said: “We are just the tip of the iceberg.”In a statement after the sentencing, the council said it was “deeply sorry” and would never “defend the indefensible”. Jayne Ludlam, the council’s executive director for children, young people and families, said: “We welcome the fact that today Roger Dodds has finally been brought to justice, after so many years. Our thoughts go out to his victims, whose bravery in coming forward has resulted in Dodds’ conviction and subsequent sentencing.“We are deeply sorry that Dodds committed these offences while working at Sheffield city council decades ago. We are glad to see that, finally, such cases of historic abuse are coming before the courts, justice is being done, and victims are having their voices heard. Despite the fact that this happened more than a quarter of a century ago, we have accepted responsibility and would never defend the indefensible.”The council said they launched an investigation in 2008 after a complaint of abuse was made to South Yorkshire police. Ludlam said: “By 2008 major changes had already occurred in policies, practices and procedures, both at the council and in wider society, but we needed to know if there was anything more that we could learn. This independent report made recommendations, all of which have been implemented fully.“We tackle abuse head on, provide care and support to victims, and do everything we can to ensure perpetrators are brought to justice. We urge all victims of sexual abuse to come forward as soon as possible so they can get the support they need and offenders can be brought to justice.”DC Stephen Howson, investigating officer at South Yorkshire police, said: “Today marks the culmination of a lengthy police investigation into Dodds’ sexual abuse of multiple victims, which spanned the 1970s to 1990s. Our inquiry began in 2014, after we received information from one victim who bravely reported sexual abuse to the NSPCC. We launched an investigation, which led to the discovery of other victims of Dodds’ sexual offending.“I hope the positive result at court today encourages other victims of sexual abuse to come forward and talk to someone. We will always investigate reports of this nature and will do whatever we can to bring perpetrators of this crime before the courts.“If there are other victims out there who are yet to come forward, please know that we are here to listen and support you.”