The lord chief justice, Lord Phillips, devoted most of his 9,000-wordspeech at the University of Birmingham to the complexity of agreeing a working definition of "provocation" and "intent". Both are key factors in distinguishing killings classified as murder from those of manslaughter. The former carries a mandatory life sentence under English law.Through a series of examples from historic case law, Lord Phillips illustrated how murder convictions had been overturned by higher courts and the House of Lords where "their lordships have not hesitated to attempt to improve the law - more often than not succeeding in making confusion more confounded".Lord Phillips said that he hoped - but was "not optimistic" - that the latest attempt by the Law Commission to reform the law governing homicide would be more successful. The Law Commission had "one hand tied behind its back" by the requirement that any review took account of the continuing existence of life sentences for murder. Under the Criminal Justice Act 2003, judges are obliged to fix the minimum tariff that killers must serve before being considered for parole."The effect of that Act has been in many cases almost to double the length of time that those convicted of murder will stay in prison. In thirty years' time the prisons will be full of geriatric lifers."The length of sentences imposed by judges is supposed to reflect the seriousness of the offence. The seriousness of the offence depends upon two factors. The culpability of the offender and the consequences of the offence. So far as the latter is concerned, it is easy to see why the consequences of murder weigh so heavily in the scale when it comes to the penalty."The Law Commission recommendations would divide homicide into three categories instead of the two - murder and manslaughter - currently in use. The most serious category - first degree murder - would be restricted to killings with intent to kill or cause really serious injury and the defendant is conscious of the risk. Second degree murder, broadly, would include killings where the defendant intended to harm, rather than kill, or was provoked. For this category, a life sentence would be discretionary. The new definition of manslaughter would embrace killing by gross negligence."Whether more pleas of guilty are tendered than under the present law, and whether the prosecution will be prepared to accept pleas of guilty to less serious categories of homicide than those initially charged, is likely to depend in part upon the effect that being in one category or another is likely to have on the sentence. Some situations are particularly problematical. Take the all-too-common case of death being caused by a kick to the head in a drunken brawl. The issue is likely to be 'was there an intent to cause serious injury (second degree murder) or was there merely an intent to cause injury (manslaughter)?' I doubt this issue will often be one that it appears profitable to resolve by jury trial, and a plea of guilty to manslaughter may be acceptable, provided that it attracts a significant sentence."Lord Phillips criticised the narrow terms of reference given to the law commissioners which hindered them suggesting anything other than "general proposals" on sentencing. He warned the current sentencing guidelines for judges would not work with two categories of murder as they are "premised on the existence of an intention to kill".By way of conclusion, Lord Phillips said: "Sentencing is a major topic, and it is too late in the day to embark on it. Let me simply say that I have reservations about the current guidelines. The gap between the 15-year starting point and the 30-year starting point is immense. It is the difference between a determinate sentence of 30 years and one of 60 years. If sentences are to be just, then the effect of mitigating and aggravating factors should be very significant, so that sentences fill the spectrum between these two starting points. I am not sure that in practice they do, and I believe that the starting points are having the effect of ratcheting up sentences in a manner that will be regretted many years hence."If the Law Commission's proposals are implemented, then I hope that there will be a thorough rethink about the extent to which statutory guidelines are desirable. It may be that a just and uniform approach to sentencing in this field is one better achieved with the help of guidance provided by the court of appeal and the Sentencing Guidelines Council."