Police will get unprecedented new powers to take fingerprints and DNA from anyone they arrest under new Home Office proposals unveiled today.Officers can currently only take such samples from suspects once they have been charged with a crime. Ministers said the controversial move would allow police to verify an arrested person's identity, preventing people who are wanted for earlier crimes from slipping through their grasp by giving a false name and address. In 2001-2002 there were 1.27m arrests for notifiable offences. Samples obtained by the new moves will be kept forever. Human rights group Liberty said the measures would "treat everyone who has ever been wrongly arrested as guilty by implication". But Home Office minister Lord Falconer insisted: "The use of forensic science, from fingerprints to DNA, is helping the police combat crime and is achieving great results." Fingerprinting would allow officers to be "100% certain" of someone's identity and stop suspects "getting away with lying" about who they are, he added. "Each DNA sample, once loaded onto the national DNA database, could potentially help crack serious unsolved crimes, such as rape or murder," he said. The far-reaching measures are to be brought in by an amendment to the criminal justice bill, a move bitterly criticized by the director of human rights group Liberty, John Wadham.He said: "If the government wants a national DNA and fingerprint database of all innocent citizens, and wants to treat us all as suspects not citizens, it should come out and say so - and have an open public debate. "If not, it should stop seeking new ways to put yet more innocent people on criminal databases, where all the genuine criminals already go. "If there is any significant evidence that someone is involved in a crime, these very personal markers can already be taken. "This simply treats everyone who has ever been wrongly arrested as guilty by implication." The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said: "This is another step on the road to holding every citizen's DNA on the national database, and it is being done with virtually no public debate. "Thousands of people are arrested every year who are guilty of no crime. "Their fingerprints and DNA may now be recorded and held, even if they withhold their consent." He went on: "There may be a case for having everyone's DNA on file. "If so, the government should make the case openly and publicly. "There is a real danger we will wake up one morning with a fait accompli. "Once the database contains several million names, the arguments against extending it to non-criminals will be even more difficult to refute. "DNA is an increasingly valuable tool in the fight against crime. "But we should not allow the success stories to dazzle us into forgetting that our civil liberties are at stake." A spokesman for the bar council said it was "poor form" to introduce the measure at this late stage. He said: "The idea that somebody released without charge could end up on some sort of register of the usual suspects is quite frightening. "It is very dangerous - 300,000 people a year are arrested and released without charge. "It will annoy many Labour backbenchers emboldened by recent rebellions."