Lee Rigby was born in Manchester, spent a year in Cyprus, and served for six months in Afghanistan with the military during one of the most violent periods of the 12-year-long conflict.His friends and family could never have imagined that the 25-year-old would lose his life in broad daylight, on a busy London street, at the hands of two men wielding knives and boasting allegiance to a virulent form of Islamist extremism.These men would not have known that their victim was a father of a two-year-old boy, Jack.These were some of the bare details of Rigby's life, which were set out by the Ministry of Defence last night in the format it uses for anyone who has died on duty in Helmand province.His family paid tribute to "a loving son, husband, father, brother and uncle", adding that he always wanted to be in the Army and "live life and enjoy himself".It had taken the MoD longer than it would have liked to honour Drummer Rigby because of the unusual and shocking nature of his death, and the need to protect his family, who still live in Manchester, and are now being shielded from the furore by the army.When the eulogies emerged, they offered a portrait of an ordinary soldier who had died in extraordinary circumstances. Rigby was born in Crumpsall, Manchester, in July 1987, went to a local school and joined the army as a teenager in 2006.He completed an infantry training course at Catterick and was selected to be a member of the Corps of Drums, posted to the 2nd Battalion, The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.Life in the battalion took him to Cyprus as a machine gunner, based at Dhekalia. And it took him back to London in 2008, when he stood outside the royal palaces to perform the battalion's public duties commitment.But like every serving soldier, he was due a spell in Afghanistan, which came during the summer of 2009, when he was sent to Helmand province to spend six months at a remote, dusty, forward operating base called Patrol Base Woqab in Musa Qala.A member of the fire support group, he was in Helmand during one of the worst periods of fighting against the Taliban, and life in the base would have been austere – and hot. Pot Noodles were the food of choice, rather than army ration packs.Since then he had been in Germany, and in the past two years he had been based in Woolwich in a recruitment post; he also assisted with duties at Regimental Headquarters in the Tower of London. Those who commanded him, or served alongside him, said Rigby was an "extremely popular and witty soldier", who had been a lifelong supporter of Manchester United, and was never shy of letting people know it.But at the family home in Middleton, Rochdale, there was distress. At one point a doctor was summoned to the house to treat one of the bereaved.Police stood on duty outside as reporters and television crews arrived, but members of the media agreed to withdraw from the immediate area after being told a tribute to the murdered soldier would be issued by the MoD later in the evening.His family issued a statement: "Lee was lovely. He would do anything for anybody, he always looked after his sisters and always protected them. He took a 'big brother' role with everyone."All he wanted to do from when he was a little boy, was be in the Army. He wanted to live life and enjoy himself. His family meant everything to him. He was a loving son, husband, father, brother, and uncle, and a friend to many. We ask that our privacy be respected at this difficult time."Military colleagues also provided tributes. In one of a number of statements from his colleagues, Lieutenant Colonel Jim Taylor, the commanding officer of the Second Fusiliers, described him as a dedicated and professional soldier. "His ability, talent and personality made him a natural choice to work in the recruiting group. He will be sorely missed by everyone in the Second Fusiliers. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends at this incredibly difficult time. Once a Fusilier, Always a Fusilier," he added.Captain Alan Williamson thought of Rigby as "a cheeky and humorous man" who was an "extremely popular member of the Fire Support Group [FSG]". Described as always willing to help out younger members of the FSG, Williamson added that Rigby's loss would be felt across the battalion while conceding that that would be "nothing compared to how his family must be feeling at this difficult time. Our thoughts and prayers are with them".Warrant Officer Ned Miller said he was "one of the battalion's great characters always smiling and always ready to brighten the mood". His regimental colleague said he was easily identified by a characteristic smile, reflecting how "proud he was to be a member of the Drums. He would always stop for a chat just to tell me Manchester United would win the league again".Other details emerged about Rigby, who was married in 2007, but was understood to be estranged from his wife, Rebecca. Vicar Guy Jamieson, who married the couple at St Anne-in-the-Grove church in Southowram, West Yorkshire, told reporters: "I remember his wedding well. He had already spoken to the chaplain at Catterick and came to me well prepared with lots of questions. The wedding day was wonderful, as all weddings are."Of course because it was a military wedding it requires a lot of preparation. I remember sitting next to Lee on the front pew before everything started and reminding him what his first words to say were. This is an absolute tragedy. When the news first came through yesterday I felt sickened."