As a piece of festive shoplifting, it is likely to remain a record breaker for a long time. Yesterday police admitted that thieves had exploited security lapses at the Henry Moore Foundation in Hertfordshire and stolen one of the sculptor's key works: all two tonnes of it.The 11ft work, Reclining Figure, made in 1969 out of solid bronze, was winched by crane on to a Mercedes flatbed lorry by three enterprising sculptor fanciers on Thursday evening at 10pm.Now art experts fear the figure is headed for the scrapyard - where it is likely to earn the gang the princely sum of £5,000. It's actually worth £3 million.'We just didn't imagine this sort of thing happening,' Gareth Spence of the foundation said last night. 'We are very upset and disappointed.'The sculpture had been lying on open land at the foundation at Perry Green, Much Hadham. Staff had recently been repositioning works at Perry Green after a number of figures had been returned from an art exhibition in Brazil. Reclining Figure had been put on land outside secure areas for a 'couple of days'.Hertfordshire police said yesterday the theft had been captured on CCTV but described the footage as poor. 'We are currently trying to enhance the tape for more information,' said Detective Sergeant Graeme Smith.In the film, three men can been seen driving into the courtyard of the foundation's administration centre, a group of former farm buildings. One of them is wearing a hooded jacket, another a baseball cap. A second vehicle, a 4x4 Daihatsu, was also involved.Spence promised there would be a full review of security at the foundation. He also promised that the foundation would pay a 'substantial' reward for information leading to the figure's recovery.Although police have refused to rule out the idea that Reclining Figure was stolen 'to order' by a collector, they suspect the theft was an opportunistic one.'Someone saw it lying in an unsecured area and decided to make the most of it,' said one detective. 'They probably thought they could break it up for scrap.'Police have warned scrapyard owners to be on the look-out for pieces of the huge sculpture, though Dick Ellis, a specialist on art crime, said the thieves could have a difficult time: 'A piece of bronze is one thing. Two tonnes of the stuff in a Henry Moore shape is a bit trickier to disguise.'Last night, the art collector Jeffrey Sherwin, a friend of Moore's, described the theft as a tragedy.'Henry's will stipulates that no more bronzes can be cast from his original moulds. If this one is destroyed, that means it is likely to be lost for ever.'Henry Moore is considered Britain's outstanding 20th-century sculptor, renowned for his monumental, rounded reclining figures. He died in 1986. Four years later, his collection of 666 sculptures, 3,000 drawings and 8,000 prints was valued at £130m.In 1997, one of his smaller sculptures, worth £52,000, was stolen from the Waddington Gallery in London, but was subsequently found in a London taxi. Two years earlier, his sculpture King and Queen was vandalised at a site overlooking the Glenkiln reservoir near Dumfries.