Lee is officially categorised as a "medium risk of harm" offender. Released from prison on parole 18 months ago, after serving 11-and-a-half years of a 15-year sentence for attempted murder, he is currently under the supervision of the probation service. His parole licence conditions oblige him to attend regular meetings with his probation officer and, in consideration of his victim, specifically bar him from living in or even visiting his home town, where he committed the offence. He will be "on licence" until 2008.A personable, smartly-dressed man with a neat haircut, Lee has allowed me to sit in on his session with Susanah Tooke, his supervising probation officer at her office in Worcester. Lee, who is 35 but looks younger, tells me that his prison sentence was not his first time inside. Before that, he served six months of a 12-month sentence for a drunken, bungled robbery of a taxi driver. He had been out for just two weeks when he commited the more serious offence and was arrested.I ask him how he felt after being released the first time. "I'd say angry," he says, looking down at his feet. Did he get any support from the authorities? "Nothing at all," he answers. Was that why he was angry? "Maybe."The national probation service is in crisis - at least according to the media. The cases of John Monckton, Robert Symons, Mary-Ann Leneghan and, most recently Naomi Bryant, all murdered by offenders who were under probation supervision, have called into question its competence and effectiveness. Morale is reportedly low among probation staff; a recent report by the National Audit Office (NAO) revealed high levels of sickness absence. My visit to West Mercia probation came about because, having experienced probation first hand - as a juvenile, in prison, and now on life licence after serving 20 years of a life sentence - I've seen the changes, and I wanted to know: is probation working?Lee was brought up in a heavy drinking culture and within earshot of domestic violence from an early age. It came as no surprise to learn that he had experienced probation before prison. I wondered what his perspective was on the massive changes that have occurred in the service over the past decade. Had he noticed a difference?"Oh, yes," he says, smiling. "I used to drink to the point of blackout and then go and report. They were a bit more lenient then. That wouldn't be acceptable now."So what was the purpose of probation in those days? "It was just about turning up, I suspect," he says. And now? "Well, it could be a bit obsequious to say, but I think it's about whatever I want to get out of it. Susanah helps to motivate me."In prison, Lee undertook the Controlling Anger and Learning to Manage it (Calm) course and the Enhanced Thinking Skills programme. Initially subject to close monitoring in a hostel upon his release, he has also had sessions with an alcohol counsellor. His progress has enabled his risk of harm level to be lowered from high to medium and his supervision sessions have been reduced from weekly to monthly. Is that better than just "turning up"? "I don't want to go back to prison," he says. "So yes, I suppose it is."Enforcement agencySince Lee's last stint, there has been a transformation in the probation service. Long gone are the days when a social work certificate was the main qualification necessary to become a probation officer, a shift that occurred under the Conservatives when Michael Howard was home secretary in the 1990s. Before then, probation officers were expected to "assist, advise and befriend" their "clients". Under Howard, the service became an enforcement agency, its mission gradually evolving into "punish, help, change and control".In 2000, the organisation became the National Probation Service for England and Wales. Along the way, "clients" became "service users", and eventually "offenders". In 2004, the National Offender Management Service took over responsibility for both the prison and probation services, with the stated intention of providing "end to end management of offenders".For some in probation, the changes have not been well received. Many "old school" officers, with 15 or 20 years in the job, hanker for the days when the primary aim of the probation service was to "rehabilitate" their charges through the supportive element of their relationship. You cannot force people to change, they argue. For others, a bigger concern is the widely perceived threat of "contestability" - meaning the contracting out of probation services to outside agencies, including in the private sector.The day before I sat in with Tooke and Lee, I met with a group of trainee and newly-qualified probation officers in Kidderminster. All were confident in their purpose, though some expressed anxiety about the possibility of having to "breach" offenders who failed to comply with court orders. But they were clear about their role in an enforcement agency. "Our job is to protect the public," said Mark, an assertive twentysomething six months from qualifying.This brought to mind a probation officer I knew in prison who had a big impact on my own positive development and who used to talk to me about his fishing trips and send postcards to "the lads on B wing". I know he would struggle to recognise the new "enforcement" approach.The confidence of the new recruits contrasted with the shakier outlook of those I met at the top of the service. Before his resignation, the former home secretary, Charles Clarke, announced his intention to abolish the 42 probation boards in England and Wales, and replace them with trusts, statutory responsibility for which will be assumed by the home secretary. Critics argue that boards - made up of the chair, the chief officer (responsible for the day-to-day running of the local area), a judge, magistrates and members of the public living or working in the local area - are in touch with local needs, but the fear is that there will be fewer trusts - perhaps 20 or as few as 10, depending on how many areas are merged - and this will all but negate local input.I spoke to the chair of the West Mercia probation board, Tricia Bradbury, about the structural changes in the service. "At every meeting for chairs and chiefs I go to in London with the director of probation there is still no clarity," she says. "As the employing body, we would like to prepare the service for change so the staff are able to cope with it. But the horizon is so unclear. Until the legislation goes through [probably this month], we have no idea how these trusts will be comprised. At the moment, by statute, we can't serve for any longer than six years, and most of those on the board [appointed in the last reform, in 2000] will have reached the end of their service by next April. So either they put an amendment in to allow us to continue or there is a huge recruitment and remodelling exercise between now and next April. Yes, it's scary."Governed by riskBack in Worcester, Tooke tells me about her day. First off, a supervision session with a high-risk sex offender who served seven years in prison and has been out on licence for a year. Then a session with an older man with learning difficulties, who was convicted of sexual offences against a child and is deemed to be medium risk. Later, she will see a 19-year-old woman, a victim of child sex abuse, who has been an alcoholic since the age of 12 and heroin user since she was 14. In the afternoon, Tooke will see a man who was jailed for robbery and is out on parole after four years in prison, and a woman on an 18-month community rehabilitation and punishment order for assault. Other duties include visits to the courts and writing pre-sentence reports. A typical day, she says.I mention the NAO report, which shows high levels of stress among probation officers and that staff sick leave in 2004-05 was an average 12.3 days, exceeding the target by 3.3 days. Is she stressed? "Not really," she says. "The range of work I do now offers some respite from the high-risk work I did for so long in the past."I ask her what she believes her work is achieving. "Two things," she says. "In terms of the people I see, I like to think that I am bringing about some change. Years ago, when I started, I thought I was going to change the lives of hundreds of people for the better. These days, I think my expectations are quite different, though I still hope to be a positive influence in the lives of the people I see, and that can be quite a privilege."We are very risk-focused these days. Everything is governed by the risk somebody presents, and I think that if I have a good relationship with the person I see, and even if I haven't, I'm working to make sure that we are doing what we can to prevent people from becoming victims. The point is you can do absolutely everything you can, but if someone wants to commit an offence, they still will."West Mercia is a mid-ranking service (it sits at number 23 out of 42 in the national performance league table) yet it seems to be a capable organisation working cohesively. I saw little evidence of crisis, though I did see a whole lot of people working hard to make it work. Whether probation as "enforcement" is any more effective than it was when its supportive role weighed heavier, is hard to say. If we really believe it is failing, perhaps that's because our expectations are too high.Like others under probation supervision, Lee's chances of not reoffending appear to be helped by his contact with his probation officer. But, ultimately, his success will depend on his own motivation. It would be unrealistic for us to expect anything more.