Writing in the Observer in 2002, the then home secretary, David Blunkett, said:Our prisons are crowded places full of people on short sentences that do not allow prison staff to do one of the things they are best at - rehabilitation work ... Those on remand and short sentences are not inside for long enough for these programmes to make a difference - but they are there long enough to lose their jobs, their family relationships, and even their homes. This can push someone off the straight and narrow for good.This was a clear signal that the government was committed to reducing the number of people being sent to prison for short periods. Indeed much of New Labour's rhetoric has been about the futility of using custody for those revolving door offenders who go in and out of jail on short sentences. It has also emphasised the fact that many in prison have mental health problems and require treatment instead of punishment. A five-year plan to reduce re-offending published by the Home Office earlier this year stated "we continue to imprison too many people with mental health problems."So why is it that the countries jails are full and the government has to resort to the desperate measure of using police cells? Labour ministers, may have concluded that sending more and more people into overcrowded jails for a few weeks is pointless, but at the same time they have been firmly wedded to the view that more people should be sent to prison for longer. The sentence of indeterminate public protection, introduced under the Criminal Justice Act 2003, is currently being used more than the Home Office expected with around 40 people a week being jailed under it. Ten per cent of the prison population is now made up of people on this sentence or serving life sentences. Astonishingly England and Wales has more life sentenced prisoners than the whole of western Europe combined.Longer sentences are the key factor that determines the relentless rise in prison numbers. Given that around 55% of male prisoners are serving four years or more it is not surprising that our prisons are full. And these long sentences have been handed out when the government tells us crime is falling, and the numbers appearing before the courts have remained relatively stable. The problem has been that our magistrates and judges have become much tougher with far more people being sent to prison and for longer.According to the most recent official figures offenders are being sentenced to harsher prison terms than they were more than a decade ago. The average length of a custodial sentence in the crown court has risen from 20 months in 1993 to 27 months in 2004. The use of prison in magistrates' courts has risen from 6% in 1993 to 16% in 2004. There is also a much greater tendency to send petty offenders to prison. Two years ago, 9% of shoplifters with no previous convictions were sent to prison from magistrates' court, compared with 2% in 1993.If the government is serious about reducing the prison population it therefore needs to do three things. Firstly, look at reducing sentence lengths. However, the current direction of travel is towards ever harsher and longer sentences. Recent examples include a minimum five-year term for possession of a firearm and proposals to increase the maximum penalty for carrying a knife without good reason to four years.Secondly attention needs to be focused on the proportion of people sent to prison. Compared to a decade ago offenders are more likely to be imprisoned than given a community sentence and more likely to be given a community sentenced than fined. A wide-ranging review into prison numbers commissioned by No 10 in 2002 concluded that the share of the fine had collapsed and until this was addressed the ratcheting up in sentencing tariffs would continue.Finally, the government also needs to rethink its position on enforcement. Prison officials privately admit that the latest crisis is also being fuelled by a rise in the number of people recalled to custody for breach of licence conditions. The Home Office wants tougher and swifter enforcement and plans to create a National Enforcement Agency. This waste management approach of recycling offenders through overcrowded jails will ultimately prove to be counterproductive neither reducing re-offending nor proving sustainable and will continue to inflate prison numbers for many years to come. There is a need to adopt measures that enable and support compliance, rather than simply dragging people back to prison.The governments own projections predict a prison population of 100,000 in the not too distant future. Even if the Home Office is able to buy some time by using police cells and increasing capacity by a few hundred places there is no doubt that the latest crisis will come round again very quickly. The government has boxed itself in, pursuing tough on crime policies without any clear thinking on how to deal with the consequences. At the same time it appears to have given up even trying to foster an informed debate about the purpose of sentencing and the role that alternatives to custody might play.