When the End of Custody Licence scheme (ECL) - which authorises the early release of prisoners - was introduced in June this year, the tabloids were ablaze with indignation. The release of prisoners up to 18 days before their time was up, and with some cash to help them on their way, provoked outraged headlines such as: "Gloating inmates were freed early with £200 of our money", and "Justice? We're having it large: freed lags head for the pub". The outrage was, as ever, grossly misplaced.ECL was a forced measure. The prison system was bursting at the seams and, for the first time since the Strangeways riot in 1990, hundreds of prisoners were being held in police and court cells. The government had known for some time that the crisis point was approaching, but it was reluctant to set prisoners free early, knowing it would be seen as a soft approach. There have been suggestions that the director general of the prison service was asked by the government to "three-up" the double cells (which were in fact designed to hold one). To his credit, Phil Wheatley did not go down that inhumane road and ECL was put in place, with more than 1,700 inmates released in the first two days.But putting the overcrowding crisis aside, even in normal circumstances, all prisoners are given a small sum of money, a discharge grant of £45, on release. This is in lieu of state benefits, which ex-inmates cannot receive until they have signed on at their local jobcentre, and to help those released buy basic provisions in the difficult early days after being set free. The snag with ECL was that those released early were technically still prisoners and therefore unable to claim benefits. For this reason they were given more money than usual, up to £170 in cash. But it was not, as the tabloids would have us believe, a bonus for early release.In fact, it was only when the prison service ran out of money that the furore erupted. According to the Ministry of Justice, this was due to "miscommunication from the prison service to the Department for Work and Pensions".Whatever the reasons, the "lump sum" payments were quickly stopped and, according to the prison service, all those set free on ECL now receive the standard £45. But this presents huge, and avoidable, problems for prisoners who get the full 18 days of early release. They are unable to sign on until the 18 days are up and will not receive benefits until a further two weeks after that. The £45 is meant to last them for more than a month.Napo, the probation officers' union, has called this a recipe for reoffending, and it is hard to disagree. But it gets worse. Some inmates have been released with no money at all, while others have been given the price of the bus fare to their probation office. (One prisoner was given an IOU for £140, with no means of knowing where it could be cashed.)This amounts to yet another monumental penal disaster by a government that creates prison policy on the hoof, and that seemingly operates in constant fear of the wrath of the tabloids and public opinion. Yet ministers know that Britain imprisons more people than any other country in the European Union, that reoffending rates are obscenely high, and that the cost of penal failure soars ever upwards.ECL came about because of what Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, called the "cancer" of overcrowding. Packing people into our jails means more self-harm and suicide, less rehabilitation and fewer offending behaviour programmes, less likelihood of reducing reoffending, and staff struggling to simply "service" the system. This is guaranteed to produce further failure, more hysterical tabloid headlines and yet more ad hoc policy making. It all amounts to a thoroughly depressing cycle.· Eric Allison writes on prisons and the criminal justice system· Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"