Ever since the plain clothes Criminal Investigation Department (CID) came into existence in the 19th century, detective work has been the most glamorous side of policing – to the outside world, anyway. High-profile detectives wrote their memoirs and were mythologised in the press. There was Fabian of the Yard and the Old Grey Fox, Slipper and Nipper and Cherrill and Leach.In front of me as I write is Detective Days, published in 1931 (and stolen, by the look of things, from Clacton-on-Sea library about half a century ago). It is the memoir of Frederick Wensley, former head of the CID at Scotland Yard."Official hours meant nothing to me," Wensley writes of his work, recounting how he had pursued a suspect for "highway robbery". He also recalls the great day he made the transition from one side of the service to the other. "I was a detective at last. I doffed my uniform that night. The next time I wore one was 34 years later."Such accounts of detectives' derring-do were common back then, and a sign of a simpler time in policing life. Now detectives are under greater pressure than ever before, few are known to the public by name and fewer still write their memoirs.There is, according to the National Detectives Forum which advises the Police Federation on the issue, currently a shortage of around 5,000 detectives across England and Wales. The trend is worrying, says Dennis Weeks of the Met police, who runs the forum, and it is one that appears to be growing.To become a detective, you must have spent at least two years in uniform, and then pass the necessary exams. Further training and exams lead further up the ranks through detective sergeant, inspector, chief inspector, superintendent and so on.Whether it's Inspector Morse or DCIs Taggart, Tennison or Barnaby, the television detective is never short of a gripping crime to solve or a grubby collar to feel. So why is there such a shortage of real-life detectives in the police; why are some leaving never to return, and others not being replaced by their uniformed brothers and sisters?When the subject was discussed at the Police Federation conference earlier this year, a variety of explanations were offered. Detective sergeant Alicia Moore of Hertfordshire constabulary suggested that lots of paperwork, a lack of teamwork and no clothing allowance were three key reasons for the shortage."Throughout the country," she told the conference, "detectives are starting to retire, cuts are being made and policing pledges [to the public] are flavour of the month." Other detectives have noted that their chief constables are responding to political and media pressure to have lots of "bobbies on the beat", which means that there is less incentive at the top of the service to encourage officers into detective work."There'll always be some villains getting away with it, that's the nature of the beast," Weeks told the Today programme yesterday, "but to catch the optimum amount, there needs to be a good investment in detective officers, in police officers. The level of investigation, the degree of evidence that's required, the nuances of that evidence that need to be met, have all increased, and I don't think that police numbers have increased with that pace.""[Detective work] has never been more complex, never higher risk and never more subject to critique from lawyers, the criminal justice system, politicians and the media," says John Grieve, one of Britain's most respected detectives and a former director of counter-terrorism who retired from the police seven years ago."The legislation is much more complex, too. I have great doubt whether I could hold down the job now. I have enormous admiration for the people who do and I think they do an incredible job. It's not like on TV. It's much more physically and emotionally draining than that, and it all takes much more time."The stress factor was noted last year by Dr Michael Chatterton, who conducted a survey for the Police Federation entitled Losing the Detectives. The report quoted one officer who said he had been ill for months but did not take time off because he did not want to let his team down: "Last November I was virtually at saturation point and I almost had a panic attack because on my desk I had a couple of murders, a couple of violent disorders, a paedophile job and I thought – where the hell do we go with all this? You work through it because you've got your team around you, but you are so close to breaking down . . . You don't think you're getting stressed because you're working to that stress level all the time."Another detective said they could point to a handful of people in their office who were "on the borderline of becoming ill due to workloads and stress". And others blamed the new police culture and its "rigid and bureaucratic approach to targets and performance management" and an oft-expressed frustration when cases were discontinued.In the past, of course, some officers had their own reasons for not wanting to become a detective. The former commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Paul Condon, has said that many officers in the 60s declined because, at that time, the CID at Scotland Yard was so riddled with corruption that it was hard as a young officer to avoid being tainted. Life on Mars wasn't the half of it.Those days have largely gone, but while police in uniform have their own pressures to deal with, their hours and shifts are more clearly defined and the high-tension, stressful events usually balanced by the mundane and routine. Overtime is also more available than to detectives, who are encouraged to take time off in lieu instead. (A detective's hours may be dictated by the nature of a crime – they can hardly clock off in the midst of a murder investigation.) Some officers also say they prefer the camaraderie and teamwork of uniformed life.And yet, many young officers still very much fancy their chances at being a detective. Even if the jobs cannot be solved quite as swiftly as Morse, Taggart and Barnaby (three murders an episode and home for tea and scones with the wife) somehow manage, it can still be, as one detective I spoke to described it, "the best job in the world".'The job can be very disheartening' A detective speaksMorale is quite low at the moment and there can be a lot of frustrations. If you have an emotional investment in the job, and you know that the public see you as the frontline of the judicial system, it can be very disheartening when cases you have been working on don't end up in court. I could tell plenty of horror stories about cases that should result in charges but don't.One of the problems with the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) is that their performance indicators – what they are judged on – are how many of their cases result in a conviction. This means that a lot of the cases that should go in front of a jury and have a fair crack of the whip in court are dropped because there is that possibility of failure. That can be very demoralising.There is also a general feeling that if you want to advance your career, you are more likely to do that in uniform. In the past, you could move faster up the ranks that way. You could be seven or eight years becoming a detective constable but you could be a sergeant in uniform much quicker than that. Also, if you are in uniform, you can have 12-hour shifts and four days on, four days off, whereas detectives work eight-hour days.I don't think that the way detectives are portrayed on television has much to do with it one way or the other. The last time I saw The Bill, I thought, "Bloody hell!" It was laughable. There are a lot of very bright people doing the job but it is hard work. You'll never get rich but there are so many different sides to the work. I would 1,000% rather be a detective than in uniform.The detective requested to remain anonymous.