A Church of England rector who admitted lying during the trial of a funeral director who deliberately gave the wrong ashes to a family was yesterday ordered to do 180 hours' community service.The Rev Christopher Walker, 53, the parish priest at St John the Baptist church in South Moreton, Oxfordshire, admitted lying on oath at the trial of Roger Barker, 57, who was convicted of giving a couple the wrong ashes after their son died.During the trial in March at Oxford crown court, Walker said he did not know that ashes sprinkled in his presence by Barker at Aston Tirrold church had been "unidentified remains". Barker had used the spare ashes after he missed an appointment at a crematorium to collect the man's remains. Reading crown court heard how Barker had phoned the vicar after he gave evidence and said to him: "Thanks for coming to court. Some friend you turned out to be." A few days after he gave evidence for the prosecution, Walker told police he had known all along that the ashes had belonged to several people. Sentencing him, Judge Bruce McIntyre said: "I do not see any point in imposing a custodial sentence." He ordered Walker to pay £405 costs. "You have now got a conviction for dishonesty, which is punishment enough and you will face disciplinary proceedings from the church." Walker had pleaded guilty to perjury when he appeared before magistrates last month. David Bright, prosecuting, told the court: "Reverend Walker was concerned that his bishop would consider his contact with Mr Barker wrong. He confessed because he had a guilty conscience." Jonathan Coode, in mitigation, said that his client had been naive, but realising the gravity of what he had done, he had phoned the police. Mr Coode handed the judge 30 references in praise of Walker, including those from a retired colonel, a member of the House of Lords and the Bishop of Reading. "He will be severely disciplined by the church authorities," Mr Coode said. "Above all, he knows he has let himself down." Later, outside court, Richard Thomas, a spokesman for the Diocese of Oxford, said on Walker's behalf: "Whilst fully acknowledging the seriousness of this offence, the Church of England remains personally supportive of the Rev Christopher Walker and his family. "Mr Walker has admitted his crime - he is penitent and is deeply sorry for the embarrassment caused to himself, his family and the church he serves." In March, Barker, was ordered to carry out 160 hours' community service after he was convicted of obtaining a money transfer by deception. His trial heard how in October 2003, he scattered what were supposed to be the ashes of Lee Kent on the Berkshire Downs with the 27-year-old's parents present. He charged the couple almost £1,700 for handling the cremation. Barker was also found guilty of forging the signature of a husband on his wife's cremation form. He is now planning to appeal.