The investigationThe head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch took over the investigation yesterday into the suspected poisoning of a Russian dissident in London as security sources said they were not discounting the involvement of Kremlin officials.Peter Clarke, a deputy assistant commissioner at the Metropolitan Police, was brought in to run the inquiry as it emerged that Alexander Litvinenko might not have been poisoned during a meeting with an Italian contact, Mario Scaramella, at the Itsu sushi restaurant in Piccadilly on November 1.Earlier that day, the dissident had a separate meeting with two Russians at a central London hotel.Mr Litvinenko told friends from his hospital bed in London yesterday that he had tea at the hotel with Andrei Lugovoy, a former member of the KGB who has links to the London-based multimillionaire Boris Berezovsky and another man, who has not been named.Alex Goldfarb, a close friend, said police had been interviewing Mr Litvinenko for several hours a day. He said all options should be explored, including whether the poison might have been sprinkled into Mr Litvinenko's tea at the hotel meeting. He said: "I called Alexander in hospital ... he told me it is true, on that day, before meeting the Italian, he met with two Russians."He added that Mr Litvinenko had told police about the two men.Later that day Mr Litvinenko, who was investigating last month's murder by a hitman of the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, met Mr Scaramella at the Itsu sushi restaurant. It was here that Mr Scaramella passed on information about who had gunned down Ms Politkovskaya.Akhmed Zakayev, a Chechen separatist spokesman living in London, said he had met Mr Litvinenko on November 1 after his meeting with the Italian. "He called me and told me over the phone that he will have very important information about who killed Anna Politkovskaya," said Mr Zakayev. "Then I gave him a lift home half an hour after the meeting. He was reading the document he had received and he was very excited. It's my opinion this was serious information."The next day Mr Litvinenko called an ambulance and was taken to Barnet Hospital. He deteriorated and he was moved to University College Hospital, where he remained under armed guard having been moved into intensive care.A spokesman for the Metropolitan police said yesterday detectives were trawling CCTV footage from the hotel and other London locations. Police are also awaiting results of toxicology tests before confirming reports that he had been poisoned with thallium.Anti-terrorist officers are understood to be working with MI5 on the inquiry.The ItalianThe Italian academic who was with Alexander Litvinenko on the day he was poisoned is in hiding in Rome in fear for his life, friends said yesterday. Mario Scaramella met Mr Litvinenko at the sushi restaurant to pass on information about the murder of Anna Politkovskaya.Gerard Batten, a Ukip MEP for the London region, said the Italian was keen to speak to police. "I rang him yesterday. He was on his way to hospital, to get a test to make sure he wasn't contaminated. He's also quite worried for his own safety, and wants to make plain that he had nothing to do with it. He's more than willing to cooperate with the British authorities."Mr Batten caused a stir in Italy in April when he alleged at the European parliament that the Italian prime minister, Romano Prodi, had KGB connections. Mr Litvinenko was the main source for the allegation."[Dr Scaramella] was concerned because the reason he came over wasn't ostensibly to talk about this journalist, although they did talk about that," Mr Batten said. "He got a tip-off that his life and Litvinenko's was going to be in danger from the secret services. He got a tip-off from another contact whose name I won't mention. Litvinenko didn't think it was that serious. They went their separate ways and then Litvinenko fell ill."Dr Scaramella is a consultant to the Mitrokhin inquiry, set up by the Italian parliament to investigate KGB activities in Italy.Senator Paolo Guzzanti, chairman of the commission in charge of the Mitrokhin inquiry, said Dr Scaramella had taken his entire family to London after threats and a robbery at his house in Naples, but Dr Scaramella himself was now in Rome.HealthThe seriousness of Alexander Litvinenko's condition became apparent yesterday; he has been given only a 50-50 chance of surviving the next four weeks, and on Sunday night he was readmitted to intensive care as a precaution. According to Stephen Rowley, clinical lead for haematology atUCH, there has been a "slight deterioration in his condition".According to his friend Alex Goldfarb, the formerly fit Mr Litvinenko had an inflammation of the throat, so that he could not swallow and had to be fed intravenously. He was very weak and could only speak with difficulty."He has potential for heart failure, and his immune system is knocked out, making him very susceptible to infection," he said. Mr Litvenko's body has apparently producing no white blood cells, which fight infections.After the early nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, some of the symptoms experienced by people who have ingested thallium include headaches, breathing problems, damage to the optic nerves, muscle pain and muscle wasting, loss of reflexes, convulsions, coma, delirium, dementia and psychosis.Three weeks in, they may suffer irregular heart rhythms. If the toxin is identified quickly enough, it can be treated, but left too late, the patient may suffer long-term neurological damage, if they recover at all - particularly loss of feeling in their fingers and toes.The mortality rate is about 6-15%, but a third to a half of those poisoned suffer neurological or eye damage.Professor John Henry, clinical toxicologist at St Mary's Hospital in London, who is also involved in Mr Litvinenko's treatment, said that accidental poisoning by thallium "just can't happen" because there is no publicly available source of it.He said that the metal is used by hospitals for heart imaging but is no longer used for rat poison in Britain. He said: "The majority of the damage is done by the time you get to 10 days. You need to get to it after 24 to 36 hours. What can be done now is supportive treatment, and just hope he gets better."Once somebody gets over the first two to three weeks he has a very good chance of recovery."Prof Henry said he had been involved in treating six other cases of thallium poisoning in Britain, four of whom were Iraqi Kurds exiled to Britain while Saddam Hussien was in power, another was a laboratory worker who poisoned himself and the sixth was a possible homicide.Thallium is a poisoner's dream - colourless, odourless, tasteless and easy to absorb. It was once used to treat syphilis, gonorrhea, ringworm and tuberculosis, until it was realised that some of the patients died. More than 10-15mg per kilo of body weight can be lethal.MoscowThe Kremlin dismissed accusations that it poisoned Mr Litvinenko, describing the claim as "pure nonsense". News that the 43-year-old ex-colonel is in serious condition in hospital in London has not featured on tightly-controlled Russian television.Litvinenko's friends have blamed Moscow for trying to kill the former spy, who fled to the UK in 2000. But Russian political analysts and security service veterans cast doubt on suggestions that Moscow had attempted to rub out Mr Litvinenko for his opposition to President Vladimir Putin.Mr Litvinenko is widely seen in Russia as a stooge paid by the anti-Kremlin oligarch and London exile, Boris Berezovsky, to blacken Mr Putin and his circle. "He's a notorious provocateur," said Alexander Khinstein, an author and investigative journalist. When asked to respond to the poisoning accusations, a Kremlin spokesman, Dmitry Petrov, said: "There is no need to comment on statements that are pure nonsense."The SVR (foreign intelligence service) said it had not killed anyone abroad since assassinating the Ukrainian nationalist Stepan Bandera in 1959.Many observers said they were so sceptical of the story that they believed Mr Litvinenko had poisoned himself or was attacked by people close to him in order to discredit the Kremlin."There are assassination attempts and there imitations of them," said the MP and former federal security service (FSB) colonel, Gennady Gudkov. "I would advise Mr Litvinenko to look for the poisoner among his own entourage."Litvinenko came under Berezovsky's influence in the 1990s when the businessman was a powerful figure in the Kremlin and was locked in a power struggle with the head of the FSB, said Mr Khinstein. The officer was used to discredit the FSB director Nikolai Kovalyov by claiming there had been a plot to kill Mr Berezovsky.Nikolai Petrov, an analyst at the Moscow Carnegie Centre said of the poisoning: "It could be punishment, revenge or a provocation but it's unlikely it was done to stop Litvinenko doing something or releasing [damaging] information. He played out his political role long ago." Mr Gudkov said the special services had no reason to kill Mr Litvinenko. "He posed no threat at all to the state. There would have been no point in breaking lances [wasting effort] on him."Reporting team  Sandra Laville, Jeevan Vasagar, Richard Norton-Taylor, Tom Parfitt, John Hooper and Sarah Boseley