The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday April 29 2007In the article below, we implied that the Ely Standard had gone against a court ruling by publishing photographs of local children who had been served with Asbos. We should clarify that while magistrates ruled that no photographs should be issued for publication by the authorities, the Ely Standard was invited by the family to photograph the children.This might count as one of the rare occasions when the Nutley twins, Tamsin and Tiffany, don't have much to say for themselves. They have a reputation around Stockton, near Middlesbrough, for being loud. Even their grandmother, Christine, agrees that the identical sisters can make an unholy racket when they choose to. But today they sit - peacock-blue eyes, long bleached-blonde hair, combat trousers, silver chains with matching letter T pendants - in her pristine living room, and they are uncharacteristically tongue-tied. Whether they're shy or embarrassed or simply incapable of expressing what they feel is hard to tell.What did they think when Stockton Council served them with Anti-social Behaviour Orders a year ago?There's a pause. 'Shocking,' says Tamsin. 'We'd done nothing different to anyone else.'How did it feel to be featured on leaflets distributed around the neighbourhood?Tiffany flinches. 'The pictures were terrible.'What's their reaction to being under curfew? (They must stay indoors from 8pm to 8am.)'It's horrible,' says Tamsin.Earlier on the day we meet they were in court for breaching their Asbos, and there is every possibility, according to their solicitor, that they will receive custodial sentences.Tamsin: 'I'm really worried.'Tiffany: 'Now I just think I might as well stay out. There's no point. We're being sent down anyway.' This is the most she'll say in one go all afternoon.Christine, on the other hand, is livid. For over an hour she robustly defends her twin granddaughters and complains that they've been unfairly targeted by the local authorities. 'Why single my two out? If 12 kids are getting into trouble, why haven't they banged Asbos on all 12 of them?' She has a theory that because Tiffany and Tamsin are identical they're more likely to be picked on than their friends, if only for the reason that they're instantly recognisable. She shows me a huge framed picture of them when they were younger, all pink and shiny and chubby and smiling. 'They're no angels,' she concedes, 'but what kid is? Especially bloody teenagers.'Nothing is certain in the Nutley household. There is accusation and counter-accusation. A lot of 'we said this' and 'they said that'. According to 50-year-old Christine, it's everyone else who is at fault - the police, Stockton Council, the neighbours, the magistrates. She talks about anonymous tip-offs and witch hunts - Asbo cases are heard in civil courts, so complaints do not have to be proven beyond reasonable doubt, merely judged on the balance of probability.Meanwhile Marilyn Davies, Stockton's local community safety manager, says the girls have long terrorised local residents and that the family has been offered help by way of parenting classes and youth offending support packages, but never taken them up. 'What you have to remember,' she says, 'is that Asbos were never intended to be rehabilitative. They're about giving respite to vulnerable residents.'It's seven years since we first heard of Asbos. At first, few councils, police forces and housing associations took up the new legislation in the Crime and Disorder Act, but gradually they began to catch on. Almost 3,000 have been implemented since 2003, and now, according to an official government count, there is an act of anti-social behaviour - a catch-all phrase for a range of low-level criminality that disrupts other people's lives - every two seconds. The acronym has seeped into the English language, shorthand for yobbishness and sink estates and unruly neighbours. But all kinds of behaviour are deemed to fall under the anti-social umbrella. Thus there are the cases that have become infamous - the evangelical preacher banned from London's Oxford Circus, the pathological hoarder who has starred on TV news documentaries, the football-mad teenager told to stop kicking a ball in the street, the neighbour prevented from playing Dido albums over and over again, the 14-year-old warned not to say the word 'grass' in public until 2010.All too often we hear about these people without hearing from them. Listen to Christine and she'll tell you that it was 'daft little things' that got the girls into trouble. Whistling in the street. Knocking on front doors and running away. 'But who hasn't done that when they were kids?' Shouting. 'They are loud,' she agrees. 'Very loud. But I'm loud, too. We've all got very big mouths in this family. You just don't expect you're going to get an Asbo for it.'The official wording of the order states that the twins cannot cause harassment, alarm or distress to anyone other than the people in their own household; cannot shout verbal abuse; cannot throw missiles; cannot carry a knife.Come on, Christine, I say. A knife doesn't sound like a daft little thing. She sighs: 'Tamsin had a little flick knife in her pocket and they got her for that.'Perhaps the only thing that is clear is that this is a family where no one is thriving, not the twins who, aged 15, may lose their liberty next month, not their grandmother who must look after them, nor their 33-year-old mother, Dawn, who lives in a hostel nearby with her three younger children. The Nutley sisters have lived with Christine since 2005, when Dawn became homeless after the end of a relationship (the twins have never had any contact with their own father). At first the girls were asked to sign acceptable behaviour contracts promising to curb their behaviour. Then, when they failed to comply, they were served with the Asbos, which run until they're 18, in June 2009.'I don't think they really understood what an Asbo was,' says Christine. 'They were told what would happen, but like all teenagers it went in one ear and out the other.'A typical morning begins with a knock on the door from the police at 5am to check the girls are in their bedroom. On a good day the twins go to school, come home, play on the computer, watch TV. The most wayward thing they do is nip out for a cigarette. On a bad day they'll stay out late, get into trouble with the police. A social worker who specialises in young offenders visits twice a month. But according to Christine, their behaviour has actually grown worse since the Asbo.Nationwide figures suggest that more than 55 per cent of orders are breached and a hard core of 20 per cent will breach them more than five times. The authorities say the twins' threatening behaviour means they are unwelcome at the hostel where their mother lives with their siblings. However, because they've been served with Asbos, it's unlikely that the whole family will now qualify for council housing. Any ambitions for the twins to train as childminders have been abandoned - the Asbos mean no one will take them on. Christine says, 'The twins think, "Bugger this - we're punished here, we're punished there." They're totally pissed off.' Not surprisingly, the girls are closer than ever. 'They've always been close, very deep. They're even deeper now,' she says. 'It's hard for me to keep control. They run rings around me.'Last month they were caught, along with some other girls, throwing bottles into the local football stadium. The police chased Tamsin, Tiffany chased the police. Even Christine acknowledges that the girls were physically aggressive. 'Now they're being told they're looking at 10 months inside,' she says, suddenly looking grey with exhaustion. 'Whoever's dreamt up Asbos can't have kids. They have this picture-book ideal of what family life is like. It's not always like that.'Few New Labour initiatives have proven as controversial as Asbos. Critics argue that courts are inconsistent and that the serving of an Asbo is a geographical lottery. Campaign groups such as Asbo Concern are worried that Asbos are being used to criminalise behaviour that would otherwise not be illegal - there are examples of people breaching their Asbos and ending up in prison for an offence that originally didn't legally entail a custodial sentence.The government predicted that Asbos would be imposed on children only 'in exceptional cases', but in reality more than four in 10 are served on people aged under 17. Last month a report from the British Institute for Brain Injured Children indicated that a disproportionate number of young people with mental health problems or learning difficulties have Asbos. Asbo Concern also highlights cases where they've been served on the suicidal and homeless. Vulnerable families are being treated like criminals, they argue. At best, Anti-social Behaviour Orders are knee-jerk quick fixes that fail to address the roots of problem behaviour.Tell that to their neighbours, reply supporters who believe Asbos are an effective way of returning problem areas to law-abiding communities. The naming-and-shaming tactics are often hugely popular with local residents sick of hiding in their own homes. 'We need to be clear that the breach of an Asbo is not a failure of the Asbo but the failure of the individual to abide by its conditions,' said Home Office minister Tony McNulty last year. 'For long periods when the orders are not being breached, communities are spared bad behaviour that in the past could not be stopped.'On an estate in Littleport, near Ely, Cambridgeshire, 15-year-old Bobby Loveridge is breaking into a house. On this occasion it happens to be his own, because his mother, Sandy, has discovered that her front-door key doesn't work, so she's asked him to jump up and squeeze through the kitchen window.In August 2005, Bobby and his brother Craig, who was 10 at the time, were taken to the police station and put into separate cells overnight. The police had evidence that they had broken into the house next door and trespassed on school property. They were served with Asbos by Ely Youth Court. For two years the boys are banned from entering any house in Littleport without the consent of the owner and cannot attend any school, playgroup or college unless given authority to be present.As soon as Bobby opens the door we pile into their chaotic living room. Sandy's husband, Trevor, who 'sells a bit of this, a bit of that', is out at work but the rest of the Loveridge clan is here - Bobby's mum, Sandy, brothers Matthew, Joseph and Craig, sister Elvira. Plus two dogs, a parrot and, in a cage in the corner, a family of baby gerbils. Would I like a gerbil to take away, they wonder?Bobby swipes at one of the dogs with a rolled-up magazine, Craig and Elvira wrestle on the floor. The parrot flies over to the window. Sandy, 41, spills on to the settee, serenely oblivious to the mayhem. It's a house full of big untidy characters, but there's a sense that while daily life is an unrelenting and fractious tussle for attention, as a family they are inseparable.No one denies that the boys were getting into serious trouble in the summer of 2005. 'They never denied what they did,' says Sandy, as though this exonerates them. 'They always told the truth.' Bobby repeats, like a mantra: 'Not my fault! Led astray!' but he seems proud of the details. 'I got done for two door locks and a window.' At times he seems to relish the story of the night they were taken into custody. 'They treated us like armed criminals! It was as though we'd shot somebody!'Five years ago, his mother tells me, he was diagnosed with a bipolar disorder. Last year he was thrown out of his local school. He says he can't remember why. Now he attends a special needs school two days a week.What did he think of the Asbo? 'Better than two years inside, is what I thought,' he says.Craig, now aged 12, is more taciturn. He was one of the youngest children in the country to be served with an Asbo, but, for now at least, he sits with his sister, quietly threading beads on to a necklace. 'It's boring round here,' he tells me. 'Can't do what we usually do. Everyone just says, "Look at the Asbo child."''He isn't the same. He's more secretive,' says Sandy. 'Now if someone picks on him, he'll fight back. It's made him more aggressive.' But she does concede that he has kept out of trouble for the past 15 months.Sandy's main gripe is that the children's names and address have been quoted in the newspaper. As minors, if they'd been found guilty of a criminal offence, they would have remained anonymous. This isn't the case with Asbos. Councils want to be seen to be doing something. Some go as far as naming offenders in leaflets or on adverts on buses. 'Not wanted' posters are put up on street corners. Although the magistrates drew the line at photographs of the Loveridge brothers being published in the local newspaper, the Ely Standard went ahead and printed pictures anyway.'Now everything that goes on we get the blame for. We get the finger pointing. Craig has been threatened with a knife. I don't think they should have been named. They need protecting, too. They're only children,' says Sandy. (However, she doesn't seem to mind them being photographed for The Observer.)Around the room there are framed photocopies of blurry family photographs, pictures of Sandy's grandfather beside his gypsy caravan. Sandy is proud of her Romany heritage. She comes from a travelling family based around Lowestoft in Suffolk and was only sent to school in the winter time. The Loveridges believe part of the problem they have in the neighbourhood is that the family are stigmatised.'We're picked on because people are racist,' chips in Matthew. 'They call us pikey and gypsy.' He's the most thoughtful of the brothers, the one they all agree is responsible. He thinks some children want to be served an Asbo. It's a badge of honour. 'Some kids use them as trophies,' he says. 'You see them walking down the street boasting about it. Some people try to get them.'Beside him is a television monitor which is connected to a Big Brother-style 24-hour webcam on the front of the house. In grainy black and white we can see their car in the driveway, a tray of primulas incongruously balanced on the roof, a couple of bicycles abandoned on the grass. Whenever Sandy goes out she puts a videotape into the television to record the front garden. They have installed the surveillance to protect themselves. Over the past year they say they've had their car broken into, tyres slashed, bicycles stolen. Everyone else in the neighbourhood may point accusing fingers at the Loveridges, but in a curious about-turn the Loveridges say they need to protect themselves from the neighbours.It's a stand-off and, Asbo or no Asbo, it does not look as if peace is going to break out any time soon.