Police were yesterday searching for four men believed to have been travelling on the same train as a teenager who has been missing for almost two weeks.Natasha Coombs, 17, vanished after boarding a late night train from Ipswich on July 27. She had been out for a Chinese meal with friends and was heading home to Dovercourt, near Harwich.She was believed to be upset after splitting up with her boyfriend, but police said there was no evidence she was planning to disappear as she had no spare clothes or disposable contact lenses with her.Although there have been no confirmed sightings, police believe Natasha got off the train at Manningtree, Essex, and have traced her mobile phone signal to the area.Chief Inspector Steve Robinson of Essex police appealed for three men in suits and a smartly dressed man carrying a briefcase, all believed to have been on the same train as Natasha, to come forward.He said: "We know she was looking forward to going out on that Friday night. We know at some point in the evening she became upset. The suggestion is she became upset about the situation with her boyfriend."Yesterday her parents, Gary and Joanne, said they were living in constant fear of what "tomorrow will bring". Mr Coombs, 47, said: "If Natasha is suffering from heartache or she has some problems, we are there for her. We would prefer to suffer with her. She is such an integral part of our lives and we need her to come back."Mrs Coombs said her daughter had never gone missing before but had stayed overnight with friends on occasions. "There may have been times when she'd had a little drink and stayed at a friend's house, but she would always call us in the morning or just turn up at home."Mr Coombs, an insurance manager, said: "It would have been completely out of character for her to take off."Mrs Coombs added: "People have said to us sometimes a 17-year-old needs to clear her head and stay away, and we are taking comfort from that."She has so much to look forward to. Soon she'll be learning to drive, then it will be her 18th birthday."The couple last heard from Natasha just after 11pm on July 27, when Mr Coombs texted her to ask if she wanted to be picked up from Dovercourt station. At 11.01pm she replied: "No, I've booked a taxi."The missing girl is described as 5ft 3in tall and of slim build. She has brown hair with highlights and was wearing a purple, sequinned top, a multicoloured ra-ra skirt and a white jacket. She was also carrying a black, furry handbag.