A pink teddy bear is tied to an oak tree planted in memory of a young girl called Mary Ann Leneghan. At the base of this sapling in Prospect Park, Reading, there are piles of floral bouquets and cards covered in teddy bears and love hearts. They talk about a baby, an angel, a little girl, a friend. There is also, beneath the tree, a brass plaque commemorating Mary Ann's life: "Treasured memories of Mary Ann Leneghan, who died 7/5/05, aged 16. RIP. Love Mum, Mandy, Sean and family."A few yards away, to the right of a park bench, spring grass has grown over the spot to which Mary Ann was dragged late on May 6 last year by a gang of young men. The death she met there is as far removed from the teddy bears and love hearts of childhood as is possible to imagine.The details make difficult reading, but this is what happened to her, here, near the children's playground and the tennis courts: a pillow was pulled over her head as a makeshift blindfold and then she was repeatedly stabbed in her neck, her breasts and her stomach in a planned execution organised by a drug dealer whom she counted as a friend. Before she was dragged here, she was subjected to three hours of torture in room 19 in the Abbey House Hotel, a cheap bed and breakfast in central Reading.At around 1am that night, while other hotel guests slept nearby, Mary Ann and an 18-year-old friend were ordered to strip, then gang-raped, forced to smoke crack cocaine and heroin, slashed with knives and covered in boiling sugar water before being bundled into a car and driven to Prospect Park, an expanse of open space, playgrounds and woodland. In the event, extraordinarily, Mary Ann's friend survived, albeit with a bullet in her head, and it is only because of this that we now know exactly what happened that night in an ordinary British town.It is not even a year since police discovered Mary Ann's bloodstained body, covered in more than 40 stab wounds. But this week, talking to people in the town where she grew up and died, it felt as if the short story of her life was already being rewritten, or simply erased.Today the six men responsible for her death will learn their fate at a sentencing hearing at Reading crown court. Justice will be served. But what no one in the town seems to want to discuss is how a 16-year-old schoolgirl, who should have been preparing for her GCSEs, fell in with this ruthless and violent drugs gang - and why no one thought to intervene.Susan Harris, Mary Ann's 54-year-old mother, finds it hard to talk about her daughter or what led her to associate with the likes of Adrian Thomas, the 20-year-old leader of the drug gang. Close family friends have set up a website to appeal for money to support Harris in her grief. Requests for an interview with her are met with the query: "Will there be a fee?"At Prospect College, the secondary school where Mary Ann was a pupil with an appalling attendance record, senior teachers refuse to discuss the teenager or her recidivist truancy. Louisa John, the school's community relations officer, tells me: "We have moved on."Meanwhile, Reading borough council, the local education authority, will not comment on whether the education welfare department was alerted to Mary Ann's problems, or even on the drugs problem in the town, citing human rights as the reason for their silence.At the scene of Mary Ann's torture, the Abbey House Hotel, decorators have been in and the establishment has been taken over by new management. And in Prospect Park, Mary Ann's family have created that saccharine-sweet memorial to a childhood innocence lost on the streets of Reading a long time before Mary Ann's brutal murder.Mary Ann grew up in a Victorian terraced house in William Street, near the centre of the town; just a short distance from Oxford Road, which for more than 10 years has been a magnet for drug dealers and prostitutes. As a young girl she used to play out on the street here while her mother looked on from the front garden. There are no traces of Mary Ann in the street today; her mother has moved to another area of Reading and the two-storey terrace that was her home has been rented to a new family. But memories of her are still alive for many of the people in the back-to-back terraces."I saw Mary Ann the day she died," says May Morgan, who lived next door to Mary Ann throughout her life and knew her since she was born. "I'd brought her home some cakes from the cafe where I work and I knocked on the door to give them to her. It took a few knocks - she was playing her music loud. She came running down laughing and said: 'Sorry, May, I was listening to my music.' I said, 'I can hear,' and she laughed again. That was about 3.30pm. I never saw her again."The next day I was in the cafe and I heard on the radio a girl had been murdered in the park. When I got home, Sue [Harris] knocked on the door, she said: 'It's Mary Ann.' She was just an ordinary teenager - she had her moments like all of them - but she didn't deserve that."The youngest of two children, Mary Ann was born in January 1989. Her Irish-born father Bernard left when she was a toddler and for the next 15 years Harris brought up Mary Ann and her sister Mandy on her own.At Prospect College, located in Tilehurst in the west of the town, was a bus ride from her home, Mary Ann loved painting and told her friends she would like to work with children one day. "She was really into her music, rap, garage, reggae, that kind of thing," says Adrian Buckeridge, 17, who was one of Mary Ann's best friends and lived round the corner from her home in William Street.As she grew up, Mary Ann became a well-known figure on the streets around her home. She certainly had friends here. But this is also an area that boasts more than 20 crack houses. The children walk past pimps and prostitutes on their way home from school. Violent crime has risen by more than 60% in five years and drug crime by almost 50%; for many young people here, holding on to any sort of childhood innocence is impossible."She seemed to be free to roam the streets at any time and seemed quite lost, a lonely figure," says one friend, who did not want to be named. Another acquaintance of Mary Ann's was Harriet Jones, 31, a journalist for the local Reading paper who lived nearby. "She loved to hang around the street corners skipping and playing with my neighbours' children. She just did all the things kids do. She wasn't tarty or anything, she wasn't particularly grown up; most of the time I saw her she was in her school uniform. At first I thought she was quite a surly girl, but she was actually very nice, very helpful."As the years passed, however, Mary Ann appeared to become more involved with older men who were linked to the drug scene all around her. "She would be out later and later at night," says Jones. "She began hanging around with young men, and given that she was a teenage girl, it was worrying. I tried to speak to her about it, about the sort of people she was hanging around with. I said, 'Do you know what you are doing, Mary Ann?', and she just more or less stared at the ground and didn't say anything." Another acquaintance says that she saw the teenager go into known crack houses on many occasions when she was no more than 15 years old.Back at home in William Street, friends say her mother did try to control the teenager. "I would hear Susan telling her not to go out with one older girl who lived in the next street," says May Morgan, their former next-door neighbour. "But Mary Ann didn't listen. In her last year of school, she kept playing truant. She would leave the house in her uniform and come back later in the day, pretending to have gone to school. Her mother would challenge her, saying the school had rung to say she had not arrived, but Mary Ann just shouted that she had gone to school. Her mother tried, she really did, but what can you do?"Not far from Mary Ann's home, in a flat above a massage parlour on Oxford Road, lived Adrian Thomas, the man who would bring down disaster on her. The 20-year-old small-time drug dealer had followed the path of many other London dealers who move down the M4 corridor to towns such as Reading and Swindon as a result of police crackdowns on drug dealing in the capital.Thomas was known as Redz. He had money and a swagger that turned the heads of teenage girls. In the months before she died, Mary Ann was seen regularly visiting Thomas at his flat. Mary Ann's friend Adrian Buckeridge says he thinks she didn't really realise what sort of people she was getting involved with. "She didn't know the extent of what she was getting into," he says. "Mary Ann was not the kind of person to look for bad in the world. She was looking for something different from here, maybe, something more exciting. Kids round here get offered alcohol and drugs all the time. Basically, someone will say: 'Do you want some stuff?', and it's mainly weed and coke. Some people resist it, but others don't."As part of this quest for excitement Mary Ann began missing school on a regular basis, at a time when she was supposed to be preparing for her GCSEs in food technology, health and social studies. According to friends, Mary Ann had begun experimenting with cannabis, but after meeting Redz while scoring from dealers in Oxford Road, she was led deeper into a world where extreme violence is commonly used to defend drug-dealing patches. She began to act as his courier, taking drugs to friends at Prospect College, and as such became a popular classmate.There were also trips to London with an 18-year-old friend, the friend who ended up with a bullet in her brain. That friend was involved with Thomas, and the three spent more and more time together. Relations broke down at home, and Mary Ann eventually ran away for four months; her mother did not know where she was during that time, but eventually Mary Ann returned to the area and lived for a time with her older sister Mandy.In the month before she died, Mary Ann confessed to an aunt, Jennifer Hazleton, that she and a friend may have upset a "black boy called Redz", who lived in Oxford Road. As part of the drug rivalry in the area, Thomas had been subjected to a beating and his drugs had been stolen from his flat. Mary Ann told her aunt that her friend may have set him up for the beating, and she was afraid of retaliation.What no one could have imagined was what form that retaliation would take. In the end, all it took was for Thomas to suspect that Mary Ann and her friend had betrayed him for their fate to be sealed.In May last year, four months after Mary Ann's 16th birthday, Thomas told the landlord of his flat that "the bitch set me up". Then he returned to London to gather a group of associates, most of whom had been in and out of custody. On the evening of May 6, while Mary Ann was sitting eating chips and drinking cherry Lambrini in a friend's car in the car park of the Wallingford Arms - a known drug haunt - she and her older friend were pulled from the car by Thomas and his gang, forced into the boot, and driven to the Abbey House Hotel. The gang covered the floor with towels before starting on them.Today Thomas and his gang are likely to receive life sentences after a trial last month in which Mary Ann's 18-year-old friend gave evidence against them. But on the streets around Oxford Road, Mary Ann's schoolfriends still face daily encounters with dealers just like Thomas. The dealers continue to push heroin and crack cocaine here, despite attempts by police to close down drug houses in the area over the past few months.From his vantage point at the Holy Trinity Church, in the heart of the Oxford Road district, Father David Peters watches the drug dealers push their wares on young people. He says that little has changed since Mary Ann's murder. Drugs, and the crime related to them, are the issues brought to his Victorian redbrick church every week by the ordinary people trying to go about their lives in the midst of the dealing and the prostitution."The police have tried to be more visible - they have shut down five crack houses since Mary Ann's terrible murder; one of which was next door to my house," he says. "But what worries people is the sheer number of dealers who are coming to Reading to try to get into the drugs trade and the extraordinary ability they have to move around from house to house and keep moving; they are very skilled at this."The amount of drugs, the amount of people who are around prepared to push drugs on young people are on such a large scale, it means it is all the harder for the young to be able to live here easily, when this is going on all around them"