"I've always had problems with eating and worrying about my weight, but it has got so much worse in prison," says Yasmin, who is nearing the end of a two-year sentence for drug dealing. "I seem to think about food and weight about 90% of the time." She binges, then starves herself or makes herself sick. "Eating is my only comfort. What do you do when you are on your own, locked up in your cell?""Think, feel guilty ... eat," responds Zarah. She sometimes eats nothing but a bit of fruit all day to "make up for" a binge. Lisa adds: "I've only developed an eating disorder since being in prison. I think it's a kind of replacement for drugs."These women are part of a new eating disorders support and self-help group at Send Prison near Guildford, Surrey, one of two such groups (the other is in Bullwood Hall prison, Essex) set up in September by volunteers from the Eating Disorders Association (EDA). A further three are about to start in women's prisons around the country.Research suggests that female prisoners are twice as likely to have an eating disorder as women in the general population. EDA's own staff have found that up to 5% of women in four prisons have obvious severe eating disorders. But up to 25% may be at risk, less severely affected or hiding their problems.Further research is under way by consultant psychiatrist Hubert Lacey, lead clinician at St George's Eating Disorder Service, who helped EDA set up the groups. He intends to get a clearer indication of prevalence and assess links with particular crimes and other health problems, such as self-harm. It is already known that for a significant sub-group of women, cross-addiction is an important issue. Low self-esteem, lack of control over one's life, and stressful and isolating environments all increase the risk. Captive audience"Because of the nature of prisons, it is possible that it exacerbates clinical conditions," says Sean Duggan, national programme lead for health and social care in criminal justice. "But also we have a captive audience. People will become engaged. We can do something about it."The women at Send agree. Most say they were more likely to get involved in a group like this while in jail. "Transfer of commissioning [of prison health services] to the NHS has helped acceptance by prisoners and prison staff of health initiatives like this, and we would like to work more with the voluntary sector," says Duggan. "We need to provide healthcare in prison that equates to that in the community.""None of these women has received any health intervention for their eating disorders before," says Abi Lear, an EDA volunteer at Send. "At first, some expected instant cure, and we had to explain what self-help and support meant. The women are just as nice and wanting to change as people outside. The only difference is that outside self-help groups usually get other treatment [psychologists, psychiatrists and counsellors] as well." Practical adviceAs a result of the self-help group, the women say they feel less isolated. And now, with elements of cognitive behaviour therapy included in the sessions, they are getting more practical advice about ways to help themselves.Instrumental in bringing EDA to Send was Sue Turner, the gym instructor, who noticed the obsessive way some women weighed themselves. She encouraged them to talk to her. Several prisoners say Turner was the only member of staff who they felt understood eating disorders.This is the other plank of EDA's prison work. More than 100 prison staff have attended training days - with 80% saying their attitude to eating disorders has changed and their knowledge increased. Last month, a further 70 attended an EDA conference on eating disorders in prisons.Duggan would like to roll out support groups to wherever there is an eating disorder problem, including in male prisons. Meanwhile, the women at Send are asking for their group to meet more often than once a month.www.edauk.com