Our criminal justice system is a nineteenth-century system with nineteenth-century rules and rituals, not a public service for the twenty-first century. It has become a tangle of red tape and technicalities which is failing to deliver. The Audit Commission said as much in its recent report, Route To Justice, describing a creaking system which fails to bring offenders to justice or prevent reoffending and is 'fraught with problems, delays and inefficiencies'.David Rose detailed the failures in last week's Observer, observing that criminals now stand a higher chance of getting away with it than 20 years ago. Whenever reform of criminal justice is discussed, there is a lot of worthy, legal discussion and not enough effective action. Two things are always overlooked: truth and proper treatment of victims and witnesses. The trial should be the culmination of an investigative process to get to the truth. Instead, the unguided victim, witness or offender can easily be lost in a labyrinth of law. Those people lost in the system are the vital component of justice. Without their willingness to participate, justice cannot be done, yet their incentives for doing so are diminished on a daily basis. One of my chief officers described a recent morning spent in court as 'one of the most depressing professional experiences I can ever remember'. Cases were adjourned for the fifth or sixth time, the professionals in court spoke in a bored legalese which trivialised the offence and meant nothing to the defendant, referred to throughout in the third person, as if he were not in the room. In the words of my colleague, the defendant was 'present at a discussion about him but not part of that discussion'. He added: 'Nowhere, never, not once, was the victim mentioned or the impact on the victim and the community. After all we have said and done and learnt about victims, is this how far we have got?' On the same day, he went on to see a young officer who was undertaking work on antisocial behaviour contracts using the principles of restorative justice in the community. She works on the small-scale crime which can so easily make peoples' lives a misery. She gathers evidence and then takes it to the offenders' homes to challenge them in front of parents, social workers, housing officers , whoever the people who mean something to them are. She will then usually offer an anti-social behaviour contract with rules they must abide by, which are shared with the victim so they know what the offender must comply with. It doesn't always work but most of the time it does and when it does she is stopping offending, mending communities and giving victims a sense of hope. She does it without going anywhere near the criminal justice system or the magistrates' courts. The Institute of Public Policy Research's report The Reluctant Witness sees public participation in the system as one of the key strategic challenges, since establishing both guilt and innocence depends on them. Witness involvement is the issue upon which the system will live or die. But the IPPR found witnesses were generally reluctant to come forward, even in serious cases, and that a clear majority of those who attend court say they would be unwilling to act as a witness again. Many felt intimidated or were put off by a process where they were confronted by the offender, subjected to hostile cross-examination and not even told the result. These issues come up time and again and attempts at reform fail to address them. In the past 30 years, three Royal Commissions have merely tinkered at the edges of justice or focused on one small part of the system. Effective reform needs the commitment of the Government. So far the evidence is promising and it is to be hoped that the imminent White Paper will reward this optimism. This commitment must be backed by proper investment in information technology and better buildings that bring the key criminal justice services together. The commitment must also be reflected in the criminal justice agencies, which must embrace change. By no means do I exclude the police service from this. We have as much work to do as our partners to make reform effective and we have to work together and recognise our dependence on each other. The street crime initiative is the first time in my career that the impact of crime is being measured from the moment it is reported to the resultant court case. We must do more to encourage citizen involvement. It is not good enough for the criminal justice system to stand apart from the people on the basis of the importance of independence. The trial itself needs to put victims and witnesses at the centre of the process. Courts should be run to suit their needs, with separate waiting areas from the defendant. There should be a fair exchange of information between prosecution and defence, instead of the current system where substantive information often comes solely from the prosecution until the day in court. This would ensure the trial focuses on the facts and prevents the unnecessary calling of witnesses. The prosecution should also be given a right of appeal where rulings have resulted in a collapsed trial. The focus should extend outside the formal justice process. More cases must be dealt with outside the trial mechanism. There are some groundbreaking changes being led by the Youth Justice Board in terms of introducing restorative justice. There is ample evidence from the pilot schemes in the Thames Valley, evaluated by Oxford University, that this works and provides a better deal for victims and offenders. In a modern system, professionals would value each other and understand each other's roles because they work closely enough. It would be outward-looking and gear its services around the needs of those crucial 'customers' - the victim, the witness and the defendant.