Tom Baldwin, political editor of the Sunday Telegraph, added a touch of melodrama yesterday when asked how he had come by his Lawrence report scoop. ‘I had to see it in a darkened room,’ he said, ‘away from restaurants and other public places’.\ He went to the ‘darkened room’ twice, for two half-hour sessions. There was not enough time to read the whole report, which runs to several hundred pages, but he saw enough to produce an exclusive report for the first edition of yesterday’s Sunday Telegraph.  The government response, an injunction to prevent further publication, produced one of the biggest tussles yet seen between the press and Labour ministers. It ended in failure for the Government, forced within 24 hours to back down.  It also proved an embarrassing debacle for the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, who had built a reputation as a sensible minister.  The Home Office was yesterday trying to track down who had given Mr Baldwin access to Sir William Macpherson’s report. It was received by Mr Straw only last Monday, in manuscript form. Copies of a final version were still being printed last night.  Mr Baldwin spent Saturday writing some 5,000 words for the Sunday Telegraph. Neither he nor the deputy editor, Matthew d’Ancona — the editor, Dominic Lawson, is on holiday in Florida — suspected the Government would act against them.  He completed his final front-page report at about 5pm. Wanting maximum publicity, the Sunday Telegraph forewarned both the BBC and ITN. The BBC was being blamed last night for alerting the Home Office in breach of its agreement with the paper.  The Home Office yesterday would confirm only that it had been told by ‘a media outlet’.  ‘He had only minutes to decide,’ an official said of Mr Straw. The paper was already printing, with copies heading for Scotland, Ireland and the North of England. Mr Straw thought it should be stopped because the Lawrence family and the police should be first to see the report, and because a statement should be made first to Parliament — scheduled for Wednesday.  As Mr Straw was to say later, he was ‘old-fashioned’ about Parliament being told first, rather than MPs learning from press leaks.  He regarded the leak as serious because it was not simply a government white paper but a judicial review.  He spoke to the Treasury Solicitor, who arranged for an injunction from Mr Justice Rix, a High Court judge. He did not discuss it with Tony Blair, who was at Chequers for the weekend, but Downing Street was informed.  A Home Office official said: ‘The decision was not taken lightly because of the nature of this report and the profound importance of it. It affects the police and the parents, and for a partial account of it to be done was unfair.’ At about 8.40pm the paper was told of the injunction. ‘There was a sense of bewilderment when it came," Mr Baldwin said.  The paper complied with the injunction, ditched the report extracts, and carried only a small story reporting the ban. But copies with the extracts had already gone north and were available in newsagents yesterday.  By then, the Home Office position looked untenable, except to Mr Straw. He went on BBC Radio’s The World This Weekend at 1pm yesterday to defend the ban.  But the injunction did not apply to Scotland, and there was nothing to prevent the Scottish papers, which are available in London, from publishing the excerpts today.  The Conservative home affairs spokesman, Sir Norman Fowler, acused Mr Straw of being heavy-handed.  Though the author of the report, Sir William, was disappointed about the leak, he had always known they might occur.  Suresh Grover of the Monitoring Group in Southall, who was a leading figure in the Lawrence family support campaign, said yesterday: ‘We have no problem with the publication. It should be out in the open.’ A source close to the Lawrence family said no one from the Home Office had contacted them before the injunction was issued. The source said: ‘The family don’t support the Government on this. Mr Straw did not consult the Lawrences or anyone close to them. It doesn’t really make any difference to us whether it comes out on Tuesday or Wednesday or whenever. We just think, what a palaver.’ But last week, the Guardian understands, the Lawrences and their solicitor, Imran Khan, had a meeting with John Grieve, the head of Scotland Yard’s new task force on racial and violent crime, to protest at what they considered selective leaking.  They were particularly unhappy with what appeared to be a leak from the police that Mr Grieve’s new investigation into the murder was looking at the possibility that two of the suspects, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight, may not have been present on the night. While both provided alibis from their families, the Lawrences believe that this view further undermines the identification of Mr Knight by Stephen’s friend, Duwayne Brooks, and ignores important corroborative evidence.  A logical way solution for Mr Straw would have been to bring forward publication from Wednesday to today, making a Commons statement in the afternoon. But because the report had not yet been fully printed, distribution to MPs and others today was impossible.  The press asked for the injunction to be lifted, and yesterday afternoon Mr Justice Rix agreed. Mr Straw was unrepentant. He had tried to defend the principle that judicial inquiries should not be leaked. He felt he had been right to act, but had acted too late.  Mr Baldwin spent what was left of the weekend celebrating. It was the turn of Mr Straw to search out a darkened room, to contemplate one of the worst episodes of his time in office. 