Stephen Lawrence's mother has won libel damages from the publishers of a book which accuses her of subjecting her son to a "harsh and uncompromising" regime.Doreen Lawrence sued Time-Life Entertainment Group over the book written by Duwayne Brooks, Stephen's friend, who was with her son on the night he was murdered by racists in 1993.She told the high court the book, Steve and Me, also accuses her of adding to the trauma subsequently suffered by Mr Brooks. Yesterday, Time-Life agreed to pay her legal costs and make a "substantial" payment, understood to be £15,000, which the court was told she would "give to others". The company said it would also pay a similar sum to a charity of Mr Brooks's choice as a token of its "continued support for and faith in him". In a statement issued through her lawyers, Mrs Lawrence, who was not in court, said her family had endured an 11-year struggle for justice. "The publication of this book has just added to my distress," the statement said. "I was attacked in an appaling way. Horrible and untruthful things were said about me." She criticised claims that she locked her son out of the family home when he failed to return at an agreed time. It was said that he had been rushing home for that reason on the night he was killed. "It was intimated that I was somehow partly responsible for my son's murder ... I could not allow this to happen without protesting. Now an apology has been made which sets the record straight." Lucy Moorman, representing Mrs Lawrence, told Mr Justice Eady that the book suggested her client had treated Mr Brooks with "hostility and insensitivity" and excluded him from Stephen's memorial service, but neither claim was true. She said the book, co-authored by the Guardian writer Simon Hattenstone, suggested Mrs Lawrence "imposed a harsh and uncompromising regime on her children, did not feed Stephen properly and locked him out at night if he came home late". "The implication was that this strict curfew contributed to Stephen being in Eltham where he met his killers on the night he died." Ms Moorman said Mr Brooks was entitled to write about his experiences, but "the impression which the book gives of Stephen's home life and the claimant as a parent is mistaken". Mr Brooks said a new publisher would reprint the book in an amended form.