The Metropolitan police received a further blow to their damaged reputation for investigating racially motivated crime yesterday when the Police Complaints Authority told the family of Ricky Reel, the Asian student found dead in the River Thames at Kingston over two years ago, that three Metropolitan police officers have been found guilty of neglect of duty in the investigation into his death. After a 14 month inquiry by Surrey police, the PCA said that two constables will be 'advised' of their shortcomings including the failure to record the attack on Mr Reel, aged 20, by two white men as a racial incident. Det Supt Bob Moffat, who led the investigation, will be 'admonished'. None of them faces disciplinary charges. But the PCA's four-page response was dismissed as 'inadequate' and 'another kick in the teeth" by Mr Reel's mother, Sukhdev. She has campaigned for months to have the full report but the police have refused to hand it over to her lawyers or to the coroner, John Burton, who has yet to hold an inquest. Today Mrs Reel, who gave evidence to the Lawrence inquiry, will for the first time meet Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, the head of Scotland Yard's new racial and violent crime task force, who has been re-investigating the case since last October. 'I will be asking him to take us seriously and carry out a proper investigation into Ricky's murder,' she said. The police have not formally acknowledged that Mr Reel was murdered, although they accept that on the night of his death he and three Asian friends from Brunel University were attacked by two white men who shouted racist abuse. The four scattered. Mr Reel's body was found in the river a week later, but for months the police treated his death as an accident. The PCA letter says that the Surrey investigation 'found there were weaknesses and flaws within the organisational structure and policy. Within this flawed organisational framework, the investigation has found your [Mrs Reel's] allegations of neglect of duty in respect of PC Penman, PC Lord and Det Supt Moffat to be substantiated. 'Sadly, you did not receive from the Metropolitan police the professional standard of service which you have every right to expect.' The letter said that PC Penman, the first officer to respond to Mrs Reel's emergency call when her son failed to return home, failed to record immediately the racial incident or to complete a missing persons report. PC Lord is criticised for being 'insensitive' when she visited the Reels' home in West Drayton, Middlesex, and told Mrs Reel that her son was dead in front of her three other children, aged 11, 17 and and 22. 'She didn't spend a minute trying to find out who was in the room,' Mrs Reel said yesterday. 'It is up to a mother to break that sort of news to her children.' Det Supt Moffat is criticised for 'lack of leadership'. The letter says: 'He contributed to the confusion as to the ownership of the inquiry, in particular the racial incident, which in turn raised your own concerns as to whether the matter was being investigated properly. Det Supt Moffat could also have demonstrated greater leadership with regard to the direction of the pathologist and the securing of evidence.' The author of the letter, PCA member Linda Allan, says: 'I shall be emphasising the need for supervisory officers in the Metropolitan police to ensure that all racial incidents are fully recorded.' The family's solicitor, Louise Christian, said yesterday that the letter failed to spell out the precise failures of the investigation and the lines of inquiry that could have been pursued. 'I fear that this new investigation by the police may be just a public relations exercise,' she said. 