Police are hunting an armed robber who shot a police officer yesterday when she challenged him as he ran from an "extremely violent" pub raid wearing a balaclava and brandishing a shotgun.Senior officers praised the courage of the officer, PC Katie Johnson, 29, a dog handler, who was recovering at home after the removal of 12 shotgun pellets from her upper leg, just below her protective body armour.Lancashire's acting assistant chief constable, Jerry Graham, said: "She has shown considerable bravery in challenging an armed man. It is a reminder of the daily risk officers take on routine calls."Residents in Bamber Bridge, near Preston, which was cordoned off by police overnight, were advised to stay indoors yesterday as scores of police hunted the "muscular and aggressive" man, described as about 6ft tall and white, who fired without hesitation when he was confronted by Johnson.A second man was arrested close to the 18th-century Hospital Inn, a popular eating-out spot in Bamber Bridge.A dozen roads and the East Lancashire rail line from Preston, which runs next to the pub, were closed as police scoured gardens and undergrowth. Officers also checked CCTV cameras on three motorways close to the inn, where two men had attacked staff as they arrived for work at 8.15am yesterday.The Lancashire police helicopter tracked repeatedly over the pub, whose chef was treated at Chorley hospital for head injuries after being dragged around the floor as the men demanded cash.Graham said: "The level of violence used was extreme, beyond the pale. It is incredibly lucky nobody was killed or more seriously injured. Katie Johnson was extremely lucky, she was wearing protective clothing, a stab vest. She asked the man to drop the weapon but he just shot her."A "significant" five-figure sum in cash was missing after being grabbed from the pub, which has been restored in the past two years by the chef and his partner, the licensee, who was one of three women held at gunpoint by the raiders. The four were corralled in a bathroom before the men, both in balaclavas, singled out the chef, kicking and punching him from room to room, demanding to know where the takings were kept.Graham added that the man on the run was burly and aggressive and wearing a black padded jacket. He was confronted several hundred metres from the pub by a passerby who saw him running and called out to ask if anything was wrong.Detective Superintendent Neil Hunter said police were interviewing the member of the public. "It was a challenge on the street but I don't think the [bystander] was aware of what had happened inside the pub. There was a conversation, then the suspect ran away."Police, who believe that the raid was carefully planned and could have involved others, appealed for information about a red Vauxhall Vectra car, registration N396 RHO, which was parked near the pub.Officers were also checking the embankments of the M61 and M6 motorways, which join very close to the pub. An access road to the M65 is also less than a mile away.The Hospital Inn has been popular over the holiday season, attracting crowds to its dining room for local specialities such as the Black Pudding Tower and Sausage with Bubble and Squeak. Police are trying to find out how word might have gone around the criminal underworld in the north-west that it would be a good place to focus on, with the takings probably not banked during the Christmas holidays.Thomas Sharratt, who represents South Ribble Rural East on Lancashire county council, said that two other pubs in Bamber Bridge had seen shooting incidents in recent years. He added: "There are masses of police here and it looks as though the roads will stay cut off for New Year's Eve."Residents in houses nearest to the pub were told to stay indoors all day by police as dogs and trained search officers scoured the area.Graham said: "We need to be honest here and say one person is still outstanding, potentially with a firearm. If the public do see anyone suspicious, I ask them not to approach the individual but to ring 999 straight away." He paid tribute to Johnson, whose partner escorted her from hospital last night to recover at home.Although she had not suffered any serious injury she would have to cope with "long-term psychological effects", Graham said.Linda Buckland, who lives near the pub, which is named after a long-gone hospital, said: "We have been told to keep away from the windows and not to go outside. We have had a policeman outside our door and he has been there since 8.20am."My son tried to go outside to find out what was happening and he was told to get back inside. We go down to the pub regularly, it's our watering hole."