A teenage boy has appeared in court accused of delivering an unprovoked punch which broke the jaw of a Malaysian student, whose plight became one of the most notorious aspects of last month's rioting.The 17-year-old, whose 15-year-old brother also faces charges connected to the riots, attacked Ashraf Rossli in Barking, east London, on the evening of 8 August, Thames magistrates court was told.The attacker, who cannot be named because of his age, was said to be among a mob which tried to steal the white bicycle ridden by Rossli, a 20-year-old student who had only arrived in the UK a month before. When this initial attempt failed, the 17-year-old punched Rossli once, breaking his jaw in several places, said Taiwo Adesina, prosecuting."This caused [Rossli] to fall off his bike and land on the pavement," she said. "He was then heard to say: 'Give me the bike.'" According to a witness and CCTV evidence, the defendant then rode away on the stolen bike.The student from Kuala Lumpur attracted national attention after further CCTV footage, put onto YouTube, showed him clearly dazed, with blood coming from his mouth. The footage continued as other youths seemingly acted as if they were helping Rossli, while one of them opened his rucksack and removed several items.The video prompted wellwishers to pledge thousands of pounds to Rossli to help replace the stolen possessions, and his bike.The 17-year-old faces six charges, including theft of the bike and causing grievous bodily harm to Rossli, as well as violent disorder and burglary later the same evening in nearby Ilford. One burglary charge is in connection with the looting of a jewellery store in which police say £150,000 of goods were stolen.His 15-year-old brother faces charges of violent disorder and burglary over events in Ilford. Both teenagers deny all charges.The court heard that the brothers, who have been in custody since the riots, come from a stable family background. Both their parents were in court.District judge Jacqueline Comyns gave the younger boy conditional bail but refused bail to his older brother, who faces trial at a crown court.Earlier in the day the same court, sitting as a youth court, heard that a boy celebrating his 12th birthday threw bottles at police and stole chocolate and crisps from a convenience store on the same day in east London.The child, who also cannot be identified, is one of the youngest people to be convicted of offences related to the riots. He admitted affray and burglary on August 8, and was ordered to help clean up riot damage in Hackney.Adesina said the boy was seen on CCTV throwing "bottles and other items at police officers".He then attempted to set a building on fire and joined a crowd looting a convenience store in Clarence Road, Hackney.Asked by the district judge, Jacqueline Comyns, what he stole, the boy, a slight figure dressed in an oversized white T-shirt, said he took chocolate and Doritos crisps.Tim Spooner, defending, said the boy, who has been in custody since the riot, had lived separately from his parents since coming to the UK from his home country in 2004. He currently lives with an uncle and aunt.He had been playing football when approached by a boy he knew and led to the riots, Spooner said. There, he added the boy "was then swept up in what was going on".Asked by the judge why he went off with his acquaintance, the boy replied: "He told me to come. I thought it was for something good."Spooner said the defendant was ordered to throw items at police by a gang of older youths who he had already seen attacking others, and he was too afraid not to agree. The boy told the judge this was the case: "I thew them so that nothing would happen to me."In additional mitigation, Spooner said no police were struck by objects thrown by the boy: "Because of his size they did fall well short of the officers."The judge gave the boy a nine-month referral order, saying it would be best if he helped to clean up the looted convenience store if the owner wanted this. His community work should be in his local area, she added, and visible: "It is very important for the community to know that there is some kind or reparation."The work, she told the defendant, will "help clean up the damage you did, and make sure you don't do it again".