When the riots came to Birmingham, things soon turned ugly. Overnight, the focus shifted from rioting youth and police inefficacy to three deaths and the prospect of inter-ethnic violence.If the issue of race was pushed to the background in Tottenham and Brixton, in Birmingham it became central. The tragic deaths of three Asian men immediately ignited fears of a reprisal: though no one yet knew who was responsible for the incident on Dudley Road, we were told to brace ourselves for a repeat of the conflict that hit Lozells during Ramadan 2005. Inter-ethnic violence between the city's black and Asian populations seemed to be on the horizon.Asian-on-black or black-on-Asian violence was never effectively explained or addressed after it broke out in Lozells back then. That's probably why it's still an open wound today.Hundreds gathered at a vigil held at the site of the recent deaths in Winson Green. They came for different reasons. A group of Asian elders stood at the spot that had become a shrine, where some messages referred to the three as martyrs. Courting the cameras, they spoke about ethnic communities working hard and getting along.Across the road, the mood was different. Scores of youngsters were gathered in small huddles interspersed with police officers. One of them stopped me: "What's happening bro? Is there gonna be a march?" The composure of the elders across the road wasn't shared here. "We can't just keep coming out here every day, we have to do something, we have to send a message, let them know we're here", the same youngster added to a chorus of "yeah, yeah" from others.These young Asian men were looking for a way to express themselves. They hadn't done so yet in the manner the nation was expecting, but their frustrations towards traditional leadership was clear. Tariq Jahan, father of the 21-year-old Haroon – one of the three killed – commanded a different respect. His almost youthful, dignified and eloquent demeanor contrasted with other community elders. For now he was holding would-be troublemakers at bay.In 2005, it was radio waves that carried the message sparking violence between local black and Asian people in Lozells. Last month it was the voice of a grieving father that this time urged communities to unite and resist violence. A local Rastafarian man at the vigil said: "A lot of people are going to talk up this community tension thing. Its not all like that – look, next door to this business that those young men owned is the headquarters of the local black community. We're all living in the same conditions."More than "race", what shapes relations within different groups in this area of Birmingham is a complex mix of socio-economic, historical and political factors. This is most apparent in the way black and Asian people, young and old, feel their interests are represented. The potential for conflict is as apparent as a desire to fashion a better future. The default position for community leaders has been to stress the former.It could be that the tragic deaths of those three men on 10 August become a turning point. At their funeral they were spoken of as the ultimate sacrifice for peace. Knowing Birmingham, however, what will matter is who comes to own the narrative.• Ajmal Hussain is a PhD candidate in the sociology department at the London School of Economics. His research explores new Muslim identity formation in inner-city Birmingham, where he lives and grew up