Once upon a time there was a little item of clothing called the hood. It just hung there, on the backs of coats and jumpers. It was something your mother urged you to "put up" when the weather became inclement. If you were cool, you let your head get cold.But the hood got bored, and not a little resentful. For more than 800 years it had not been a major player in the wardrobe, not since it had hung up its liripipian crown and was no longer needed by everyday man for everyday wear. Only later did academics turn to the hood in order to show their status. So it was, in the mid-1990s, that the hood rose, Lucifer-like, to become the bad boy of the wardrobe, and now it is the most feared fashion item of all time.So much so that last week it was reported that hoods had become the first item of clothing ever to be made part of an Antisocial Behaviour Order (Asbo). A judge handed out nine separate restrictions on the wearing of hooded tops by certain individuals on the basis that they were "intimidating". Hoods are deeply menacing but I wonder if, as the judge handed out these ridiculous Asbos, he wondered for one moment whether the law-enforcement system that judges are part of is to blame. Hoods exist because of society's obsession with CCTV cameras. The more of these you plant, the more hoods you will sow. Yes, of course, if people didn't go thieving we would not need to have CCTV cameras, and the hood would still be just an innocent appendage to a duffel coat. But it's important to realise that no number of Asbos will stop hoods being used as camouflage. Anyway, how would anyone breaking a "hoodie" Asbo be caught? Hoods are interesting things. Just as the suit renders any man a gentleman, the hood turns any gentleman into a hoodlum. Hoods allow an individual's identity to be submerged: when a group is wearing hooded tops you can no longer look for the other tribal identifiers and markers in dress we unconsciously seek to make us feel safe. The hooded group can only be viewed as a collective; this is extremely threatening for the outsider, but very good value for the group: maximum intimidation for zero effort. It's what an old-fashioned army used to rely on for a first assault. Unlike the balaclava, which is instantly incongruous (unless you are up a mountain), the hood can hang there until needed. Another reason they are so worrying is because each person in a group of hoodie wearers can easily divest himself of "weaknesses" such as individual responsibility, fear or morality and act as a group - the superego. Hoods have been around for a long time. The barbarians wore them as they infiltrated the Roman empire. And around the 12th century hoods were an essential item for prostitutes. But it's only with the proliferation of CCTV that they started being adopted by the criminals. Two factors have now created an atmosphere in which the hood has been able to thrive: first the casualisation of our dress, which allowed the hoodie to cross over from sportswear and, second, the insistence that machines can do a better job than man can. I hate to be Daily Mailish about this, but if the Home Office spent a fraction of the £38m it did in just three years between 1994 and 1997 - the period when CCTV took off as a supposed tool against crime - on police officers walking the streets, hoods would not be as prolific. Incredibly, sportswear as everyday wear became fashionable only 15 years ago, when the designer John Galliano first showed it on the catwalk. As recently as 1996, the New York Times thought it newsworthy enough to mention that designers were including hoods in their main collections. "Hoods," it wrote, "are no longer utilitarian." This was the same year in which all of England's major cities became covered with CCTV cameras. The hood and closed circuit television have risen as one. But there is some hope. Not long ago, amazingly, I happened to witness five burglaries over an eight-day period. All of the assailants wore hooded tops as tight as the need for respiration and vision would allow. There was nothing to tell them apart - the hoodie had rendered them homogenous. Except for one thing. Vanity had got the better of quite a few of them, and they wore fancy, expensive and distinctive trainers. These were to be their undoing, and it was thus that they were caught. · Annalisa Barbieri is the New Statesman's fashion correspondent and is writing a book on menswear Grilse2004-comment@yahoo.co.uk