Female violence is on the rise! Or so it would seem. A Ministry of Justice report last week revealed an 11 per cent increase, over the space of a year, in the number of women arrested for violent crime and a 100 per cent increase over four years.This doesn't actually mean that women are being 100 per cent more violent - just that they're getting done for it more often. If I were the police, with all these rabid young men scampering about the place with big, serrated knives and a readiness to use them at the first sign of 'disrespect', I, too, would probably focus my energy on tipsy birds slapping one another outside pubs. Nevertheless, there is some sort of sea change (albeit a smaller one than the figures reflect) and, as certain newspapers lament the 'menace of the violent girls', I think they are missing the point. The real tragedy here, the true cultural loss, the heartbreaking social problem we are actually facing, is the Decline of the Evil Put-Down.My fear is that women have forgotten how to bitch. I look back on the golden days of my childhood, that shimmering era in the last millennium when Britain's teenage girls were at the very height of their powers: they could ruin your life with two withering sentences. They could have you in tears with the first word. They didn't waste time inflicting a bruise that would fade in days; their laconic verbal artillery left shrapnel in the soul for years to come. We were strong, as a nation of bitches, back then. I was lucky enough to go to school with some of the best in the business. They were creative and tactical. It wasn't always the full-on approach of asking loudly, as you arrived at a party kitted out in your nervous finest, whether your mother still shopped at jumble sales. They could dodge and weave and come at you from the side: inviting you to a sleep-over, then passing notes that fell 'accidentally' near your desk, saying: 'Let's hope the stupid cow doesn't turn up.'Coming from the wrong part of London, and being several notches above what is now called 'size zero' on the Mr Kipling scale, I was fortunate enough to witness this golden age of venom from its very epicentre. I was part of history; I inspired the finest of a generation and heard its finest work. When I remember the cold, gleeful gaze of Philippa Smith, as we lined up for the joys of 'lacrosse team selection', I am like those who saw John Lennon at the Cavern in 1962. (Philippa Smith is not her real name. Of course not, I'm still terrified.)But what has happened to these blazing female talents? How can we have lost them in one short generation? I suspect this is yet another area where girls have suffered from the decline of single-sex schooling. Where they should be forming passionate, intense, loving friendships with other little girls, the better to gain information with which to ruin and destroy them, they are simply playing football, speaking in monosyllables and 'wanting a quiet life'. In adult life, in general culture, expert cattiness has waned. Let us remember the inspirational bitches of the past.Dorothy Parker: 'That woman speaks eight languages and can't say no in any of them.'Mae West (on Jayne Mansfield): 'When it comes to men, I heard she never turns anything down except the bedcovers.'Bette Davis (on Joan Crawford): 'She slept with every male star at MGM, except Lassie.'You will see at once an immediate problem for the modern bitch: sexual liberation. Finding witty ways to call someone a slag, traditionally such a rich seam, has lost its power, because who cares if a woman enjoys sex anyway? Good luck to her.Nevertheless, any evil hag worthy of the name would find new ways to undermine, belittle and destroy her fellow females. But the fight has gone out of our gender. It's all 'understanding' this and 'sympathising' with that. Julie Burchill, the hard-edged heroine of Fleet Street, has mournfully pointed out: 'These days, bitching is low-fat, decaffeinated and kick-free... women who might once have stood a chance of making decent bitches are whines, nags, snobs and scolds instead. When they diss another woman, they make a great show of doing it more in sorrow than in anger.'Even Kate Figes, author of The Big Fat Bitch Book for Girls (a bestseller last year), has advised publicly: 'It's fine to bitch about life to others when you're having a bad day or when you're made to feel powerless or inept by sadists in authority ... and it's essential to bitch about lovers and husbands when they're giving you a hard time.'Figes, potentially a trailblazer for a new generation, is missing the point entirely. Bitches aren't put-upon saps who say nasty things for want of any real power. Bitches have the power: they are rich, or beautiful, or thin, or smart, or all of the above, and allow their conversation to hammer this superiority right into the faces of their poor, fat, dim or otherwise disenfranchised targets. It's all apologies these days. The only comedienne still destroying her sisters with a well-chosen sentence is Joan Rivers, well over 200 years old. Younger women in stand-up comedy are all self-effacing, confessional, voluntary butts of their own jokes.Where are the role models? Where is the poison? It's no wonder today's young women are resorting to thumping one another if they've lost the ability to cause real pain.Why, if I were at school these days, I may even be quite happy. And then adult life might be a disappointment, which would never do.victoriacoren.com