So we're a week into the new year, and already two teenagers have been murdered - most recently Faridon Alizada, 18, found stabbed to death in a block of flats that, according to those living nearby, should have been demolished years ago. The site and circumstances of his death couldn't have been any more depressing, or less surprising.Last April, shortly after the murder of 14-year-old Paul Erhahon at the entrance to a block of flats in east London, I remember being unable to envisage a situation in which the killing of teenagers by teenagers - the vast majority on or from council estates - could continue without the government addressing the issue as a matter of urgency. I wrote a piece on these pages arguing that, after 10 years in power, Labour had failed to acknowledge the disastrous consequences of widening social and economic inequality for the poorest and most disadvantaged in society.Two days after that piece was published, Tony Blair, at the end of his premiership, suggested that young people killing each other were doing so in some sort of vacuum, with values and expectations so alien to everyone else's that such behaviour was almost to be expected of them. There was something in his tone that suggested we - "us", not "them" - needn't be particularly worried about such a development.Since then, another 20 or so teenagers have died from being shot or stabbed, mainly by other teenagers. Furthermore, a 20-year-old man shot on Boxing Day lay dead for 24 hours on the Aylesbury estate in London - where, in 1997, Blair had launched his plan to improve conditions and life chances on Britain's "2,000 worst" estates.It no longer feels like an overstatement to say that young people on many estates, particularly those in inner London, are engaged in a kind of civil war. When the former leader of the country claims that such incidents are isolated, what he's really saying is that the estates where they took place are isolated, and therefore not places any of the rest of us need to think about. Least of all him.The closely defined layouts of estates, and their tendency to house the poorest people, lend themselves to inverse snobbery. You have estate-linked gangs, whose members go to estate-linked schools, defining their identity by the name and "reputation" of that estate. Because their lives revolve around those estates, their perspective narrows with each day that passes, until it stops at the bollard-tipped end of the walkway.It is not that teenagers in gangs have no choice but to fall in with a prevailing mindset of thuggery and crushing egotism. They can and do make other choices, especially if well-supported. But the point is that many "feel" as though they have no choice, and that, in part, is because we've let estates go; we've let them fall off the social radar to the extent that the death of an estate-dwelling teenager at the hands of another estate-dwelling teenager roughly once a fortnight is not cause for the government to do everything in its power to prevent more.It's not just about jobs, or coercion. Job creation is useless if people cannot, for whatever reason, access the jobs that are being created. Growth, as the Treasury defines it, does not benefit citizens equally, or create opportunities that can be easily taken up by all. If it did, young people growing up on estates would have other things on their mind than murder or the threat of being murdered.Gordon Brown may, rightly, have stated that the murder of 11-year-old Rhys Jones last August was a "heinous crime", but where has he been to say the same of every child killed since then? Either he's too embarrassed to say aloud that war of a kind has broken out in his own country, or he doesn't care - because that war is taking place where few of the voters he needs live.comment@theguardian.com