New evidence that could overturn the conviction of one of Britain's most notorious multiple murderers is being examined by the authority that investigates miscarriages of justice. Described by his trial judge as "warped and evil beyond belief", Jeremy Bamber was found guilty in October 1986 of shooting his adoptive parents, his sister and her six-year-old twins at their Essex farmhouse and the Home Secretary Michael Howard ruled that he should never be released.However, previously undisclosed photographs of the crime scene, expert analysis from one of the world's most eminent forensic specialists and newly-released police notes have been passed to the Criminal Cases Review Commission in a fresh attempt by Bamber to win his freedom. His lawyers have seen negatives of police pictures taken during the aftermath of the massacre at White House Farm, Tolleshunt D'Arcy on 7 August, 1985 which, they say, indicate that the body of Bamber's sister, Sheila Caffell – the original suspect – may have been tampered with. Herbert Leon MacDonell, an expert in blood spatter analysis and director of the New-York based Laboratory for Forensic Science, has scrutinised the images and believes they indicate unexplained "movement" of the body during a sequence of images taken of the crime scene. Lawyers believe the interpretation by MacDonell, who testified in the OJ Simpson murder case and was involved in the investigations into the assassinations of US Senator Robert F Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr, corroborate their claims that the positioning of the body of Caffell was staged by police.Following the massacre, initial reports suggested Sheila, who had a history of schizophrenia, shot her parents and her two children before turning the silenced .22 semi-automatic rifle on herself. The newly disclosed images suggest the rifle used in the killings was at some point moved from her body, strengthening the suggestion she was murdered instead of committing suicide. During the murders, Bamber's mother June, 61, and his nephews Nicholas and Daniel, were shot dead in their beds. His father Nevill, 61, was found slumped downstairs, while Sheila, 27, a model nicknamed Bambi, was found by her parents' bed.Two previous appeals by Bamber against his life sentence have been rejected. During his last failed appeal 10 months ago, Bamber was told by Mr Justice Tugendhat that he would spend the rest of his life behind bars because the crime was so "exceptionally serious." However, during another Court of Appeal hearing, judges have implied that if evidence came to light that Sheila's body had been tampered with, they would look at the case again. Bamber, 47, has continued to protest his innocence.Marcus Farrar, of Bingley-based Chivers Solicitors, representing Bamber, said: "The evidence includes previously undisclosed crime scene photographs. "We have worked extremely hard in having highly experienced forensic experts consider this new evidence, and all of the findings they have made have been very positive indeed".A spokesman for the CCRC confirmed they had recently received new information concerning Bamber's case and were deciding whether to refer the case to the Court of Appeal. He added there was no limit to the number of times a person could appeal because "fresh evidence could emerge at any time". In addition, Bamber's solicitors have received new transcripts of Essex Police notebooks, dating from the morning, that reveal there was "movement" inside the farmhouse while Bamber was outside with firearms unit police. Officers had arrived at the scene following a 3:30am call from Bamber saying his father had rung him to say his sister had gone crazy and "has got a gun".In the aftermath of the massacre, one of the most shocking crimes of the Eighties, the case appeared to be a straightforward murder and suicide tragedy. Then Julie Mugford, Bamber's girlfriend, came forward and told police Bamber had frequently bragged about how he was going to kill his parents to collect a £436,000 inheritance. Appearing as the prosecution's star witness, Mugford told the court Bamber had talked about burning down the family farm, adding he later changed the plan to hiring an assassin to carry out the killings. At Chelmsford Crown Court, the jury decided by a majority of 10 to two that Bamber had committed the murders to obtain the money. One issue hampering any attempt to re-examine the case is the decision by Essex Police to destroy many of the original trial exhibits, including all the blood-based samples, in February 1996, an act the CCRC has condemned as being "in breach of the force's own guidelines". Bamber, writing on his website, remains convinced one day he will win an appeal. He said: "I still believe that I will die a free man."