 With his pet lizards, and the sunglasses he wore whatever the weather, Stephen Griffiths was to most of his neighbours in Bradford a strange, slightly amusing figure. "A bit of an oddball," said one. "An overgrown goth," declared another.To police and crown prosecutors in Bradford, however, he was clearly the prime suspect in the murder of a local sex worker and the suspicious disappearance of two others. Last night they concluded they had sufficient evidence to charge him with the murders of all three women."I have decided that there is sufficient evidence to charge Stephen Griffiths with their murders, and that it is in the public interest to do so," said Peter Mann, head of the Crown Prosecution Service complex casework unit in the West Yorkshire. "Accordingly, I have authorised the police to charge him. He will appear at Bradford magistrates court tomorrow morning and be remanded into custody to appear at Bradford crown court tomorrow afternoon."The events of the last few days have understandably been very upsetting for the families and friends of Suzanne [Blamires], Shelley [Armitage] and Susan [Rushworth] as well as for the wider public in Bradford. Their families have been informed of my decision and I hope soon to be able to meet them and explain the trial process to them and answer any questions they may have."West Yorkshire is not the only police force taking an interest in Griffiths. Several others across the north of England, with similar unsolved murders on their books, were said to be watching the investigation closely.Bradford police had been investigating the disappearance of Susan Rushworth, 43, since last June. She had last been seen leaving her bedsit. They had also been looking for Shelley Armitage, 31, since she vanished four weeks ago.Then on Monday they received a call from a caretaker who works at the converted mill to the north-west of the city centre where Griffiths has been living in a third-floor flat for the last 13 years. While examining CCTV footage taken over the weekend, the caretaker is understood to have seen images of another of the missing women, Suzanne Blamires, 36.After detectives viewed the CCTV footage, armed officers descended on the building. Witnesses described how they poured up the stairs, returning about 10 minutes later with Griffiths in handcuffs.While he was being questioned today, friends and relatives were being interviewed, scores of police were searching derelict homes and factories near his flat, and divers were continuing to search the river Aire at Shipley, four miles north of Bradford.Tests were being carried out on a number of body parts that were retrieved from the river on Tuesday. Some have been identified as the remains of Blamires. Forensic scientists are now attempting to establish whether the haul also includes any of the remains of Armitage and Rushworth.By the end of yesterday police had built up a detailed picture of Griffiths: aged 40, single, one of the three children of a couple from Wakefield, West Yorkshire, he had been privately educated at the local Queen Elizabeth Grammar school, which now charges £9,000 a year, before graduating from Leeds with a degree in psychology. His mother Moira, a former telephonist is said to still live in Dewsbury.For the last six years he had been studying at Bradford University for a doctorate in criminology. His thesis was to have been about 19th-century murders.A glance at the wishlist he had posted publicly on Amazon's website betrayed eclectic academic and leisure interests: Patterns of Vengeance: Crosscultural Homicide in the North American Fur Trade is one of the books he had been planning to read. Another was Goodbye Lizzie Borden: the Story of the Trial of America's Most Famous Murderess. The DVDs he had lined up included David Lynch's cult horror classic Eraserhead and a box set called Notorious Killers.Griffiths' neighbours were unable to tell police or reporters much about him. He bred mice to feed to his pet lizards, apparently, and liked to walk his lizards on leads. "He said he was studying at university, people who had done murders," said Glyn Tucker, who lives in the flat below. "I just thought: 'This guy is weird.' "More could be discovered from his many postings on the internet, particularly on the social networking site MySpace. Using the pseudonym Ven Pariah and username Ven99, Griffiths posted a number of statements. "Humanity is not merely a biological condition," he wrote. "It is also a state of mind. On that basis I am a pseudo human at best. A demon at worst."He also quoted the Bible, Ezekiel 25:17: "The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides."Griffiths also appears to have posted more than 160 photographs on his site. One, taken a number of years ago, is a black and white portrait showing him with his hair slicked back. A second is a topless self-portrait taken in a mirror.In one message to a comment board, Griffiths writes of his friends in the art world in "lil' old Bradford", while in another he thanks a woman who contacted him and adds: "Thank you for that, Jacqueline, the thought and the sentiment are both truly appreciated. Hope you have a nice day as well – lots of them, in fact. Glad you could see past the scary image I generally project to the world."Speaking outside the police headquarters in Bradford, the CPS expressed its concern about some reporting of the case. "Mr Griffiths now stands charged with three extremely serious criminal offences and has the right to a fair trial," said Mann.