Tony Blair yesterday claimed the legal establishment was suffering from defeatism and in denial about a widespread public belief that the law was weighted against those who play by the rules.Launching a drive for criminal justice reform, which he will underline with a major speech this morning, the prime minister called for an increase in summary justice which would bring the law "right down to the level of the street".He will today warn that the UK is "fighting 21st century problems with 19th century solutions" because the criminal justice system has not adapted to changes in society, including the breakdown in communities and the impact of globalisation.The government is determined to draw a line under the crises buffeting the Home Office and accusations that it is running scared of tabloid newspapers' agendas.Mr Blair's spokesman said he was determined to look at the underlying issues, adding: "It is precisely the opposite of putting plasters on the problem - it is trying to come up with holistic solutions. What won't work is pretending the problem hasn't changed."The prime minister told Labour supporters at an event in Bristol that members of the public felt they had lost control over their communities and way of life and wanted to get it back.He added: "People feel that the criminal justice system is weighted in such a way that those that play by the rules and abide by the law are displaced, and not given a fair crack of the whip."In a subsequent interview with ITV, he suggested changes such as the introduction of interim antisocial behaviour orders while the full court process continued. "You have to give the police summary powers. We cannot keep on having these delays in court, because in the meantime, if there's no action, people feel depressed, worried, frightened and intimidated. We need to bring justice down to street level."The prime minister's remarks followed a series of meetings with communities in deprived areas of Bristol. He was jeered at and had an egg thrown at him at a community centre in Southmead, where he met victims of antisocial behaviour. Michelle Stone, 27, who lives near the centre, told him: "Things have actually got a lot worse, we've got groups of 30 youths who hang around outside my home causing chaos. They're armed with baseball bats and snooker cues and they are totally out of control."Susan Headford, 53, said she had lived in the Southmead area for 40 years and had never known it to be so bad. "Things have gone downhill over the last nine years. The police try to move on troublemakers but they just come back, and you are back to square one."James Gray, 65, told the prime minister he'd phoned 999 more than 180 times during the past 15 years but said officers rarely came round to his house. "I've lost £10,000 of my property because of these vandals. It's caused by one family but they say, 'If you go to court we'll have you'."Mark Payne, 38, told Mr Blair that he had been forced out of his home after 17 months of intimidation and harassment. He said: "Groups of youths were bullying my son. I was intimidated after reporting a burglary next door and the builders working on my house were beaten up. I said enough is enough, and moved to another area."Mr Blair admitted government programmes so far had struggled to reach some of the most difficult problem families that lay at the root of criminality. The prime minister has held several seminars with criminologists, policemen and politicians in advance of today's speech.He also promised to roll out neighbourhood policing, which he described as a modern-day version of the bobby on the beat, and said he would extend the use of community justice panels - piloted in Liverpool - which give local people a say in the enforcement of the law.In his speech today, Mr Blair will call for a "proper, considered and intellectual debate" about the nature of liberty. He will challenge those who have accused the government of playing to the tabloid gallery and attempt to draw a line under the controversies surrounding the Home Office, warning: "Because of the emotions inevitably stirred [by the issue of crime, immigration and security], the headlines that naturally scream, the multiplicity of the problems raised, we desperately, urgently need a rational debate from first principles, and preferably unrelated to the immediate convulsions on the issues of the moment."He will say: "It's no use saying that there should be no contradiction between the traditional protections for suspects and the rights of the law-abiding majority. In practice there is such a conflict. Every day we don't resolve it by rebalancing the system, the consequence is not abstract - it's out there, very real, on our streets."