Six years ago the entrepreneur Andrew Regan, then 31, was on the brink of pulling off one of the most audacious takeovers of a mutually owned business ever seen. At the eleventh hour, however, his £1.2bn hostile bid to wrest control and break up the Co-op, the largest mutual business in Europe, collapsed amid allegations of corruption and theft. Yesterday, after a first jury failed to reach a verdict and a second was discharged amid allegations of nobbling, Mr Regan was cleared of a single charge of £2.4m theft relating to his dealings with the Co-op two years earlier. Last week the third trial - during which jurors were placed under 24-hour police protection - also appeared to be on the brink of collapse when reports of further attempt at jury nobbling were brought to judge David Radford's attention. Appeals from the serious fraud office (SFO) to dismiss the entire jury and order a fourth trial were rejected. A single juror was discharged and the trial continued with 11 jury members sitting. There is no evidence to suggest that Mr Regan, or anyone connected with him, had been involved in attempts to bribe jury members. Some City sources suggest Mr Regan had a number of enemies who would have had an interest in disrupting the trials. The Metropolitan police is understood to be looking into the nobbling allegations. Just before lunch yesterday, Mr Regan walked free from Snaresbrook crown court in east London after being cleared - on a majority 10 to one verdict - of allegations that in 1995 he had stolen funds from a company he ran to bribe two Co-op executives. The acquittal comes as a blow to the SFO, which has had a number of high-profile setbacks since it was set up 16 years ago. Disappointments have included the acquittals of the Maxwell brothers, the Blue Arrow case and, last year, the acquittal of all five Wickes defendants after a multi-million-pound accounting fraud trial. The cost of the SFO's investigation and the three trials was £1.5m. The judge also ordered Mr Regan's costs to be paid. They are estimated to be up to £5m. Mr Regan has insisted the allegations were politically motivated, noting that attempts to portray him as the mastermind behind the 1995 Co-op bribery scandal only emerged after it became clear he was pursuing a hostile takeover bid for the Co-op in 1997. Many in the City of London and the Labour movement saw Mr Regan's break-up bid as an ideological assault, with the future of the entire cooperative movement at stake. Mr Regan had been lining up such household names as J Sainsbury and Allied Irish Bank to help him break up the Co-op, arguing the mutual giant was a sprawling mess of underperforming businesses, with interests in farming, insurance, banking, pharmacy, convenience stores and funeral services. The bid collapsed, however, after the Co-op and its bankers, suspicious as to how Mr Regan had become so well informed about the internal workings of the Co-op, asked private detective firm Control Risks to tail the corporate raider. The detectives filmed Mr Regan in the car park of the Bell House Hotel in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire, receiving confidential Co-op documents from Allan Green, then Co-op retail controller. With damning video evidence in hand, Co-op lawyers were able to obtain an injunction, forcing Mr Regan's bid to collapse in April 1997. Mr Justice Lightman ruled the conduct of Mr Regan and Mr Green had been "the clearest case of a gross, wilful and disgraceful breach of confidence". He added that both men's protestations of innocence were "patently dishonest".  Loophole Closer scrutiny of Mr Green revealed that in 1995 he and his deputy had each taken £1m bribes from a Dutch businessman Ronald Zimet to arrange a lucrative deal for the food manufacturing firm Hobson to supply some 1,000 Co-op own-brand products, from pickles to custard. At the time, Mr Regan was Hobson's chief executive and had been a signatory on the transfer of £2.4m into an off-shore account controlled by Mr Zimet. Controversially the SFO decided to strike a deal with Mr Zimet, who was living beyond the SFO's jurisdiction in Israel. Under the terms of the deal, Mr Zimet was granted immunity from prosecution on condition that he gave evidence against Mr Regan and the Co-op bosses at trial. Mr Regan, however, was also living beyond the SFO's reach in Monaco. Because of a loophole in Britain's extradition treaty with Monaco, which does not recognise the UK offence of corruption, the SFO was faced with two options: to concede that Mr Regan might never return to Britain, or to issue an international arrest warrant for theft - a less appropriate charge than that of corruption. It chose to pursue the theft charge. During the trial Mr Regan's counsel, John Kelsey-Fry QC, strongly and repeatedly denied the corporate raider had any involvement in corruption, but separately he added: "[Even] if the crown is right, he may have been corrupt but he is not a thief [as he is charged]." The jury was not told of the legal loophole that effectively prevented the SFO bringing a corruption charge against him. Mr Kelsey-Fry attacked the SFO for striking a deal with Mr Zimet, who had "taken them [the SFO] in". He said Mr Zimet's evidence had failed to stand up to cross-examination, describing him as the "most tainted and unreliable witness ... manifestly with his own interest to serve". Mr Zimet, who owned 7.5m shares in Hobson, was accused by Mr Kelsey-Fry of engineering the bribery himself - an allegation Mr Zimet denied. Giving evidence, Mr Zimet had claimed he had acted on Mr Regan's instructions. But Mr Kelsey-Fry accused the Dutchman of being the "ringmaster" who had organised the payments for his own interests. Yesterday a Co-op spokesman said: "This is a travesty of justice - however, it doesn't end here. We will proceed with our civil action for damages, which we estimate to be in excess of £10m." Outside court Mr Regan issued a statement, saying: "I have always maintained my innocence and so I am delighted to have been vindicated by the jury's verdict. "The last six years have been an extremely testing time for my family, friends, business colleagues, advisers and me. This verdict, although a long time coming, is a great relief to us all ... I am passionate about doing business and creating value for the people who invest and work with me. I very much look forward to continuing my business career." The SFO said: "Mr Regan's acquittal is not a disaster for us. The office should be judged on its overall record not on one case."