Britain's prison system faces scrutiny this weekend over its treatment of ethnic minority prisoners as new evidence is revealed about how an Asian inmate was killed by his white cellmate.The inquest into the death of Shahid Aziz, 30, will pose new questions about the role of staff at Leeds prison and raise fresh concerns about overcrowding in Britain's jails.Aziz was murdered within minutes of being locked in the same cell as Peter McCann, who had twice been caught in possession of an object with a blade in the weeks before the killing and had attacked fellow inmates on two previous occasions. Despite his history of violence, McCann, 25, was considered a 'low risk' threat to other prisoners.The inquest will be told that, after slashing Aziz's throat, McCann pulled him around the cell by his necklace and then struck him about the head. The two had never met before the day of the killing.After the murder on 2 April 2004, McCann said he had become angry that Aziz had spoken to another inmate in Urdu and expressed the view that white and Asian inmates should not share cells. He denied he was racist and alleged Aziz had pulled the weapon on him first, although McCann suffered no injuries.The Aziz inquest gives new hope to the family of the murdered man, who believe his death may have been racially motivated, a claim denied by police who investigated the murder.The inquest will hear evidence that Aziz, who was serving time for criminal damage and was awaiting trial on drugs charges, was involved in a fight with a prison officer three weeks before he was placed in the cell with McCann. Aziz's family want to establish what triggered the altercation which led to Aziz being placed in segregation. In the weeks leading up to his death, Aziz had complained of racist abuse by officers whom he alleged had told him that he would never get out of jail alive.Along with other Muslim prisoners, Aziz had submitted a petition complaining about racism in the prison. The day before he was killed he had given a statement to police in support of a white prisoner who alleged he had been assaulted by prison officers. The family claim that after Aziz's death they learned of a number of serious allegations made by black and Asian prisoners against prison staff at Leeds.The case has parallels with the murder of Zahid Mubarek, 19, who was beaten to death by Robert Stewart, a racist skinhead who had the letters 'RIP' tattooed on his forehead. An inquiry found 186 separate failings had resulted in Stewart being placed in a cell with Mubarek at Feltham Young Offenders' Institute in Middlesex in March 2000. The report found the prison service was plagued by institutional racism and called for an end to cell sharing.The Aziz inquest, which will be heard by a jury, is expected to last five weeks and will hear evidence from more than 60 witnesses including the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman, Stephen Shaw, the governor of Leeds prison, Ian Blakeman, and McCann, who is now serving life for murder.Parveen Mahmood, Aziz's widow, said she hoped the inquest would shine light on whether her husband's fight with the prison officer was in any way responsible for him being placed in a cell with McCann.'I want to know if there is a link between the incident with the prison officer and Shahid's murder,' she said. 'I hope that the many questions which I've had for over three years will finally be answered at the inquest - otherwise I will have been cheated.'The family have expressed concern that the judge at McCann's trial accepted his claim he was threatened by Aziz first. 'The judge said that only Peter McCann knows who had the knife to begin with,' Mohammed Farooq, Aziz's oldest brother, said shortly after the trial.'In fact, all the evidence we have been told about points to the conclusion that Shahid never had the knife that Peter McCann used to kill Shahid.'Deborah Coles, director of Inquest, the group that campaigns on behalf of families of prisoners who die in custody, said the hearing would provide a new opportunity to test the accountability of the prison service. It is unprecedented for an inquest to be heard into the murder of a person in custody if there has already been a prosecution.'In the case of Zahid Mubarek nobody was brought to account,' Coles said. 'We need to establish: how does the prison service demonstrate it has learnt lessons?' She said that question needed to be addressed urgently. 'With an ever expanding prison population, there is every danger this could happen again.'Since 2000 there have been 11 murders in prisons in England and Wales.