Police have arrested a 22-year-old man over the death of a pensioner who was attacked trying to put out a fire as riots hit London for a third night on Monday.Richard Mannington Bowes, 68, died in hospital just before midnight on Thursday after he was targeted in Ealing, west London. The suspect was held on suspicion of murder, rioting and carrying out three burglaries, Scotland Yard said.Bowes, an Ealing resident, was trying to extinguish a fire in a supermarket bin near the Arcadia shopping centre at around 10.45pm when he was set upon by rioters. The picture of Bowes lying face down in a pool of blood became an enduring image of the horror and brute violence of the riots.Bowes' brother-in-law, Michael Wilderspin, said he was amazed the police had made such a quick arrest. "I do hope that it will be a real lesson to other young people that it's just not worthwhile doing this sort of thing and breaking the law. I hope they'll take note and stop it," he told reporters.The dead man's sister, Anne Wilderspin, said she was struggling to understand what had happened since his death. "I don't really feel anything at the moment. I am overwhelmed by the last 24 hours and just feel a bit stunned. I am trying to come to terms with everything that's been going on."Wilderspin had lost contact with her brother over 30 years previously, and before his death said she was pleased at least that she had managed to see him again. Scotland Yard said Bowes' family had been informed of his death and that a postmortem examination would be held in due course.Detective Chief Inspector John McFarlane, of the Metropolitan Police's homicide and serious crime command, said: "This was a brutal incident that resulted in the senseless killing of an innocent man."Ealing Council flew the union flag over its town hall at half-mast following his death as a mark of respect for the pensioner. It also announced that it was launching an appeal to help all victims of the riot in the borough in memory of the murdered pensioner, to be called the Richard Mannington Bowes Relief Fund.Council leader Julian Bell said Bowes had died trying to protect the area in which he lived. "Although I did not know Mr Mannington Bowes, what I know about him I liked and my thoughts are with his family and friends. He was out on Monday night trying to protect the area where he lived and standing up for what is right. Sadly, someone who will clearly never share these values murdered him as a mob rampaged through our normally quiet streets."Angie Bray, MP for Ealing Central and Acton, said his death was "an appalling tragedy" that was a direct result of the riots. "He was clearly a good neighbour and an upstanding citizen. On the night when he was attacked, he was simply doing his duty as a loyal member of the local community. Obviously, our thoughts must be with his family and friends at this sad time, but the whole community has lost a good friend. Society can ill afford to lose decent people like Mr Mannington Bowes. We are all the poorer without him."