It appears that all the sergeants who lead London's 630 safer neighbourhood community policing teams (SNTs) will have to reapply for the reduced number of such posts that will be left after 150 have been axed. I say "appears" because the Met haven't confirmed this in so many words, though it has told me that: Boroughs will be advised on their new number of Safer Neighbourhoods Sergeants, and asked to conduct a selection process and preference exercise for Safer Neighbourhoods Sergeants, under corporate guidelines...This process is due for completion in September 2011.And:There will be a local, centrally defined, selection process on each borough, and a preference exercise for selected Sergeants to nominate their preferred wards.If that means something other than that all of London's present 630 SNT sergeants will have to reapply for the 480 remaining SNT sergeant jobs in the autumn, I apologise - but it looks that way to me. It also looks that way to Karen Buck, the Labour MP for Westminster North, who has written to assistant commissioner Ian McPherson, the man in charge of reviewing SNTs, expressing her disquiet. She adds that she is "deeply concerned" about the implications for morale.That concern is shared by Elizabeth Virgo, who chairs the SNT residents' panel in Westminster's Little Venice ward. Paying warm tribute to the work of her local sergeant and others in the borough over several years, she describes a slump in spirits on her patch as "worse than sad." So much work has been done to make the local team effective, she explains, speaking knowledgeably of youth gang movements and the cultivation of grassroots confidence. Westminster is to lose six of its sergeants. Boris Johnson's argument is that those who end up taking charge of two wards as a result will be more than capable of it, but Virgo believes such thinking underestimates the roles the sergeants play: "They do so much beyond the normal duties, so much to hold the place together." She thinks the Met's handling of the SNT changes has been "cack-handed," that their reorganisation - which I reported on here - is "a waste of public money and time," and that if further cuts are made next year it will mean "the end of SNTs as we know them." It all seems rather at odds with Boris's vote-chasing soundbite that London will contain more warranted police officers in total at the end of his mayoral term than there were at the beginning. This claim has triggered ugly scenes in City Hall and a very bloody abacus war. The anger is explicable, because Boris is regarded by his political foes as a serial figure-fiddler - a view the UK Statistics Authority itself has been known to share. But is the consternation justified? Looked at in the round, the numbers at issue are not so vast: Boris reckons there will be 32,510 full-time Met cops at the start of next financial year. His critics say that will be 748 fewer than there were in February 2010 - a high point achieved thanks to the priorities of the previous mayor - which means he's actually reducing police numbers, rather than increasing them. Cut those numbers how you like, we're not talking huge quantities in percentage terms. And if, like me, you take the unfashionable view that variations in crime levels are related to many factors other than the numbers of bobbies on the beat, you'd prefer our politicians to be getting worked up about something else. That said, Ian McPherson's own report to the Metropolitan Police Authority described SNTs as "a major success for the MPS, and has delivered significant improvements in community confidence since it was introduced in 2006." A chart showing healthy trends in public attitudes to police makes the point well. If those trends start to reverse, reductions in the sergeants assigned to SNTs will be prime suspects in many eyes.