The final death toll of the serial killer Harold Shipman may be 192 murder victims, police said yesterday.It had been thought that 175 patients had been killed by the former family doctor from Mottram, near Hyde, Greater Manchester. But the number of suspicious deaths investigated by police continued to rise after Shipman's conviction in January for murdering 15 female patients. The bearded and bespectacled former doctor, who was struck off by the General Medical Council after his conviction, is believed to be the most prolific serial killer in Britain. Det Supt Bernard Postles, who led the murder investigation, said the main police incident room would now be winding down. "The inquiry has investigated the deaths of 192 of Shipman's patients and officers are still in the process of inform ing the families of the results of those investigations. "The major work in relation to the investigation of Harold Shipman's criminal activities is now complete and the need to maintain a major incident room at Ashton-under-Lyne police station has now passed. Officers will continue with the remaining work from Stalybridge police station." Shipman, 54, who is serving 15 life sentences at Frankland prison in County Durham, was found guilty of murdering 15 women with lethal injections of morphine. He was also conicted of forging the £386,000 will of one of the women so that he would benefit from her estate. Throughout the most recent police inquiry, Shipman has refused to cooperate with detectives investigating the deaths. The relatives of many of his victims are seeking a judicial review of the decision to hold the inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the Shipman deaths in private. They are demanding a public inquiry in which they are legally represented. The independent inquiry, headed by Lord Laming, is examining the performance of everyone involved in the case. Although the relatives are entitled to give evidence to the hearing, they will be represented by solicitors. Lord Laming is expected to report to Alan Milburn, the health secretary, by the autumn. Jack Straw, the home secretary, has also given permission to the south Manchester coroner, John Pollard, to hold inquests into the deaths of 23 of Shipman's patients. Mr Pollard needed Mr Straw's permission to hold the inquests because the suspected murder victims had been cremated. He has indicated that he wants the inquests to take place as soon as possible. Shipman will also be informed of his right to attend the inquests. The crown prosecution service has said that it had enough evidence to charge Shipman with 23 additional murders, but decided against charging him as he could not receive a fair trial.