Representatives of families of terrorist suspects yesterday dismissed a police initiative to assign them liaison officers after anti-terror raids.The Association of Chief Police Officers, which revealed the move yesterday, believes it could ease community tensions after high-profile operations like the recent raid in Forest Gate in east London in which a young man was shot.A spokeswoman said yesterday that discussions had been going on for some time but the raid in Forest Gate gave the issue added impetus. The initiative is likely to involve a dedicated team of family liaison officers made up of Muslim officers and community volunteers.Irene Nembhard, the solicitor acting for Abul Kahar Kalam, 23, and his brother Abul Koyair Kalam, 20, who were arrested in the Forest Gate raid, said there was a need for the police to prevent the trauma occurring in the first place rather than trying to limit the damage afterwards."We would prefer that they put more efforts into ensuring that the intelligence information they have is of an acceptable quality before they completely disrupt people's lives," she said. "They need to review the manner in which they enter the homes of people for whom they have even quality intelligence so that it is done in a way that causes the least trauma."She accused the police of being "parsimonious" in their support for the family after the brothers were released without charge. The family was still waiting for their home to be repaired and had problems making mortgage payments because none had been well enough to return to work since the raid by 250 officers and the shooting of Abul Kahar Kalam. The lawyer said repeated attempts to retrieve personal property taken by the Metropolitan police had so far failed.A poll in yesterday's Guardian revealed that most Muslims surveyed have lost confidence in Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police commissioner, over the raids, with 54% saying he should resign over the Forest Gate raid.Asad Rehman, chairman of the Newham monitoring project, was equally dismissive of the announcement by Acpo.Mr Rehman said sending a family liaison officer was like using a sticking plaster to stem an open wound. "The real question is why these raids are taking place in the way they are in the first place. We would prefer that the police and security services concentrate on getting better intelligence before mounting such raids."Mr Rehman, who worked with the family of Jean Charles de Menezes, the Brazilian shot dead by police after the July 7 attacks, said the relatives felt "trapped" in a hotel by a family liaison officer. "What they need is good legal advice at a time like that, not to be cut off from their community and support."Up to 200 officers were involved in anti terrorist raids in Greater Manchester yesterday in which two men were arrested. The raids targeted individuals suspected of possessing information that could be used for terrorism.They were not connected with previous operations in the Greater Manchester area, according to a police spokesman. It is believed the two men are suspected of gathering terrorist propaganda, and information on how to form a terrorist cell and make detonators.Assistant Chief Constable Dave Jones said: "We believe the action taken today was absolutely necessary to minimise any risk to communities at home and abroad."The arrests have been made after careful planning and are part of an ongoing investigation. We have been liaising with community representatives to ensure the operation has been carried out with the minimum impact on local people."One of the men arrested is thought to live at Lansdowne Close in the predominantly white Tonge Moor area of Bolton. Neighbours in the cul-de-sac said he moved in around six months ago and shared the house with his wife and three young sons. Police cordoned off three properties and took a black suitcase, travel bag and two carrier bags from a house.