An unexpected 25% increase in personal thefts and a 4% rise in domestic burglaries in the official quarterly crime figures published yesterday confirmed predictions that the recession and rising joblessness will fuel a rise in property crime.The 4% increase in break-ins for the second successive quarter, spanning last summer and winter, marks the end of a sustained 55% fall in burglaries in England and Wales since the mid-1990s.Overall, police-recorded crime figures for October to December 2008 published yesterday show that the crime rate fell by 4%. The separate British Crime Survey, which interviews 40,000 victims of crime, also reported that the rate remained broadly stable during 2008, compared with the previous year.Although the total number of robberies fell by 2% on the police recorded figures, they showed a worrying 5% increase in the number carried out at knifepoint in the last three months of 2008.The police figures show encouraging progress in tackling gun crime, with a 16% reduction in the number of firearm offences. They also record a 12% fall in the number of murders as a result of stabbings, which are down from 59 to 52.The figures show criminal damage offences down 9%, car crime down 7%, other theft offences down 4%, violence against the person down 6%, and sexual offences down 1%. Drug offences rose by 6%, to 62,000. The Home Office said this followed rises of 10% or more in drug offences in the previous three quarters, mainly due to more use of police powers to issue cannabis warnings as a result of its reclassification from class B to class C. Home Office statisticians said the 25% surge in personal thefts - which include snatch thefts of items such as wallets and phones and involve little force - to 716,000 incidents was statistically significant, but it was too early to say whether it indicated a change in recent trends. They pointed out that the rise was not reflected in other categories of personal "acquisitive crime" on the British Crime Survey.But the Association of Police Authorities described it as a worrying development which needed to be closely monitored for links with the economic downturn.Home Office minister Vernon Coaker acknowledged the government is now facing "new challenges" of increases in burglary and other so-called acquisitive crimes: "We are focusing our experience and knowledge to tackle these head-on. That is why we have already responded to early concerns about burglary - working with police, charities, DIY stores and insurers to increase enforcement activity, target repeat offenders and give advice to help people secure their homes."The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Chis Huhne, said the figures showed clear evidence of rising theft and burglaries as the recession bites. "We are facing a credit crunch crime wave," he said. His Tory counterpart, Chris Grayling, also said the jump in burglaries and knifepoint robberies was alarming.The crime figures bear out the Home Office's warning to Downing Street last year that an economic slowdown "would place significant upward pressure on acquisitive crime [theft, robbery and burglary] and, therefore, overall crime figures". But the rises have yet to reach the levels estimated by Home Office internal projections, based on crime rates during the last recession in the early 1990s. They estimated that property crime could rise by 7% in 2008 and by a further 2% in 2009. They also noted that violent crime rose by 19% after the 1991-92 recession. Increases on this scale have yet to be reflected in the official crime figures.