A former publican convicted of a "targeted campaign of murder" against five vulnerable young women was yesterday told he would die in prison. Steve Wright, 49, who selected and murdered the sex workers over six weeks, joins the handful of killers with no hope of release.They include the Moors murderer Ian Brady, Dennis Nilsen, convicted in 1983 of strangling and dismembering six young men, Jeremy Bamber, who killed his family in 1985, and Rosemary West.Justice Peter Gross told Wright: "In my judgment, on reflection and without hesitation or doubt, this is a case for a whole life order. It is right you should spend the rest of your life in prison."Wright had shown little emotion throughout the five-week trial at Ipswich crown court. He sat stony-faced in the dock, staring straight ahead throughout yesterday's 20-minute hearing. Relatives of the murdered women wept in the crowded public gallery.A jury of seven men and three women took fewer than six hours to find Wright guilty of the murders of Tania Nicol, 19, Gemma Adams, 25, Anneli Alderton, 24, Annette Nicholls, 29, and Paula Clennell, 24. Yesterday, the judge outlined the crimes: "Between late October and December 2006, you set out on a campaign of murder. You selected five prostitutes walking the streets of Ipswich and you murdered them. The women in question were vulnerable in the sense that they were exposed to the inherent risks of their occupation. They were additionally vulnerable in that the drugs that they had taken took away their capacity to resist."I should make one thing clear: the five women were addicted to drugs that led them to prostitution to fund their addiction. Drugs and prostitution exposed them to risk but neither drugs nor prostitution killed them - you did. You are responsible for their deaths. "The judge told Wright he was required by the Criminal Justice Act 2003 to determine whether life imprisonment, the only sentence for murder, should mean life or whether he should fix a minimum term. A whole life sentence is deemed appropriate if the crime is "exceptionally" serious.Only 35 people in prison are serving whole life tariffs, according to the Ministry of Justice. The last person before Wright was David Tiley in June last year, jailed for murdering his disabled fiancee and her carer. Sixteen of the 35 have been convicted in the last four years.The judge said: "Weeks of evidence, much of it scientific, should not obscure nor anaesthetise the enormity of the offences. These murders involved a substantial degree of premeditation and planning. You killed them, stripped them, disposed of their clothing and abandoned their bodies, in the case of two of them in the macabre pose in which they were found. It is unnecessary to say more."Sources said Wright would be taken to Bellmarsh prison in south London, and be put on suicide watch and have routine psychiatric assessments. He is likely to go later to a high security prison.Suffolk police said detectives investigating the death of estate agent Suzy Lamplugh had asked to see the Wright file. Lamplugh, 25, disappeared in 1986 after leaving her office in Fulham, west London. Her body has never been found and in 1994 she was officially declared to be dead. Wright and Lamplugh worked together on the QE2 liner in the 1980s.Suffolk police said the Metropolitan police contacted them in relation to the Lamplugh case as standard procedure, but there"was no evidence pointing to his involvement in any other crimes."