Britain's most senior police officers are to come out today in favour of the government's plans for "community-driven policing" but will argue that it needs a more "flexible police workforce" and the support of a new "national modernisation agency".But Chris Fox, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, has told the Guardian that for the next wave of police reform to succeed the government would have to scrap some of the 28 separate national targets imposed on the police and give local police commanders the autonomy they need to respond to local demands. The next stage of the government's police reforms is to focus on local and regional policing following the announcement of a new crime agency at the national level. Closer to the Citizen - the official response by the chief constables to the green paper on police reform from the home secretary, David Blunkett - says they are willing to consider new "strategic alliances" between the 43 police forces in England and Wales. They reject the idea of elected sheriffs on the grounds that the best American forces are moving away from such models, but are willing to see new forms of local community accountability. But the association says these must be based on a new professional code for police. The chief constables also warn that growth in policing has not kept pace with demand, and imaginative ways of increasing the capacity of the police need to be found. The changing focus of policing in Britain follows the first national strategic assessment of crime and disorder across England and Wales. Its findings, also published today, identify significant changes in the pattern of crime. These include a doubling in calls to police in the past eight years; an increase in the impact of criminal use of drugs at all levels; a switch in the pattern of "bulk crime" away from threats to property towards more threats to people; an increase in fragmented communities and new communities which have little ability to police themselves; and a gap in the capacity of the police to expand into neighbourhood policing. Mr Fox said: "The need to deal with fear and insecurity in communities, violent crime and the links between neighbourhood and serious and organised crime suggest the time for change. "We seem to have developed a culture of too many targets which beside the changing world of police has led to a stretch in policing and a lack of police capability." He said suggestions from ministers that local police commanders should have to earn autonomy over their resources had already led to regulatory overload with one force reporting 37 different inspections, audits or checks in the past 12 months. Instead, the chief constables want to see local commanders being given autonomy automatically and inspections focus on the best and worst. Commanders whose performance was not up to scratch would lose local autonomy. But Mr Fox also said the police had to develop a more flexible workforce to be trained to work within neighbourhoods and to deal with emerging crimes, such as identity theft. This meant pension provisions which allowed people to move in and out of the service more easily, better use of support staff, and the employment of specialist investigators such as accountants. A better mix of age, gender and ethnic backgrounds was also needed. That meant tackling the problem that a recruit aged over 30 who joined the force had to start on the same basic salary as a 20-year-old. The chief constables said that although police numbers were at record levels, there was little headroom if other priorities were merely added on. Mr Fox said a national modernisation agency would be needed to ensure national standards were enforced and to develop a new police culture.