A radical overhaul of the way suspicious cot deaths are investigated is needed to avoid miscarriages of justice and torment for bereaved mothers, according to experts in the field.In the wake of the Trupti Patel case, where a mother was cleared of murdering her three babies, children's charities and pathologists said the investigations needed to be carried out initially by expert panels of doctors, before a decision is made to prosecute. Professor Tony Risdon, consultant paediatric pathologist at Great Ormond Street Hospital in London, said: 'In child deaths where there is a suspicion that it is not natural, we need a different way of dealing with the problem. 'At the moment, the prosecution lines up their expert witnesses, the defence lines up theirs. If you want to get to the truth, having such an adversarial system, with one set of doctors pitted against the other, is hardly the right way to go about it.' He wants to see panels of pathologists and paediatricians jointly reviewing all the evidence for each case before a decision is made to hand it over to the Crown Prosecution Service. Similar groups have been set up for child protection work involving teams of social workers, police and doctors, where abuse is suspected but the evidence may not be clear cut. The trial which resulted last week in Patel being acquitted of murdering her three babies, Amar, Jamie and Mia, highlighted the medical uncertainty that still surrounds cot death. At the centre of it was Professor Sir Roy Meadow, the paediatrician whose evidence played a leading role in convicting solicitor Sally Clark of murdering her two sons. Her conviction was overturned earlier this year because not all the medical details were disclosed to the defence. There was also criticism over Meadow's use of statistics when he stated that the chances of losing two babies to cot death were 73 million to one. In the Patel case, Meadow put forward the view that 'two cot deaths is suspicious, three is murder'. But the cases collapsed when Risdon admitted in court that the broken ribs suffered by one of the babies could have been the result of hospital resuscitation practices. The jury heard that an inherited disorder might have also to have been to blame for the deaths. Patel's grandmother flew from India to explain to the court how five of her 12 children had died soon after birth. Three of the deaths were unexpected, with no signs of infection. There are around 300 cot deaths, or sudden infant deaths, each year in Britain, with around 10 per cent estimated to be the result of maltreatment. One theory is that genetic factors, such as Long QT syndrome, a disorder which can cause sudden heart failure, could be responsible. But there is no firm evidence for this, and it remains a hypothesis. Both the Foundation for the Study of Infant Deaths and the Child Bereavement Trust want to see all the evidence in a suspicious case weighed by independent experts before it gets to court. The Foundation's director Joyce Epstein said: 'Instead of the present haphazard system, we need decent investigations to be done from the start with all the relevant people coming together to form a conclusion which they present to the coroner or to a judge. 'The notion that such cases can be settled in a court of law is quite frankly, daft.' Ministers are already understood to be reviewing the implications of both the Patel and Clark cases for the way the CPS treats mothers under suspicion. Last night Clark's MP, George Osborne, called for a review of whether such families should face a trial at all. 'In Sally Clark's case it was a real miscarriage of justice in that she spent time in prison while in the case of Trupti Patel clearly, given the outcome, a prosecution should never have been brought,' said Osborne, Conservative MP for Tatton. 'Given that there is no set tled view in the medical community about the evidence of the deaths of these very young children, that in itself should give us real cause for concern about bringing murder charges. 'Even if you had a case - and I am not suggesting that this is the case in either of those two - where a mother had killed her infant, perhaps in the first weeks after birth, is a murder charge really the right charge to bring? Surely that mother needs psychiatric help, not to be put through a court system?'