Police discovered the dismembered body of a 15-year-old schoolgirl three days after she was abducted, officers said yesterday.Rochelle Holness vanished on Sunday evening after going to use a phone box near her home on a council estate in Catford, south-east London.Police were alerted on Wednesday morning when an ambulance was called to a top-floor flat in Milford Towers, near Rochelle's home, where a woman had reported that her partner was trying to harm himself. Rochelle's body was found in bin bags, near an external stairwell on the estate. A Scotland Yard spokesman said Rochelle was of African Caribbean/mixed race origin.The couple, who are white and both aged 47, were arrested. The man was initially taken to hospital for treatment to cuts but detectives are questioning the pair at separate police stations. Detective Superintendent Paul McAleenan, leading the murder inquiry, said: "Rochelle was last seen on Sunday evening around 7pm. She was believed to be going to use a phone box in the vicinity of Milford Towers. She was later reported missing."At this early stage, it is not clear when Rochelle was killed. I want to hear from anyone who was in the area any time from Sunday evening to the early hours of Wednesday." A weapon has not been recovered and forensic officers are examining the flat in Milford Towers to ascertain if the murder was committed there.Huw Williams, chairman of Milford Towers' Residents Association, said: "Around midday [Wednesday] four police officers turned up and we didn't think much of it. About an hour later there were more than 40. They taped up most of the block and told us there had been a major incident." Another resident, who did not want to be named, said: "It's terrifying to have something like this on your doorstep. I've never felt safe here, security is so poor." Milford Towers - 276 flats in five blocks above Catford shopping centre - was once notorious for crime but Mr Williams said police and the community association had turned things around.