The murder of a 22-year-old student in the Italian city of Perugia has shocked the city and driven home just how vulnerable young people studying abroad can be in a place where everyone is a stranger. Meredith Kercher was found on Friday afternoon in her bedroom by police. They had come to return her mobile phone, which had been found by a neighbour in a nearby garden.The fact that she was pursuing her postgraduate studies under the auspices of the European Union Erasmus programme, which is designed to foster greater cultural understanding and a sense of shared nationhood between Europeans, only adds to the tragedy. As someone whose Italian wife runs a 'study abroad' programme of her own in Italy, I am well aware of the risks students can unwittingly run when they are new to even the safest of towns.For students studying abroad - and there have been 1.4 million Erasmus students in Europe in the past 20 years - it is frequently their first experience of living independently with money in their pockets and no one keeping tabs on them.The vast majority have the times of their lives: they party, make new friends from different cultures and learn a great deal more than what is taught on their course. My wife's programme - tiny by comparison to Erasmus - has already resulted in several marriages. But there will always be a danger that you meet the wrong people, make the wrong decisions, and find yourself in situations you would never have dreamt of encountering at home. Making mistakes is so easy when you're young, the language you are speaking is unfamiliar and everyone wants to be your friend - and this is especially the case if you're a young woman. Signals can be misread on both sides.Generally this leads to misunderstandings, but no more; at most a few harsh words and the shedding of drunken tears. Very exceptionally, though, things can turn more serious.The circumstances surrounding Meredith's death are still far from clear. Early reports in the Italian press suggest she had just returned from a watching a film at a friend's house and that her female flatmates - two Italians and an American - did not return to the apartment that night.Many study-abroad programmes try to mix nationalities when sharing accommodation as part of what is considered to be part of the wider educational experience. But there is certainly no obligation to look out for one another or become friends.Many programmes have student advisers whose job is to offer advice and guidance in the place of parents and friends. Other schemes do not, and students are left to find their own way, fumbling through a forest of mutual incomprehension. Some have questioned whether the Erasmus programme does enough in this regard. That question will now be asked again.· Author Peter Jinks lives in Sicily. His wife Lucia runs a 'study abroad' programme