Only one thing matters about crime: is it getting worse? Most headlines today will claim violence is rising when it is falling, experts will be ignored and the people will be deceived, diminishing the general well-being. (The BBC will as usual split the difference between a lie and the truth).What terrifies is fear that crime is "out of control": fear that the world is going to the dogs is embedded deep in the human psyche. The old think life was better when they were young, translating that personal loss into general pessimism about the present. An aging population will grow more afraid of the scary, lawless young; so unlike their own dear, disciplined days. The universal myth of some golden age set in the imagined time just beyond what we can remember suggests the world has been in moral decline since time began.So persuading people that things may not be worse is like rolling boulders uphill against the natural gravity of the human condition. But the only real rise in crime last year was in the use of imitation firearms. For all the shocking headlines, figures showing 9% more violence was recorded by the police does not mean violence went up: it almost certainly went down by 10%. We are living in remarkable times when crime has fallen steadily by well over a third since 1995. Why? There are as many plausible explanations as there are criminologists (rising prison population is not plausible: every 24% rise in prison numbers only cuts crime by 1%). But a vast industry of mendacity has a vested interest in scaring people witless with front-page shock, TV cops and doom-laden moral panic editorials. Unfortunately, this year's figures emerge into the foetid air of an election with Tory posters reading: "How would you feel if a bloke on early release attacked your daughter?" Crime always plays well, always a top concern for voters. But be not bamboozled by the apparent confusion of figures.Only one set of statistics gives a probable impression of what is going on out there: the British Crime Survey (BCS). Every year it interviews a sample of 40,000 people (40 times more than ordinary opinion polls) to ask them if they have been the victims of crime. It asks exactly the same questions so there is a reasonable chance that it measures exactly the same phenomena year after year. Crime recorded by the police, on the other hand, is subject to the great vagaries of recent new recording rules, shifting incentives, political imperatives and changing public sensitivity. The BCS tells the more alarming story since it discloses far more crime, picking up the vast volume that is never reported: 43% of crimes in the BCS survey have never been reported to police, and of those that are reported, the police did not record 68% as they fell below the current radar of recordable offences. So here we are, apparently entering a golden age of law and order where violent crime has fallen again, with burglary, car crime and everything else tumbling down so fast that when Labour vows to cut crime by another 15% by 2008 it already looks meaninglessly easy. At last fear of crime is beginning to fall a little in response - but it remains quite out of kilter with the facts. Mori finds people still think crime is terrible, but by luck in their own area they feel it has improved a bit. The trouble for the government is that no level of crime is acceptable: if it says things are getting better, it sounds dangerously complacent to victims for whom general crime rates are supremely irrelevant. Crime, its perception and its reporting, abides in a land of shifting sands. Official figures tell very little about social history. Is antisocial behaviour really getting worse or are people these days just less tolerant of things they shrugged off in the past? There is far less tolerance of violence now. Just as our expectations for health, education or the environment ratchet up all the time, so does our demand for an ever more orderly society. But while we know how bad health used to be, attitudes towards crime are cloaked in nostalgic amnesia. Here is one example. "Before the war" is often cited as the current golden age when people may have been poor but they didn't thieve and the public was orderly. Sir Robert Mark, Met commissioner and first media superstar cop, in his 1978 autobiography inadvertently reveals another picture of the rough and tumble of street life for a Manchester beat constable in the late 1930s.  He writes cheerily of "the odd brawl and punch-up" when patrolling the city centre at weekends in strength "because drunks frequently started fights and a good time was had by all". Jovially he recounts a "funny" story: "One Friday night an enormous navvy pushed the head of a constable through a shop window and started quite a battle in which uniformed and plain clothes men cheerfully joined in ... it grew to quite serious proportions, stopping the traffic ... the crowd was jeering and becoming unpleasantly restive." So what did he do? He took out his illegal rubber truncheon and gave the offender "a hefty whack on the shin", which broke his leg. In court the prisoner with his leg in plaster was fined "the customary 10 shillings" for this routine Saturday night fight. But Mark's point is: "Far from there being any hard feelings he greeted me cheerfully and we went off for a drink together. Nowadays, of course, it would mean a complaint, an enquiry, papers to the director of public prosecutions. Not that I didn't deserve it, but times were different, thank goodness." His nostalgia is for no-nonsense, no-bureaucracy policing, but what he reveals in passing is a world where drunken riot was frequent, and sensibility about what crime is serious was very different. If a villain put a policeman's head through a window now it would be a major crime with a long sentence, not a bit of a laugh and a small fine. People hitting each other was more frequent and more acceptable than now. Yet 48% of "violent" crime reported in yesterday's figures caused no injury whatsoever. These shock-horror reports about bingeing Britain are certainly right about more booze consumed in these full-employment times, right that most violence is drunk young men hitting each other, but devoid of any historical perspective on street brawling. Social history is tricky. Official records tell only what people consider worth recording at the time. Public sensibilities change with the wind, making some crimes feel more serious while other crimes once considered heinous now seem harmless to modern minds. Even very recent history is shifting sand as people wildly misremember or simply never knew the real facts of their youth. But in crime it matters that we remember right: social history is precious. If things are not getting worse why live in a fog of pessimism? If things are getting better people should feel better.  polly.toynbee@theguardian.com