Damilola Taylor would have been 11 today. His parents Richard and Gloria made a real fuss of him last year, hosting a party and pantomime, so he was expecting less of a celebration this time round.But Mr and Mrs Taylor still had a treat or two in store for their "lovely, innocent boy". One was a Bible - a present he had asked for. They also wanted to buy him biscuits and chocolates to take to Oliver Goldsmith primary school to share with his classmates - something of a tradition for children in Nigeria. Instead of sharing his excitement, Mr and Mrs Taylor will mourn him this morning at a service in Southwark, south London, and pray those same schoolfriends provide detectives with the clues that will catch his killer. Yesterday, Mr Taylor, 55, spoke of the son he lost on Monday last week in a series of interviews at Scotland Yard. He broke down once, but gathered himself quickly to de scribe how he missed Damilola, his expectation of "traditional British justice", and his sadness that his son - "who must have suffered terribly" - was bullied at school for being good, diligent and hardworking. "It is not the prayer of any parent to outlive their children and have to witness this calamity... it will be the sad part of our lives which will remain with us forever. "I cannot tell you how aggrieved I am at the sad loss of Damilola, my last son and child. His mother wanted him and he took 10 years to come and he gave us only 10 years of happiness. "I cannot imagine where his body is but I am sure his soul is in a happier place. We all miss this lovely boy and I think my life can never be the same without Damilola." Mr Taylor was in Nigeria when his son was found in a stairwell leading to the North Hordle Promenade of the North Peckham estate in Southwark. He had been stabbed once in the left leg, probably with a knife, as he walked along nearby Blake's Road. The wound had cut his femoral artery, causing uncontrollable bleeding. Four months ago, Damilola moved to London with his mother because his sister needed treatment at a London hospital. Mr Taylor, a Nigerian ministry of defence manager working in Lagos, knew he was finding it difficult to settle. In phone calls to Nigeria, Damilola told his father he was being taunted and bullied. "They were harassing him, beating him up, calling him names. They were scratching him with implements. "It got to the point that he could not bear it anymore. Whenever he wanted to play, they used to beat him up. He told me he was being bullied. "He was crying. He was being called names and he was being called 'gay' and said [to me] 'what is gay?' In our country the name is not used by kids." Mr Taylor said his spirit broke when he visited the spot where Damilola died. "There was no one to help, no one to take him to hospital." Mr Taylor said he had been horrified by the housing and poverty on the North Peckham estate. He said the UK seemed to have changed since he lived in Middlesex in the 1970s. "I never saw violence or a child attacked. It was peaceful. Since I have arrived here I do not think I have seen a policeman on the beat. "They used to come round and find out your problems. They were friendly. That is not the situation now. That must have led to the deterioration of family values." Damilola, he said, had led a disciplined life "cut short by the acts of persons who could never have thought that his life was of great value to us. "We think the killers should be caught immediately. Somebody somewhere knows something and for some reason is sheltering the perpetrators of this crime. If [they] are not brought to justice in time, the crime will be repeated," he said. "Somebody like me will come up to make an appeal. The police must be given all assistance to investigate this case." Detective Superintendent David Dillnutt said a new witness had seen three youths, aged between 12 and 14, in Blake's Road moments before Damilola was stabbed. He said they may have "crucial" evidence and urged them to come forward.