Hospital staff are being questioned by police over three patient deaths after medication was deliberately tampered with, affecting 12 patients on a ward.Police were called in by Stepping Hill hospital in Stockport after it was discovered insulin had been injected into ampoules of saline solution. It appears that 36 ampoules in a storeroom were affected. On Monday, a nurse noticed that 12 patients on her ward had unexpectedly low blood sugar levels.Three patients died, including a 44-year-old woman with multiple sclerosis and a 71-year-old man with serious medical conditions. Both were terminally ill. The third person was 84. The specific ward has not been identified.Greater Manchester police's major incident team is investigating. The South Manchester coroner has been informed and is consulting with police.Detectives are now trying to find out whether the insulin led to the deaths of the patients. Postmortem examinations are due to be carried out by a Home Office pathologist.Staff at the hospital alerted police on Tuesday after the discovery of the problem with patients' blood sugar levels.An internal investigation by hospital bosses found that the saline ampoules had apparently been interfered with.The ampoules are stored in a central location at the hospital but a small number are also stored on the ward where the affected patients were. All affected patients and their relatives have been informed.Detective Superintendent Julian Ross, who is leading the inquiry, said: "This investigation is at a very early stage and we don't know what effect, if any, the [contamination] has had to the wellbeing of any patients."We have recovered a number of ampoules of solution and are working closely with the hospital to try to get to the bottom of what has happened."There is no need for people in the community to be unduly alarmed but I would ask anyone who might have information about what may have happened to get in touch."In a statement, Stockport NHS Foundation Trust said: "We called in GMP [Greater Manchester police] to investigate after staff found that some saline ampoules were found to be contaminated at the hospital."On 11 July, an experienced nurse reported a higher than normal number of patients on her ward with unexplained low blood sugar levels."The hospital found that some saline ampoules had been interfered with and, as a result, commenced an immediate investigation. GMP has been asked to assist with the investigation, which is at a very early stage.Stockport NHS Foundation Trust's chief executive, Dr Chris Burke, said: "We are now in the process of contacting patients and the relatives of those who may have been affected."The trust has done an initial check of all ampoules in the hospital and is carrying out a number of additional measures to safeguard patients."The South Manchester coroner, John Pollard, said: "I am investigating two deaths. I've ordered a Home Office pathologist to carry out postmortem examinations. I am awaiting the results in consultation with the police."