Ian Huntley's lies after Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman died do not prove that he murdered them, the judge at his Old Bailey trial warned yesterday.But if the jurors believe he lied to them when he described how the 10-year-olds met their deaths, that would be "totally different", Mr Justice Moses told them. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the girls at his home in Soham, Cambridgeshire, on August 4 last year. He has told the court that Holly died in his bath accidentally, while Jessica died when he put his hand over her mouth to stop her screaming. He admits conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Summing up the case on its 26th day, Mr Justice Moses told the jurors to set aside the emotions it inevitably aroused and reach their verdicts on the evidence alone. He said the "ease" with which Mr Huntley and his then girlfriend Maxine Carr lied between the girls' disappearance and their arrests was relevant in judging their testimony. Ms Carr, 26, denies conspiracy to pervert the course of justice and two counts of assisting an offender. She claims she gave her fiance a false alibi believing he was innocent. Mr Justice Moses said the couple's deceit was only proof of the case against them if intended to hide their guilt over the schoolfriends' deaths.He suggested that the jurors focus on Mr Huntley's account of how the schoolfriends died, telling them: "If you came to the conclusion [his version of] what happened in the bathroom was a lie, that is totally different. "You would be entitled to ask why he had lied. You may conclude that to lie about how one or both girls came to die was because he murdered them." He added: "You are left with the sudden deaths of two healthy girls without a credible explanation as to how the deaths came about from the one person who could have explained them to you." But that would still not be evidence of murder if the jury believed the caretaker had lied because he did not think the police would believe what had happened, for example. The judge said if the jurors believed the deaths were accidental, they should acquit Mr Huntley entirely. But if they did not and were sure he had caused Jessica's death, they should find him guilty of manslaughter. If they were also certain that he had intended to kill her or cause her really serious bodily harm, then he would be guilty of murder. He added: "If you reject his account altogether and conclude that he murdered Jessica then ... you may have little difficulty in concluding he murdered Holly." Mr Huntley claims Holly fell into his bath and appeared to drown while he was frozen in panic. His lawyer has suggested that the jury could convict him of manslaughter by gross negligence for not rescuing her. Mr Justice Moses said that would apply only if the jurors believed the defendant "is, or may be, telling the truth" about her death. He told them to turn to Ms Carr only if they had already decided Mr Huntley was guilty of murder or manslaughter. They had to be sure that she had helped her boyfriend by lying to "impede or prevent" his arrest or prosecution, knowing or believing that he had killed the girls, or that she conspired with him to pervert the course of justice - a lesser count. He added: "The mere fact that you conclude that she was suspicious or even very suspicious or ought to have been suspicious is not enough." He reminded them to put sympathy aside, adding: "It really isn't a defence to say 'Hasn't she suffered enough?'" Earlier, Ms Carr's lawyer, Michael Hubbard QC, had asked just that question in his closing speech. "Has ever anyone paid a higher penance for telling a lie?" he asked. "She, you may think, was deceived as much as anyone by [Mr Huntley]," he said, adding that the caretaker had hidden a "dark side, an evil side". Given her fondness for the girls, having worked as their classroom assistant, it was "almost preposterous" to suggest she would have concealed what he had done if she believed he had killed them: "Would she ever allow the hand that had drowned Holly and killed Jessica ... to wander over her body? It's against every female instinct, isn't it?" The jury will retire today to consider its verdicts.