A convicted sex offender who murdered a young woman after befriending her while she was out jogging has been told he will probably die behind bars. David Marshall, 68, was given a minimum term of 20 years and six months after a court heard how he stabbed Eni Mevish through the heart, liver and lungs at her lodgings in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire. He was also handed a concurrent 30-month sentence for wounding a man who tried to halt the attack.Eni, 20, described by friends and fellow students at Staffordshire University as bright, intelligent and well-liked, suffered 16 separate wounds inflicted with a 10in (25cm) blade.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Eni Mevish. Photograph: Staffordshire Police/PAStafford crown court was told that Marshall was on licence at time of the murder in November last year, having served a three-year sentence for indecently assaulting a 14-year-old girl. He has given no explanation for the attack, but police believe he may have been jealous of Eni’s other friendships. Sentencing Marshall – who has 27 previous convictions from 17 separate court appearances – Judge John Wait told him: “It is clear from the number and position of the wounds that you had an intention to kill. At the time of this terrible offence, you were on licence following a sentence for an offence of indecent assault. It was a condition of your licence that you notify your supervising [probation] officer of any developing friendship with a woman. “It is noteworthy that you failed to tell your supervising officer of the relationship [with Eni], though you were asked on many occasions.” Eni, originally from Manchester, is believed to have met Marshall around six months before her death, while she was out jogging. Marshall attacked Eni, who was sometimes overheard referring to him as “Dad”, at about 9.30pm on 9 November after letting himself into her home with a key. The young woman was pronounced dead outside her shared property after Marshall fled from the scene despite attempts to lock him inside. Offering mitigation, defence barrister Patrick Thompson said his client could not recollect the “extremely wicked” killing or explain its motivation. Detective Inspector Andy Maxfield, of Staffordshire police, said: “I want to reassure local residents and the student community that this was not a random attack. Eni and Marshall were known to each other. Through our detailed investigation, we established that in the months prior to Eni’s death she had struck up a friendship with Marshall. We welcome today’s outcome and hope it brings some comfort to Eni’s family.” Syed Shah, Eni’s brother, released a statement paying tribute to “a loving sister and daughter who was taken from us suddenly and violently”. He said: “We are so proud of her achievements. She was beautiful, clever and had her whole life ahead of her. We are devastated by her death. Nothing can make up for that but we are glad Marshall is now paying for his actions.” Eni was in the second year of her studies for a degree in policing and criminal investigation and friends said she had dreamed of becoming a police officer. Speaking on behalf of Staffordshire University, Professor Andrew Jackson said: “Eni Mevish was a warm-hearted person and a conscientious, enthusiastic and capable student. She is greatly missed by all who knew her. Today’s events bring that loss into sharp focus and our thoughts are particularly with her family at this very difficult time.” 