In Croydon, south London - home to Lunar House, the UK's border and immigration agency - it appears that buying a trafficked woman for sex is as easy as ordering pizza. That is what concerned residents, posing as punters, were shocked to discover when they phoned 100 brothels, saunas and escort agencies advertising in their local papers. They found that 84% of the women being sold for sex were from overseas, most of them trafficked.Official figures estimate that some 4,000 women a year are trafficked into the UK to feed a growing sex industry facilitated by shrinking borders and changing attitudes towards buying sex.Croydon Community Against Trafficking (CCAT), which was set up in response to the growing problem, carried out the investigation. Its members want to remain anonymous for fear of reprisal; they handed over a dossier of evidence to the police who subsequently made arrests.One CCAT member explains that Croydon's large number of brothels is due to the presence of the Border and Immigration Agency and the city's relatively close proximity to international transport links such as Gatwick airport. But he says that, in terms of the number of sex premises, Croydon is only third in the London borough league table.According to CCAT, there was a 35% increase in the establishment of brothels in Croydon between February and October last year, and a consequent decrease in the price of sex. "Paying less than £30 for diverse and depraved versions of sex (including unprotected sex) suggests women are not in control of their own bodies. When you call the brothels, your options and the girls' descriptions are read [as though you were] ordering a pizza," the CCAT member says.The organisation wants tougher action. "Demand for cheap sex, driven by men [willing to] pay for it, licensing of establishments by councils, [the police] tolerating illegal practices and [being able to place] advertising openly in community papers, is destroying and abusing vulnerable people," he says.The claims in Croydon are backed by new research, published in June, that reveals men are increasingly inclined to think of sex as a tradeable commodity. The child and woman abuse studies unit at London Metropolitan University interviewed 137 men who admitted to buying sex in east London's Spitalfields. It found that two thirds of the men consider it to be just another form of shopping requiring "ease of access" and value for money. One said: "It's like going to Tesco's".Jail threatThe report, It's Just Like Going to the Supermarket; Men Buying Sex in East London, concludes that the mass of internet pornography, the sexualised images of women in lads' mags such as Zoo and Nuts, and the proliferation of sex tourism and lap and pole dancing clubs, have made young men view sex as a commodity. More than 40% of the respondents were under the age of 29, suggesting that men are buying sex at a younger age than previously recorded. And the interviewees were unimpressed by threats of tougher sanctions. Just 2% said the threat of jail, naming and shaming or losing their car or driving licence would stop them buying sex. The main deterrents were fear of disease or concern that their partner might find out.The report concludes: "For the growing category of men who view buying sex as a form of mainstream consumerism as leisure or entertainment, there is no shame, so attempting to generate it will have little if any impact." Its call for schools to counter society's "normalisation messages" of sex as commodity has been taken up by the Home Office. It has commissioned the Sex Education Forum to produce a schools' factsheet on sexual exploitation to expose the realities of prostitution, and the Women's Library is developing a resource pack for schools.The researchers also believe that legislation banning sex ads in local papers "has the possibility to limit or possibly shrink local sex markets". However, a spokeswoman for the Home Office insists the current law is sufficient and there are no plans to change it.Maddy Coy, one of the report's authors, says she hopes ministers will take on board the recommendations as part of a government promise to tackle sex trafficking. "There was clear evidence from the guys we talked to that the whole culture and commodification of sex has normalised and made more and more acceptable the buying of sex," she says.The government is aware of the issues. Last month, the minister for women, Harriet Harman, quoting local paper ads promising "new Polish girls, Romanian ladies, beautiful girls daily, all nationals", told the House of Commons : "We need a consensus on how we should be dealing with the demand side [of prostitution] - the fathers, brothers and husbands reading these words and fuelling ... global exploitation."The London mayor, Ken Livingstone, is said to support "moves by local newspapers to remove advertisements for premises such as brothels and massage parlours where trafficked women are exploited".Denise Marshall, chief executive of the Poppy Project, a campaign to get women out of prostitution, says: "Banning ads is a half measure. We need to follow the Swedish model of criminalising the act of buying or attempting to buy sexual services. If you are going to ban ads you are going to have to ban buying."· Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"