There has never been a more technically challenging time for criminals. However hard they try, they can't avoid shedding those devastating biological clues that reveal more about them by the day.That DNA 'fingerprinting' has revolutionised crime detection - helping to convict the guilty and protect the innocent - is now a familiar story. But few will be aware of how quickly the technology is advancing, bringing with it pressing ethical concerns. Until now, a typical DNA fingerprint has required between 200 and 500 cells to be effective. Now a single cell might be enough. What's more, forensic scientists may be able to use that same cell to build a perfect 3D photofit of a suspect: hair colour, eye colour, height, bone structure and skin type, as well as an in-depth personality profile. It's in Britain, the world leader in DNA fingerprinting, where the technology is moving so swiftly that it's becoming difficult for legislation to keep up. Up to 3,000 samples now pass daily through the Government-funded Forensic Science Service (FSS) laboratory in Birmingham. The FSS's increasingly sensitive testing system can take a snapshot of DNA from the tiniest samples, such as a trace on a cigarette butt, an invisible smudge on a window or saliva on a canned drink. And this process is getting faster all the time. At first it took many weeks, teams of people, cumbersome radiography machinery and a sample of semen or blood the size of a 10p piece. Now the process is automated, using robots, and takes only days. Within five years it will take minutes. Instead of sending off crime stains from the scene to a laboratory, police will have hand-held devices - 'labs on chips' - able to decode DNA on the spot. They will then be able to radio the result to the national DNA database in Birmingham. The database, which was set up in 1995, was the first and is the biggest in the world. There are currently 1.8 million criminal justice profiles on the database, as well as 188,000 DNA samples from unsolved crimes, including blood and semen stains. Police have recorded an astonishing 40 per cent success rate in matching DNA clues at the scene of a crime to samples held on the database. The database is overseen by Bob Bramley, chief scientist of the FSS. He suggests that even 10 years ago those involved at the cutting edge of DNA forensics could not have imagined where it was leading. 'We had a flying start,' says Bramley. 'And the impact has been huge. It is the biggest contribution forensic science has made to the detection of crimes, and it is such a powerful tool.' In spite of the contentious ethical issues surrounding DNA information, Britain also pioneered the swiftest changes in the law to make the database possible. Germany and France have become entangled in heated debates over 'genetic privacy'; DNA fingerprinting has also proved tricky in the US, where each state has its own police force. In Britain, legislation was rapidly laid down to allow samples to be taken from suspects of 'a recordable crime', who were questioned by police, and for those samples to be placed on a database. The Home Office anticipates that in the next few years the number of DNA samples held will rise to just over three million, but the current procedure has proved controversial. Two youths in Humberside, who were cleared of burglary, are demanding their samples be removed because one of them was never prosecuted and the other was acquitted. Their case has been turned down by the Court of Appeal but is currently being considered by the House of Lords. If the youths are successful, all similar samples on the database, marked 'acquitted' will have to be destroyed. In the meantime, the panels of legal experts, civil servants and scientists involved in the future of the database are asking whether it would be simpler and more ethical to have a database where everyone's DNA is registered at birth. But what we are all anxious to know is how such information might be used in the future, as the technology continues to develop. 'It's come an awfully long way already,' says Bramley. 'Certainly we want to be able to do [the analysis] faster. Then there is this whole other issue of whether you gain more information about the person you're looking for and how much you can get. 'In a crime situation, the police want a Sherlock Holmes description. They want to know they're looking for a 6ft 3in man with red hair and a tendency to obesity. Things like that are already happening and it obviously narrows down their searches enormously. The state-of-the-art Forensic Science Laboratory, tucked away on an industrial estate in Birmingham, is usually out of bounds to journalists, but the FSS agreed to allow The Observer to visit. Here you enter a discreet but dazzling world of swipe cards, masks, pressurised labs and secret codes. The process is now so sensitive there is a constant risk of contamination. A sneeze or a fingerprint could ruin a sample. The security measures are rigorous. DNA samples taken from people at police stations and samples taken from clues at crime scenes are analysed at different labs to avoid any possible confusion. Scientists wear sterile masks, gloves and coats, and few people are permitted near the whirring, grey machines - known as 'Thirty-One Hundreds' - that analyse the DNA.The samples are identified by barcodes, so no one in the lab knows the names or backgrounds of the samples being tested. 'The people who work in the labs never cross,' says Paul Hackett, a national operations manager. 'You'd never go from one lab into another, in case you were carrying DNA on you. Each lab is on a separate air conditioning system, and when you open the door it sucks air out, rather than allowing it to be pushed into the lab. Automation has also reduced the risk of contamination, which is one of the benefits of robots.' Every day a police courier van arrives with a fresh batch of samples to be tested - in the form of little white sticks used to scrape cells from inside the cheek - at a cost of £38 each. This year the FSS will also profile just over 100,000 crime scene stains. The analysis of DNA from these stains is more sophisticated and the initial extraction of the DNA is harder. It arrives in varying amounts and in different forms: chewing gum, cigarette ends, blood, semen, the back of a stamp; and has to be manually transformed into a concentrated sample. The stain may also have been touched by more than one person, which means there could be secondary traces of DNA that need to be identified separately. To add to the potential confusion, the FSS has also recently identified a 'shedder index', that shows some people shed more DNA than others on contact with objects. And, of course, no system is perfect. What the scientists are taking is a snapshot of the DNA, not the whole picture. There is a chance, ranging from 1 in 34 million, to 1 in a billion, depending on the kind of sample taken, that the snapshot might be identical to someone else's. The first recorded case of mistaken DNA identity occurred three years ago in Britain, after a fluke match on the database. Raymond Easton, a 49-year-old man living in Swindon in the advanced stages of Parkinson's disease, was charged with a burglary in Bolton 200 miles away. Even though he could barely dress himself, he was still arrested. He had given a DNA sample three years earlier following a family dispute in which he had been cautioned. The burglary charges were only dropped after an advanced DNA test was taken. 'These adventitious matches can happen,' says Bob Bramley. 'But we always say to police you need something else as well as DNA: good, old-fashioned circumstantial evidence. DNA testing is a very powerful tool, but it is not the whole story.' Meanwhile, the criminal world is evolving to keep up with technological breakthroughs. Car thieves routinely empty the ashtrays of vehicles they abandon, all too aware that even a cigarette end might be enough to reveal their DNA. There have been court cases where the accused have insisted their DNA was planted at a crime scene, in the form of a cigarette end. But it is unlikely that criminals will ever really catch up with DNA technology. On the contrary, DNA testing is now reopening unsolved crimes from the past. The shocking case of the Llandarcy murders, in which three girls were raped and murdered in South Wales in the Seventies, was reopened in 1998. The new 'low copy number' DNA test meant that crime stains kept from the girls' clothes after the original investigation - the biggest in Welsh history - could be tested. A DNA code for the man known as the Saturday Night Strangler was extracted at the research lab in Birmingham but did not match any of the existing samples on the database. 'At this point scientists decided to use the fact that DNA patterns between family members, although by no means identical, can be strikingly similar,' says Bramley. 'So working on the assumption that criminality also runs in families, it was suggested we look for similar matches on the database. Sure enough it came up with a son of one of the known suspects from the time. It turned out he had died, but the body was disinterred and the DNA was an exact match.' This is where DNA profiling is both dazzling and potentially terrifying. If you apply what might be called old-fashioned detective work to a state-of-the-art technology, the results are astounding. But there is also a sense of foreboding in terms of how far the bio-sleuths might find they are able to go.So what does the scientist who first identified DNA fingerprinting make of the current state of play? 'They now rely more on the process of DNA amplification, which has increased sensitivity a great deal,' says Sir Professor Alec Jeffreys. 'In theory you can narrow it down to a single cell, and that can come from almost anything: hair, nail clippings. But you can get into dangerous territory with this because you don't know where it's come from if it's such a small sample. We're all potentially covered in bits of other people.' Professor Jeffreys, then a medical researcher at Leicester University, stumbled over his great discovery. He was involved in a project to extract DNA from blood. Using enzymes to cut up the DNA, he found a way to measure the lengths of the different pieces with radioactive probing. He then produced a final x-ray of the results in the form of a barcode pattern. 'It was a fantastic feeling,' he says. 'The last thing on our minds was the forensic application. But within about five minutes of getting the first image developed from the x-ray tank, the implications were clear. This was DNA fingerprinting.' In 1987 Jeffreys was asked by the police to assist in the first murder hunt using DNA. They were desperate to track down the murderer of two girls who had been raped and murdered within a mile of each other in the village of Naresborough in Leicestershire. The police sent semen samples from both victims to Jeffreys. In the meantime, a local 17-year-old confessed to the second murder, which took place in 1986, but repeatedly denied any involvement in the first, committed in 1983. He submitted a DNA sample for Jeffreys to decode. After extracting DNA fingerprints from all three samples, Jeffreys was able to conclude that the girls had both been killed by the same man. But he was also able to show that it was not the 17-year-old. Bafflingly, he had made a false confession. The murderer was still at large. The police then set about the first mass DNA manhunt in history. Over the next eight months they took blood samples from 5,000 men in the Naresborough area. None of the DNA profiles matched those of the crimes. A year later, a local woman told police she had overheard a man bragging that he had given a DNA sample on behalf of, and in the name of, a friend - 27-year-old Colin Pitchfork. Pitchfork was brought in for screening. His DNA -matched the killer's exactly. He is now serving life imprisonment.In the past two decades the process of decoding DNA has been massively speeded up and refined. More than 15 years after the first success with DNA fingerprinting, we are potentially able to identify criminals by a single cell from their body, and on the brink of being able to build a picture from that cell. Already, the latest SNPS (single nucleotide polymorphisms) technology, which tests the genetic information held within DNA, can reveal whether the individual behind a sample is a red-head and what ethnic group they belong to. There is also a test for eye colour, although this is still unreliable. he scientists at the FSS are as eager as anyone that the technology remains a force for good. Already they are walking a delicate line in their triple role as the leading research body into DNA forensics, the main testing organisation and custodians of the database. They have also been rigorously scrutinised by the Human Genetics Commission, chaired by barrister Helena Kennedy. The commission's main concerns were the security of the information held on the database and the possibility that it might be used for wider, and potentially intrusive, purposes in the future. 'I suppose if you got a more autocratic government or police force they might say: "Let's use these samples to get medical information",' says Bramley. 'They could even start telling us to look for the "criminal gene". But we've never heard anyone so much as mention that this was a way anyone wanted to go.' A DNA database for all: The argument for· It is fairer to have a DNA database for all, rather than one that is linked to criminals. At the moment, those profiled on the database may never have been charged with a crime, but will fear guilt by association because their DNA sample appears on the database. ·*It will prove a vital and comprehensive weapon in proving guilt and innocence. The innocent, it's said, will have nothing to fear, the wrongly accused will be able to clear their name and the guilty will be identified. · It will open up the possibility of international databases, which may prove the most effective weapon yet against global terrorism and international crime. The argument against· It will be an invasion of civil liberties. The state should not own our DNA. It may also be open to abuse in the future, including the inappropriate use of genetic information. · It will be a dangerously valuable database that will raise alarming security concerns. DNA may be the most precious commodity of the future. · What if this information falls into the wrong hands? Insurers and employers may try to gain access. The sample of DNA that establishes innocence may also reveal private information, including our likelihood of dying of a heart attack. · It will dilute the effectiveness of the database, which currently concentrates on the criminal community.