So a whistleblower complained to three health ministers and the local MP in Tottenham that children were at risk in Haringey because of the kind of failings by the council's social services department that allowed Baby P to die – as it had done Victoria Climbié.The overnight revelation is enough to have today's Daily Mail pressing the hot button marked "Blame the politicians". To my surprise (well, only mild surprise nowadays) Radio 4's Today programme followed suit.Should the rest of us join in? I don't think so.Readers who may not have picked up on it need to know that social worker Nevres Kemal complained in a letter (via her lawyer) to Patricia Hewitt and ministerial colleagues Ivan Lewis and Rosie Winterton (none still at Health today), as well as to Tottenham MP David Lammy.Kemal didn't identify Baby P (the media is blurring this point), but said that procedures were not being followed in her department - that several kids were at risk from abusers. This was in February 2007 – six months before Baby P's death. Kemal, 43, was suspended from her £34,000 job for similar complaints as long ago as 2004 and later won an employment tribunal appeal against wrongful dismissal. As part of the settlement she cannot discuss cases, though her lawyer seems to be doing quite well on her behalf.Good for her. But where does the buck stop? Hewitt's department was clearly the wrong place to send the letter, which was passed on to the then- Department for Education (now the Department for Children, Schools and Families), which replied that it couldn't interfere with a tribunal case. It referred the complainant to the social care inspectorate.So ministers (Alan Johnson, now at Health, was then in charge at Education) can say they followed the procedures. I do not know what Lammy did. Is that enough? It would be easy to say no, but I imagine departments get a lot of complaints and also that civil servants, like many people at the sharp end of life, get worn down by complaints.In any case, we in the media are always telling Whitehall to keep its nose out of local affairs, to stop being so bossy and over-centralising. The real charge against central government, surely, is that it overloads local authorities with too many duties they lack the resources - staff, money and (above all) proper maturity and expertise - to tackle properly.That said, the blame lies where it ought to lie: with those who knew, more or less, what was going on and failed to stop it. First, obviously, the convicted perpetrators; second, neighbours who see plenty. It's not enough to say they're poor; lots of poor people do very well by their kids.Then, of course, there is Haringey council. It must be tough trying to manage a large borough with lots of poor people in it, some of them feckless. But the Climbié case (which involved language and cultural barriers, as I suspect Baby P's did not) should have shaken things up more than it obviously did.All those visits, all those bruises and other injuries, all that police and social work attention - it almost defies imagination that it was allowed to go on. Almost, but not quite. As Lord Laming, who investigated the Climbié case (he's back for this one), knows, there are a lot of cunning villains out there and a lot of well-meaning but naive social workers, prone to giving the benefit of the doubt. Leaving a child with its mother must, whenever possible, be the best thing to do. Not in this case.Quite where that leaves Sharon Shoesmith, the £100,000-a-year head of Haringey children's services, I'm not quite sure. We will find out in due course, I expect. But the place it left her during Ascot week last autumn was on a corporate day out at the races with her daughter.What on earth for? And who paid? According to today's Mail, the bill was picked up by the UK-wide firm of Willmott Dixon, which is big in construction, housing, property care and investment, much of it in the public sector. The Sunday Times listed it as one of the 100 best companies to work for in 2008.Where Shoesmith or her five winners last October 13 (she gave £25 of her £70 winnings to a young musicians' charity) fit into the world of Willmott Dixon, the press may yet tell us. In a department doing badly it seems a legitimate question.Mail editor Paul Dacre got a well-deserved kicking this week for justifying all manner of prurient snooping into private lives. But, as I occasionally have to remind priggish student audiences "the Mail is not always wrong". It should just be more accountable for what it does and doesn't do – just like Shoesmith.