The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Friday July 29 2005In the leader below we gave a figure of 58,000 prisoners on remand. This is the number of prisoners remanded in one year. The number of prisoners who are on remand at present is about 12,800.The prison population has resumed its relentless rise. At 76,500 it is already at its highest ever total. This should not have come as a surprise but it seems to have been one to Home Office planners. This week the department recognised that the acceleration since February has pushed the numbers 2,700 ahead of official projections. There has been too much complacency about the brief period of stability in the prison population that occurred last year. Undoubtedly one factor causing the rise was the tough rhetoric of all the major parties in the run-up to the May election. As criminologists have documented, hardline atmospheres prompt judges to lengthen their sentences. The cacophony drowned the earlier wise words of the most senior judge in the country, Lord Bingham: "Everybody thinks our system is becoming soft and wimpish. In point of fact it's one of the most punitive in the world."Now prison numbers could exceed 91,000 within five years unless radical action is taken. This is not alarmist talk. The prison population took four decades to increase by 11,000 between 1951 and 1991, but climbed by 25,000 in the decade between 1992 and 2002. Even more worrying, the rise coincided with the most sustained fall in crime for 100 years. Despite the urgings of Lord Bingham, judges have become more punitive. But there is now a new voice on the block - the sentencing guidelines council, headed by Lord Woolf - which urged courts to cut sentences by 15% in line with "more demanding" early release conditions that came in to effect in April. This would be a good first step.The need now is for political leadership and a readiness to recognise three big shortcomings: too many nonviolent offenders, many mentally ill, still getting short and unproductive sentences; too many offenders caught by the new mandatory sentencing system; and too many unconvicted remands (58,000, a fifth of whom are found not guilty). Rising prison numbers can be halted. Fifteen years ago a Conservative home secretary reduced prison numbers by 5,000. Charles Clarke should now do the same.