We're halfway through the year, so up and down the land those unfortunate people who have six-monthly "performance reviews" will be confronted with the usual appalling questionnaires. Semi-annual appraisals are supposed to be an improvement on the traditional annual review, but I can't see that it adds much to repeat this worthless exercise twice a year. Like cultural revolution-style self-criticism, the appraisal form never allows room to say what most of us probably believe: "I did a pretty OK job, and I'm happy to go on doing the same for the next six months." Instead, with an almost religious zeal, appraisals demand self-flagellation followed by hopelessly overambitious promises. "What mistakes did you make in the past six months?" they ask. "How sorry are you? Come on now, a little sorrier than that, please. And how are you going to make it up to us?"Defenders might argue that, in a busy job, appraisals provide a welcome opportunity to give feedback, and so help employees to improve. But giving or receiving feedback only twice a year is useless: by the time the review comes around, months have gone by since the potentially valuable learning experience. A good manager will give feedback not once or twice a year, but once or twice a week, and certainly at the end of any substantial project. If your manager is any good, a semi-annual review is just a pointless restatement of what you both already know. But for a bad manager, the review can encourage the hoarding-up of resentments and criticism, making it an occasion to dread.I once had a manager who used my January review to complain that, the previous August, I'd failed to offer to give up my pre-booked holiday so that I could help with a busy period in the office. It wasn't that my manager had asked me to give up my holiday and I'd refused. I had never been asked. I was supposed to guess, and my lack of ESP on this issue demonstrated that I didn't have the right "team spirit". The very existence of the performance review encourages this kind of cowardly behaviour, keeping silent on issues the manager thinks are important because they can be brought up six months later. Even more futile than the digging-up of criticisms over half-forgotten events, though, are the employee's plans for "personal development" and "career growth". These might be defended as an opportunity for managers to offer their staff advice and support. But the days are gone - if they ever existed - when employees trusted their employers to plan their careers for them. Asubstantial proportion of those filling in a performance review form every year would, if they were honest, answer the question "Where do you want to be in six months' time?" by writing "Working somewhere else". This level of candour is unwise of course, particularly in the current economic climate. So some other handy fiction must be concocted, by trying to second-guess what one thinks one's manager would like to read there. Surely the kind of bright, passionate employee who wants to move further within the organisation is precisely the kind of employee who will request a meeting with their manager to discuss this? For everyone else, the "plans for the future" section of an appraisal is where their manager passes boring responsibilities on to a member of staff supposedly eager for new challenges. Passing on responsibilities is not the problem; companies pay their staff to do the jobs that need to be done, after all. But dressing it up as a CV-enhancing "increase in responsibility" denies employees the good-natured grumble at being lumbered with new work which must be everyone's human right. A week or two after the appraisal, as if it were only loosely connected, comes the notification of a pay rise or bonus. This is the real purpose of the review: to give managers a logical-seeming way of distributing their allotment of the one incentive workers actually care about. But it is the final nail in the coffin of appraisals. The fact that all employees know that their income is dependent on their review makes them even less likely to be honest, and without honesty what's the point? The best idea is to keep quiet and wait for it to be over. The year after my manager told me I should have volunteered to give up my holiday, my performance review came round again. "You seem to have been demotivated this year," my manager said. "Lacking in your usual energy and enthusiasm." "Oh really?" I said. "I can't think why."· A cyclist who killed a teenager has been given a paltry £2,200 fine. The family, naturally, are appalled, and this sentence does seem incomprehensible. If the cyclist, Jason Howard, had been found guilty of causing death by dangerous driving of a car, he would have been subject to a maximum sentence of 14 years in prison. Because there is no "cycling licence", Howard can't even be disqualified from cycling. It's time to rethink this. The government is encouraging us - particularly those who live in big cities - to cycle more. But anyone who drives regularly in London can confirm that cyclists can often be dangerous. Because it's hard to regain lost momentum on a bike, they are often tempted to jump red lights, or swerve on to the pavement unexpectedly to avoid traffic. I've generally ascribed this to the aura of self-righteous smugness that surrounds the regular cyclist: they seem to feel that what they're doing is so good for their bodies and the environment that the normal rules of the road can't possibly apply to them. They are not causing pollution, therefore nothing that they do can be harmful. The tragic death of Rhiannon Bennett should spell the end of this kind of magical thinking. · This week Naomi watched Charles Laughton's 1955 film The Night of the Hunter: "Film noir at its very creepiest and most powerful. Watch it and shudder." She read Bitch magazine: "It's a sassy feminist take on pop culture; this issue included articles on feminism in Star Trek and the first female Torah scribe. It always makes me think new thoughts."