The boyfriend of Hayley Richards, who left Britain hours after her murder, is now believed to be in Spain, police said last night.Hugo Quintas flew from Bristol airport on Saturday for his native Portugal but is thought to have crossed the border after briefly visiting his family. Interpol and the Spanish and Portuguese authorities as well as Wiltshire police are now involved in the hunt for Mr Quintas, 23. Meanwhile, police in Wiltshire last night revealed they had arrested a 29-year-old man in connection with the inquiry. Officers were waiting to question the man and would not say why he had been seized. They said they still wanted to speak to Mr Quintas. Miss Richards, 23, who was three months pregnant, was found at her flat in Trowbridge, Wiltshire, on Saturday afternoon, after failing to turn up for work at a restaurant. Her throat had been cut. At a press conference yesterday, Detective Superintendent Mike Veale, who is leading the inquiry, revealed that during the past few days a member of the public had come forward to say that he had been contacted by Mr Quintas, who had claimed that he wanted to return to the UK and face questioning. Officers are searching for soiled or blood-stained clothes or a knife which may have been discarded in the area. Mr Veale said: "Hayley received a severe wound to her neck which we now believe was caused by a knife. The cut to her throat suggests that whoever the offender is would have been bloodstained." Police are also appealing for anyone who may have seen a broken down vehicle - or someone trying to push a stalled vehicle - in Trowbridge between 11pm on Friday and 4am on Saturday, the probable time of the crime. Mr Quintas is known to have left from Bristol airport on Saturday afternoon. He briefly visited his family home and appeared calm. He told them that he planned to move back to Portugal with Miss Richards and the baby. He may then have headed for the Spanish border. Miss Richards' brothers, Paul and David Richards, also appeared at the press conference. Reading from a prepared statement, Paul said: "We are a large and close-knit family and what has happened to Hayley has devastated us. "It has broken our mum's heart. She was our beautiful baby sister and will always be precious to us and we will always miss her. She was loved so much, not only by her family but by everyone who knew her. "Hayley was a lovely person. She would not have wanted anyone to seek retribution for what has happened to her. "She would have wanted the appropriate action to be taken by the appropriate authority, in this case, the Wiltshire constabulary." An investigation is continuing into how police have handled the case, because less than a week before she was killed Miss Richards dialled 999 to allege that Mr Quintas had assaulted her. Police searched for Mr Quintas, who had been in the UK for a year and worked in the Bowyers meat factory in Trowbridge. He was spoken to twice by officers and his name was taken at least once, but he was not arrested. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is examining what went wrong. It will also look at suggestions from Miss Richards' family that Mr Quintas was not spoken to because a Portuguese translator could not be found. Campaigners have said that the case highlights flaws in the way some officers deal with cases of domestic violence. Miss Richards' mother Christine has visited her dead daughter's house to view floral tributes placed on the lawn. One of the tributes read: "We never got the chance to say goodbye, nor the chance to say hello to your child. May you both rest in peace." 