A tennis coach convicted of having sex with a 13-year-old girl she was training was jailed yesterday for two years and nine months. Claire Lyte, from Solihull, West Midlands, was convicted last month on four counts of sexual activity with a 13-year-old girl.Lyte, 29, was also banned indefinitely from working with children following a two-week trial at Liverpool crown court during which the jury was told Lyte and the girl shared hotel rooms during tournaments. Lyte's solicitor later said she would appeal against the conviction.During the trial the jury was told that Lyte was caught performing oral sex on the child, a pupil at the Lawn Tennis Association academy, by the youngster's mother. She had also worn the child's knickers.Judge Nigel Gilmour QC said Lyte's evidence was a "wicked" conspiracy against her victim's family. He criticised Lyte for trying to avoid justice by claiming the victim's mother invented allegations against her because the girl was not good enough to turn professional.He also said Lyte's parents had lied in their evidence. "In attempting to escape conviction you alleged that three generations of the victim's family were all part of a wicked conspiracy to get you convicted of crimes you hadn't committed. The jury rejected those wicked allegations of yours. There wasn't and never has been such a conspiracy by the family. The jury accepted the victim and her family were substantial witnesses of truth and could be relied upon."Of Lyte's parents, Colin and Gillian, he added: "I am sure your parents in all other respects are wholly admirable members of society, but have given lying evidence to the jury, no doubt at your request and encouragement."Lyte had committed a breach of trust, he said. "The girl's family expected you to look after her and she was entrusted in your care. You corrupted that girl and advanced her experiences of sexual matters by some years."The girl's consent was limited because she was an "infatuated 13-year-old"."You welcomed her attention and encouraged it and then manipulated what had become her infatuation with you and did that for your own selfish sexual ends."Outside court, Lyte's solicitor, Margaret Coall - flanked by the defendant's parents - confirmed the defence team were appealing. "Miss Lyte is devastated with the guilty verdicts. She has maintained her innocence throughout the proceedings and continues to do so."Lyte had been convicted by 10-2 majority verdicts by the eight women and four men of the jury, who took nearly 12 hours to reach their decision.In mitigation, her barrister, David Mason, said the victim, who is from Merseyside, had begun playing tennis again.He said: "She is young enough to get back on track and, of course, have a fruitful career."