The criticisms by Metropolitan police commissioner Sir John Stevens of the whole legal system except the police are ill-timed. They come at a moment when the prison population is the highest ever and in many areas the detection rates are appallingly low and violent crime is escalating.The public would have greater confidence in the police if senior officers concentrated on improving detection rates rather than casting about to see if the blame can be thrown on someone else. This is certainly the attitude of police officers who are actively engaged in detection rather than being marooned in a large office remote from it all. Sir John should be pressing the government for more resources and for more police officers and supporting the rank and file for better pay, instead of alienating public opinion by a tirade of nonsense.It is absurd to suggest that a criminal trial is balanced against the police. The fact is that the police have unlimited resources to pursue an investigation. They can choose the best experts and have access to some of the best forensic scientific facilities in the world. Sir John should spend a day with a firm of solicitors doing publicly funded defence work to see the difference. Some police officers find it irksome to have to comply with rules which require them to prove a defendant's guilt beyond reasonable doubt to the satisfaction of a jury. Some maintain that the burden upon them is too high or that juries should be abolished. Sir John attacks judges as well as juries, so it is difficult to see who in his ideal system of criminal justice should decide guilt or innocence except, perhaps, a senior police officer. Even before the convention of human rights became part of our law, rules existed to ensure a fair trial. In recent years, a number of these rules have been altered to assist the police. A defendant who relies upon an alibi now has to give particulars well before the trial so the police can check it out and interview witnesses. The words of the caution which the police are required to administer to a defendant at the time of arrest have also been changed to assist the police. The defence now are required to provide a statement of defence well before the trial begins. All defence experts' reports now have to be provided to the prosecution well before trial. Disclosure to the defence of unused material is now reduced under the new rules. However, despite all these alterations to assist the police, the sad fact remains that both conviction and detection rates remain low. The outburst against magistrates and judges is even more difficult to comprehend. They can hardly be described as being too soft on crime. The criticisms from all sides including the lord chief justice is that far too many defendants are sent to prison. The figures speak for themselves. We have the highest prison population ever, and far higher than other European countries. The proportion jailed after conviction at crown court is now 63% - a rise of more than 14% over the past eight years. The lesson yet to be learnt is that, too often, sending someone to prison proves to be counter-productive and often forces a former prisoner into a career of crime. The real problem is the lack of alternatives to prison, particularly for young offenders. Sir John would have more credibility if he complained about this, rather than launch a misguided attack on the judiciary. As in any system there will be bad decisions by magistrates and judges. Even police officers have been known to make mistakes. However, Sir John's comments about bail ignore the fact that parliament has laid down a presumption in favour of bail in the Bail Act of 1976. This follows from the presumption that a defendant is innocent until proved guilty. To change this would run counter to the human rights convention, but it may be that Sir John does not appreciate this. Then there is the usual crack about smart defence barristers. The prosecution in fact has the same pool of barristers to choose from, and any barrister who seeks to be too smart will have the judge to contend with. Sir John ignores the fact that a high percentage of the cases at crown court are simply thrown out by the judge as there is not enough evidence even to go to the jury. So what should Sir John be discussing? There is no greater deterrent against the commission of crime than the prospect of being caught and this is what is lacking. The chances of being caught, are low and are worth taking, and what is urgently needed is an imaginative police strategy to improve detection rates - something singularly absent from Sir John's lecture. We need a new approach. We need plans for a police saturation and targeting policy in areas of high crime similar to those which proved so successful in New York. We need more officers, particularly on the beat. Other areas need improvement: for example, police officers need to be properly trained in conducting interviews, which are often inept and aimless. I am sure that if Sir John had something to say on these important issues, the public would have greater confidence in the legal system than they have now.  · Anthony Scrivener QC is the former chairman of the Bar Council for England and Wales.  comment@theguardian.com