A secret one-day census of anti-social behaviour in England and Wales is to be conducted by the Home Office today in the first attempt to measure the scale of disorder in society.The police, local authorities and other agencies have been instructed to count the number of incidents over the 24 hours until midnight tonight. Behaviour they have been asked to measure ranges from street drinking and begging to rowdiness, vandalism and racial abuse. The exercise was not announced to parliament or disclosed in advance to the media. It came to light after a list of behaviours to be counted was circulated by the Housing Corporation to chief executives of housing associations. A Home Office memorandum said: "We have no idea how much anti-social behaviour goes on. A one-day count will start to tell us about the overall amount and nature of reported anti-social behaviour in England and Wales, and give an insight into any regional variations." The one-day count will be a "snapshot" of the impact of anti-social behaviour that will "illustrate the problem it represents, daily, for individuals, communities, businesses, local areas, regions and on a national basis." The Home Office will also be able to measure the impact on public services. Today was chosen for the count because it was thought to be "an average day - mid-week and in term time." A Home Office spokeswoman said the department did not announce the operation in advance for fear of skewing the results. Results will be published shortly. Official bodies required to conduct the census include the police, fire service, housing associations and local authority housing, cleansing and education departments. The Home Office has drawn up a list of more than 60 types of anti-social behaviour, but the census will measure them under 13 broad headings: ·drug/substance misuse and dealing (such as taking drugs, sniffing volatile substances, discarding needles, crack houses, presence of dealers); ·street drinking and begging; ·prostitution, kerb-crawling, sexual acts (including soliciting, cards in phone boxes, discarded condoms, loitering, pestering residents and indecent exposure); ·abandoned vehicles; ·vehicle-related nuisance (including illegal parking, repair of cars on the street, vehicle fires, joyriding, off-road motorcycling, cycling/skateboarding in pedestrian areas);·noise (from neighbours, cars, motorbikes, pubs, clubs, loud music and malfunctioning alarms);·rowdy behaviour (including swearing, fighting and hooliganism); ·nuisance behaviour (including urinating in public, setting fires and letting down tyres);·hoax calls;·animal-related problems; ·intimidation and harassment (including bullying, racial or other abuse, voyeurism, obscene phone calls, and menacing gestures); ·criminal damage/vandalism (including graffiti and damage to bus shelters/phone kiosks);·litter/rubbish (including fly-tipping and fly-posting). The list was causing concern among voluntary groups yesterday. Crisis, a charity for homeless people, said: "It is entirely inappropriate to group flytipping, hoax calls and other such issues with begging and street drinking ... It is grossly insulting to the homeless people we work with to find themselves defined alongside abandoned cars and litter." In a separate move, the Home Office said drunken louts causing a public nuisance "could have all their booze confiscated" under new police powers in force today.