Britain's first specialist centre for children who have been raped or suffered other sexual assaults is to be set up in Manchester.One in four of recorded rape victims is a child. The centre, due to open later this year, is expected to cost about £200,000. It is designed to cope with a steep rise in the number of children seen at the sexual assault referral centre at St Mary's hospital in the city. The centre has helped more than 9,000 people since it was established 18 years ago. In 2000 St Mary's saw 174 children under 18; by last year the total had risen to 327. Two or three cases are reported each day. "The youngest child I have seen at St Mary's was seven months old," Cath White, the centre's clinical director, said. "The numbers are going up and we think they will go up even more. "But children who have suffered historical abuse or abuse within the family have not come under the umbrella at St Mary's. "That has been a grey area and the service they have had has been ad hoc and fragmented, with little coordination." The centre will have its own specialist medical and interview facilities, and a doctor will always be available. "Some children have really missed out," Dr White added. "We want to provide for all children, regardless of the perpetrator, the kind of service we now provide for adults." The centre will be at St Mary's, next to the adults' examination suite. "We also hope to create a video interview room. At the moment if a child is raped, they will speak to several people, eventually see a doctor and might have to wait for a couple of days for a video interview at a police station. "With the new centre, they have to come to only one place and care will be coordinated. We are hoping to work closely with the NSPCC and to have a play therapist and a support worker for children. "Our aim is to reduce fear and anxiety by providing a softer environment that children will respond favourably to, and hopefully making the whole experience less intimidating. "We want to look after the holistic needs of the child and the family. Nothing like this exists anywhere in the country." The project has the support of the Home Office, Greater Manchester police, primary care trusts in Greater Manchester and the Crown Prosecution Service. Allan Sale, the NSPCC's children's services manager for Greater Manchester, said: "These children have suffered immense trauma and pain. "A local service that is child-focused and can offer the specialist support children need is to be welcomed."