They are the so-called kingpins of crime, the most notorious figures in Glasgow's underworld. Men who controlled the city's drugs and money-laundering rackets, reputedly took out contracts on people and made sure they were topped off.Over the past five years, things had gone quiet but last weekend these middle-aged men were involved in stabbings, not knife wounds to the heart or the carotid artery but in the buttocks and each attack included a bashing round the head with a seven iron. The incidents involving the city's alleged godfather of crime and his biggest rival, recently released from prison, have left Glasgow reeling. For police and underworld sources know that this scuffle in the street could lead to a reignition of the gang warfare that consumed the place known as Mean City for so long.It is a tale of shifting allegiances and betrayals that has danced in and out of the headlines in Scotland for nearly two decades. At its centre is Thomas McGraw, known as the Licensee, a man who is said to control a £10m empire, a man once fingered as the city's "godfather" of crime - a man whose drug smuggling charges in 1998 were found not proven as was a charge of the attempted murder of a policeman 20 years earlier. On Friday of last week, McGraw was stabbed and attacked with a golf club less than a mile from his home. He was wearing a bullet-proof vest and in spite of reports of serious injuries he was said to be relatively unscathed. Late last week it emerged that one of those involved in the scuffle was Paul Ferris, another Glasgow gangster, once an ally of McGraw's. It is believed that Ferris suffered a broken nose and is said to have been stabbed twice - he has since surrendered to police in Durham following this breach of parole conditions. Both men were once lieutenants for Arthur Thompson, the man who controlled Glasgow crime before dying in 1993, and both tried to step into his shoes when he died. McGraw was the one who made the shoes fit. In 1992, Ferris was acquitted in Scotland's longest-ever trial of the murder of Thompson's son Arthur "Fat Boy" Thompson but was later jailed in 1997 for gun-running. He was released on licence last January after four years of a seven-year sentence in Durham's Frankland prison. While inside, Ferris penned a book in which he named McGraw as a police "grass", a thing McGraw's allies say has "deeply pissed him off". In the book, Ferris said: "I don't fear for my personal safety. I can live with the likes of the Licensee and his cronies because I tell them to their faces what they are. Not only should McGraw fear me, he should fear my book and the onslaught that will follow. He chose to deal with the police and break the criminal code and now I'm punishing him very publicly for doing so." Sources said that the two men had met to discuss their rivalry and a deal involving a sum of £2m compensation for Ferris's loss of business while inside. But things got out of hand. Some say that Ferris had been trying to muscle back in on some of the turf he had had to leave behind for prison and that McGraw was having none of it. Police have linked Ferris to a cannabis shipment uncovered last weekend in two cars in Glasgow's east end with an estimated street value of nearly £900,000. With no base and few allies in the city, Ferris is now said to have preferred to go back behind bars than end up the next tag-on-the-toe body in Glasgow city mortuary. To complicate an already cluttered tale of Glasgow gangsters, two days after the first stabbings there was another knifing which many said was in revenge for the first. Thomas TC Campbell, out on bail contesting his conviction as one of the ice cream war killers, was also stabbed with a fish knife in the buttocks and hit with a golf club. McGraw was said to have watched the stabbing from a car parked nearby. Campbell was convicted in 1984 along with Joseph Steele of the murders of the Doyle family in a fire which killed six people, including an 18-month-old child. At their heart was a war over the lucrative ice cream van runs in Glasgow's east end which was a convenient way of laundering money and passing drugs. It involved shooting, beatings and finally a fire that went awry. Someone had crept up the outside stairwell, doused the wooden door of a coal cellar with petrol, struck a match and set the door alight. Two tyres, perhaps placed there deliberately, exploded in the heat. Campbell and Steel have denied any part in the deaths that came to be known as the ice cream war murders. McGraw and Campbell had stakes in ice cream vans in the area and Andrew Doyle, known as Fat Boy, had been running a van in the area to their chagrin. McGraw was arrested along with five others over the killings but Campbell and Steele were jailed for life. Campbell has always pointed the finger at McGraw who he says was involved in the killings. In a rare interview, McGraw denied being the godfather of Glasgow and said: "Glasgow's a town called malice. Everybody's jealous of everybody else. Nobody likes to see that you are getting on in Glasgow. I am not one of the controlling influences in the city. I don't think there's anyone capable of running this city. I'm not frightened of anybody but then they aren't frightened of me." It seems that in this town called malice, these gangsters could just have found something to be frightened of: themselves.