The English have traditionally lived in their castles since time began, but it is only in modern times that they have surrounded them with that endless source of trouble, the Leyland cypress hedge. One of the most potent of all apparently humble discoveries took place when Mr CJ Leyland happened on six hybrid seedlings in his grounds at Leighton Hall near Welshpool in 1888. His Alaskan cedars had accidentally crossbred with his Monterey cypresses, a most unusual event among conifers. Today they have 55,000,000 offspring in Britain, almost as many as there are people.The effects were containable when ornamental gardening was confined to the relatively few, but in the age of garden centres and instant horticultural effects, the Leylandii hedge has got to bow to effective regulation. There may be plenty of highly entertaining legal actions in the modern history of hedge battles, but there have also been murders. There are few things as venomous as a quarrel over neighbours' boundaries; and something which creates "darkness at noon" is a certain trigger for disputes. The use of Arthur Koestler's famous book title should be acknowledged. It was deployed yesterday to describe the Leylandii Effect by Stephen Pound, the Labour backbencher who has hewn mightily at this issue but had his private member's bill blocked in the Commons last year. The government has now honoured its promise to take on the issue itself. A new law will at last give local councils the power to intervene and act as honest brokers over hedge quarrels. Fittingly, the measure is an amendment to the anti-social behaviour bill, reminding us that anti-social behaviour orders should not be seen as the exclusive preserve of the feckless young. There are more ways of making community life a misery than smashing bus shelters or scrawling graffiti, and the unintended consequence of Mr Leyland's gardening is one of them. As for unwanted Leylandii: they present a marvellous export opportunity. In the southern states of the US the plant is by far the most popular choice for Christmas tree.