Nathan Foster was never expected to succeed. As one of a family of six children brought up on one of the most notorious council estates in south London, the odds were stacked against him.Add to those disadvantages the fact he left school with two low-grade GCSEs and was naturally shy, and you have a boy who, just like thousands of others from his patch, was destined for, at best, a life struggling to make ends meet. At worst, a life in jail.But Nathan showed every sign he was going to escape his destiny. While he watched his friends dealing drugs and getting involved in knife and gun crime, he chose a different path.By the age of 18 he was a doting father, a loving boyfriend and a dedicated youth worker. He was studying for vocational childcare qualifications and had just celebrated his son Raheem's first birthday. The future looked bright.Then just as he had defied the statistics, last Friday he became one: shot dead in a Brixton cul-de-sac, he became the 17th teenage victim of gun crime in London this year. He would have turned 19 today and his family and friends were planning a surprise barbecue in his honour.Nathan was not killed because he was a member of a gang: witnesses say he was simply trying to make peace, apparently negotiating the return of a gold chain to someone who claimed it had been stolen.When Nathan died he was wearing a T-shirt with a picture of his son on it, which is one indication of how he was taking his responsibilities as a father seriously."Raheem wasn't planned, but when he was born it was a big wake-up call," said his 19-year-old sister, Shannel, in an interview with the Guardian. "Nathan loved Raheem and his girlfriend, Rochelle [Martin]. Every month he put aside pounds 100 for Raheem."Until his little brother came along five years ago, Nathan had been the baby of the family. As well as Shannel, he had a 33-year-old sister and two other brothers aged 23 and 32.Although he wasn't living at home in the run-up to his death, his mother, Vanetta Bell, still cooked for him and did his washing. "He is a mummy's boy," said Shannel, who often referred to her brother in the present tense throughout the interview.Vanetta used to make her son promise he would not get caught up in drugs or shootings. "He would always say, 'yes mum,'" remembered Shannel.It was Shannel who first got involved in youth work, and Nathan followed her lead. He was keen to learn to drive like his sister: just last week Shannel paid for his provisional licence.It was another shared interest that kept Nathan straight, and for a Brixton boy who had never ventured beyond the tube map, it was rather unusual. When he was seven, he fell in love with horse riding.It all started in 1996 when he and Shannel were among a small group of children from the Moorlands Estate in Brixton to join Ebony Horse Club, a charity providing riding lessons for children. Nathan was a gifted enough rider to have become a professional in the sport, Ros Spearing, Ebony's founder, said."He was the best rider we have ever had, and if he hadn't had to give up when he got too good - because we couldn't afford a tutor - he could have gone on to equestrian college," said Ms Spearing. "The horse gives you unconditional acceptance. It doesn't care if you're the poorest person on the estate or the richest, or whether you have problems at school. It also offers an escape, which is really important for kids growing up round here," she said."Nathan was a child who wasn't expected to succeed, so everyone was delighted with the way he turned out."Nathan later worked for Ebony as a youth worker. "He wanted to make a difference," said Shannel.His mother is devastated by Nathan's death. "I can't cry any more tears than I have. It is such a horrible thing to have to bury your own child," she said in a statement shortly after the killing."Nathan was a gentle, sweet boy. He was polite and hard working, he was never involved with a gang or any bad people, never in any trouble. He was dedicated to working with children."A 17-year-old boy has been charged with the murder and has been remanded in custody to appear at Balham youth court on Wednesday. He cannot be named for legal reasons.Nathan's family cannot plan a funeral yet because of the continuing police investigation, but the family will remember him in a series of local events. The first will be held today, Nathan's 19th birthday."We're going ahead with his surprise barbecue," said Shannel. "The memory of Nathan is keeping us strong."