On the Macpherson report Guest The Macpherson report has over 80 recommendations. Do you believe that any of them will be taken on board? If so, do you really believe such changes will prevent such atrocities in the future? I'm not convinced that they will.  Michael Mansfield The report has over 80 recommendations, many of which are striking and significant. The difference between now and 1981 and the Scarman report is the extent to which there is public appreciation of what has happened. It is only by maintaining that public pressure that changes will be made and the report implemented. A step in this direction is a civil liberties rally on March 28 at Camden town hall when it is hoped to bring everyone together to provide a solid basis for a civil rights movement across the UK. Hope to see you all there.   Chris King I am totally against racism in any form but recommendation 39 of the report severely disturbs me. It says "39. That consideration should be given to amendment of the law to allow prosecution of offences involving racist language or behaviour, and of offences involving the possession of offensive weapons, where such conduct can be proved to have taken place otherwise than in a public place"  This is a total and absolute breach of civil liberties. People should be free to do whatever they so wish in their own home no matter how abhorrent that is. Freedom of speech must be fought for whatever the cost and if this crime is added to law, as it probably will, I think that it will be a bad day for Britain.  Michael Mansfield Recommendation 39: This is a troublesome area. But the concern is as follows. If you believe that incitement to racial hatred is a criminal offence and the possession of offensive weapons (eg, a claw hammer head on a leather thong) is similarly criminal, it seems to me just like rape - it doesn't matter where it happens. This is the way in which the BNP and other such organisations have managed to maintain a presence is by having meetings in private where views which may transgress the law are expressed. Therefore, there should be a facility for ensuring a potential prosecution against such activities. On the Stephen Lawrence case Helen 247 Compared to the other high profile cases, regarding failures in the legal system that you have acted in, how does this compare both in terms of the injustice suffered and the public reaction?  Michael Mansfield Easily the most significant and far-reaching high profile case with which I've had the privilege to be concerned. The main point is that it has penetrated the public psyche and raised one of the most widespread issues of any case since the war, namely social, economic and legal injustice which all contribute to racism. We all have a responsibility to contribute to its eradication.   Ben Jones In light of yesterdays report on the Murder of Stephan Lawrence, do you ever think it will be possible to bring those responsible for his death to court?  Michael Mansfield Unless the double jeopardy rule is abolished, the three young men who've already been acquitted cannot face a second prosecution. However, it does not preclude a prosecution against the other two or a third individual who has yet to be identified.   Guest Can you explain and justify the role of your wife in the latest controversy to do with Duwayne Brookes? I'm a little confused as to a) what the issue is? and b) what your wife is doing at the heart of it?  Michael Mansfield I would like to take the opportunity to state clearly that there was no controversy or rift between Duwayne Brookes and the campaign, as reported in the Evening Standard. Duwayne Brookes has made this very clear since.   HiPRO It was widely believed by many of your colleagues at the bar that the case against the suspects was impossible to win, primarily due to a lack of evidence. In light of the Criminal Justice principle that does not allow a person to be tried for the same offence twice, do you think you were wrong to proceed with a prosecution which was destined to fail and in doing so preclude any chance of the suspects being brought to justice? Or do you still stand by your decision?  Michael Mansfield The decision to proceed with the private prosecution was one taken by Mr and Mrs Lawrence. Up to that point, they had received little or no satisfaction in this regard. There plainly was a prospect of success in that a magistrate committed three of the five for trial - which means that he felt that there was a case to answer which should go to trial by jury. Many of the developments in the case were well beyond our control and the final outcome was not expected.  On racist Britain  Femi-hw Despite all of the rhetoric of a multi-ethnic society, it is clear little has changed beyond a veneer of platitudes and warm words. I feel the most important thing in this case is to see human rights for the whole society dependent upon strength in cultural diversity rather than a homogenised society.  Michael Mansfield Education: I'm glad to be able to highlight the role of education in the fight against racism. By which, I mean anti-racist training as opposed to race-awareness training. The report's proposals for revising the national curriculum to include a positive role for this is one of its most significant recommendations.  The five suspects were not borne out of the blue bearing the vile racist messages seen on the video surveillance. Somewhere there are friends, neighbours, colleagues, parents, relations and teachers who must have witnessed their abhorrent behaviour prior to the murder. In this context we all once again have a responsibility to blow the whistle on such behaviour.  On the police and Paul Condon  Paso Do you think there will ever be such a thing as a non-racist police force?  Michael Mansfield The question is akin to asking whether there will ever be a non-racist society. The answer in ideal terms ought to be 'yes'. The realistic and achievable answer is that we must make provision and establish protections such that the existence of racism is severely curtailed and contained so that it does not infect our daily lives and people no longer live in fear in the streets and in their workplaces.   Ben Jones  Do you think it is appropriate for Sir Paul Condon to resign, and what legal measure do you think should be introduced to prevent Stephen's killers from going free?  Michael Mansfield Should Condon resign? I must stress that any views I express are personal and do not represent any other group - nor necessarily the Lawrence family. However, I do feel that Sir Paul Condon has to seriously reconsider his position and tender an early resignation because it has to be remembered that he has at all stages resisted criticism - whether it be of incompetence or racism - until he had little or no option. Yesterday's volte face in which he now embraces institutional racism because it is a 'new definition' is semantic casuistry.  Truth is, the definition is as old as the hills and the public can have no confidence in a leadership that is coming from behind.  frank0  It is extraordinary Sir Paul Condon has decided to stay in office. No-one has been made accountable for post-Scarman lethargy. For instance respectively: Michael Menson, where it was left to his family to take a full statement from the dying young man on his death bed because the Police regarded the attack as 'obviously' suicide and dismissing the racist jibes Mr Menson said he heard; Joy Gardner and the persistent excessive-force accusation. All this and much much more done under the not so all-seeing eye and leadership of Sir Paul. What's your view on this?  Michael Mansfield I'm glad you've cross-referenced this case to others that have occurred in the recent past - Menson, Joy Gardiner and of course there are a number of others: Ricky Reel and Mr Sylvester in Tottenham. Sir Paul's protestations that he has been bringing about change are not evidenced on the ground by families who have experienced both witting and unwitting racism.  On the law and lawyers   SimonEastW Where do you currently stand on the principle of "Innocent until proved Guilty"?  Michael Mansfield The principle of the presumption of innocence is fundamental. I campaigned strongly against the abolition of the right to silence and I am currently campaigning against proposals to abolish the right to trial by jury for a large number of offences. Too many fundamental principles have been eroded over the past 15 years and it is extremely important that we do not convict on the basis of rumour or belief. Jask Straw got very close to this with his legislation in the wake of the Omagh bombing.   Sadat Sayeed  I am a young Asian man who would like to enter the Bar and hopefully one day do civil liberties and race related cases however as the report outlined all institutions must do what they need to do rid themselves of institutionalised racism. Do you believe this exists at the Bar and if so how will the Bar overcome this and does it have the desire to do so?  Michael Mansfield As the report indicates, racism is not confined to the institution of the police and therefore it would be puerile of me to suggest that the law is exempt from this. In 1984, I established Tooks' Court in order to hopefully provide more places for applicants who were black. We are still but a pebble on the beach.  On the media  Mark E Lee Do you feel that that the Stephen Lawrence case has brought about a marked change in attitude by the British media towards the representation of black people in society?  Michael Mansfield Very difficult to ascertain at the moment the extent to which the media has truly changed its spots. A brief reflection about its treatment of Diana before she was killed and after demonstrates that the media have different considerations, probably dominated by the marketplace. I don't feel that the responsible press are necessarily included in this and to some extent they have helped forge a change.   On Michael Mansfield   Guest  You deserve to have the highest salary you could possible get because you gave even your soul in to this case. All the best.  Michael Mansfield Many thanks. Please immediately contact the Daily Mail with your thoughts - who clearly feel that I should do everything for nothing. Thanks for your support.  Frank0 Do you feel your reputation helps give credibility, force and legitimacy to minority causes that is all too often denied by majority society's pernicious and consistent prejudices?  Michael Mansfield I do feel that reputation and standing up for principle is one of the few ways in which a difference can be made. Much more important examples than my efforts can be seen internationally in East Timor, in Africa, in Nigeria, South America, the Rainforests, by individuals prepared to put their lives on the line. They provide the true inspiration, in the same way that Doreen and Neville have done here by demonstrating that change can be effective.  The Future  Nigelk800 Will the allegations of improper connections between the father of Norris and the police be investigated further and do you feel that these connections had an adverse effect on the murder investigation? Should immediate action be taken against the police involved with Norris Snr.  Michael Mansfield Sir Paul Condon has committed himself to the elimination of corruption in the Met Police and the result of the inquiry does leave a substantial area still requiring investigation. The Kent investigation admitted that it was unable to do this in any depth and the Macpherson report indicated that it was applying a criminal standard of proof in this one are with regard to its findings.  There remains therefore as an example, the continued employment of a detective referred to DS XX in South London where the Norris family lives who has had admitted improper contact with Clifford Norris. Ian Johnston, the Deptuy Assistant Commissioner, described this situation as appalling.   DominicW  What do you think are the prospects for the Lawrence family's civil action against the Met now?  Michael Mansfield I am afraid it would be professionally improper for me to comment on legal options and prospects for the Lawrence family in future, much as I would like to do so. 