A protagonist in the television documentary Benefits Street has been jailed for seven years for involvement in a drug dealing operation and possession of handgun ammunition.Samora Roberts, known to viewers of the Channel 4 show as Black Dee, was arrested after police carried out surveillance of her home in James Turner Street in Birmingham.The city’s crown court was told Roberts, 34, ran an “open all hours” drugs business from her mid-terrace home, which featured frequently in the first series of controversial series. Her lawyer said she was “thrown into the limelight” by Benefits Street and had been living like a hermit in recent months.Roberts was convicted of possession of crack cocaine and cannabis, with intent to supply. She was also found guilty of possessing 11 Smith & Wesson bullets, which were found hidden in a trainer under a washing basket. Jailing her, judge Philip Parker QC said police surveillance footage of her home in the summer of 2013 had shown a “steady trade” of drugs being sold.He told Roberts: “The distributing of class A drugs alongside class B drugs is a despicable offence. All drugs lead to a dependency of some sort. “The presence of live ammunition is deeply concerning. It shows how drugs can sometimes require other crimes to be committed in order to preserve them. The bullets which were found could clearly cause death or serious injury and there is little point for anyone being in possession of live ammunition other than for that purpose.”The judge also jailed two co-defendants for drug-related offences, including 22-year-old Omari George, of Handsworth, Birmingham. Parker told Roberts: “It would appear that both you and Omari George were running this ‘business’. These drugs were part of a thriving open all hours, mid-terrace cottage industry.”Martin Liddiard, for Roberts, said: “She found herself thrown into the limelight by a programme that started a number of years ago. For a number of months she has moved out from her home because of adverse publicity and become something of a hermit as a result.“What is good is her use of drugs has stopped entirely. Cannabis was a habitual part of her life, that was the root of her evil.”Benefits Street was highly controversial. The programme makers insisted it gave a valuable insight into modern Britain. Critics, including some of those featured, argued that the subjects were exploited.When the Guardian visited James Turner Street in January 2014, Roberts said the media were twisting her words. She was seen dancing to hip-hop in her front yard, chanting: “No justice, no peace,” an echo of the rallying cry for members of the family of Mark Duggan, who was shot dead by police in Tottenham, north London, and whose death sparked riots in 2011. 