No, so long as the service is well managed. Contrary to some media reports (such as Radio 4's Today programme), the information commissioner has not torpedoed London mayor Boris Johnson's plan to require the Metropolitan police to post the location of most reported crimes on a publicly accessible website (Can London's new mayor really put crime on the map?, May 2008). What it has done, however, is say that the proposed site would come under the jurisdiction of the Data Protection Act and would need to be managed accordingly.A statement from the information commissioner's office said: "The ICO recognises the benefits of crime mapping to help police forces identify crime patterns - for instance, to help plan the deployment of officers. However, when considering making such information public, it makes sense to think through what the intended benefits are and to weight these against the potential privacy intrusion involved. We believe that this will involve carefully considering what level of detail should be placed in the public domain."In fact, Johnson's manifesto proposals for the scheme already considers what level of detail may be appropriate for particular crimes. It proposes three different levels of detail, for three categories of offence. Incidents of domestic violence, for example, would be indicated only by street. The information commissioner's statement suggests that the three categories may need some refinement. "There may be a risk that releasing information about a crime may lead some to infer the identity of the victim. It may also cause concern to those living in the locality, especially those with particular concerns about their security."However, it says the final test must be a balance of risks and benefits. "There is a need to balance the intended benefits of releasing such information against the potential intrusion or concern this might cause individuals."What the office was unable - or unwilling - to do was unequivocally put crime mapping in the clear. Opponents of the scheme are likely to seize on any reservations. Interviewed on the Today programme last week, Brian Paddick, the Met's former assistant commissioner (and unsuccessful Liberal Democrat candidate for London mayor) described making crime maps available down to street level as "a lot of pain for very little gain". Revealingly, he showed little faith in the power of information to hold the police to account: "It's not a very British thing to hold people to account in front of their peers."An independent review of data sharing in government by Richard Thomas, the information commissioner, and Dr Mark Walport, of the Wellcome Trust, may shed light on what can and can't be done with personal information. It will be published by the end of this month, the review office said on Tuesday.