London increasingly looks like an offshore centre serving many dubious financiers while at the same time claiming to have regulation that puts it among the world's top onshore jurisdictions.Its offshore status is underlined by the large number of banks and branches of foreign banks in the City. More are based there than anywhere in the world. Its onshore claim rests on a long-held reputation for respectability - who after all would ever cast an aspersion on the Bank of England? - buttressed by a mass of anti-money laundering and anti-fraud regulation as severe as anywhere else in the world. But as each new scandal breaks, London's status looks increasingly ambiguous.London's vulnerability to launderers is not in its laws but in their implementation. Government has failed to invest in sufficient skilled law enforcement officers or regulators to curb its sprawling financial system. But this is no accident. The UK's economy cannot afford to curb its income from the 'invisible' financial sector, while its industrial sector becomes anorexic. As the United Kingdom feeds its growing addiction to finance and hot money, its regulators bluster ever less convincingly about the security of the UK's financial system and its antipathy to money-launderers. Anti-money laundering legislation has mushroomed in the Britain to keep this offshore haven in line with international standards.The Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 (FSMA) provides the legal basis for the Financial Services Authority, which acquired its money-laundering powers on 1 December, 2001. Supervision of UK banking had been subsumed into the FSA in 1997, an early initiative driven by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, and his assistant, Ed Balls, in response to the Bank of England's failure to act promptly on the BCCI money-laundering scandal.Action against money laundering gained a new urgency when the FSA took charge, says one money laundering reporting officer. 'Prior to 2001, no one did a damned thing. It was another "tick in the box" exercise. You had a compliance department, you probably had an old bombed-out compliance officer who was the money laundering reporting officer, who had no resources and no respect. The banks saw no risks to themselves, no one was going to fine them and no one was going to give them any grief. They were never going to get caught by the law.'Bankers' dissatisfaction with the UK's anti-money laundering system is fuelled by resentment at the police, who appear detached from the realities of the financial markets. Carol Sergeant, the FSA's former managing director for markets and risk (she is now the head of compliance at Lloyds TSB), said: 'The information that the banks are providing may not actually meet the needs of law enforcement. But they are not getting any feedback on what law enforcement people want. One of the main areas that has been successful has been terrorist finance because it has been much clearer as to what the authorities want.'The Financial Services and Markets Act has instilled a sense of fear and foreboding into UK banking. This law allows for banks to receive surprise dawn visits from the regulators to check that their procedures correspond with the bank's perceived risk as well as with the regulator's own principles and regulations. Bank training in money-laundering procedures has mushroomed, creating a demand for consultants and trainers. The minutiae of the law and regulation are closely watched by the regulator, says one former FSA officer, but more complex problems of vulnerability to fraud or abuse are overlooked.Bureaucratic competence is valued by the organisation, which answers to Her Majesty's Treasury, but lateral thinking into a bank's deeper weaknesses in knowing client affairs is harder to obtain.One money laundering reporting officer (MLRO) of a foreign bank based in London said caustically: 'The people that have been fined so far have made pretty glaring errors in terms of basic identification of clients. The FSA would probably not feel capable of fining people who had the right documents on file, ticked in the right boxes, but failed to make the conceptual leap to understanding the client and the client's business.'The officer continued: 'The FSA prefers to keep people back in the office, doing what it likes to call desk-based reviews of firms. It is less likely to find wrongdoing in its patch; it has far too many firms to look after for its complement. More staff would increase the cost to the industry, and that in turn would increase the pressure on government.'Mike Adlem, the London-based managing director of the consultants Protiviti, commented: 'Have we lost the plot? The whole point about AML [anti-money laundering] legislation was to go after criminal money, freeze it and take it out of circulation. But we have now got to the point where it is only a compliance issue. The vast majority of the effort is now focused on making sure that the FSA are happy. The sums recovered are negligible and totally out of proportion with the amount that is being spent on compliance.'Michael Foot, the FSA managing director with responsibility for deposit takers, confirmed in May 2003 that the United Kingdom had a considerable problem in maintaining and enforcing anti-money laundering procedures.He said: 'Operation of procedures to combat the laundering of the proceeds of drugs and other crimes through banks and building societies is not satisfactory. There is a great deal of money-laundering going on throughout the UK.'Policing the system is one arm of the government's anti-money laundering strategy. Another is the fight against those who hold the proceeds of crime. This was the context for the establishment of the Assets Recovery Agency. But observers say that the ARA compares poorly with its opposite number in Dublin. Felix McKenna, the chief bureau officer of the Dublin-based Criminal Assets Bureau, says criminal prosecutions against gang lords are often cumbersome and unreliable, as the wealthy gang leader is likely to be near-untouchable.He said: 'You're not getting the big boys or the principals of the crime organisations. You won't get the godfathers or the man who's controlling everything. You won't get him into a criminal court and have him convicted of his crimes, and he will still be able to enjoy the benefits and profits that he has generated through his group or gang of the criminal activities they've been involved in. You'll catch his runners and his people lower down the gang. 'The big guy can avoid prosecution through the threat of intimidation, fear, and the reluctance of people to give evidence against him within his own organisation. They have no inhibition about hiring a contract killer to kill a witness and intimidate witnesses and intimidate their families. They intimidate juries. They go to, not extreme lengths, but they're just the normal run of what organised crime does - this fear factor that they instil in people.'