The latest crime figures are out, and newspapers are, as usual, competing among themselves to find the most negative possible spin to put on them."The British Crime Survey, which interviews 45,000 individuals, showed that the total number of crimes rose by 1 per cent to 10.9 million compared with a peak of 19.4 million in 1995," reports The Times."A big rise in street robberies across England and Wales rocked the Home Office...," says the Telegraph.Overall crime recorded by police fell by 1 per cent, while that recorded by the Crime Survey rose by one per cent. Now I was a member of a university class that jointly only passed statistics when they dropped the required mark to about 10 per cent, but I'd confidently guess that neither of those figures is statistically significant, given the range of variables in their calculation.But even were the swings bigger, would they mean anything at all? Not much.Those papers with a little sense of perspective already acknowledge, if in nine point body-type rather than a 60-point headline, that the "recorded" figure reflects police activity and interests, rather than any actual conditions. Were police to suddenly decide to focus on jaywalking in central London (which would be a great idea from my point of view as a cyclist - particularly the highly dangerous offence of "mobile phone walking") , the rate of the offence in the figures would suddenly leap, but be no reflection of changed conditions on the ground.So, it is generally thought, comparisons of what crimes people report privately to questioners are more accurate. And perhaps they are, over a short period. But are comparisons over time by this measure any more accurate?Public perception of "what is crime" changes over the years and decades, much more, generally, than legal definitions change. So I'd suggest that historical comparisons have little or no veracity.Some crimes you might say don't change - say the biggie, murder. Well no, at the centre it might be simple - but conceptions of murder and manslaughter change over the years. And what about the specialised case of infanticide - regarded relatively sympathetically in some periods and less so in others? And given the state of modern forensic science, are not cases that previously might have been dismissed as accidents more likely to be identified as murders?But murder of course is an extremely rare crime. Think of something more common, that really will affect the overall figures. Let's imagine a scenario. Teenage boy regularly beats up and terrorises a fellow school pupil and steals the contents of his pockets. Parents of victim eventually find out; father of victim confronts father of bully. Blows are exchanged. Blood is shed. Bully, who learnt that "might is right" from his father's leather belt, is again beaten by father for causing all the trouble.Until very recently, the chances of the police being involved at any point in that string of events would be miniscule. Today, it could very easily end up being classified as half a dozen "assaults occasioning actual bodily harm" and "robberies", with a few child abuse charges thrown in for good measure. Certainly, the theft of the victim pupil's mobile phone and iPod will end up in the statistics, so that parents can claim on their insurance.And that's great. I'm not in any way suggesting that shouldn't be the case. For all the odd obviously ridiculous prosecution of children that got out of hand and should have been dealt with by school discipline, the fact that society is expressing through the law and the courts the fact that physical clashes of any sort are unacceptable is a good thing.These changes all reflect the fact that we are now more civilised, less violent to each other, than any time in the past. Just think back. Domestic violence wasn't seen as a crime; beating the hell out of your children was just "discipline". Two blokes "having a go" in the pub car park after closing time was highly unlikely to attract attention, unless the whole crowd watching piled in too. Someone of wealth and status would probably drink drive, kill someone, then bulldoze through the police, pay off the necessary relatives and get away with it. These were just "what happened", "a bit of biff", not a "crime".It mightn't be a fashionable thing to say, and certainly a hard line to get on the front page of a newspaper, but in fact you are almost certainly less likely to be subject to violence now in the UK than in any time in history. And if you are unlucky enough to be a victim, you are far more likely to end up in the statistics than at any time in the past. (And you don't need to just take my word for this, see what a magistrate has to say.)Yet probably more people fear crime, change their lives because of fear of violent crime, than at any time in certainly the recent past, to their harm, and the harm of general society. (The way to really greatly cut your risk is not to go to the pub late at night if you're a drunk young bloke, and if you are a heterosexual woman to be celibate - two sets of recommendations unlikely to have a high take-up rate.) Instead, people are staying in, locking themselves behind giant bars, and getting in their cars rather than catching public transport - measures whose costs usually far outweigh the risks they are trying to avoid.Partly the fear - and the utter irrational level of terror about the stranger in the later-night street - is because we're now more risk-averse, and partly because we're much more media-saturated. So why not go out and enjoy that late evening summer stroll in comfort and confidence? That's provided, of course, you're celibate and sober.