A mother is preparing to give evidence against her former husband, who leapt from a fourth-floor hotel balcony with their two children during a holiday.John Hogan, 34, plunged 50ft from the Petra Mare hotel in Crete with Liam, six, and Mia, then aged two, in August 2006.Liam died after suffering head injuries, but Mia survived with a broken arm.Natasha Hogan, 35, now divorced from Hogan, will be a key witness in his trial for murder, which starts today at the criminal court in Chania in Crete. In an interview with ITV1's Tonight show, to be broadcast tonight, the nurse says she will "never forgive" her former husband, and sees the image of her dying son "every minute" of the day.Of the hearing, she said: "I have to face him and it's going to be very hard. But I'm also anxious about it because I don't know if I'm going to erupt with anger, if I might have the red rag to a bull scenario."He was my best friend, father of my children. I know he's going to be a different man and that scares me the most about the trial, actually seeing him."The couple divorced in June 2007 and she now lives with boyfriend Richard Visser in Newport. In the interview with Sir Trevor McDonald, she describes how they were on a "make-or-break holiday" and had had several rows. She said Hogan had discovered she had been looking at divorce sites on the internet.As the family were getting ready for their evening meal, she recalls him becoming upset. She said: "I've known him 10 years. I'd never in my life seen him so angry, or angry at all, really."She said he began throwing the contents of their suitcases around the room and swearing. "The next thing I know I turn around and no one is in the room. They've all gone."After rushing down the hotel stairs, she saw her son crumpled on the ground.She said: "In my 12 to 14 years of nursing, I've never seen anyone look so close to death. Just the colour in his face, it was grey," she said."He was in a heap, there was blood everywhere and the images of where the blood was coming from - his head - have only come back to me in later months."I didn't see it at first. I didn't think I'd remembered it, I didn't think I'd seen it. But since that day and every day since I get images of my little boy dying in my mind. Every minute, every five minutes, whenever my brain is free and I can now see the head injuries that he had."Hogan is accused of the premeditated murder of his son and the attempted premeditated murder of his daughter. The first charge carries a maximum of life imprisonment and the second up to 12 years in jail. Tonight is on ITV1 at 8pm.