A teacher was sentenced to six months in jail today for firing a gas-powered pellet gun while confronting youths after her family had suffered a campaign of vandalism and abuse.Linda Walker, 48, of Urmston, Greater Manchester, shot a pellet into the pavement near the feet of one teenager in a group she had confronted near her home on August 14 last year. She had fetched the pellet gun and an air rifle from her home to confront the youths after a washing-up liquid container full of water had been emptied over a car belonging to one of her 17-year-old twin sons.Manchester crown court heard during her trial last month that the incident with the car followed a series of other cases of vandalism and abuse and was the "straw that broke the camel's back". Walker told police her family had received nuisance telephone calls, one of her sons had the wing mirror of his car broken off, the family's shed had been broken into, garden ornaments had been thrown over their wall and fish had been stolen from their pond.She was found guilty of affray and possessing a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence after a week-long trial. Today the teacher was sentenced to six months in jail for possessing a firearm and one month in jail for affray. The sentences will run concurrently and the judge, Recorder Louis Browne, said she would serve half the six-month sentence and that the rest of the term would be suspended. The judge said the offences she had committed were "serious" and that her response to the incident with the car had been "wholly disproportionate". He said: "You assumed these individuals were likely to be the same individuals who had caused the vandalism to your property ... both the weapons were capable of causing lethal injury." Walker's partner, John Cavanagh, 56, a college lecturer, was cleared of affray last month. Walker is currently suspended from her job teaching at New Park school in Salford, Greater Manchester, where she was head of year 11 and in charge of food technology, as well as being a careers coordinator. Today, a spokesman for Salford city council said: "Now legal proceedings are ended, any formal disciplinary action can also be concluded. This will be completed as quickly as possible." During the trial, the court heard that after the water had been discovered on the car, Walker had confronted a group of youths who were around 250 yards away.She then went back inside her home to telephone the police. She told the police: "I'm going over to that field over the road. I've got an air rifle and a pistol and I'm going to shoot the vandals that come around here ... I'm going to shoot them." She told the court that she then picked up her partner's Walther CP88 gas-powered pellet pistol, which he had kept in her underwear drawer for four months after they had been burgled, and an air rifle belonging to her teenage son. Walker left the house to confront the youths again, pointed the pistol at the feet of Robert McKiernan, 18, and then fired it at the road. She told police that she had left the house "like a madwoman possessed". She said: "I feel totally, totally distressed after all these things that have been happening. I know you do your best, but the law is on the side of the yobbos, these criminals, not the victim." In mitigation, defence barrister Farrhat Arshad told the court today that Walker was a woman of good character who had "given her lot to society". She said, though the vandalism may seem petty, "the effects on Mrs Walker were great ... she thought her family, which was supposed to be safe, was being attacked". Ms Arshad told the court that the teacher had also been under stress because of changes at the school. During the trial, a former headteacher at New Park school told the court that Walker had been praised by Ofsted inspectors every time there was an inspection. Nigel Haslam said: "She was very professional and thorough and always punctual and prompt. She worked all the hours that came and provided the students with many opportunities to succeed."