The police marksman who shot Mark Duggan has said he was certain that the suspect was holding a weapon, but that after he had opened fire twice it disappeared.The marksman, referred to as V53, was testifying at the inquest into Duggan's death. The shooting in August 2011 led to the worst riots to hit England in modern times.V53 told the jury he was part of an operation that aimed to stop Duggan after intelligence suggested he had acquired a gun.Covert officers followed Duggan as he travelled in a cab to collect the weapon from Leyton, east London. Officers continued the pursuit as the vehicle headed back to Tottenham, north London.V53 was in an unmarked police car when the order was given to force the cab to halt by boxing it in with three police vehicles. The stop happened in Ferry Lane, Tottenham.V53 said: "The minicab door opened and Mark Duggan jumped out at pace." He said he was convinced that Duggan was trying to escape.He said warnings were shouted to let Duggan know that he was surrounded by armed police and should stand still. The officers were wearing baseball caps to identify themselves as police. V53 had an MP5 carbine weapon slung over his shoulder.He said he then saw Duggan turn towards him: "It's like a freeze-frame moment … In my head the world had stopped."V53 said his focus was on what was in Duggan's hands, which he said was a gun in a sock. He said he could make out the gun's barrel, handle and trigger guard. He said Duggan was holding it in his right arm across his stomach.V53 said he was now facing Duggan broadly square on: "The only thing I was focused on was the gun … I was hoping he would drop it."The officer said Duggan then moved the alleged gun a couple of inches away from his body. Duggan had now crossed "a line in the sand" and V53 said he had "an honest belief he was going to shoot me".V53 told the jury: "I brought my weapon up and I discharged one round." He said it struck Duggan in the right of his chest, causing him to flinch.V53 said this caused Duggan's alleged gun to be pointing directly at him, so he fired a second time, hitting Duggan in the right bicep. He said Duggan fell backwards and other armed officers converged on the suspect."My focus is glued on the gun," the officer told the jury. He said he reassessed the situation and "the gun was not there".The coroner, Keith Cutler, asked: "Suddenly the gun disappears?" V53 replied: "Yes."Police say they found a gun 10 to 20 feet from where Duggan fell, on the other side of a fence. Duggan is alleged to have collected the BBM Bruni model 92 handgun 15 minutes before he was shot dead.The inquest continues.