The father of the murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence is fighting to gain access to Crown Prosecution Service files on his son in a fresh attempt to obtain justice, it emerged today.Neville Lawrence has started judicial review proceedings in order to see all the information behind the CPS decision not to launch a new prosecution against his son's killers.The action is currently on hold while talks take place with Ken MacDonald QC, the director of public prosecutions. "I feel hurt that they forced me to take this to court," 62-year-old Mr Lawrence said. "It makes me feel they do not respect me enough to give me the information they said they would."Back in May 2004, they said they would tell me what I needed to know - the facts. They gave me reassurances they would co-operate with me. They did not, so I took them to court."I should not have had to shame them into this. I do not know why they have not learned their lesson. They should know that I do not accept just anything from anyone about this because I have been let down so badly before." Mr Lawrence is hoping the CPS files might yield a vital clue that could allow him to launch another prosecution. His action follows the CPS ruling last year that there was "insufficient evidence" to bring any new charges. Stephen, an 18-year-old A-level student, was stabbed to death in an unprovoked racist attack by a gang of five white youths in April 1993. No one has been convicted of the killing, but five men were arrested soon after it happened. Three of the men were acquitted of murder after a private prosecution brought by the Lawrence family in 1996 collapsed at the Old Bailey. The following year, an inquest into Stephen's death ended with the jury deciding that the teenager had been "unlawfully killed in a completely unprovoked racist attack by five white youths". A public inquiry into the first police investigation found inept detective work and "institutional racism" in the force. An exhaustive re-investigation by Scotland Yard took five years, but still failed to identify the killers. Jocelyn Cockburn, Mr Lawrence's solicitor, said the threat of a judicial review had led the CPS to disclose the advice of its leading counsel. "These proceedings have been put on hold while we try to negotiate and sit round a table with the director of public prosecutions to get the rest of the material," she said. A CPS spokeswoman said: "The CPS has endeavoured to supply Mr Lawrence with as much material as it lawfully can, but the CPS has a duty not only to Mr and Mrs Lawrence, but to witnesses who have given statements during the course of the lengthy investigation. "We must ensure as far as possible that, should sufficient evidence come forward in the future, we would be able to have a fair trial."