The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday January 17 2008 The solicitor-general, Vera Baird, has asked us to clarify that when she told the Guardian the CPS did not put enough effort into rape cases (in the article below) she was referring to the past and not to the present-day situation at the CPS. We agree we should have made this clear.Promiscuity among young people and the failure of police and prosecutors to put enough effort into investigating cases are two of the principal causes in the collapse in the number of rape convictions, the country's top law officers say today.In an interview with the Guardian, the director of public prosecutions, Sir Ken MacDonald, and the solicitor general, Vera Baird, urge women to continue to report allegations of rape, while conceding that the authorities are struggling to give victims a proper service.Macdonald said social changes played a big part in the overall rise in reported but unsuccessful rape complaints, and denied police assertions that the CPS would only prosecute "dead certainties"."There is a lot of drinking and a lot of casual sex. Young people are drinking heavily and are pretty promiscuous," he said. "You have social and sexual complexity, misunderstandings, taking advantage, and ambiguity." This, he said, was making the criminal justice system "quite a blunt instrument".Baird admitted it was a "big shock" to discover how far prosecutors and detectives in the field still needed to shift attitudes towards a crime for which only 6% of those accused are convicted."We have only partially driven through the cultural change. It's attitudes that are stopping the police and the CPS attacking cases with vigour: because they think there's a low chance of conviction, they don't put much effort in."Yesterday the Guardian detailed the unsuccessful attempts of one young woman, Beth Ellis, to persuade the CPS to act against her stepfather, who she says raped her repeatedly as a child.Given details of the case, MacDonald and Baird said they were working to put victims at the heart of the CPS's efforts to bring more people to justice. Models in America have been studied, and reforms are on the way. The English ban on prosecutors talking to alleged rape victims, unknown elsewhere, is expected to disappear this year when prosecutors have been retrained.MacDonald said: "This ban stems from the days when mostly private prosecutions were brought with bribed witnesses. It is the origin of the phrase 'man of straw': they used to stand outside court with straws in their shoes to signify their testimony could be bought." To stop the practice, prosecutors were banned from speaking to witnesses outside the hearing itself. "In typical English fashion, this then lasted for ever."He praised the US district attorney's office in Brooklyn, New York for the way it works with rape victims from the outset to build cases. "They're light years ahead of us," he said.Ministers' attempts to lift judicial bans on the use of expert evidence have so far failed, but Baird said she was trying to win agreement for more limited reform. Just before Christmas, she chaired a committee of psychologists, experts and judges. Her hope is that consensus will emerge from them on the contents of an educational video to explain, at the very least, that women do not always report rape immediately, and do not always give emotional performances in the witness box.Baird, a barrister with a long history of commitment to rape and domestic violence cases, is also planning legislation to allow details of the way rape victims first disclosed what had happened to them, as well as video evidence, to be used in court. She says the law has now been clarified so that incapably drunk women cannot be said to have consented to sex. "There is a huge political will behind this."Assistant commissioner John Yates, who is the lead officer on rape for the Association of Chief Police Officers, told the Guardian that there was no need for "big changes in the law" to boost conviction rates."We certainly don't need any reduction in the burden of proof. We have best practice. We have some of the best training in the world available. Every inspection and review in recent years has said so. But they have also said that delivery is inconsistent and that advice and best practice is too often ignored. We have much to do."My task is ensure colleagues across the country recognise the challenges and devote the proper resources to meeting them. Recent evidence would suggest that at long last chief constables are doing just that."