Two bedraggled fir trees, still wreathed in tinsel and pathetic decorations, grace the kerb opposite the remand block of Unit 3, Budapest prison, in a dreary suburb of the Hungarian capital.Each day, relatives and friends of inmates gather there to shout messages, send elaborate hand signals and curse or bless the figures at the distant windows. The inmates include two British businessmen: Michael Turner, 27, from Corfe Castle, Dorset, and Jason McGoldrick, 37, from Plymouth. They stand accused of defrauding 134 customers of a total of £18,000 in a Budapest time-share scheme that went wrong six years ago.The sums owed to individual creditors are small, but the cumulative effect led Hungarian prosecutors to issue European arrest warrants for the two men last August. On 2 November, they voluntarily flew to Budapest, expecting to appear in court. Instead, they were handcuffed and thrown into jail.Allowed only one hour of exercise a day, one shower a week, and one visit by relatives a month, they have been interviewed only once by police in more than 80 days' detention.Hungary's criminal justice system is tough, bureaucratic and notoriously slow. Under the penal code, the two could be held up to two years without being charged."Michael is feeling isolated, distressed and betrayed," said Mark Turner, who runs the Castle Inn in Corfe and has visited his son twice in prison. "The clothes are hanging off him and he talks in mono­syllables, as though he is forgetting how to speak. He says the guards shout at them all the time." After complaints from the Turner family, the prison authorities now allow a consular official from the British embassy and a local priest to see Michael and Jason, who are kept apart from each other.Lawyers for the two say the Hungarian authorities misled Westminster magistrates' court into granting extradition, by giving the impression that the ­prosecution case was ready, and that they were going to Hungary to stand trial.The European arrest warrant (EAW) was conceived in the shocked atmosphere after the attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York on 11 September, 2001. In Britain, it came into force in 2004.Designed to fast-track suspects of serious crime and terrorism to face trial, critics say it is being used instead for comparatively minor cases, bypassing traditional safeguards, and leaving citizens of one country at the mercy of criminal procedures in another. More than 9,000 EAWs were issued Europe-wide in 2007."The warrant is an ill-thought-out, ill-considered and inappropriate piece of law, and now needs to be looked at again," said Lord Dartmouth, a member of the European parliament for south-west England for Ukip. He visited Budapest last week to express his concerns to the authorities."I was treated with exemplary courtesy… but that is hardly the point," he said after a visit to the prison. "They were extradited on the basis that they were going to be prosecuted, and in fact what is happening is that the … authorities are gathering evidence."The Hungarian side deny the British complaint that they misused the extradition procedure: "Hungarian law is in complete harmony with the framework proposal of the European commission governing the issuing of the European arrest warrant," said Gabriella Skoda, a spokeswoman for the metropolitan prosecutor's office in Budapest. "In Hungary, you can issue a European arrest warrant at the investigation stage, without charges being issued by the prosecution."According to article 1, paragraph 1 of the framework decision of the European commission, warrants should be issued "for the purposes of conducting a criminal prosecution or executing a custodial sentence or detention order".As hopes fade of either release or an early trial, the men's best hope appears to be to persuade the Hungarian judge at the next remand hearing on 5 February to grant them one of the forms of house arrest that exist under Hungarian law. Attempts by their Hungarian lawyers to have them released on bail have foundered on the prosecutor's insistence that they might abscond or interfere with witnesses.If the men are eventually found innocent, they could claim substantial damages from the Hungarian state, but only at the end of a legal road that stretches far beyond the wintry horizon.