More offenders should receive community service instead of jail sentences to cut record levels of suicide and overcrowding in Britain's prisons, according to a report published today.The Prison Reform Trust (PRT) warned that an immediate reduction in the prison population was needed to halt rising drug abuse, mental health problems and staff sickness in a system where 85 out of 138 jails (62%) in England and Wales are overcrowded.The trust's survey showed there were 105 suicides in prisons last year - a rise of 30 from the previous year (40%).There were suicides in 52 prisons, with the highest number at Durham where six inmates killed themselves.The spiralling suicide rate coincided with a record number of prisoners sharing cells - 14,800 (21%) out of a total prison population of 70,000.At the end of June, 85 prisons were overcrowded including nine of the 13 jails built in the past decade. The most overcrowded was Shrewsbury where 91% of inmates shared.Drug use among prisoners went up for the first time in five years with the number testing positive rising to 12%. Leeds had the highest number of positive drug tests at 28%.Enver Solomon, author of the report, said: "This reveals a prison service severely hampered by a record prison population. "Far too many prisons are overcrowded, provide inadequate levels of purposeful activity and experience high levels of recorded drug use. The only way to improve these jails is immediately to reduce their populations."Prisons need to be freed from the burden of overcrowding so they can provide regimes that genuinely protect the public by reducing reoffending. This can only be achieved when less serious offenders are given community sentences."The trust's report, A Measure of Success, also showed that staff sickness had risen to 14.7 days per person - the highest level in the public sector - predominantly due to stress.In total it found that the prison service failed to meet eight out of 19 national targets set last year, including those for overcrowding, drug use and suicides.The PRT report is compiled from the prison service's table of prison performance, which was published last month. But the trust criticised the way one of the targets was calculated by prison governors. The prison service said it had exceeded its target to discharge 28,200 prisoners with "a job, training or education place", actually achieving nearly 33,000. Mr Solomon pointed out that that figure included thousands who merely had an initial interview at a Jobcentre."How can having an initial interview be regarded as getting a job?" he said. A prison service spokesman attacked the trust's interpretation of prison performance. He said: "It does not make sense to make league table comparisons between different prisons, because of their different regimes, for example between closed and open prisons."The Conservatives called on the home secretary, David Blunkett, to take urgent action to reduce prison overcrowding. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said: "The Home Office's own figures show prisoner numbers are expanding quicker than prison places. "By their own admission there may be as many as 100,000 prisoners by 2006, with capacity for only 78,700. "The home secretary is presiding over a situation which at present is somewhere between a serious problem and a crisis, but has the potential to become a full-scale catastrophe unless he acts swiftly and decisively."