The number of prisoners reached an all-time high today, forcing the prison service to use police cells to house some inmates.More than 1,000 police cells have been set aside to take prisoners, after the jail population rose to 71,480. Police cells in the West Midlands and West Yorkshire - where local jails are full - were due to take prisoners today and other areas in the north may soon have to take the same emergency measures.A prison service spokesman said: "Every effort is being made to avoid the use of police cells for women and juveniles. The aim will be to hold individual prisoners for not more than a few days unless they are appearing regularly at a local court." The new population total is just 173 places short of the prison service's "useable capacity" announced by the prisons minister, Hilary Benn, in the Commons this week. Some prisoners have already had to "double up" in cells originally intended for single occupancy, Mr Benn said.Prison reform campaigners were outraged at today's development, which means inmates will have no access to education or rehabilitation sessions and little chance to mix with other people. Most will not even have access to proper washing facilities. It is the first time prisoners have been routinely housed in police stations since 1995, although they have been used as stop-gaps in recent months. The prime minister's official spokesman said: "We recognise fully there are difficulties in terms of the prison numbers. That is why we are planning to build 2,500 extra places this year."Others insisted that the crisis showed that prison was being used as a punishment for too many minor crimes. The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said: "The proper solution is for many women and mentally ill people to be out of prison altogether. We also need to end imprisonment of under-17s, and to go back to treating prison as a last resort."Joe Levenson, of the Prison Reform Trust, added that the prison system was in "absolute crisis" and said: "Prisons are bursting at the seams. The emphasis in police cells will be purely on containment - there will be nothing done to prevent re-offending and the creation of more victims." Andy Darken, chairman of the Prison Officers Association, warned that the overcrowding problem could lead to rioting among inmates. He said conditions in prisons were so bad that they amounted to a "recipe for disaster" and dismissed the use of police cells as "panic measures". "It also leads to unrest amongst the prisoners, tension between staff and prisoners, more acts of indiscipline - it could possibly lead to riot." He said that the prison service's reliance on private companies to build and run new jails meant the system was less able to respond to sudden jumps in the population because of "interminable wrangles over contracts".