Few would dispute the increase in antisocial behaviour. There are multiple causes. Some of it is driven by binge drinking or drugs, but other outbursts involve more complex issues of deprivation. Many of the victims of the new yobbism are poor themselves, trapped on Britain's 4,000 sink estates. Ministers were right to seek better ways of curbing loutish behaviour, but wrong to keep ignoring the warnings about one of their key weapons - the antisocial behaviour order - made by penal reform groups and professionals working in the criminal justice system. A new report published today by the National Association of Probation Officers is right to call for a fundamental review of the order.The spin from ministers is that they have found the cure. Tony Blair on a visit to Harlow in Essex described the new measure as "immensely positive". Hazel Blears, the Home Office minister in charge of the programme, declared the government was now "getting to grips with antisocial behaviour". Her former boss, David Blunkett, is being geared up to tour marginal constituencies in the run-up to next year's election delivering a hard-line message in praise of the order. That is the problem: it is driven by politics rather than effective policy. What worries the professionals is the huge variation in the use of orders and the short cuts that some local authorities appear to be making. This is supposed to be a four-stage process: a home visit; warning letter; acceptable behaviour contract; or, as a last resort, an order. Yet the speed-up in their use - 2,600 orders in 2003 - suggests some authorities are moving too quickly. Remember it is a civil court order using a lower standard of proof, but breaches can lead up to five years in prison. One third of orders end up being breached. Juveniles account for one half of the orders, which is one reason why their numbers in prison have doubled in the last decade, while their criminal activity has fallen. Manchester alone is reported to account for one fifth of the orders. This government came to power pledging to pursue evidence-based policy-making. It is time to act.