A retired postmistress left court with a criminal record today after she struck a boy with her rolled-up church council papers because he and his friends were playing football near flower beds on the village green.Alma Harding, 63, claimed she confronted the 13-year-old boy because she was trying to stop the green in Kenton, near Exeter, Devon, from being vandalised.She said she asked the boys to stop but she was surrounded and insulted. Harding clipped one of the boys around the head with her papers. He later told his mother and she was arrested.Harding refused to accept a police caution and denied battery at Newton Abbot magistrates court but was convicted after a two-day hearing. She was given an absolute discharge, which means she walked free but has a criminal record. The court awarded no compensation to the victim because there was "no distress or injury".After she was found guilty, Harding's barrister, James Taghdissian, asked the court: "What on earth is going on? Why are the Crown Prosecution Service [CPS] wasting public time and money proceeding in this case? The message sent out to young people in our society is that you are able to commit such actions freely knowing that the moment they complain to the police it will be taken seriously and anyone trying to do anything about it will end up in the dock."He added: "I do not think I can express the disgust that a large number of people feel about this case."The chairwoman of the bench, Catherine French, said: "She is clearly committed to the community where she lives. We find that words were exchanged and the boys laughed while standing in front of her. She did strike him with the paper."Speaking after the hearing Harding said: "I am angry with the CPS because they put me through a lot of aggravation and wasted a lot of money."They have ruined my character. It was a waste of time and I did what anyone would have done. I would do it again."It is instinctive and if you are threatened you react. If I see something like that going on then I will wade in."