Ian Watkins, the former lead singer of the Lostprophets, has lost a bid to reduce his 35-year sentence for a string of sex offences against children, including the attempted rape of a baby.Watkins' barrister, Sally O'Neill QC, told a court on Wednesday that the 37-year-old had not been given enough credit for his guilty plea, which stopped explicit material being put before a jury.O'Neill accepted that her argument was likely to be unwelcome, but insisted the sentence was too high."This case causes a very disturbing reaction for anyone who has anything to do with it. We accept these matters are very serious," she said. "But by pleading guilty my client averted the need for a most distressing and unpleasant trial for all those concerned, especially a jury."He did not have to plead guilty and if he had done so, the consequences would have been shocking."I am not trying to minimise the gravity of these offences, just simply make the observation that a sense of proportion needs to be maintained. These offences, however bad, are not the worst."The three judges who heard the case rejected Watkins' request to have the sentence reviewed at a full appeal hearing. Lord Justice Pitchford – sitting at Cardiff crown court – said the punishment handed down was appropriate.A full judgment will be given in writing next week, but Pitchford said: "These offences against children were of shocking depravity … a very lengthy prison sentence was demanded."Watkins, who is believed to be serving his sentence at Long Lartin prison in Worcestershire, was not in court and did not watch the proceedings via videolink.When he was jailed, the trial judge, Mr Justice Royce, told Watkins he had used his rock star status to induce young and impressionable female fans to co-operate in the abuse of their own children.Royce told Watkins: "Those who have appeared in these courts over many years see a large number of horrific cases. This case, however, breaks new ground."You, Watkins, achieved fame and success as the lead singer of Lostprophets. You had many fawning fans. That gave you power. You knew you could use that power to induce young female fans to help satisfy your insatiable lust and take part in the sexual abuse of their own children."Away from the highlights of your public performances lay a dark and sinister side."The disgraced star was jailed in December 2013 for 29 years. He was told he will serve at least two-thirds of the term before the parole board can decide if he should be released. If he is released early, he will serve the rest of the jail term on licence. The judge stipulated he will serve an additional six years on licence, bringing the total sentence to 35 years.Two female fans, who had abused their own children at his behest and were prepared to make them available to him for sex, were also jailed.The three had been due to stand trial last year for more than 20 offences, including allegations of abuse against the women's children, a boy and a girl.For months Watkins denied the accusations and loyal fans attended court to show their support, but at the last moment – after jury members had been warned they would have to examine some very disturbing images and arrangements had been made for them to receive counselling – Watkins and the women, who cannot be named, pleaded guilty to almost all the charges.Watkins, whose former band has sold around 3.5m albums, admitted 13 charges over five years, including attempting to rape one of the children and conspiring to rape the other.The day after Watkins admitted his offences, he told a female fan from prison that he was going to issue a statement saying it had been "mega lolz". He also told her he did not know "what everybody is getting so freaked out about".Watkins, who has been on suicide watch in prison, told the woman that he had thought about telling the court: "Come on, it was not that bad; nobody got hurt." He said another tactic could be to "win them over with my charm" and claim: "I was off my head and do not remember anything."In mitigation, Watkins's barrister said her client's life had unravelled because of the pressures of fame and his drug addiction. She explained his "mega lolz" comments as bravado, adding: "He was at a very low ebb and under considerable stress."She said Watkins conceded that it was "probably his arrogance" that led him to believe he could live outside normal rules of morality.One of Watkins' co-accused, who was sentenced to 17 years, also asked leave for appeal against her sentence. Her barrister, Simon Smith, said the woman, who was in her mid-20s at the time of her offences, was immature and craved acceptance. Her appeal was also rejected.Police continue to liaise with forces across Britain, Interpol and the department for homeland security in the US to establish if there are any other victims. The police watchdog is continuing to investigate how police in South Wales, South Yorkshire and Bedfordshire dealt with complaints about Watkins before he was finally arrested.