 "Our ambition of every adult citizen being a member of an active neighbourhood group … our alternative to big government is the big society: a society with much higher levels of personal, professional, civic and corporate responsibility; a society where people come together and improve life for themselves and their communities" Conservative party manifesto, 13 April The claimTo the question where is the evidence that people want to be "prised away from the telly" and allowed to run government, David Cameron was emphatic. He said he profoundly believes that the public wanted to run public services. There was a "huge appetite" and "a vast untapped well" of enthusiasm to get involved in social matters, he said. It just needs the right government to "set it free".The backgroundIs he right? A recent Mori poll found that only 47% want "to get involved in decisions affecting their local area".But Cameron persists with a very new Conservatism. He promises a smaller state and a louder society that will "agitate for, catalyse and galvanise" change. The manifesto highlights a significant Labour failure: despite spending £100m a year since 2003 on promoting volunteering, the percentage of the population who once a month give unpaid help "through groups, clubs or organisations to benefit other people or the environment" has been stuck at 28%.But what can the Tories do to improve this? David Cameron's national citizen service – giving all 16-year-olds the chance to spend a week away doing challenging physical activities, and another seven weeks on local community service projects – got a 77% approval rate in a YouGov poll last week.Labour's similar offering of a national youth community service, where under-19s would contribute at least 50 hours' work in their communities, barely raised a murmur. The problem with both schemes is that they are voluntary. No one in our society will do something unless they are told to do so. That is what the same YouGov poll told us: 64% thought the national citizen service should be compulsory to make it work.As Winston Smith, the pseudonym for a social worker, noted in his well read blog: "the more feral kids in society need discipline and structure so let's have a plan that has these values at its heart and in order for it to be effective it needs to be compulsory".But this is a profoundly illiberal sentiment and not one Cameron could embrace easily. Instead, the progressive wing of the Tory party has looked at the work of Nobel laureate Elinor Ostrom who delved into how the public space could be managed from the bottom up.To get people to value volunteering means changing the way we think about doing the right thing. "My daughter volunteers in a charity shop because it looks good for her CV. Older people volunteer because they don't want their mind to stop working," said Joe Saxton of nfpSynergy, a research consultancy.Saxton says that people need satisfaction for doing something for nothing. "You need, in the jargon, to nudge people to create the conditions where there is social pressure that they will act. In Germany they have a culture where people say 'it's in my interest to act because I own the public space, the commons'. So you people will stop someone spraying grafitti at a bus stop. In Britain it is 'what is in it for me?' That's what Cameron is asking to change."• This article was amended on 13 April 2010. Due to an editing cut, the original referred to a blogging social worker as Winston Smith, without the explanation that this is a pseudonym. This has been corrected.