David Cameron will completely re-engineer the Conservatives' image on crime this week with a remarkable speech calling for more understanding of 'hoodies' and criticising what he calls short-term solutions to curb youth crime such as anti-social behaviour orders and curfews.In a ground-breaking speech calling for more 'love' to be shown to adolescents, the Tory leader will attack bans on hooded tops - a symbol of urban menace to many adults - that were imposed by a shopping centre last year, arguing that shrouding their faces is a response to children's own fear of crime against them, not a crime in itself.He will try to reposition his party as tough on the causes of crime, urging a greater focus on the family and on the social influences driving children to offend. This follows similar Tory moves over green issues, the work/life balance and immigration.The raid on traditional Labour territory comes as a report released today by a think-tank, the Crime and Society Foundation, argues that repeated crackdowns are not reducing crime because so few offenders ever get caught. It argues that targeting underlying causes would be more effective.Cameron will tell a conference on social justice tomorrow that politicians should be discussing causes of crime not its symptoms. He will say: 'The hoodie is a response to a problem, not a problem in itself. We - the people in suits - often see hoodies as aggressive, the uniform of a rebel army of young gangsters.'But hoodies are more defensive than offensive. They're a way to stay invisible in the street. In a dangerous environment the best thing to do is keep your head down, blend in. For some the hoodie represents all that's wrong about youth culture in Britain today. For me, adult society's response to the hoodie shows how far we are from finding the long-term answers to put things right.'He will insist tough sanctions are still required for offending and that crime cannot be excused, but he will stress that 'inside those boundaries we have to show a lot more love'.The conference organised by the Tories' social justice task force will hear from experts including child forensic psychologist Melanie Gill, who will argue that middle-class teenagers as well as deprived ones increasingly display disturbing behaviour. She will criticise the 'vengeful and punitive' criminal justice system.The Tory leader's speech will tap into some Labour MPs' fears that their own 'respect' agenda on anti-social behaviour risks demonising young people.However Vernon Coaker, the Home Office Minister, said Labour recognised children were as much the victims of thuggery as anyone else, adding: 'We are not interested in demonising anyone based on what they wear, we simply want to tackle unacceptable behaviour. Cameron's empty idea seems to be "let's hug a hoodie", whatever they have done.'The hoodie ban was imposed by the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent after it said teenagers were using them to shield their faces from CCTV cameras while they committed crimes.In his speech Cameron will draw on the film Kidulthood, the story of a 15-year-old boy's dilemma about following his family into violence. It was filmed near the Tory leader's home in what he will call 'a very different Notting Hill' from the one popularised in the movie Notting Hill. Grown men are frightened to walk certain streets at night, so they must be far more frightening for a child.He will say teenagers raised in tower blocks with nowhere to play and no money can understandably be tempted towards crime, 'so when you see a child walking down the road - hoodie up, head down, moody, swaggering, dominating the pavement - think about what has brought that child to that moment'.Cameron will repeat pledges to help deal with such problems by expanding charities and social enterprises rather than state services, arguing they can provide the love missing for such children and that no child is beyond redemption. The think-tank report argues that while official figures show that one in 30 crimes end in a conviction, many more - particularly sexual offences - are not reported. Counting these, the conviction rate would be 'a fraction of 1 per cent'.'Bang for buck, the criminal justice system is one of the least effective means of reducing and controlling crime,' said chair Richard Garside, who is chairman of the CSF.