The "tough on crime" agenda seems to have run out of control - and is getting worse as we get closer to the election. The Tories and Labour, neck-and-neck in the polls on law and order, each seek a chink in the other's armour - some policy to justify a claim that they are soft on criminals. With the exception of the Liberal Democrats, who are more committed to the principle of civil liberties, few are willing to challenge the "hardline" consensus. But this is a key battleground: a failure to preserve our rights now will make it difficult, perhaps impossible, to reassert them in the future.These pre-election statements cannot be ignored as mere puffs: they can all too easily turn into parliamentary bills after the election. Criminal justice and policing issues now become intensely political very quickly. An example of this was the important but relatively technical issue of "double jeopardy", seized on by William Hague last year despite the fact that the issue had been passed to the law commission. Sadly, Labour themselves now seem less than committed to retaining this protection. They also show an alarming tendency to blow in the wind of public opinion: think of last year's change of heart by Jack Straw over the passports of football supporters, or Labour's initial silence on the News of the World "name and shame" sex offender lists.It is very difficult to challenge this consensus of crude populism on law and order - those fighting for rights are less likely to be answered with rational debate than to find themselves caricatured either as bleeding-heart liberals or (in the case of lawyers) as self-interested "forces of conservatism" - with their concerns thus belittled and ignored. Now, those whose job it is to fight for the rights of defendants (defence lawyers) are criticised by the home secretary merely for doing that job. Part of the difficulty in fighting each proposed change in the rules is that politicians seize on one - often horrifying - example of a problem as a justification for the law being changed: but they don't restrict the "solution" to those circumstances. Concern at animal rights protesters demonstrating outside the homes of those who run laboratories did not lead to a clear-eyed assessment of whether or not the police have sufficient powers to deal with intimidation or violence (in fact, they have ample powers to do so). Instead the nearly automatic reaction was to get out the statute book, pencil in a few more powers for the police and create a few more criminal offences. The powers are rarely carefully crafted to deal only with the current "problem": they virtually always have much more wide-ranging effects.   For example, the criminal justice and police bill will make it a criminal offence not to obey a police officer who has told you to leave a demonstration. This power will not be restricted to use outside the homes of those involved in animal research but will be available to stop demonstrations outside residential property generally. Will this new law be used outside the home of the prime minister? Would it have been used to stop demonstrations outside the residence of General Pinochet or of the apartheid-era South African ambassador? The police and others have been vacuuming up new powers, many of them unnecessary, since the beginning of the 80s (about 85 acts of parliament dealing with crime and criminal justice since 1981). Some changes, such as the draconian terrorism powers which were rushed through parliament in the wake of the Omagh bombing, are hardly ever used. Unfortunately, all too often the extra powers tilt the balance against protesters, suspects and defendants just a bit more. Perhaps you feel that all this is worthwhile, if crime is being reduced. But in fact there's no evidence that taking away our rights has any effect whatsoever on levels of crime. Michael Howard told the Tory party conference in 1993 about his 26 changes to the criminal justice system which would make the difference to crime. The resulting Criminal Justice & Public Order Act 1994 locked up children, restricted bail, gave police extra powers to stop and search, restricted the rights of travellers, the homeless and protesters and eroded the right to silence -to no obvious benefit. Last week Labour announced new proposals to use the civil courts to confiscate the assets of those the police suspect of being criminals. These proposals undermine the presumption of innocence, create a system in which accusations by the police will be enough to force people to disclose all their private financial affairs first to the authorities and then in public at the trial. Even if they are not found guilty, they will have been humiliated, had to pay for lawyers and have their private life dragged through the newspapers. There will be no jury and the judge will base decisions on the "balance of probabilities" - a person will be "convicted" on the basis they are "probably" guilty. The danger is that if no action is taken now to stop this it will be too late to recover the rights that have been cut away, slice by slice. John Wadham is director of Liberty.  comment@theguardian.com