Britain's most dangerous drivers are facing a major clampdown, including prison sentences of up to 10 years and the impounding of their cars, as the Government attempts to defuse public anger at lenient sentences for motorists who break the law.In a raft of measures to be announced this week, the Government will say it wants to see more people disqualified for speeding and drinking and driving, harsher sentences for drivers who kill people in car crashes, a special, separate punishment system for people who drive faster than 100mph and community service orders for motorists who habitually break the law. Among the most controversial proposals being considered by the Home Office and the Department of Transport are new police powers to impound cars for 'short, sharp shock' punishment. The 'temporary forfeiture' rules would be used to stop people who continue to drive when banned. 'Disqualification will not just mean losing your licence,' a highly placed government source said. 'It will mean losing your car as well.' Research has shown that as many as 800,000 people are driving in Britain without a licence or insurance and that nearly all serious accidents are caused by a hard core of 'flyers' - motorists, often young men, who break the driving laws most often. In another radical step, people who have killed or injured pedestrians or passengers because of dangerous driving will be forced to work in hospitals under a new community punishment order. 'People will work in a casualty department for a month, for example,' said a source who has been consulted on the report to be published by the Home Office on Tuesday. 'That way they could see something of the damage they cause by their actions.' The Government will urge courts to use the full range of powers against dangerous drivers. Although motorists can be sentenced to up to 10 years in prison for causing death by dangerous driving, one official said there was no record of a judge handing down such a sentence. A 'two-strikes' rule will also be proposed, banning drivers for anything up to 10 years if they are involved in a second drink-driving or serious speeding offence. Lifetime bans will be considered for drivers who break the law three times. Many more motorists will also be forced to go through re-education lessons and to re-take their test after a second offence. 'This is not anti-motorist, it is anti-dangerous motorist,' said a senior government source. 'We want to hit the dangerous motorist, and hit them hard.' The Government's action comes as part of its road safety strategy, which has set targets for reducing road deaths by 40 per cent for adults and 50 per cent for children. 'The Home Office has to be aware that it is the multiple-offenders who are the problem,' said John Dawson, head of campaigns for the AA. 'Nearly 3,500 people were killed on Britain's roads last year and 40,000 people were injured. The public will support any action against those who cause death by their recklessness.' The present 12-points system for banning drivers who break the law will also be looked at. A 20-point system is being considered so that courts can differentiate more clearly between minor and serious motoring crimes. Charles Clarke, the Home Office Minister who will launch the report, has privately told colleagues that he has 'great sympathy' for families who are furious about short sentences handed down to motorists whose dangerous driving has led to deaths. Last Christmas there was a furious reaction when Bruce Taylor, a van driver from Elgin in the north-east of Scotland, was given 300 hours of community serviceinstead of a prison sentence. He had killed a teenager after failing to slow down at a 'give way' sign.