Reading last week's article on Norway's open prison at Bastoey Island (Anyone for porridge? July 26), it struck me that many people - even among Guardian readers - may have thought this was a liberal step too far. Proof, perhaps, that some prisons really are the "holiday camps" that anti-reformers claim them to be. I wish I had a quid for every time I have heard that comparison made. My stock retort is that some people must take strange holidays. In truth, though, Bastoey sounded the sort of place you would choose if looking for the ideal working holiday.A pity, though, that the prison has, thus far, been unable to produce reoffending figures for inmates who have experienced the regime. I would bet down to my last penny that the figures are impressive. They are bound to be; the fact that only one inmate has escaped in five years and none have failed to return from home leave indicates that prisoners have responded to the trust placed in them. And if they respond while they are serving their sentences, common sense alone dictates that a fair proportion will continue to repay the faith they have had placed in them when they are free.I have spent more than a third of my adult life in prisons. Most of that time was spent in closed jails, including lengthy spells of solitary confinement in segregation units. By design, these are bleak, soulless places with a view - seen through double bars and wire mesh casing - of a wall or a fence. The epitome of incarceration, it may be said.And yet, hand on heart, I swear that I never felt a stronger sense of confinement than on the two occasions I was in open prisons - Standford Hill, on the Isle of Sheppey, and Sudbury, in Derbyshire. Both jails are in pleasant rural settings and I could have walked out of either of them at any time. I chose to remain, and that is precisely why the sense of being a prisoner permeated my psyche more strongly the more the physical restraints were removed.Without doubt, the escape (and rapid capture) of two paedophiles from Prescoed open prison in Monmouthshire will provide more ammunition for those who believe that all prisoners should be held under lock and key. Consider this though: to get to an open jail these men would have completed sex offender treatment programmes and would have been near their release date. They were trusted and they betrayed that trust. At least the system knows that now and will respond accordingly.The reoffending rates, for prisoners released from jails in England and Wales, are calculated on a national basis. It's a pity because I reckon that the Sudburys and Leyhills of this penal world have pretty impressive rates compared with most closed prisons. Across the board, figures show that 50% of all released prisoners reoffend within three months and 67% within two years.It is a question of common sense. Prisoners in open conditions work at proper jobs, often in the community, and they have stronger links with their families, via days out and home leaves - with the vast majority returning on time, every time.Why, then, are they so few in number - just 15 out of 139 in England and Wales? All, bar a relative few, of the near 78,000 record jail population will one day be released. They cannot all go ski-jumping on their way out, but the gradual, humane road to liberation, as practised in the open estate, is surely the way to go.· Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent. More on prisons at SocietyGuardian.co.uk/crimeandpunishment