When are we going to realise that burglary is not a property crime (Life for farmer who shot burglar, April 20)? It is a crime against people and is the worst thing you can do to someone without physically attacking them. It ruins lives, particularly in the case of elderly people and those who live alone. In this proper context, the actions of Tony Martin do not seem so unreasonable or excessive. It was not his property he was defending, but his right to security and peace of mind, without which our lives are worthless. What other protection is there for those in his position? They are on their own. Do not be surprised when someone goes too far.Tony Wilcox Northwich, Cheshire• One hopes the jury can sleep sound in their beds with clear consciences after finding a man protecting his home, property and life guilty of murder. Their verdict was yet further evidence that there is no justice in Britain. As for the comments of Norfolk chief crown prose cutor Peter Tidey ("Action such as taken by Tony Martin can never be tolerated in a civilised society") and the family of criminal Fred Barrass ("a loveable rogue"), they just beggar belief. Bradley RobertsGrimsby, Lincs• I regard the conviction as both right and justified. What signal would it have sent out if he had been acquitted: that anybody can take the law into their own hands? The last thing this country needs is to go down the route of America, where people are largely responsible for their own security. Do we want mob rule and vigilante groups? We pay taxes to fund the police force and however slow they may or may not react to burglaries, it is their job to deal with crime not the public's. It is all too easy to take the populist Daily Mail view of "he got what he deserved" (the victim), but in this case it is the farmer who got what he deserved, however wrong the actions of the victim were. Tim HarveyNorthwich, Cheshire• Your story (Farmer jailed for life for murder of teenage intruder, Guardian Unlimited) shocks and amazes me. If a man may not defend his home against invasion, has he any rights at all? Here in Texas, the law recognises a man's fundamental right to defend his home and his property and to have arms for that purpose. If this incident had occurred in Texas, a bleeding-heart liberal prosecutor might have referred Tony Martin's case to a grand jury, but Martin would never have been indicted, much less convicted. In most of the rural counties of Texas, the sheriff would have congratulated Martin on his marksmanship. If a man may not defend his property, presumably he must surrender it to anyone who dares to break into his home. Must the homeowner assist the housebreaker in finding goods the latter wishes to steal? Must the homeowner give a housebreaker a warranty on the goods stolen? If the housebreaker wishes to commit sodomy on the homeowner, or his wife, or his child, or his dog, must the homeowner submit meekly? One can only suspect that, in Britain, the answer to all of these questions is yes.Michael W Johnson Houston, Texas, USA reddogmike1@excite.com • To expect a householder to act in a moderate, restrained way in these circumstances is totally unreasonable. He or she may be extremely frightened, physically weak, and might well have just one advantage over the intruders - surprise. The law should demand that those venturing on to someone else's property intent on theft do so at their own risk.Lance Green Newport Upon Usk lkgzzz@compuserve.com