Tony Blair yesterday launched an ambitious campaign to reclaim derelict "public space" from graffiti, litter and vandalism in order to restore the "liveability" factor to down-at-heel neighbourhoods in Britain's inner cities, towns and former industrial villages.To dramatise his appeal Mr Blair promised CD or clothing vouchers to at-risk teenagers who stay out of trouble and "community pay-back" reparation orders which would require graffiti artists and bus shelter vandals to repair the damage they do to their own communities. "Young offenders take something out of society through their offending. This scheme will allow them to put something back," said Mr Blair. He later visited the Bell Green estate in Sydenham, south-east London, to watch youngsters using high-powered hoses to remove graffiti they had sprayed on walls. He shook hands and wished them "good luck". In unveiling a package of cash and measures to improve blighted communities the prime minister consciously invoked the quality of life agenda adopted by major European and North American cities - from Stockholm to Chicago - as well as the economic guru, JK Galbraith's famous warning that public squalor can undermine the benefits of private affluence. "Rundown and demoralised public services reduce people's quality of life, even though they may be getting richer. They are better off as consumers, but worse off as citizens," said Mr Blair. Mr Blair's speech was made to a conference of community activists organised in Croydon by Groundwork, a network of trusts launched in Liverpool after the 1981 riots to bring local authorities together with business and local people to regenerate neighbourhoods. In a package which mixed the carrot of extra funds and powers with the stick of "community payback" orders imposed on young offenders - as well as clothes, computer, travel or music vouchers for those who stay out of trouble - Mr Blair went beyond last year's attacks on "yob culture". In the potentially most significant part of yesterday's initiative, the prime minister said that Labour, if re-elected, would legislate to create business improvement districts on the American model, which encourages local authorities to draw up contracts with local business to provide additional services and improvements in return for an extra business rate. It would help to reverse the downward spiral that often occurs when a district slides downhill and then sees business abandon it, taking jobs, services and hope away just when it is most needed he told his audience. Faced with Conservative taunts yesterday that Labour's policies are "bankrupt", Mr Blair admitted a "sharp learning curve" since 1997, but argued that both Labour's previous top-down interventions and the Thatcherite "give up on it" approach to urban decay had failed. "There has to be intervention, but it has to be done through local empowerment and partnership. What we cannot do is regenerate local communities without local people doing it themselves," he said. Specifically Mr Blair also announced: • new powers for councils to clamp and remove abandoned vehicles; • the doubling of fines for dog fouling and litter, from £25 to £50, to be enforced by neighbourhood wardens and retained by councils; • a tripling to £50m of the funds for neighbourhood warden schemes to reduce anti-social behaviour; • a £30m challenge fund to create more "home zones" which allow councils to give priority to pedestrians and cyclists instead of cars; • reparation orders on youngsters who commit victimless crimes like vandalism, plus voucher incentives to those who stay clear of trouble. Archie Norman, the Tory environment spokesman, accused Mr Blair of recycling his 1997 pledges. "It has taken him four years to repeat a threadbare pledge and to fail to deliver anything for our inner cities," Mr Norman said.