Depending on your point of view, PC David Copperfield is either a bitter reactionary with an axe to grind or an original and uncompromising voice exposing the mundane reality of policing in Britain today. He writes The Policeman's Blog, a popular, cynical and witty account of life on the beat, and the grinding bureaucracy off it. It has spawned a best-selling book - and seen him denounced in the Commons by ministers.In his cosy living room, a fat tome about Stalin dominates the bookcase behind him, but his own publication, Wasting Police Time, is nowhere to be seen. "I'm not trying to drag the police into disrepute or offend anybody or anything like that," he says. "I'm not rude. I don't swear or anything like that."It is an oddly defensive declaration from someone whose writing takes cruel swipes at a motley collection of people and organisations, ranging from drunk "chavs" who "waste everybody's time" to interfering politicians peddling "pointless" laws and "unnecessary" bureaucracy. The blog is stuffed with amusing anecdotes and gripes about policing the streets of Newtown - the fictional name for the town he works in (population 60,000) - and uncomfortable observations about its residents.Take the underclass. According to Copperfield: "They are always trying to kill each other, whether by phone, by text message or in person." You can spot them, he says, by watching the Trisha show on daytime TV or by simply stepping into a police station - they are "always there, either under arrest or after being punched by their neighbours". He describes his daily working life as like being "on another planet dealing with an alien race with very small brains and enlarged vocal chords".It is impossible to do justice to the sheer breadth of the targets of Copperfield's scorn - it is part of his appeal. But his caustic contempt comes thick and fast for, in particular, what he regards as government-concocted crime targets that distract officers "from catching real criminals", an enormous and cumbersome police bureaucracy that slows down policing, and an "out of touch" police top brass taking orders from an even more out of touch Home Office.Not the BillHe is genuinely frustrated by "revolving door" criminals, who clog up police stations time and time again. He is angry with the volume of paperwork he is required to fill out, even for the most trivial of crimes. And he is bewildered that there appears to be nothing he can do to change it. Copperfield is resolute that life as an "ordinary working copper [in] the modern era" is "not like in an episode of the Bill ... It's like standing banging your head against a wall, carrying a couple of hundredweight of paperwork on your shoulders while the house around you burns to the ground."It is a view shared, he says, by colleagues who respond to his blog. And not just those "at the bottom of the pile" like him. "Senior officers ... emailed me to say 'this is the kind of thing that happens'. I'm saying things that they think as well. They can't say it publicly, so I'm saying it."He has had similar responses to the book. In a review on Amazon.co.uk, one former policeman says: "This is probably the first time that a British policeman has had the nerve to speak out in a language we can all understand. Some of the things he says are outrageous. But they are also true. He says what we all think but are increasingly too scared to say, even to trusted colleagues."Speaking to Copperfield in person, there is a sense that he feels freer expressing the true extent of his fury to an equally anonymous online audience. Face-to-face, he seems less angry, less strident. It is as if PC David Copperfield is an alter ego, a character. When quizzed about some of his more outlandish blog comments, he attempts to moderate them. "Although I write in quite a funny way and reflect upon the ridiculousness of some of the situations, I do take what I do seriously and I do like being a policeman," he says. "There is an element of frustration, but I think what comes through [in my writing] is that occasionally you do get to stop people committing crime and you do get to help people. It really makes it worthwhile."Copperfield tries to explain the frustrations that led him to start writing a blog. One anecdote in particular he feels typifies the experiences of "frontline officers" like him. An innocent woman calls the police because she has been burgled. Another woman, who is drunk and has spent the day at home with a drug addict who has just been released from prison discovers her handbag is missing after the former prisoner leaves. "In both cases there's absolutely no question that a crime has been committed," Copperfield says. "The problem is that the burglary takes an hour [but] the lady with the drink problem? That will go round and round for months. You know next week it will be something else and we'll be round there again. Lots of people similar to that make up the bulk of our work."It is this kind of exposé that has made him and a growing breed of other public sector bloggers appealing to a public increasingly involved in blogging themselves. The bloggers puncture the authorised public image of their work by, as Copperfield puts it, "telling it like it is". They have become, inadvertently or otherwise, a virtual thorn in the side of those in authority. Last year his book was dismissed as "more fiction than Dickens" by the police minister, Tony McNulty, in a Commons debate.For all his protestations about not being as reactionary as people might think, when pressed about what he would change about policing, a glimpse of his opinionated online alter ego emerges. A 15-minute riff that veers from one bugbear to another ensues. He would like to see "a focus from those in charge [of the police] to the frontline, not the enormous offices we have," he says, his voice travelling towards a higher pitch. "And laws ... more laws are a complete waste of time. There are five of us on our shift. We couldn't enforce last week's laws! We've got enough laws and that's it. That's just a non-starter."Copperfield then has a go at a favourite target of both the book and blog - liberal attitudes to crime and rehabilitation. "I just don't accept the orthodoxy that drug addicts steal to buy drugs," he says. "I know that as soon as they get in to prison they are infinitely better [when it comes to dealing with their addiction]."While he concedes that prisons sometimes house people, including people with mental illnesses, inappropriately, he thinks ultimately that, "prisons are filled with criminals, and when criminals come out of prison they commit crimes again. But somehow we have to explain this errant behaviour by science, or whatever, and we seek to help or bring them along. Fact is, they are criminals."Dangerous experimentNow in full blog-mode, a mere mention of the recent crime and policing review's conclusion that community service should be used more for non-serious offenders and he says: "I think for many people [community service] is a dangerous experiment with public safety and their property. The people I know who burgle houses will whether they are [wearing an electronic] tag, doing community service, on a treatment order, or whatever."Copperfield says he does not know why his blog has proved such a success - it has attracted more than 1.5m hits in two-and-a-half years. His motivation for starting and continuing to write the blog is part catharsis and partly because he knows he can write and he enjoys it. (It started as a gardening blog three years ago, but after mentioning his day job Copperfield received enough responses to persuade him to write about policing instead).Does he think his blog can affect future policy? Does he even want it to? "There's an enormous bureaucracy. And thousands of people's jobs depend on this. For anything to change fundamentally, it would require a lot more than one book."Copperfield says he has always been conservative "with a small c" but has "no faith" in [any of the major] political parties when it comes to policing. And whether or not politicians pay attention to what he writes, he insists he is not attempting to be an advocate or to provide a "manifesto" for police reform.There are plans for a second book, but Copperfield says he has "no ambitions" to ditch policing to be a writer and says he is content with his job as an "ordinary copper". But, in fact, he is not an ordinary copper. People - and politicans - are increasingly listening to what he has to say. He has opened a window on to the world of policing that, in the age of blogging, is unlikely to be closed. · Wasting Police Time: The Crazy World of the War on Crime, by PC David Copperfield, is published by Monday Books (£7.99).· The Policeman's Blog is at coppersblog.blogspot.comCurriculum vitaeAge In his 30s.Status Married.Lives North of Birmingham.Education Degree.Career Police officer for "5-10 years".