It was on the last weekend in February 1962 that Ian Dryden, the duty teacher at Balgowan approved school in Dundee, received terrible news. A group of pupils had earlier left on an expedition to climb Ben Nevis, Britain's highest peak, accompanied by the deputy head, Thomas Jack, and a 23-year-old student volunteer, Howard "Tim" Keeley.The phone call was from Mr Jack to say that Mr Keeley was dead, killed in an accidental fall from the north face of the mountain as he led a small group of boys to the summit. "It was just utter shock at the time," said Mr Dryden, 67, now a retired minister living in Aberdeenshire. "He was a nice bloke and an experienced climber, and it was total dismay that something like this should have happened. My first thought was, were any of the boys hurt?" Mr Dryden can remember his sense of disbelief, but he has also been struggling to recall any other detail that he can, because, 40 years on, the forgotten climbing tragedy has become one of Scotland's biggest murder mysteries. Last week, a 51-year-old former pupil of Balgowan walked into a police station in Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, and told officers Mr Keeley had not died in an accident: he had been pushed to his death by two of his pupils, kicked in the face on the mountain's edge. The man went on to claim he had been present and had helped cover up the deed, but had since found he could no longer live with his conscience. He gave the police two names. Mr Dryden said he could not believe any of the Balgowan boys was responsible for the death. Mr Keeley, from Middlesex, was in the final year of an honours geography course at Queen's College in Dundee and had offered his services to the school, running the outdoor programme. He was a quiet man but a popular figure with the boys, taking them on expeditions, relieving the tedium of institutional life. "There was never any question of foul play. The story the boys had given was accepted at face value," said Mr Dryden. "It was an extremely plausible story." The boys had told how the school party had split into two to make the climb, with Mr Keeley and three or four pupils taking the lead. When they had reached 3,000ft near the steep ledge of Coire Leis, one the boys had dropped an ice axe. Mr Keeley told the others to stay put and went to retrieve it. He slipped and hit a boulder, and disappeared over the edge. A climber ran back down the track to alert Mr Jack and he led the pupils back to Glen Nevis. A rescue team later found Mr Keeley's body in a gully, 1,000ft down. The boys who had been with him were questioned at length by police. Ben Nevis has claimed many experienced climbers, and Mr Keeley's death was declared an accident. Mr Dryden cannot recall which boys were in the climbing party, and Mr Jack died several years ago. "I really feel quite helpless that I can't remember detail," said Mr Dryden. "But being taken out on this expedition was a privilege. The boys would be keen to get out of the school for a couple of days. I can't see them reacting in any negative way. The school had a lot of control over the boys. "And the boys we had were wee boys. They found it extremely difficult to keep secrets. They were constantly cliping [telling] on each other. I can't see that this kind of secret could have been kept." Balgowan, a residential school, catered for around 100 boys aged 10 to 15. "We thought of them in those days as 'juvenile delinquents'," said Mr Dryden. "They were children who, if they had been adults, would have been in prison. They were there for theft, for persistent truancy, for being without parental control. The boys weren't allowed out very often, so anyone coming into the school, like Tim Keeley, was of special interest. He was a bit of a loner, but anyone who could involve himself with the boys like he did was someone worthwhile." For the Northern constabulary, the claim that Mr Keeley was murdered has launched a complex and frustrating investigation. There are no records, and many witnesses are now dead. Mr Keeley is thought to have been an only child, and police have been unable to trace any family members. "It was so long ago, we are really struggling," said Detective Inspector Gordon Greenlees. "We're looking in dusty basements and lofts to find anything at all."  Witnesses Mr Greenlees will not confirm that police have interviewed the two former pupils accused of murdering Keeley, saying only that officers had spoken to a number of witnesses. There was a breakthrough this week when a man called to say he had been on Ben Nevis on that day and had information on the incident; and yesterday some of the mountain rescue team involved were traced. "I don't see it being a fast progressing inquiry," said Mr Greenlees. "We will just work our way through and see what we can come up with." Balgowan school closed in 1983 and was later demolished, and with it a room dedicated to the memory of Mr Keeley. At the time of his death the then headmaster, John Hill, described him as "the very best type of young man". Mr Dryden is holding to the fact that, for the boys of Balgowan, Mr Keeley was more than that. "He was a bit of a hero," he said. "He was someone they could talk to. He was a friend."