They were desperate men with no training and little knowledge of the art world. One was a former graphic designer with dodgy eyesight, the second a landscape gardener turned teacher, and the third a former squaddie who was injured in a hang-gliding accident.But a court heard the extraordinary story yesterday of how they became players in a cottage industry, producing fake old masters to save themselves from financial ruin.They took paintings produced in a Herefordshire cottage in the early 1990s and passed them off as the work of John Anster Fitzgerald (1823-1906), whose work depicted visions of a fairyland full of menacing spirits.One painting, The Miser, was so well copied that it was bought for £20,000 by Rupert Maas, the respected gallery owner whose expertise forms part of the BBC's Antiques Roadshow. Another painting, Going to the Masked Ball, was accepted for auction and fetched more than £100,000.Both were presented for sale as family heirlooms and the first, which sold for a 300% mark-up, is so impressive the owner wants it back, despite knowing it is a fake.Attempts were also made to sell two other paintings, one called Poppy With Imps and Fairies and Foliage, which was also said to be a Fitzgerald original but aroused the suspicions of experts.Yesterday, during sentencing of the men, who had variously admitted to offences of deception and perverting the course of justice, news of another forgery emerged. Two of them admitted trying to sell a picture they had created in the style of the Swiss-born English painter Agasse (1767-1849). It was accepted for sale by auctioneers in Cheshire in 2002, but failed to reach its £6,000 reserve.Their plot was uncovered when suspicious dealers questioned the provenance of the paintings. On raiding the Herefordshire property, detectives found the originating sketches and materials that had been used to create the faked paintings.The tale, with all its echoes of Ealing comedy, emerged at Middlesex Guildhall crown court as the three men - Robert Thwaites, 54, his brother Brian, and his former cricketing associate, Gordon Strong - appeared for sentencing.The court heard that Robert Thwaites, who was jailed for two years, was the main player behind the deceptions. Stuart Denny, his counsel, said Thwaites had led a "decent, quiet and industrial life for 45 years working as a graphic designer who painted as a hobby"."He has a home, a wife and a child he doted upon," said Mr Denny. "But he became financially stretched in the late 1990s when his son began attending a private school to which he paid £54,000 in fees. At the same time his eyesight began to deteriorate. He hit upon the idea for the first painting."He took the picture to Mr Maas's London gallery, where - according to Simon Wild, prosecuting - he said the painting was a family heirloom .Another picture was produced after Thwaites spoke to Gordon Strong on millennium eve. Mr Strong, who was sentenced to a 180 hour community punishment order yesterday, told him his marriage was breaking up, he was losing his business and was living with his mother. "He was at a low ebb," said Mr Denny.Thwaites claimed he told his friend of the first deception and "the two said they would cause another painting to be sold".Strong , who claimed in court he had no idea the painting was a fake, took the picture to auctioneers Greenslade Taylor Hart in Taunton, Somerset. It was valued at between £60,000 and £80,000 and sold to a central London dealer, Christopher Beetles, for £88,000 plus the buyer's premium of £13,200. After commission Strong, a 58-year-old teacher, got £28,000 and Thwaites, of Leek, Staffordshire, received £38,000.The third painting was created by the forger in an attempt, it was claimed, to help his younger brother, Brian, who had left the Army in 1991 and injured himself in a hang-gliding accident the same year. The 50-year-old from Bolton was sentenced to 12 months in prison, suspended for two years.Once the next painting was finished, Brian Thwaites, who sat in a wheelchair throughout the court proceedings, touted it around various dealers, claiming it was another Fitzgerald and a family heirloom.After being rejected by several dealers, Brian Thwaites took the painting to Christopher Beetles - who had bought the second picture - but after having it examined, Mr Beetles declared it fake.Mr Beetles began a civil action against the Taunton auctioneers over his purchase of the second painting. They in turn sought and received assurances from Strong that the painting was genuine. In court he admitted knowing that was not true, though he denied being part of the main deception. Brian and Robert Thwaites admitted deception.Judge Terence Coghlan said Thwaites was a man of remarkably talented painting skills, but he was puzzled that he had resorted to "crooked behaviour". He told Brian Thwaites his offences were serious but he accepted he was too ill for prison. And he told Strong he had "lied aggressively and tenaciously", but accepted he was of previous good character.Faking it· Thomas Hoving, former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, has estimated that up to 40% of the art market is comprised of some type of forged art.· It has been suggested that only half of the 600 works supposedly painted by Rembrandt are genuine and as many as 10% of modern French paintings may be forgeries.· The 20th century's most famous forger was Han van Meegeren, confessed in 1945 to having forged several Vermeers, including The Supper at Emmaus, which scholars had proclaimed a masterpiece.· In the 1980s and 1990s, British forger John Myatt infiltrated the art market with fake Giacomettis, Ben Nicholsons and Graham Sutherlands.· In the late 1980s, Eric Hebborn claimed he faked and sold more than 1,000 old-master drawings to institutions including the British Library.