The Prime Minister's visit to the White Hall Community Centre in Bristol elicited this quote from a woman named Michelle Stone: 'We have got groups of 30 youths who hang around outside my home causing chaos. They're armed with baseball bats and snooker cues and they are totally out of control.' Another man told Tony Blair that he had moved from the estate because his son was bullied by a gang and he was intimidated following his report about a burglary.Any of us would find this intolerable and we cannot doubt the motives of Blair's speech which followed his visit to the centre. In the latter part of his premiership, he sees it as his duty to alleviate the lot of victims of antisocial behaviour by cutting through the criminal justice system and providing satisfaction to the communities which suffer from yobs and low-level crime.I cannot argue with much of that, and having once lived on the border of Toxteth in Liverpool and at the centre of Manchester's Moss Side, I can understand the frustration Michelle Stone felt. But only once have I witnessed the total turnround on the streets and that took place not in Britain but in Manhattan where I was living in 1993 and 1994.At the weekend, the place was a farmers' market for drugs, with dealers coming from all of the five boroughs and beyond to sell their produce. The park at night was a no-go area and on the streets leading to it, I would be stopped every 20 yards or so by men selling crystals or 'smoke'. Between the two sets of doors to my apartment building, I often came across people sheltering from the exceptionally harsh winter and smoking crack.The situation changed when William Bratton was made police chief and introduced zero tolerance policing by moving officers on to the streets. The park was reclaimed within a week and the dealers who used to station themselves outside my ground-floor window were replaced by two of New York's finest. I became so fond of them I photographed them one Sunday morning.The message I took from this truly dramatic change was that a permanent police presence and the enforcement of laws that existed could achieve miraculous results. Bratton, now chief of the Los Angeles Police Department, altered the entire feel of New York and the city has never looked back.Given Bratton's appearance in Britain last week, it was astonishing that nowhere in his speech did Blair mention policing. If the Southmead area of Bristol and others like it experienced the sudden concentration of uniforms and a real determination to enforce the law, I am certain the problem would begin to be sorted out. It's not raids, swoops or surveillance cameras that do the trick, but a steady and resolute police presence.Instead, he talked about bringing offenders to justice quickly, the rights of victims, the unspecified increase in summary justice and the gap between the public's expectations and the actual performance of the courts. He called for a wholesale rebalancing of the criminal justice system which, when you come to look at it, is bound up in a rather curious attack on universal rights. 'I have come to the conclusion,' he said, 'that part of the problem in this whole area has been the absence of a proper, considered, intellectual and political debate about the nature of liberty in the modern world.'What he probably means by debate is not debate at all, but a popular acceptance of his disdain for civil liberties, a phrase, by the way, which has been successfully weighed down with ideas of liberal fecklessness and is now used to blame the failure on the ground of parts of the criminal justice system. Blair's government may have passed more than 40 separate pieces of law and order legislation since 1997, yet liberals and their addiction to rights are still held to impede progress in criminal justice.Calling for a debate on liberty is, I suspect, nothing more than preparation for the further dismantling of suspects' and defendants' rights.Much of what Blair said comes from a little-read paper by Lord Falconer called 'Doing Law Differently', which was circulated in April and contains oddly mechanistic language. In Falconer's mind, the law must be 'recalibrated', 're-engineered', 'reshaped', 'rebalanced' and 'regeared'. It is as though the practical-minded Blairite engineers had just taken over some antiquated bottling plant and were filing their initial technical assessments. Odd when they have been on the job for nine years.There is much to agree with in the paper, but then you hit the section entitled 'Re-engineering criminal justice: speedy, simply, summary', and you come across the sentence: 'The defendant needs proper protection against injustice ... but our aim should be a system which will allow the court to know what happened and a process that will be driven by the substantive merits of the case, not the exploitation of safeguards.'It has the feeling of entering a scene written by Joseph Heller, because the sentence begins by saying one thing but ends by stating entirely the opposite. And what does he mean by a system which allows the court 'to know what happened' and the 'substantive merits of the case'? Does this by any chance reduce the defendant's right to make his or her case in the same spirit with which other safeguards are obviously going to be removed?The answer is yes. Later, Lord Falconer goes on to talk about the 'proportionality of process'. We all understand the need for a speedier, more responsive service in courts, but it is clear that this will be achieved under Labour by a reduction of the legal process and at the defendant's expense. Blair gave us a warning of this last year in his party conference speech, when he began to chip away at the proposition that our legal system is there to protect the innocent from being wrongly convicted.In Bristol, he was more explicit. 'This is not an argument about whether we respect civil liberties or not ... it's about which human rights prevail. In making that decision, there is a balance to be struck. I am saying it is time to rebalance the decision in favour of the decent, law-abiding majority.'He has moved to a position where human rights or civil liberties, or whatever you like to call the conventions that protect us all, have been reclassified - or perhaps recalibrated - as a privilege which can be denied by the state when a person becomes a suspect or a defendant.This is a profound shift masked by a flattering appeal to the decent, law-abiding majority, of which most people naturally count themselves to be lifelong members. But the reason we have had these conventions since Magna Carta and regard them as a universal privilege to be conferred on everyone is that anyone of us can suddenly find him or herself a suspect, just as anyone may suddenly discover they are in minority.It is not for the government to withdraw those rights in its quest to speed up justice, particularly after so much law has been passed and Blair has had nine years to address the problems of antisocial behaviour. Human rights or civil liberties are not commodities which can be awarded preferentially. They are indivisible, a standard which a society either chooses to respect or not.