Record numbers of recruits are joining the police, thanks to attractive benefits packages, lavish advertising campaigns and a relaxation of the once strict criteria that potential candidates have to meet.The Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, Sir John Stevens, will open a £1.1m recruitment and selection centre in north London next month, developed to cope with the growing numbers joining the Met.The event will also see the launch of the Met's 2002 advertising campaign, aimed at attracting more Londoners and people from the Home Counties. Recent record intakes mean there are now around 1,000 recruits in training in the capital, the highest number in history. Two years ago the Met was forced to close sections of the police training college at Hendon, north London, because recruitment had fallen so low. According to figures from the Home Office, the number of police officers in England and Wales is at a six-year high, after climbing back to the level when Labour came to power. There are 127,231 officers, the highest since February 1995, and recruitment rose more than 69% in the last year, the largest annual increase since 1979. The Met has boosted numbers by raising starting salaries to £26,000 and offering other benefits. All officers in London have been given free use of mainline rail services within 70 miles of London as part of a £2m deal financed by the Home Office. They already get free use of the capital's bus and Tube network. The rail deal came after pressure from rank-and-file police who claim that officers and their families find it impossible to live in and around London because of the cost of housing and travel. But some critics believe that the result of the recruitment drive is a higher proportion of inexperienced, sub-standard officers ill-equipped to fight rising levels of crime. Many forces have altered their recruitment criteria. The Met will now accept candidates with minor criminal records. Minimum height requirements were scrapped a decade ago when they were found to be deterring recruits from ethnic minorities. With large numbers still leaving the force, the recruits are increasingly making up the bulk of the public face of the Met. To cope with increased demands since 11 September, new recruits are being rushed into street patrols, leading to an unprecedented number of probationary officers in some areas.. Similar compromises are being made outside London. Last week Hampshire Constabulary increased the maximum age for recruits from 44 to 50 in a bid to ease its own staffing crisis. Candidates with laser-corrected vision - previously banned - are also being allowed to join. The force has also announced that there will only be two assessment days instead of three and that anyone who fails a physical, numeracy or literacy test will be given a second chance and advice to help them to be more successful the next time around. Superintendent Allyn Thomas from Hampshire Police said: 'This is not about changing our standards. We still want the best people for the job.' In Humberside, the force has revived the cadet movement, with school leavers as young as 16 being signed up to boost numbers, while in Bedfordshire, Essex and Hampshire some officers are being offered interest-free loans of up to £10,000 to help them to buy homes. A £500,000 advertising campaign aimed at boosting the number of special constables, particularly women and ethnic minorities, was launched last week. They are particularly needed in London. The Met is transferring 300 officers from traffic duty to general street patrols in order to maintain a high-visibility presence. There are also plans to recruit up to 700 'auxiliaries' to patrol central London, replacing officers on security patrol in the centre of the capital, allowing them to get back to ordinary duties. But one serving officer told The Observer: 'It's all very well increasing the numbers, but the problem is that we are losing all the people who know what they are doing and replacing them with those who do not.' His concerns were echoed by Sir Keith Povey, the Chief Inspector of Constabulary, who urged the police to focus on 'quality not quantity' in his latest report, after finding that many forces struggle to provide adequate training. 'Probationers can all too easily become at risk when facing the daily challenges of the operational patrol strategy but lacking all the basic skills and knowledge, and without the support of a fully qualified tutor or supervisor. The risk transfers itself to the organisation and the public they serve,' he said. Despite increasing overall numbers, Scotland Yard remains short of more than 1,000 detectives as it battles against terrorism and rising street crime. Police chiefs are struggling to retain older, more experienced officers, who are leaving the force at the rate of more than 500 a year. In particular, the Anti-Terrorist Squad and Special Branch are facing a challenge to boost their numbers to meet the continuing security crisis. The Met is still more than 2,000 officers below the target of 28,000 it hopes to meet by 2004. The crisis is particularly serious in the CID and murder squads. Nearly all CID offices are short of detectives, while uniform police constables with no detective training are being transferred to murder squads to bolster numbers. tony.thompson@observer.co.uk