The parents of Stephen Lawrence today began the process of suing the suspects accused of his murder and the Metropolitan Police Service for bungling the investigation into his death. Writs were lodged in the High Court this afternoon by the family's solicitors. The move, the day before the sixth anniversary of Stephen's death, was prompted by the six-year deadline for launching civil actions. Solicitor Imran Khan said: "I can confirm on behalf of Mr and Mrs Lawrence that I have today issued protective writs in the High Court of Justice, London, against certain individuals considered to be responsible for the murder of Stephen Lawrence. "This is for damages arising out of and in consequence of the murder of Stephen Lawrence.  "I can also confirm that I have today issued a protective writ on behalf of Mr and Mrs Lawrence against the Metropolitan Police. The writ is for damages arising out of the failed investigation into the murder."  Mr Khan said the Lawrences would not be making any further comment on the latest development of the family's six-year battle for justice.  Solicitor Imran Khan said: "I can confirm on behalf of Mr and Mrs Lawrence that I have today issued protective writs in the High Court of Justice, London, against certain individuals considered to be responsible for the murder of Stephen Lawrence.  "This is for damages arising out of and in consequence of the murder of Stephen Lawrence.  "I can also confirm that I have today issued a protective writ on behalf of Mr and Mrs Lawrence against the Metropolitan Police. The writ is for damages arising out of the failed investigation into the murder."  Mr Khan said the Lawrences would not be making any further comment on the latest development of the family's six-year battle for justice.  If the case goes ahead, it could lead to the five suspects being cross-examined in a court for the first time.  Three of the suspects, Neil Acourt, Luke Knight and Gary Dobson were formally acquitted of the murder of Stephen three years ago when a private prosecution brought by the Lawrences collapsed.  That meant they could not face further criminal charges for the murder.  The case against Jamie Acourt and David Norris was dropped before it reached court. The action against the police comes amid ongoing negotiations with Scotland Yard over compensation.  The police have offered the Lawrences £50,000 each for mishandling the investigation into their son's murder in south London.  Scotland Yard said today than an offer was still on the table, but refused to comment on what sums were under discussion.  Mr Khan announced immediately after publication of the Macpherson Report that the Lawrences would be seeking compensation from the police.  Scotland Yard said today they had not been served formal notice of the proceedings.  It is understood the Lawrences have not yet responded to the offer of an ex-gratia payment.  A damages claim against those suspected of killing Stephen Lawrence would echo the steps taken against OJ Simpson by the relatives of his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ronald Goldman.  Although acquitted of their murders in a sensational trial which gripped America, Simpson was later found liable for their deaths in a civil trial and ordered to pay nearly £20 million in damages.  The burden of proof in a civil case is lower than in criminal action. Jurors decide whether the accused is guilty "on the balance of probabilities" rather than "beyond reasonable doubt".  • A remembrance service to commemorate the sixth anniversary of Stephen's death is planned this weekend. However, no special events have been organised for tomorrow. Ros Howells, a family friend, said Mr and Mrs Lawrence would be spending the day privately.  • The parents of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence are nominees for the same multicultural awards as Martin Bashir, who controversially interviewed the prime suspects in his killing recently.  Neville and Doreen Lawrence are shortlisted for the Ethnic Multicultural Media Awards (EMMA) public figures of the year, to be announced at a ceremony in London on May 27.  Tonight correspondent Martin Bashir and its anchor Trevor McDonald are separately nominated in the media personality of the year category.  The Lawrence family campaign strongly opposed Tonight's interviews with the five young men suspected of his murder. 