A woman has been jailed for secretly burying her husband under their rockery to carry on claiming £57,000 in benefits for four years.Rebekah Sturdey dug a hole under the rockery for her husband, Geoffrey, when he died suddenly, aged 60, on their isolated farm and wildlife haven. Mrs Sturdey, 56, carried out her own secret burial with two friends who also lived in a Christian community on their country farm.Officials became suspicious after disability allowance and pension credits of £77,318 were paid in Mr Sturdey's name after he was last seen alive in 2008. Swansea crown court heard that Mrs Sturdey lied to benefits investigators that her husband had gone on holiday.Prosecutor Huw Rees said: "The three women buried his body on their land … Rebekah Sturdey and her friend Boqer-Ore Adie continued to claim benefits in his name."The court heard that South African-born Adie was a registered carer for Mr Sturdey and was paid for looking after him out of the benefit money. Rees said Adie, 43, was paid in excess of £19,000 in income support and carers allowance.When investigators called at the farm the women claimed he was on a touring holiday of Europe. But checks revealed he had no valid passport and a £20,000 aerial and land search was launched by a forensic team to find his body on the land near Tregaron, Wales.Rees said: "He was buried in a rockery at twice the depth of a normal grave."The women later admitted the rockery was the easiest place to bury a body, but it was what he wanted. His body was remarkably well preserved and he was identified by his dental records. The women were orginally arrested on suspicion of murder, but tests showed he had died of natural causes. He had a history of stroke and heart attacks."The court heard it had been Mr Sturdey's wish to be buried on his land at the 20-acre farm. Swansea crown court heard that Iranian-born Mrs Sturdey and her British-born husband had set up a religious community with Adie and her two children. Rees said: "Their home contained a large number of religious books. They were not part of any organised group, but they studied the Bible, particularly the Old Testament, and Adie had taught herself Hebrew."Mr Sturdey had chosen his own burial plot where he expected to be raised from the dead. The group expected Jesus's return to earth after his death."Mrs Sturdey and Adie carried on receiving his benefits after his death in October 2008. Investigators found more than £6,000 cash in a sweet tin and gold worth £50,000 had been bought. Mrs Sturdey and Adie admitted fraud by failing to notify authorities that they were in receipt of disability allowance and pension credits in the farmer's name.Mrs Sturdey also admitted conspiracy to prevent the lawful and decent burial of her husband. Adie and her stepdaughter, Karmel Adie, 25, admitted the same charge. Adie's daughter, Hazel Adie, 20, pleaded not guilty, which was accepted by the prosecution.Swansea crown court heard that Hazel was only 15 at the time and was "under the influence" of the older women. Their Beth Berin wildlife haven and religious community was at the end of a remote track near the village of Llwynygroes, deep in the countryside. Warnings on the gate told hikers and walkers to keep away and the Ten Commandments were pinned up on a board at the entrance.Christopher James, defending Mrs Sturdey, said: "She respected his wishes for his burial. They did not wish for a postmortem examination to be carried out. The burial was in accordance with their biblical beliefs."Mrs Sturdey and Adie were both given 20 months in prison. Karmel Adie was given a nine-month suspended sentence. Judge Keith Thomas described it as "highly unusual and a unique set of circumstances". He said: "You took advantage of the sad death of Geoffrey Sturdey to conceal the fact he had passed away and deliberately continued to claim benefits. You were not entitled to that money. Whatever the motivation for burying him on the land without notifying the authorities, it gave you the opportunity to enrich youself at the expense of the rest of us. You told a series of lies to fool the authorities. This was a calculated fraud."