One of the three people held in jail in connection with the murder of the British student Meredith Kercher was released last night after a new suspect was arrested in Germany.As he left prison outside Perugia in central Italy, "Patrick" Diya Lumumba, a Congo-born bar owner and musician, told reporters: "I very much thank God who had helped me to return home."Meanwhile, at another jail in Mainz, Rudy Hermann Guede, 20, was awaiting extradition last night. Police had been searching for him since last week when Italian forensic experts allegedly identified as his fingerprints left on Kercher's bloodstained pillow and on toilet paper at her flat.Writing to the Guardian by email before his arrest, Guede said: "I didn't do nothing, but I won't talk with a policeman, 'cause I'm not a killer. See you in Perugia."Hours later he was arrested after being found travelling on a train near Mainz without a ticket or identity documents.Kercher, a Leeds University student studying in Perugia, was found stabbed to death in her bed on November 2. One of her three flatmates, Amanda Knox from Seattle, and Knox's Italian boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, were last night still being held on suspicion of a role in the killing.Lumumba, a popular figure with students at the city's university for foreigners, was allegedly drawn into the case by Knox. In one of several versions she supplied to investigators, she claimed the bar owner, who employed her part-time, had gone to her home on the night of the murder. Forensic tests failed, however, to establish any link with Lumumba, who insisted that he spent the evening at his bar.Guede, originally from the Ivory Coast, is believed to have left Perugia on the day Kercher's half-naked body was discovered. Last night forensic experts were carrying out a detailed examination of his bedsit in the centre of the town.The fugitive's email to the Guardian, which was passed to police yesterday, was one of several traces he left on the Internet. According to Italy's Ansa news agency, he also spent part of the evening before his arrest chatting to an acquaintance in Perugia using Skype, the cost-free internet telecommunications programme. Unknown to Guede, the other caller was in front of a computer at police headquarters in Perugia and their conversation was being monitored.What was not clear was whether internet tracking contributed to his arrest. German police suggested they had inadvertently found the wanted man. But the police commissioner of Perugia, Arturo De Felice, told Italian TV: "We had been in contact with our German colleagues for days."None of the three current suspects is known to have mentioned Guede, or suggested a fourth person was involved.La Repubblica newspaper reported that Guede came to Italy at the age of five. When he was 17 a Perugia businessman, Paolo Caporali, took him into his house where he lived as one of the family.