For the second time in four months, Brixton was yesterday officially rated as the worst-performing prison in England and Wales. The Home Office ranked it as the only prison "failing to provide a secure, ordered, or decent regime", and falling short of almost all its government targets.A system introduced in July grades all 137 prisons in England and Wales as being on one of four performance levels. Yesterday's report listed 12 "level four" jails which were "exceptionally high performing, and consistently meeting or exceeding targets". But Brixton came out bottom for the second time in the table. The prison has had scathing reports in the past, and two years ago one described it as one of the six worst "hellholes" in the Prison Service. In July Dartmoor and Holloway were also rated level one, but yesterday they were upgraded to level two. Dartmoor had been identified as having inmates routinely abused and degraded by prison officers. Holloway, Britain's biggest women's prison, was criticised in February for imprisoning pregnant teenagers in wholly inadequate conditions. According to yesterday's table, both are now "basically stable, secure and providing a limited but decent regime". However, they were still "experiencing significant problems in meeting targets and/or experiencing major operational problems". A spokesman for the service said the tables measured a range of indicators including health, education and regime. "Prisons which are not performing well need to do better, and are supported so they can improve. We make no apology, either for being open about performance, or trying to improve prisons that are not performing as they should." Penal reformers criticised the tables, saying they benefited neither the public, prisoners, nor prison staff. Enver Solomon, of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "They provide the public with no detail about the day to day conditions in our prisons, and fail to demonstrate whether or not the health, education and training, housing and rehabilitation needs of prisoners are being met. "Instead, they unhelpfully name and shame establishments at a time when dedicated staff are struggling to cope under the pressure of record overcrowding. They should be used for internal purposes within a strategic framework to improve our prisons and sustain staff morale." Yesterday's table put 12 jails on the top level, 101 on level three ("meeting the majority of targets and experiencing no significant problems"), and 23 on level two. The ratings were a professional judgment based on costs, performance against targets and compliance with standards, combined with findings from independent inspectors and monitoring boards. They also took in views of area managers on more subjective factors such as decency and willingness to change. Separate tables cover privately-run jails.