Detectives investigating allegations that the eminent cosmologist Stephen Hawking had been the victim of a series of assaults said yesterday that the inquiry was over because they could find no evidence to substantiate the claims.Cambridgeshire police questioned him and his second wife, Elaine, about stories that he had been subjected to repeated abuse since 2000. The 62-year-old professor receives round the clock care from a team of nurses. He uses a wheelchair because of motor neurone disease and communicates through a synthesised computer voice box. Detective Superintendent Michael Campbell, who led the inquiry, said: "My investigation into these allegations has been extremely thorough and detailed. The purpose of this has been to establish once and for all the position with regard to Professor Hawking, who needs close and constant care. "I appreciate these allegations have caused discomfort and distress to professor and Mrs Hawking, but the depth of my inquiry has provided me with a great deal of information. Based on what I have learned, I can find no evidence to substantiate any assertion that anyone has perpetrated any criminal acts against Professor Hawking." The police began investigating last year when it was reported that up to 10 of his carers had claimed that he had suffered attacks and been treated in hospital for injuries, including a broken wrist, cut lip and gashes on his face. His first wife, Jane Hawking, 57, had said that she and their three children were very worried. But last month his lawyer, Andrew Brewer, asked nurses to sign a "statement of support", rejecting suggestions that Elaine Hawking, 53, was in any way responsible. Prof Hawking issued a denial that there was a problem. "I firmly and wholeheartedly reject the allegations that I have been assaulted," he said. Prof Hawking was admitted to Addenbrooke's hospital in Cambridge with pneumonia in December and transferred to Papworth hospital, where he is undergoing tests and treatment in a specialist sleep disorder unit. A spokeswoman said his condition was stable.