There would be public outrage if Michael Adebolajo, one of the killers of British soldier Lee Rigby, was successful in his claim for compensation two years after his teeth were knocked out during an incident at Belmarsh prison, the Prison Officers Association (POA) has said.Adebolajo was convicted last year alongside Michael Adebowale of murdering Rigby, 25, who was run over and hacked to death near Woolwich barracks in south-east London in May 2013. While being held at the high-security prison following the killing he had his two front teeth knocked out and claimed he had been assaulted by five prison officers.Lee Rigby killer sues Prison Service after having teeth knocked out  The officers were suspended from work after the incident but were later told they had no case to answer, with the POA insisting that only approved restraint techniques had been used. The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) said it would robustly resist the compensation claim, which could be as much as £20,000, according to reports. Steve Gillan, the POA general secretary, told the Guardian on Thursday: “We agree with the Ministry of Justice that this case should be robustly defended [against], because the officers have done nothing wrong. There was a thorough police investigation at the time, and we were absolutely confident that when the police reviewed all the facts of the matter the officers would be completely exonerated. Hopefully justice will be done and Adebolajo won’t get a single penny of taxpayers’ money.” Gillan said he was not sure why it had taken two years for Adebolajo to make a claim, but added that he was delighted that the MoJ would resist it. “I think it’s got no credibility. I think the public would be rightly outraged by this, as would the prison officers who perform a dangerous job and protect the public day in day out. They will get absolute backing from the union.” Suing for compensation has become more of a culture in prisons now, according to Gillan. He said: “To be fair to the Ministry of Justice they are resisting more and more now; before they used to just pay out to get rid of the case, so they didn’t have to go to court. I hope this isn’t one of those cases. I want them to fight it all the way, so there is no compromise on this issue.” An MoJ spokesman said: “A police investigation into this incident took place and no charges were brought against members of staff. The public will be rightly outraged at the thought of this man receiving compensation from the taxpayer and we robustly defend claims made against the prison service.” The MoJ said it had successfully resisted two-thirds of prisoner claims over the past three years. Adebolajo appeared on camera with bloodied hands clutching a knife and a meat cleaver moments after killing Rigby. He was given a whole-life prison term for the soldier’s murder, while Adebowale was sentenced to life with a minimum of 45 years. At their sentencing, the pair lashed out violently in the dock, screaming “Allahu Akbar” and wrestling with security guards.