A woman who poisoned her seven-year-old daughter 25 years ago was yesterday found guilty of a similar attack on her husband. Heather Mook, 57, tricked her husband into taking the antidepressant drug amitriptyline in an attempt to confuse him while she fleeced his mother of £43,000.After Mook's conviction at York crown court it was revealed that she had a previous conviction for poisoning her seven-year-old daughter, Teresa, in 1982, when she crumbled an antidepressant into the child's food.Police yesterday described Mook as "deceitful and dishonest" and revealed she had a string of previous convictions for dishonesty and deception, including a £5m luxury car and property scam.The jury yesterday took two and a half hours to find her guilty of two counts of poisoning her husband, John, so as to endanger his life. She had already admitted a number of other charges, including administering rat killer to her husband and theft-related offences. She will be sentenced after a psychiatric report and pre-sentence report have been carried out.Mook, from York, showed little emotion as the verdicts were delivered.Judge James Spencer QC told her: "I can tell you in clear terms a sentence of imprisonment is inevitable."The court was told the rat poison was a small quantity and would not have endangered her husband's life. However, the overdose of antidepressants left him confused, tired and with a racing heart. He was admitted to hospital in January this year while doctors tried to work out what was wrong with him. Tests later revealed he had been poisoned.The jury was told Mr Mook was tricked into taking the tablets, possibly as many as nine on one occasion. While he was in hospital recovering from the poisoning she again tricked him into taking more tablets, the court heard. She admitted giving him the poison but denied she intended to endanger his life. The court was told Mook tried to cover up her thefts from her mother-in-law, Freda, by giving her husband the poison.Adrian Waterman QC, prosecuting, said the defendant had access to the anti-depressants because she was prescribed them herself. He said: "The stealing of the money and the giving of the drugs were linked. She gave him amitriptyline to avoid discovery of her thefts."Detective Inspector Nigel Costello said yesterday that Mr Mook was not aware of her 1982 conviction, but knew his wife had been in trouble with the police before. The poisoning of her daughter resulted in hospital treatment for the youngster, although she made a full recovery. The detective said Mook had been married on three previous occasions and had carried out a string of deceptions. She married John Mook in 1997.On one occasion she tricked friends into giving more than £20,000. On another occasion she ordered six BMW cars for a businessman, covering the cost with a blank cheque she had conned out of a neighbour. She also told friends she planned to buy a hotel in Scarborough for £2.8m and was prepared to spend another £2.2m on renovations. At her trial she was described as a "menace to friends and strangers alike" and jailed for three years.Costello said he still did not know where the £43,000 she stole from Freda Mook had gone. The money was meant to be used by Mr Mook to pay the bills at his mother's residential nursing home.