The shooting of Mark Duggan remains mired in mystery and confusion, and the guilty verdict returned on Thursday against the man who supplied him the gun does little to change that.The case against Kevin Hutchinson-Foster was a strong one. What the verdict establishes is what few if any doubted. That he supplied a gun to Duggan, 15 minutes before police stopped and shot Duggan dead on 4 August 2011, triggering a series of events that would be felt across England.It is what happened before Duggan was stopped, and what exactly led officers to open fire, that remain the two biggest contentious areas.It falls to the inquest into Duggan's death to shed some light on this, and that will not start until September.Between now and then several events will impact on the Duggan case.The Independent Police Complaints Commission may release its report into whether police missed the chance to take off the streets the gun supplied to Duggan, days beforehand. Hutchinson-Foster has admitted that on 29 July 2011 he used the gun to attack Peter Osadebay at a barber's shop in Hackney. The attack was reported to police but no arrests were made. Publication of this report has been delayed until Hutchinson-Foster was dealt with by the courts.The IPCC is also expected to finally complete its report into Duggan's shooting, a task it had been expected to complete last summer. It says the two trials of Hutchinson-Foster have thrown up new lines of inquiry, the latest emerging a few weeks ago.Also impacting on the Duggan case will be a report from an inquiry into the police shooting of Azelle Rodney in 2005. The evidence produced by the inquiry itself through experts it called and evidence it has uncovered raises questions if not problems for the police account. The report from the inquiry is expected in March and may impact on the reputation of the Met's firearms operations.The team of lawyers and officials behind the Azelle Rodney inquiry have now been seconded to staff the inquest into Duggan's death.The inquest will have to navigate around secret intercept evidence that led police to be following Duggan, and to believe he may have an association or interest in firearms. Rules governing intercept evidence severely limit those who can see such material, to such an extent that coroners can not. Hence the inquest process was delayed while the coroner was replaced and a judge who is allowed to see the secret material was appointed and acquaints himself with the case.The secret material is believed to provide at least some explanation why police believed Duggan posed a danger.The problems for the police over the Duggan shooting come from the forensic evidence and some of the expert testimony.At a pre-inquest hearing this week Ashley Underwood QC, counsel to the inquest, laid out the facts as known. No trace of Duggan's DNA has been found on the gun or sock in which it was contained, nor his fingerprints. There is no meaningful gun residue on him or his clothes.Duggan's fingerprints were recovered from a shoebox inside the taxi, in which the gun is believed to have been contained. But, said Underwood, even this evidence opens up a range of possibilities: "His fingerprints were found on the outside of the cardboard box found in the minicab, including in a part which could not be accessed if the lid was fully down."They appear not to have been found in places which were consistent with him having lifted the lid off. It is not clear whether the surface would have taken prints from a person doing that, or whether, if present, they had been smudged."Mystery remains over how the gun police say Duggan was holding when challenged came to be found 10 to 20 feet away, and over a fence.The Met remains adamant that its officers acted lawfully and out of a genuine fear for their lives.