A Nottinghamshire police detective sergeant has been jailed for eight years for raping a mother in her own home.Trevor Gray attacked the 43-year-old woman after the pair had been out for drinks in Nottingham city centre the same night after meeting through mutual friends.The detective forced the security chain on the front door of the mother of one's house, made his way upstairs and attacked his victim as she slept, while her child was asleep in a nearby room last July.At Derby crown court on Thursday, Judge John Wait told Gray: "These are grave offences. You forced an entry into a home where your victim and her child were entitled to feel safe."You took advantage of her intoxication to rape her. She felt – and was – violated in her own home."The jury took less than three hours to convict Gray on Wednesday of rape, attempted rape and sexual assault. Judge Wait jailed Gray for eight years for rape, six years for attempted rape and four for sexual assault, to run concurrently.The victim told the court she could not recall much of their date despite only having three glasses of wine and lemonade and a "strong" vodka and Coke bought for her by Gray.She said she was shocked when she got out of a taxi outside her home and saw Gray get out too.She invited him inside "through courtesy" before asking him to leave after 15 minutes because she was going to go to bed. He left through the back door, saying he was going to get a taxi at the top of the road.She sobbed as she told the court her next recollection was of him being naked in her bed on top of her and raping her.Sentencing the father of two, who had separated from his wife just a month before the attack, Wait said: "You are intelligent and arrogant, you thought you would get away with it. You did not believe she would have the courage to complain or that if she did she would be believed."The detective, who has served for more 20 years, will now be removed from Nottinghamshire police.Wait said: "I take account of your previous good record, your excellent service in sensitive roles within the police force and the high regard in which you were held by your colleagues. I take into account the fact that a sentence because of your profession will be harder for you to serve."Relatives, friends and colleagues were in court for the sentencing. Many sobbed as he was jailed for eight years. But Wait added that Gray's actions had had a catastrophic effect upon his victim's life.He said: "She no longer feels safe in the home she had moved into with pride only eight weeks before. She cannot go to bed without feeling your presence in the room. Her life has been devastated."Gray was told he would serve one half of the eight year sentence in custody and the remainder on licence.A restraining order was also put in place preventing him from contacting the victim either directly or indirectly and his name will be placed on the sex offenders' register.