A heavy gambler with suspected links to China's so-called Snakehead people-smuggling gangs, gangmaster Lin Liang Ren was at the centre of a conspiracy that led to 23 deaths.Unlike many of those people, Lin was fleeing neither persecution nor poverty. "He was someone of substance in China," said Detective Superintendent Mick Gradwell, who led the inquiry."The idea that he came here in order to go out on the beach and pick cockles himself is far fetched."Lin is a qualified accountant and comes from a wealthy family in Fuqing city, in the south-east of the country.His family also had a second house in the country, in Fujian province - home to many Chinese immigrants around the world.His father, Lin Xien Hua, 57, and mother, Chen He Zhu, 52, ensured that Lin and his brother and sister, who now lives in Argentina, got a good education.After college he qualified in accountancy, and in Fuqing city became head of finance at Mo Chang Plastics, a firm that employed 900 people.He came to the UK in 2000, posing as a student, and headed for Liverpool's Chinatown to meet his cousin Lin Mu Yong, who was already involved in the cockling business.To cover his tracks, he paid £1,500 apiece to two colleges in Manchester and London where he enrolled as a student of English.He did not go to classes, instead faking progress reports on headed college paper that described him as a model student. These were sent to the Immigration Service to support his visa application to be allowed to stay in the UK.Meanwhile. Lin was set himself up as a gangmaster, forging cockling permits for his workers and supplying false national insurance numbers. He soon had a workforce of cocklers and was handling very large sums of money.Cockling was not for Ren, however. He told police he had never taken to the, windswept British beaches. "I don't like the cold and I don't like the water," he said. While his workers were out on the sand, he stayed in his car.After work, he drove them home to Liverpool, to their crowded rooms, while he returned to the house he shared with his young girlfriend, Zhao Xiao Qing.In the evening he would drive his red Mitsubishi sports car into the city centre to play Blackjack at the casinos, one on occasion betting £600 on the turn of a card.After the tragedy, Lin tried to slip away from police, claiming he was just an ordinary worker.While under arrest, he warned survivors that there would be "harmful consequences" for their loved ones at home if they cooperated with the police.He was true to his word: 5,000 miles away, there have been assaults and threats.It is not known whether these have come from associates of Lin's in the Snakeheads, but the two would seem to be mutually dependent: gangmasters need the gangs to smuggle cheap labour into the country, and the gangs need people willing to employ them so that they can pay off their debts."It does look as though there are links," Mr Gradwell said. "There is a level of uncaring arrogance about Lin Liang Ren. I have never seen him break down in tears or even get close to it."The thread that comes through all this is money."