In all the column inches devoted to Derrick Bird's rampage in Cumbria, one fact has barely been mentioned: spree killers are almost always men. In this country we've had relatively few examples of such killings and the names of the perpetrators are etched on the national consciousness along with their crimes. The phenomenon is more common in the US, chiefly because of easier access to weapons, and hundreds of people have been killed in that country by angry men with guns.Since Bird killed 12 people last week, there has been widespread incredulity that this mild-mannered (according to some accounts) man could have harboured such lethal rage. The search for his motive focused first on a supposed family feud, moved on to a row with other taxi drivers and has even encompassed being "made a fool of" by a Thai woman.Bird travelled regularly to Pattaya in southern Thailand and acquaintances describe him as "in love" with the woman, who is said to have accepted at least £1,000 from him before breaking off the "relationship" by text. I am far from satisfied with these accounts, which I shall return to in a moment, but first of all I want to point out some of the ambiguity towards such killers in the past.Bruce Springsteen's early song Nebraska, from the album of the same name, is written in the voice of Charles Starkweather, a spree killer who murdered 11 people in Nebraska and Wyoming in 1957 and 1958. Starkweather's crimes were committed during a road trip with his under-age girlfriend, 14-year-old Caril Ann Fugate, andresulted in his execution by electric chair. In Springsteen's song, Starkweather is an outsider, a classic working-class drifter who just couldn't get along in the modern world. Starkweather "explains" his motive thus in the last two lines: "They wanted to know why I did what I did/ Well sir I guess there's just a meanness in this world".What is this "meanness"? Why does a very small group of men respond to it by killing other people? Derrick Bird turned his rage on people close to him, including his twin brother, people he worked with and the family solicitor, but he also targeted total strangers. He behaved with immense cruelty, shooting some of his victims in the face and leaving them to bleed to death. None of this sits easily with accounts of Bird as just an ordinary bloke, someone you wouldn't look twice at. Nor should it: closer inspection of Bird's personality and habits suggests an insecure, prickly man who drank too much, couldn't stand being teased – he was taken off a long-haul flight in February this year after drinking too much and abusing airline staff – and, most important of all, was a habitual sexual predator.Pattaya, the resort Bird visited regularly, isn't a beach paradise. It's a centre of Thailand's deeply exploitative sex trade, where foreign men go to pay for sex – it costs as little as £10 – with young Thai girls and women who have been forced into it by poverty. Here is the account of a barman, Chris Bulmer, who knew Bird and witnessed his transactions with women who worked as prostitutes:"He slept with a few of my girls upstairs and soon got a taste for it … But in the end he would only want to see one young lady in particular. She was about 22 and pretty. He became obsessed. He loved her and whenever he came back he would immediately find her, compensate the bar and take her away. She was his. And that was how he saw it".The barman told the Sun that Bird was besotted and fell into a rage if the young woman wasn't available whenever he wanted her. In the end, according to Bulmer, she became terrified of Bird and ran away. It isn't clear whether he later sent money to this woman or another he'd met in Thailand, but the pattern – inadequate man seeks to dominate woman working in the commercial sex industry – is familiar. Often such men explain their behaviour as a manifestation of love but it's actually about control, a fantasy-driven compensation for the slights and insults they perceive in everyday life. She was his. And that was how he saw it. She no doubt saw if very differently, but was paid to behave otherwise until she got scared and fled.The widespread cultural imperative to normalise sex tourism by Western men in south-east Asia is a barrier to admitting how damaging the trade is to women. But it also does something else: prevent us from seeing at an earlier stage that there is something very seriously wrong with men like Bird.