One of the most memorable political slogans of the last generation was Tony Blair's pledge to be 'tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime'.But Labour has found it easier to honour the first part of that promise than the second. More offences are deemed worthy of jail, and sentences are longer. Prisons are full.The government points to figures showing a decline in the overall crime rate to show that its approach is working. But as an epidemic of fatal knife attacks in the capital shows, those assertions do not reflect many people's experience of insecurity walking the streets. Already, 18 teenagers have died a violent death in London this year.The government's response has been to promise a crackdown - increased police powers and tougher sentences. That might be reassuring were it not such a tired refrain. The Conservatives, meanwhile, offer no alternative.David Cameron's one attempt to suggest that politicians should consider what distorts the moral judgment of young people was portrayed even in his own party as an invitation to 'hug a hoodie'. That was the end of that. A policy on youth crime has yet to come out of the London mayor's office, even though Boris Johnson campaigned hard on the issue.Ray Lewis, the man Mr Johnson appointed to come up with a plan, resigned last week when it emerged he had not told his boss about past allegations of sexual and financial misconduct.Mr Johnson's failure to vet his employee's record was clearly a result of haste to make a headline-grabbing appointment. That shows as much desperation among Tories to come up with new ideas as there is sad lack of imagination in government.There is a criminal sub-culture in Britain into which our leaders clearly have no insight. It will remain impenetrable unless politicians can mobilise a wide social coalition, crossing party lines, involving teachers, parents, children, police, ex-offenders, charities, religious and cultural leaders to consult on policy. The sad fact is that not only has there been no action to get tough on the causes of crime, there has been a tragic weakness of resolve fully to understand what lies behind crime.