The officer in charge of the army in Northern Ireland yesterday denied that security had been lax at Massereene barracks, where two soldiers were murdered on Saturday night, or that guards failed to respond to the Real IRA attack.Speaking outside the base, Brigadier George Norton insisted it would have been difficult to fire back at the gunmen as they walked among injured soldiers.In the aftermath of the double killing, there has been criticism that none of the Northern Ireland Security Guard Service members opened fire.The NISGS, which is run by the Ministry of Defence, is responsible for guarding barracks across the province. Its officers are equipped with pistols.Several members were on duty on Saturday evening when the attack began. They were stationed inside a small, two-storey guard tower at the entrance to the barracks and in a house just behind the main perimeter wall.Others have questioned whether soldiers at Massereene had got into the habit of ordering takeaway pizzas from Domino's in Antrim on Saturday nights, thus establishing a predictable routine.Brigadier Norton described the killings as a "callous and clinical" attack. The men, he explained, "had been waiting to deploy to Helmand province in Afghanistan. Their baggage was loaded and they were changed into desert uniforms."They were waiting for transport. Some of the men decided to order a final pizza before they left."Shortly before 10pm the pizza delivery arrived. The men were off-duty and unarmed. Following the attack the NISGS responded very quickly and professionally and undoubtedly saved lives. The military community is shocked by the brutality of the [onslaught]."Evidence of the killings lay littered around the scene as he spoke. Blood stains on the ground, moistened by the rain, almost appeared fresh beside shattered glass from the delivery car's smashed windscreen.Chalk marks dotted the ground and the metal security wall where forensic police investigators had recorded strike marks and ejected cartridges.Norton said he had spoken to the unit's commanding officer in Helmand and he was determined that the attack by a few "loathsome individuals" would not disrupt their mission overseas. Most of the unit had flown out from nearby Aldergrove airport early on Sunday morning, only hours after the murders.Asked why the security guards had not opened fire on the Real IRA gunmen, he replied: "Are you suggesting that people should have fired into a closely packed group including my soldiers? Both the guard service and soldiers came forward and did everything they could to save the lives of those who had been shot."He denied that security had been lax and insisted that security precautions had been appropriate given the recently raised threat level."Ordering a pizza of an evening is something everyone does. Was it an avoidable routine? I don't think so." The army wanted to lead a normal life in the community, he said.The NISGS was set up to free regular soldiers from the routine requirements of protecting perimeter fences and barrier entrances.An army spokesman suggested that in the darkness and given the speed of the attack it was not surprising no one fired back."You can fire off 20 to 30 rounds from an assault weapon in a very short time," he said. "I have spoken to former RUC officers who have come under attack from the IRA in the past and they say they never even had time to draw their weapons."