Two people were arrested on Thursday night following an attempted smash-and-grab robbery at Selfridges department store in central London. The incident took place at about 8.30pm.A Metropolitan police spokesman said: "Police were called at approximately 20.30 to reports of a smash-and-grab inside commercial premises on Oxford Street. It is not currently known how many people were involved. Two people were arrested nearby. Inquiries continue."Witnesses took to social media, with one person writing on Twitter: "6 guys with guns + motorcycles just ran into @Selfridges smashed the counters grabbed jewelry and rode away."The police spokesman said there were no reports of gunfire.Witnesses also posted photographs of the scene on Twitter, with one picture showing tiny pieces of broken glass from show cabinets all over the floor.The incident took place half an hour before the store was due to close at 9pm. A special beauty event was being held, according to the store's Twitter feed.A message posted on the Selfridges Twitter feed read: "Hi, we just want to let you know that everyone is safe and the police are investigating. We will update you once we have more information."London ambulance sent one ambulance and one single response unit to Oxford StreetMatthew Carrozo, from east London, saw two men being apprehended by police shortly after the raid. The 28-year-old was having a drink with a friend outside the Draft House pub at the corner of Goodge Street and Charlotte Street when he heard the sound of a moped crashing. He said he then saw a man run out from a nearby pizza restaurant and pin down one of the two people who were riding on the vehicle."Someone noticed a bag had fallen off the moped and that it had opened and a bunch a watches fell out," he said. "The duffel bag was full of watches and jewellery."He said one man was dressed in full motorcycle gear while a second man dressed in a burka had been on the back of the moped, and fell to the ground."The first guy pegged it down Charlotte Street, then he was held to the ground as other people were getting involved. He really put up a struggle. When cops turned up they put him in the back of a van and he was kicking and screaming," said Carrozo. "The other man was injured and is being attended to by paramedics. Apparently it was just an accident and the moped slipped on a grate on the ground. We were totally stunned by what we saw."