Stephen Downing, the Derbyshire man who spent 27 years in prison for murder before his conviction was quashed last year, remains the only suspect for the killing, detectives have said.Police said they were unable to rule out Mr Downing, 46, as the man who carried out the murder of Bakewell typist Wendy Sewell in 1973. They criticised the campaigning journalist Don Hale, who fought to prove Mr Downing's innocence, saying some of the people he quoted in his book on the case do not recall speaking to him. Mr Downing's case was hailed as one of the country's most significant miscarriages of justice following his release from prison on appeal in 2001, and a court of appeal ruling which overturned his conviction last January. In a report on a new inquiry into the killing, made public this morning, Derbyshire deputy chief constable Bob Wood said: "We have carried out an extremely thorough reinvestigation and have been able to eliminate 22 individuals from the inquiry. Despite the lengthy investigation, we have not been able to eliminate Stephen Downing from the inquiry." Ms Sewell, who was 32, was bludgeoned to death in the grounds of Bakewell cemetery on September 12 1973 as she went for a lunchtime walk. Police said today that they had asked to interview Mr Downing under caution as part of the six-month reinvestigation, but that he had refused. Officers wanted to question him about three confessions he is alleged to have made since his release, including one recorded on audiotape. "Throughout the re-investigation, Stephen Downing has maintained a good working relationship with the investigating officers," said the report. "He provided his fingerprints for elimination purposes but refused to be interviewed following consultation with his legal representatives. Under English law, Mr Downing can only be compelled to be interviewed under caution if he was under arrest. "Following the quashing of his conviction by the court of appeal, Mr Downing cannot be re-arrested, or indeed tried, for the murder of Wendy Sewell." Police said they wanted to ask Mr Downing about admissions in a taped telephone conversation between him and his former girlfriend Christine Smith in June 2001, and about two subsequent admissions to his father.At the time of the murder, Mr Downing - then aged 17 - was working as a groundsman at the cemetery and claimed to have found Mrs Sewell's partly naked body covered in blood. He was arrested and interviewed for about eight hours before admitting attacking and sexually assaulting the woman. Mr Downing, who had a reading age of 11 at the time, signed a confession and was charged with murder when Mrs Sewell later died in hospital. He later retracted his admissions, but was tried and convicted of murder in the following year. After his arrest, his parents, Ray and Juanita Downing, waged a campaign to prove their son's innocence and since 1994 were assisted by Mr Hale, then editor of the Matlock Mercury. A court of appeal hearing in January last year heard that when he was first questioned by police, Mr Downing was not formally told he was under arrest and not informed of his right to a solicitor. Lord Justice Pill said at the hearing the court "cannot be sure" that Downing's initial confessions to the police were reliable and "it follows that the conviction is unsafe". But he said that he and his two fellow judges "expressly do not address ourselves" to the question of whether or not Downing was guilty. Police began their reinvestigation in April last year, with 16 officers working full-time on the inquiry. Some 1,600 new and original witnesses were interviewed, at an estimated cost of £500,000. Officers completed 2,000 lines of inquiry and examined 2,600 files and documents. The murder weapon, a pick-axe handle, was tested by a forensic expert from Kent police. Although a partial fingerprint discovered could not be matched against any suspect, DNA material found on the item was successfully matched to the victim. Mr Wood said the expert also examined Mr Downing's blood-splattered clothing, recovered at the time of the incident. "The pattern of blood-staining on Stephen Downing's clothing supports the assertion that Stephen Downing battered Mrs Sewell prior to handling and kneeling by her body." Mr Downing is reported to have already received about £250,000 in compensation for his time spent in custody and the final sum is expected to be between £500,000 and £1.8m. The Home Office refused to confirm the figure, or if the results of the new inquiry will affect the terms of that settlement. A spokeswoman said: "We cannot comment on individual cases or miscarriage of justice payments." Mr Downing's solicitor said that he would consider his response to the findings of the new inquiry and expected to release a statement later this afternoon. In a statement, Mr Sewell said: "Wendy's mother and I are delighted that the truth has finally re-emerged about the circumstances of Wendy's death. I say re-emerged expressly. "We therefore wish to convey our gratitude to Derbyshire police for the thorough, diligent and kindly manner in which they have executed their appointed task."