An audacious attempt to keep potential young offenders off the streets last night won for a small independent Nottingham museum the largest cash prize in the arts, the newly created £100,000 Gulbenkian museums prize.The museum plans to use the money to expand its project by locking up primary school children in a derelict Victorian prison on the site. Bamber Gascoigne, who chaired the judging panel, said the decision had been unanimously in favour of the National Centre for Citizenship and the Law, originally created on a shoestring in the historic courts and prisons complex of the Galleries of Justice museum in Nottingham. He praised the staff for bringing alive "the potentially very dry subject of citizenship". Joanna Lumley, one of the judges, said the museum was "astonishing and thrilling and frighteningly good". The museum re-enacts real cases in its courtroom, one of the best preserved in the country. Children found guilty of stealing sheep or picking pockets are locked up in bleak cells in a Georgian prison on the site, or in a holding pen awaiting transportation to Australia. The museum has recently expanded its education work to include a much more challenging group - young offenders or those judged at risk of offending, nominated by teachers, youth workers or police officers. Some of them might prefer to opt for a stay in a genuine prison rather than being shut up in a museum where they discuss real cases, study a film of a riot and analyse its causes, and debate treatment of offenders by the media. However, the project is achieving some remarkable results, now being studied nationally. A majority of those who have been through the project do not reoffend, some have returned to full-time education, and one illiterate teenager has learned to read and write and won a college place. A recent addition was a young offenders' website, which offers seven-day legal advice and information. The centre's rivals for the prize were the £30m Darwin Centre at the Natural History Museum in London; the restoration and display of Captain Scott's Antarctic exploration ship, Discovery, in Dundee; and a street-corner oral history initiative in Rotherham. The prize money, which is worth more than the Man Booker, Turner and Stirling prizes put together, has been guaranteed for five years by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation. The Nottingham museum plans to use the money to restore and bring into use a prison dating from 1833, which is part of its complex of buildings but currently locked up and largely empty.