Police searching for Raoul Moat have made two more arrests and recovered mobile phones believed to have been used by the suspected killer.As detectives said they were making significant progress in the case, it was revealed that a man fitting Moat's description had been spotted in Rothbury, Northumberland, last night. Despite an extensive search he was not found.Police today issued pictures of the camp thought to have been used by Moat to sleep rough in the countryside near Rothbury.The two latest arrests were made in Blyth on Thursday afternoon. A man and a woman were taken in on suspicion of assisting an offender. Two men arrested in the Rothbury area around teatime on Wednesday, also on suspicion of assisting an offender, have been released on police bail.In total police have made six arrests. Two men arrested on Tuesday have been charged with conspiracy to murder.Giving an update on the case today, detectives said they had found three phones used by Moat. The first was found in the early hours of Saturday at the scene of the first two shootings, in Birtley, where Moat is alleged to have shot his former girlfriend, Samantha Stobbart, and killed her new partner, Chris Brown.The second phone was used to make two 999 calls to police before and after Moat is alleged to have shot and seriously injured a police officer, David Rathband, in East Denton.A third phone was found yesterday by a member of the public walking on open land in the Rothbury area. This phone had not been used by Moat since the arrests of the two men charged with conspiracy to murder.Police know where and when the second and third phones were bought but did not disclose the information.Detective Chief Superintendent Neil Adamson, who is leading the inquiry, said: "There have been some very positive developments over the past 24 hours. I am certain that these phones were all used by Mr Moat. We have recovered valuable information from them and are pursuing numerous leads in connection with this information. This shows the vital role the public are playing in this inquiry and I would urge anyone with information to contact Northumbria police or Crimestoppers."The fugitive has threatened to widen his "war" against Northumbria police to include members of the public.Three people are understood to have seen a man who looked like Moat walking through Rothbury wearing a baseball cap just before 11pm. Two of the witnesses were journalists and the third is thought to have been an unarmed police officer.A huge search operation swung into action, involving hundreds of officers and the force helicopter. They scoured the surrounding fields and woodland but the man was not found.A police spokeswoman said: "I can confirm we did receive reports of potential sightings in the town centre last night. There is a lot of behind-the-scenes work which is continuing."Sources say the man was "big and tall" and wearing a zipped-up dark top or hoodie and a baseball cap. One witness said the man looked very similar to Moat and was walking "determinedly".The potential sightings came as armed officers took up positions inside Rothbury's three schools. Officers had been stationed outside the schools, but the move to place them inside the buildings followed a packed public meeting last night at which parents expressed concern for their children's safety.The police pictures of Moat's camp show a duvet, tent and sleeping bag, found in a secluded area of land at Wagtail farm on the outskirts of Rothbury.Temporary deputy chief constable Jim Campbell said Rothbury remained the focus of the hunt. "As well as firearms officers, specialist search teams and resources from other forces, we've been using the force helicopter's thermal imaging technology to assist in our searches overnight," he said.Moat's camping gear was recovered after the arrests of Karl Ness, 26, of Dudley, North Tyneside, and Qhuram Awan, 23, of Blyth, Northumberland. The two men, originally thought to have been Moat's hostages, have been charged with conspiracy to murder and possessing a firearm with intent. They have been remanded in custody to appear before Newcastle crown court next month.In Rothbury, the news spread quickly after police said Moat had made unspecified "threats towards the wider public".Police have described Moat as having a northern accent. He is 1.9 metres tall (6ft 3in) and has light-coloured, cropped hair. He is right-handed and wears size 12 shoes. Police said he could be wearing a grey or light blue hooded top and a red or orange T-shirt, with dark coloured jeans and white trainers. It is possible he looks unkempt. It is thought he has one or two weapons and a large quantity of ammunition.