A devoted husband strangled his wife while having a nightmare that she was an intruder who had broken into the camper van they were sleeping in, a court heard today.Father-of-two Brian Thomas, 59, and his wife, Christine, 57, had parked their van in a pub car park while on holiday, Swansea crown court was told.He dreamt that an intruder was in the van, reached out to tackle the offender but instead strangled his childhood sweetheart and wife of 40 years.The court heard Thomas, from Neath, south Wales, suffered from a chronic sleep disorder that meant he was not in control of his actions.Thomas sobbed in the dock as a recording was played of the 999 call he made just minutes after strangling his wife.In the distraught 3.49am call, he said: "What have I done? I've been trying to wake her. I think I've killed my wife. Oh my God. I thought someone had broken in."I was fighting with those boys but it was Christine. I must have been dreaming or something. What have I done?"When police arrived he told them: "She's my world."Thomas told officers that "boy racers" had been performing wheelspins and handbrake turns in the car park in the seaside village of Aberporth, south-west Wales, where he and his wife had first parked in July last year. They moved on but Thomas dreamt one of them was in the van.Paul Thomas QC, prosecuting, said: "He became convinced that one of these youths had broken into the van and a fight erupted in which he grabbed one of them in an armlock."But it must have been a dream, he said, because there turned out to be no intruders and the person he had seized by the throat was his wife."He said the prosecution was not seeking a verdict of guilty to murder because of medical evidence about his chronic nightmare problem.Thomas told the jury: "This is a highly unusual case. The defendant accepts he caused the death of his wife, but the prosecution do not seek a verdict of guilty to murder or manslaughter."Instead, very unusually, we seek what is called a special verdict – a verdict of not guilty by reason of insanity."For almost 50 years Thomas had been prone to episodes of sleepwalking and other sleep-disorder behaviours, the court heardDetectives were sceptical when Thomas claimed he had been asleep. But scientists specialising in sleep disorders conducted a series of tests and agreed his behaviour was consistent with the "legal concept of automatism".Thomas said: "In other words, at the time of the killing the defendant was asleep and his mind had no control over what his body was doing."The barrister stressed it was not being suggested Thomas was insane in the "everyday sense of the word".He said: "This was a case of insane automatism – because the sleeping disorder the defendant had suffered from since childhood was 'part of him' and not something that could be cured."The jury was told they had a "straightforward choice" of clearing him of murder or finding him not guilty by reason of insanity.His defence team argued it was "non-insane automatism" brought on by the stress of the youths in the car park.Elwen Evans, QC, defending, said the disturbance from the speeding cars caused the couple "significant levels of stress".Thomas denies murder. The case continues.