That morning, I parked my car, as usual, about a five-minute walk from work. I had just patted the Christmas cards in my breast pocket and was meandering along the pavement, idly thinking of the day ahead and relaxing with my family over Christmas, when suddenly I found myself reeling backwards towards the kerb, realising I was being attacked.Even now, writing this down, I can't take in the brute absurdity of it. I don't remember being pushed - no initial lunge, not even the the presence of an attacker - just that it had happened and I didn't know why or how.My first reaction was of not understanding it, not accepting the apparent craziness of it. I think I was shouting throughout - "Why are you doing this? What are you doing?" - all the time thinking he'd hear me and stop. I looked to see if he was someone I recognised, but I'd never seen him before. Then I thought it was a mugging, and at the same time that it wasn't, that he hadn't asked for anything, that he wasn't trying to take anything. At no time did he say anything. And he only looked at the part of my body he was attacking.I knew I'd been stabbed. I looked at his hand, to see what he was holding, and saw something thin and quite short, but I'd lost my glasses. Then I was on the ground, on my back, and he was pulling at my left leg, perhaps by the ankle. The next stabs I can't remember feeling at all. He dropped my leg and backed away a few paces, looked at me - at my body - and hesitated. There was a strange hiatus, as I remember it. I was aware of him processing the situation, considering whether to resume the attack or to leave. He then turned and jogged away between two parked cars.I was on the pavement, half sitting, half kneeling. There was blood underneath me, steadily pooling between my legs, which I couldn't move. As a dentist, I had enough knowledge to assess the situation. I saw the blood spreading, but not in a swift tide, and I wasn't losing consciousness, so I was pretty sure it wasn't arterial flow. But I was also screaming: "Help, I've been stabbed! Please, help me!" I remember people gathering at a distance, one talking into a mobile phone. I was pretty sure I wasn't going to die, but my legs wouldn't work, and I was thinking I might end up disabled.Then there was an ambulance. Someone ran up and slapped the vehicle's bonnet, yelling at the paramedic to stop. He then came to me and said, "My name's Kim and you're going to be all right." I can think of the whole incident up to here, write or talk about it, but it's those words that wet my eyes and make me stop, every time. He helped me lean against a car.At some point there was a policeman, too. I remember asking him to get me my glasses - I could see them just a few feet away in the road - and he said, "Don't worry about them." I said, "I'm a dentist, round the corner. I'm due at work. You've got to tell them. You must tell them."Another ambulance was there within minutes, and I was lifted inside. I remember some expression of concern between the crew. Someone was saying, "His intestines were hanging out when we got to him." Someone else looked down at me and said, "Holy shit."Every part of me was being pulled at, and my wife, Tina, was there, in tears. A surgeon said they'd probably have to carry out a temporary colostomy, and I took a pen and signed a consent form. They were punching things into my arms. Then more pain, this time excruciating, worse than anything. And then someone said, "I'm sorry but this is going to be extremely painful," and I braced myself and waited, and felt nothing at all. And that worried me. I thought, that's not right. But, of course, I had had had some anaesthesia by then.Someone said, "Another one's just come in." And there was talk about others, a nurse saying they thought nine people.The first night, as I drifted in and out of consciousness, I saw a security guard sitting at the foot of my bed. I wasn't sure if I was expected to die at any moment or if there was concern that my assailant might come back to finish me off. He nodded to me from time to time. A man along the ward groaned the word "Finally" through the night.My abdomen and legs were stitched and stapled. I had two deep wounds to my side, necessitating extensive surgery to repair my bowel, and two more deep stabs to my left and right thighs, and one odd, almost tentative nick to my left buttock. End to end, there were almost two feet of scars.The first nights were worst, sleep brilliantly lit by morphine dreams of people huddled on my chest, sitting astride and inside me, muttering among themselves. When I wasn't asleep I was thinking: six people, one of them dead. Someone had left me flowers, and one night I woke up and the drooping stems, silhouetted, loomed over me like an attacker.On Christmas Day, Tina brought our five-year-old twins to see me. Walking up the ward, they held on to her, overwhelmed and unsure. At my side, Alex rubbed his cheek against the back of my hand and Georgie hugged my forearm to her face. At first, Tina told the children that I'd been knocked off my bike again, thinking they were used to that, but Tony, our family liaison officer, told her she should tell them the truth, since back at school everyone would know and be talking about it.Tony said that the whole attack had been caught on CCTV, except for a bit where a white van had driven past. He said the footage was "just like watching TV ... Fantastic." I asked how I'd defended myself, remembering how I tried to kick at him from the ground and fight him off. "Actually, you were pretty pathetic," he said cheerily. "You know those shows about the Serengeti, a lion dragging its prey - well, that's like you."Returning to work after two months, I found it hard to get involved in anything beyond the immediate. The government's imminent destruction of NHS dentistry no longer infuriated me. I couldn't even summon up despair at the situation.After six months I was on the way to recovery. On the street I still looked at people's hands as they walked towards me and had to steady myself not to flinch as they passed. But I walked along the road where the attack had happened, though at first I had to cross to the other side, once with such urgency that I nearly got run over.There was considerable uncertainty over the CCTV footage approaching the trial. It was fairly certain to be used, but in view of how it would affect my testimony, there was apparently no way I could see it before it was shown to me in open court. I was concerned about the impact this would have on me. A compromise was reached and Tony brought the tape round to my house. He said he and his mate had bet on how many times I'd want to run it; he'd guessed at three. I turned the tape on.The image was a small rectangle in the centre of the screen. A few people walked by and then I said, "That's him. Definitely." He was coming towards us, groping in an inside pocket of his jacket. He passed out of shot, others came and went for a few seconds, and then there he was, returning. His shoulder rolled as his hand presumably went into the pocket again for the knife.I find myself here suddenly writing in the present. That's simply how it is. And there I am, walking towards the camera in a quite different line, close to the kerb but towards him. There would have been a yard between us as we'd passed - if we had passed. Out of nothing, he lunges, pushing me towards the kerb, and here, in my lounge, I grunt and swear quite uncontrollably, my body tensing up. It's mainly as I remembered it, but there are some extreme differences. At one point he's lying on top of me - I don't remember that at all - and his position is awkward, his head somewhere by my knees. I'm kneeling and screaming, mouth open in a howl. Someone comes up and gives me my glasses. No apparent words pass between us. I'm sagging, exhausted, and at the bottom of the screen there's the ambulance light flashing. The film stops.I sat there. Tony said, "Well?" I rewound the tape and ran it again. And again and again. Each time it was easier. The ability to run it and halt it, rewind and review it gave me an increasing sense of control. It was as if he had got me, but now I had taken a huge part of myself back. Afterwards, I felt curiously buoyant. While I could watch it and know it was me, it didn't put me back there with the pain and shock and distress.I slept better that night than for months. The trial went swiftly, and my main feeling at the end of it, with my assailant, Ismail Dogan, found guilty of the attempted murder of myself and four others, and the manslaughter by reason of diminished responsibility of a further man, was of sadness for his family. They had been threatened, and more, by him, and had tried to get help for him, but failed.So for me, it's over. I'm lucky. I'm alive, and almost fully recovered, physically. There's sharp discomfort, but no more than that, when I stretch my torso, and a few areas of skin where there's no feeling. My scars are diminishing, or I'm getting used to them. One, a sort of blot where the blade must have scraped the top of my pelvic bone, can still look bone-deep in the wrong light. And my wife gets anxious if I'm not back promptly from work - and my kids are probably more anxious, too. But that's all.