An investigation has been launched into the alleged attempted abduction of a four-year-old boy outside a primary school in east London, the police have confirmed.The child, who was wearing school uniform, was allegedly snatched by a stranger near St Agnes Catholic primary school in Bow on Monday.His older brother ran after the man and caught up with him, and the boy was dropped seven metres down the road after a struggle. Lorraine Spiteri Sammut, who says she is the child’s grandmother, wrote on Facebook that it had all happened fast and they were lucky to get him back. She wrote: “A man picked him up, put him over his shoulder and ran down the road with him, my 11-year-old grandson gave chase and managed to pull him out of the man’s arms. “Keep hold of [your] kids’ hands. Everything happened so fast. Police measured where the man ran and it was seven metres down the road ... We was lucky. Due to the fast actions of my 11-year-old, we got my grandson back!”She also alleged the man had been seen hanging around the school earlier in the day. She added that they were all a bit shook up. She said: “Couldn’t sleep last night. Sick to my stomach. It’s awful, I can’t stop kissing and cuddling him, thank God my Leli reacted so fast and managed to get him back.”Police described the suspect as a black man who was wearing a black baseball cap with blue writing on the side. He was also wearing a long thick gold chain and a blue T-shirt. A Metropolitan police spokesman said: “Police are investigating a report that a four-year-old boy in school uniform was the victim of an attempted kidnap near to St Agnes primary school.“The boy was allegedly picked up by the suspect at the end of a school day. The suspect tried to make off with the boy before being confronted, dropping the child and leaving the scene.”A member of staff at the school said: “The police are making enquiries and have been taking witness statements.” She refused to comment further but Tower Hamlets council said neighbourhood officers would be stationed outside the school following the incident.A statement read: “There was an alleged attempted abduction of a child outside St Agnes primary school on Monday 19 September. Police are investigating the incident. Neighbourhood police will now be present outside the school at the beginning and end of the school day.“Tower Hamlets Council and police are reminding parents, staff and children to remain vigilant and to report anything they believe to be suspicious to the police by calling 101.”