The future of a world renowned treatment programme for sex offenders has been thrown into doubt with plans to close one of Scotland's oldest and most notorious jails. For the last nine years Peterhead prison, north of Aberdeen, has been home to the Stop programme, a unique initiative that forces sex offenders to confront their crimes and the impact on their victims. Since 1993, 245 prisoners have taken part in the scheme and only five have been convicted for re-offending. Experts have ranked the intensive programme, which inmates enter voluntarily, as one of the top three in the world. But the Scottish executive now plans to close the ageing prison and disperse its inmates across Scotland, a move campaigners say will destroy years of valuable work and set back the entire programme of sex offender rehabilitation. Alex Salmond, the former leader of the Scottish National party whose Banff and Buchan constituency houses the prison, has accused the Scottish executive of playing russian roulette with the safety of women and children and says a campaign will be launched to save the jail. "Here we have this ground breaking prison, a world class facility that is making a real difference to offending behaviour and the reaction is, let's close it down," he said. "This is madness, and public safety will be gravely compromised." Peterhead, a granite fortress known as the Dartmoor of the north, was built on an exposed headland in the fishing port in 1888 and for many years acted as Scotland's top security prison. It was turned into a centre for sex offenders after a series of riots and sieges in the 1970s and 1980s. The SAS had to be brought in to quell the last riot in October 1987, after a prison officer had been held hostage for six days. The jail houses 300 inmates, most of them convicted of rape and child molestation. Under the Stop scheme, inmates go through a rigorous programme designed to make them acknowledge and learn from their crimes. They are forced to identify the excuses they have used for their behaviour and examine the impact of their crimes on their victims and victims' families. Staff sometimes make prisoners write letters to their victims - which are never posted, but are read to other inmates. The programme is considered to have been phenomenally successful. Bill Marshall of Queens University in Ontario, Canada, a leading authority on the treatment of sex offenders, said the Peterhead scheme is "among the best prison based programmes I have seen anywhere" and has urged the executive to reconsider its plans. The executive, meanwhile, says the Stop programme is already operating at other prisons and can be continued when Peterhead closes in 2005. The jail is outdated and refurbishment would be too expensive. But campaigners say Peterhead has created a unique culture that cannot be replicated. Christine Grahame, convener of the Scottish parliament's justice committee, visited the prison recently and said inmates were fearful of being moved to other prisons and having to mix with main-stream prisoners. She said there were no votes for sex offenders and that people would say they should be locked up and the key thrown away. "But they are locked up for six or seven years and if we destroy this programme they are out without actually addressing their offending, and we are all the worse for that."