  Andrew Case and daughters Phoebe and Nereya. Photograph: Solent News & Photo AgencyA man who is believed to have killed his wife and daughters before hanging himself was facing mounting debt problems, it has emerged.The 33-year-old, who was named locally as Andrew Case, an HGV driver, is thought to have killed his wife, Vicki, 31, and their two daughters, Phoebe, two, and one-year-old Nereya.Police said postmortem examinations showed that the man found at a house in Fordingbridge, Hampshire, had died as a result of a "ligature suspension", and the woman died after suffering knife wounds. The cause of death of the couple's two children has yet to be established.Case had filed an individual solvency report earlier this year, and today colleagues said the couple had "fought against the pressure of modern life".John Underhill, the managing director at the firm where Case worked, described them as a beautiful couple."Like so many others in this day and age, they fought against the pressures of modern society to maintain a happy, respectable and responsible family life."Andy … was a model employee, hard working, personable and well liked."Today, detectives investigating the couple's deaths said they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the tragedy. Acting Superintendent Gary Cooper added: "Detectives are continuing to investigate the background and the circumstances that led to this tragic incident. The families of everyone involved are understandably extremely shocked and distressed by what has happened, and have asked that they are left alone to try and come to terms with their loss."The bodies were discovered by the children's grandmother. A neighbour, Alayna Brooks, said the woman had come out of the house screaming: "All my babies are dead."The family was described by shocked neighbours and friends as loving and happy. They had just returned from a week's holiday in Weymouth. The children's mother ran the St Aldhelm's children's nursery in Sandleheath, neighbours said.A friend added: "She was friendly, bubbly – one of those really nice people. She ran the local nursery, all the local kids loved her, all the people loved her."Brooks, 53, said: "They were so loved up … in fact, if I had a marriage, I would have loved their marriage – they just loved each other." She described the couple's young daughters as gorgeous.Another neighbour, Jeremy Pentecost, 27, said he had run out of his house, which overlooks the property where the families were discovered."I didn't go into the house," he added. "Someone stopped me going in, and I'm glad they did, to be honest. I didn't want to see that. They seemed a nice couple, and I joked with him sometimes outside."The mayor of Fordingbridge, councillor Malcolm Connolly, told the local Daily Echo newspaper: "The loss of young lives is always tragic, and it leads to the question why something like this happens. It's a small town. These people will have been known to many, and it will have a major impact on the lives of residents."The house remained sealed off by a police cordon today, while detectives and scene-of-crime officers continued the investigation into the deaths.Flowers had been placed near the house. One message read: "All our sympathy to the ones left behind."Church spokeswoman Rev Tracy Robinson said: "The communities of Fordingbridge, Sandleheath and the surrounding areas are in shock following this tragedy."Our thoughts and prayers are with everyone who has been affected by what has happened, including the family, friends, neighbours and members of the emergency services who are dealing with the incident."A cordon was set up around the house, and police used a recovery lorry to take away a 4x4 containing children's toys, and a Volkswagen Golf.