First Tony Blair pledged support for a law enshrining a householder's right to use force against burglars. Then that support seemed to wane. Finally, this week, came an official leaflet explaining just how and when homeowners can attack intruders.The new guidelines, issued by the Crown Prosecution Service and the Association of Chief Police Officers, confirmed householders have the right to kill intruders under certain circumstances, but they confused the  Daily Telegraph . It was a "rambling leaflet that increases the onus on the householder to make the right judgment in the seconds before an assault", it complained. The leaflet says force is lawful "so long as you do only what you honestly and instinctively believe is necessary in the heat of the moment", but the Telegraph felt "this is one of those statements whose meaning evaporates as you stare at it." The guidance would "only leave householders more confused particularly if they are working out the legal nuances at 2am as they fight off a burglar", agreed the  Daily Mail . It favoured the Tory proposal to change the law to allow the use of any force short of "grossly disproportionate". The  Sun , at least, could see some merit in the leaflet. "The new guidelines will give great comfort to those who worry about how they can protect themselves and their loved ones from an intruder," it said. "Keeping a baseball bat by your bed and whacking a burglar over the head with it is not illegal." That did not mean householders should be encouraged to attack burglars, said the  Daily Mirror . "The guidelines must not be interpreted as a licence to have a go. Or as the legal right to kill someone who breaks into your property." But who was to blame for the whole kerfuffle? "Until the Tories made it an issue, hardly anyone was bothered," said Mark Steel in the  Independent . The Conservative strategy "represents the usual attempt to scare people into thinking we're submerging under an epidemic of violent crime, unlike the respectful days of old". The government should have pointed out "the absurdity of the Tory claims"; instead they had "backed down, issued this leaflet and appeared to agree".