For eight days, the parents of Joanna Yeates hoped that their daughter was alive, but knew in their hearts she was dead. Today as detectives confirmed that the Bristol landscape architect had been murdered, her father admitted that it had actually been a "relief" to see her body."Last week was the worst of our lives, David Yeates, 63, said. "Things were made just that little bit less terrible when we saw Jo's body. It was a relief to see her body again – we just said, 'Welcome back'."The family have had a few – but only a few – answers to the dozens of questions they have about her disappearance and murder. Speaking at the family home in Ampfield, Hampshire, Mr Yeates said he believed that police knew more than they were saying."We are sure that the police know more about what happened than they are telling us, but at the moment we are not questioning them because we feel they are doing their best," he said. "Hearing Jo had been murdered was not a surprise because we had been told to prepare for the worst. Since hearing about her death all sorts of things have been running through our mind and we are trying to rationalise what has happened."I fear that whoever has done this will never hand themselves in, but we live in hope that the police will catch who is responsible."Mr Yeates said his family were keen to make arrangements for his daughter's funeral but they had been told by the police that her body was unlikely to be released "for a while".Police today revealed that a postmortem had established that Yeates, 25, had been strangled to death and the body dumped "several" days before it was found on Christmas morning.But they gave few further details either to the media or to the family. The body was clothed but detectives said they were still keeping an open mind over whether she had been sexually assaulted.They refused to say whether they thought she had been held prisoner before being killed, or believed she had died at the spot where she was found. Officers declined to discuss if there had been an attempt to hide the body but revealed it had been covered with snow – suggesting strongly that Yeates's remains had been where they were found since shortly after she vanished.Detective Chief Inspector Phil Jones, who is leading the investigation, said Yeates's boyfriend, Greg Reardon, 27, who reported her missing when he returned to their flat after a weekend away with relatives, was a witness and not a suspect. Yeates vanished on the night of Friday 17 December after a visit to a pub with workmates. Her body was discovered clothed and cloaked in a blanket of snow on a roadside verge three miles from her flat eight days later.On Monday her parents, together with her brother, Chris, and Reardon, visited the spot where the body was found and laid flowers. Mr Yeates and his wife, Theresa, were then driven to a nearby mortuary to formally identify their daughter's body.Before the body was found, Mr Yeates had said he was sure his daughter was dead and expressed fears that he and his wife could go to their graves not knowing what had happened to her.