The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday May 31 2006 Lloyd George's bagman was Maundy Gregory not Horatio Bottomley, as we stated in error in the article below. Bottomley was serving a sentence for fraud between May 1922 and 1927. The honours scandal broke in June 1922 and Gregory was later convicted, in 1933, under the 1925 Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act. The police inquiry into cash for honours is out of hand. Detectives are plunging deep into the mafia, but the canaries are not singing, whether to the police or to the Commons public administration committee. The cabinet secretary, Sir Gus O'Donnell, claimed yesterday that he was nowhere near the scene of crime. Lord Stevenson of the appointments committee said that "cash for honours" never crossed his mind until he read a newspaper. Various Labour financiers, such as the "dirty dozen" and the "peerless four", are keeping shtoom. Even Adonis's "city academies" mob is observing omertà. All the Untouchables can hope for is to nab someone for not paying VAT.What this police inquiry is doing is forcing the British establishment, from the prime minister and lord chancellor down, to commit mass perjury. Everyone with honours to distribute has sold them, since the dark ages. Everyone in the know is familiar with the nods, winks, euphemisms, lists, calculations, bank accounts - and with the aching, yearning, pleading for preferment on which the whole edifice is built. When Michael Foot drew up his first list of Labour peers back in 1980 his chief whip dismissed them on the grounds that "they have no money".We should remember the purpose of the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act 1925. It was not to aid the conduct of government or close a loophole in the law. It was to protect the reputation of the honours system. It was to uphold the dignity of existing peers from pollution by Lloyd George's wealthy upstarts. The offence was not really the bargain but the crudeness with which it was conducted by Lloyd George's bagman, Horatio Bottomley. It should have been called the Honours (Prevention of Indignity) Act.So what are the police out to achieve? There is no way the Crown Prosecution Service can stick the loans scandal merely on the small fry. But is the lord chief justice really going to send present and past prime ministers to the slammer, not to mention lords and ladies by the score? This affair is adding vastly to the amusement of the nation. But these matters go back in murky time and embrace the most powerful in the land. "Cash for honours" is the Da Vinci code of British politics.Tony Blair has taken his power over patronage, like most of his powers, to extremes. But he has only made blatant what all party leaders have done before. He has not given public funds to his friends or, with a few notorious exceptions, taken cash for government favour. He has merely distributed cost-free baubles as lubricant to his machine. Beneficiaries might be an MP whose seat is needed for a crony, a minister become an embarrassment, a policy facing collapse (such as city academies) or, most obviously, an election campaign in want of a focus group and a hairstylist.If anything, money is the least offensive of these purposes. The consideration is harmless, a title, a coat of arms and a silly dress. The 1925 act and its 2000 updating (the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act) were not aimed at corruption, though this was implied by the latter. The first law tried to redress what was seen as a scandal against the royal prerogative, and the second dealt with openness of party finances. In both cases the barter was of political expediency for vanity. Scotland Yard's deputy assistant commissioner, John Yates, is not so much Dickens's Inspector Bucket, rather the lawyer Tulkinghorn, dedicated to "saving the reputation of a great English family". The family is the British peerage.I cannot see how this reputation is an urgent call on police time. A Commons committee has been forced to cut a pathetic figure, asking permission of Scotland Yard as to whom it can interview and when. Why this should prejudice a police inquiry is unclear. Lord Levy and others can always "plead the fifth" if they so choose. The committee cannot even force peers, whose creation is the subject of their inquiry, to appear before it. Though lobby journalists dutifully call select committees "influential" or "powerful", this is misleading. They are impotent bystanders of government. (They never laid a finger on Blair over Iraq.)The reality is that as long as a peerage is desirable and in limited supply, ermine will have its price. That price will accrue to whoever controls the market. If senior politicians find this distasteful (and they have not done so in the past) they have an obvious remedy. Let any institution award "lordship" to whomever it chooses. For that matter, let Britons call themselves whatever they like. Men have long adopted the title esquire, however few merit it. The value of the title lies only in the restriction of supply.If the supply of peerages is to be limited, at least remove it from party politics and grant it to more deserving beneficiaries. Give charities a quota of peerages to sell each year, or universities, or hospitals, or the National Trust. The Queen's civil list might be replaced by giving her back the franchise on earldoms and viscountcies. If there is money in such things, why should it go to politicians? If we are to have this quaint surtax on upward mobility, at least let's make it open and a boon to the community at large.In place of a police inquiry, there should be an extra-parliamentary "truth and reconciliation committee". Party leaders past and present should line up and confess their offences under the 1925 and 2000 acts, pleading forgiveness in return for partial amnesty. I am sure some community service could be devised whereby they and their cronies repay the supposed outrage to public honour.With this nonsense out of the way the political community could properly address two totally separate questions that "cash for honours" has polluted. One is how party funds can best be augmented, given that an excessive 50% of their gross revenue already comes from the taxpayer. (The answer is by raising members' subscriptions, period.) The other is how a second parliamentary chamber should be composed. The answer here should have nothing to do with election, since that would merely put patronage back in the hands of political parties.The financing of political activity and membership of parliament should be both open to scrutiny and free of any taint of special favour. The irony is that "cash for honours" is rather a tale of pride and prejudice. Scotland Yard is unlikely to be its author.simon.jenkins@theguardian.com