After the shock of mobs terrorising communities and setting buildings ablaze has begun to subside, and as we watch the number of arrests and stiff sentences rising, the public is angrily asking how Britain, this tolerant and fair-minded nation, could have arrived at this point.While I am, like many, appalled at the events of last week, I am not entirely surprised – I have felt that Britain's social fabric has been fraying for some time. On Monday the prime minister spoke of the social problems in some of our communities, characterised by the breakdown of responsibility, of respect for one's neighbours and for authority. He spoke of morality, the rise of dysfunctional and broken homes, fatherlessness, and a culture in welfare and in schools that puts entitlement and rights above responsibilities and hard work.These are all issues I examined in detail as chairman of the Centre for Social Justice (CSJ). I spent years visiting our most deprived communities, speaking with individuals and families whose lives were blighted by social breakdown, and learning from the dedicated practitioners and volunteers working to turn those lives around. It became increasingly clear that five key pathways were driving the poverty and disadvantage: family breakdown; worklessness; educational failure; addiction; and debt.While the Labour government focused on money, arguing for a bigger welfare state, those we heard from said poverty was a symptom of fractured, dysfunctional lives, and tackling it meant addressing its root causes.In the past week we have had a harsh reminder of how gangs feed off social breakdown. Even without the riots this is a phenomenon we should be deeply concerned about. Gangs have created no-go areas and made impossible the very things that could help deprived neighbourhoods to rejuvenate, such as community action and business development. Gangs are both a product of social breakdown and a driver of it.That is why, almost four years ago, I commissioned the CSJ to look into street gangs. The resulting report, Dying to Belong, revealed a rising trend of gang activity in Britain's most disadvantaged communities – e. As far back as 2004, research estimated that up to 6% of young people belonged to a gang, a proportion that will only have risen since. The report revealed that the age at which young people were joining gangs was getting lower, violence was rising, and communities were living in fear. This should have been a wake-up call to spur national and local government action, yet the problem was allowed to grow, mostly unchecked, culminating in the events of last week.The report showed it is possible to effectively tackle gangs, but to do so you have to understand what you're facing. Gang members have invariably grown up in broken, chaotic homes, often experiencing domestic violence; they have truanted from school and many have been formally excluded; and they live in neighbourhoods where worklessness, addiction and crime are rife.So we must address why young people join gangs, try to prevent them getting involved in the first place and help those who want to exit gang life.We can learn much from Operation Ceasefire, an effective programme in curbing gun violence in Boston, in the US. Mapping gangs and their rivalries, a clear message was delivered: violence will not be tolerated. If you stop we will do everything in our power to help you get out, if you continue we'll do everything to bring you to justice. Intensive, targeted enforcement was coupled with an intensive offer of support, delivered by community organisations, faith groups and local service providers. One unified message from community and police.The Scottish Violence Reduction Unit has adopted this model in Glasgow and modified it, with promising results.Of course there are wider social issues to be dealt with, and the early intervention work I have asked Labour MP Graham Allen to do is central to this; but dealing with the gangs is a vital place to start – with local government, police and the community united. As senior police officers on both sides of the Atlantic have said, you can't just arrest your way out of this problem. That is why, perhaps most importantly, I do not agree with the pessimists who say that the social breakdown is irreversible. I believe in a nation of the second chance, which will ensure that from the despair of the riots we can fashion hope of a stronger and healthier society.