Trainee detectives are being left in charge of complex rape investigations in the Metropolitan Police's highly regarded Sapphire unit because of lack of funding and a shortage of qualified officers.An Observer investigation has found that unqualified detectives are doing the jobs of senior officers despite an internal official report demanding a far higher level of experience. The findings will reignite the debate over the way Britain's criminal justice system prosecutes rape cases with a number of victims spoken to by this newspaper saying they felt let down by both police procedures and the courts. The proportion of rape allegations leading to a convictions has fallen to an all-time low. Bob (not his real name) began his two-year traineeship as a detective constable last year, having previously dealt only with low-level crime. His first eight-month placement was on one of the busiest inner-city Sapphire units where, within two months, he had to take sole responsibility for highly complex rape investigations. 'I simply didn't have the experience and desperately wanted ... to get it in a less stressful department before being put in a position of such responsibility,' he said. London's 32 Sapphire units were launched in 2001 as part of the most comprehensive reform of rape investigation undertaken by the police. But a lack of detectives has compelled boroughs to break the rules laid out in the 47-page policy document, Special Notice 11/02; A Policy for the Investigation of Rape and Serious Sexual Assaults . The document says that investigating officers dealing with sexual assault cases 'must be substantive detective sergeants or substantive detective constables'. According to those standards, issued by Tim Godwin, now the assistant commissioner for territorial policing, trainee detective constables do not have the experience required for investigating officers on Sapphire units. A Home Office study, A Gap or a Chasm?, found only 5.6 per cent of reported cases end in conviction.