I was 18 years old and living in Leeds when Sutcliffe killed Jacqueline Hill, a 20-year-old student in the third year of her English degree course. She was returning home to her students' hall of residence in Headingley, Leeds. It was November 1980 and, two months later, Sutcliffe would be arrested by police in Sheffield while setting up his next victim. I lived less than a mile away from where Hill's body was found, and had been followed up the hill late one night the week prior to Jacqueline being killed by a man fitting Sutcliffe's description. I had reported it to the police, but they dismissed me.I was involved in a group campaigning to end violence against women in the city and we would often talk about the outrageous comments of West Yorkshire police, such as imposing a curfew on women at night rather than men, and talking of "innocent victims" when a body was discovered who had not been a prostitute. In a way, Sutcliffe is partly responsible for me becoming a feminist, but so are the legions of other men who take pleasure from harming women and children.The so-called Yorkshire Ripper, the notorious serial killer who murdered at least 13 women and left another seven for dead, is back in the news. On Monday, his lawyers won a ruling from a high court judge that a hearing should be held to set his tariff – the length of time he should serve before being eligible for parole. We can only assume that Sutcliffe, sentenced to 30 years in prison in 1981, wants to taste the freedom of which he deprived so many women and their loved ones.Immediately prior to killing Jacqueline Hill, Sutcliffe had eaten chicken and chips as he waited for his prey. When interviewed by police after his arrest, he said, "The last one I did was Jacqueline Hill" – as though he was talking about cleaning his car. When asked by his brother Carl why he had committed such crimes, he replied, "I were just cleaning up the streets, our kid." In Sutcliffe's mind, the streets were filled with vermin – women – in need of elimination. The attacks carried out by this misogynist were the most extreme hate crimes imaginable. Sutcliffe did not go on a killing spree because he had some sort of moral objection to women in prostitution, as was suggested at the time by much of the media, and since, by authors and commentators, but because he hated women.If the murders of Ian Banyam, the gay man kicked to death in Trafalgar Square, and Stephen Lawrence, the young black man stabbed to death by racists, are viewed as hate crimes, why are the sex murders of women seen as the actions of individual madmen, rather than an expression of deep-rooted, institutionalised hatred of women?I remember the jokes ordinary men in Yorkshire used to make about this serial killer before he was caught. "There's only one Yorkshire Ripper" football fans would chant at Elland Road, "Ripper 12, police nil," was one particular jibe during games where the police were penalising unruly fans. "Give us a kiss, love, I'm not the Ripper," was a regular crack heard in nightclubs around the country. In the 1980s, a group of anarchists named themselves "The Peter Sutcliffe Fan Club", because they saw him as the ultimate rebel.Yet this man is responsible for untold agony and misery, not just of his victims but of the women in the north of England during his reign of terror, and the parents and children of the dead women.For the sake of Sutcliffe's survivors, such as the brave Marcella Claxton, who was bludgeoned with a hammer in 1976 and still suffers from blackouts and headaches, we should never let this man see the light of day again. It would serve no purpose to release him. Think about poor Doreen Hill, Jacqueline's mother, who has long argued that if the police had done their jobs and arrested Sutcliffe during one of the nine times they questioned him as a potential suspect, her daughter would still be alive today. What would it do to her to know that he has not been given a whole life tariff?Prisoners should have information regarding their sentences, and those who will never be released should be made aware of that fact. But Sutcliffe's crimes were so heinous, and his remorse so absent, that he should never have the privilege of freedom. The lawyers representing him will argue that they are merely ensuring that his human rights are exercised.I say, let him die in jail and rot in hell.