The lord chancellor has abolished the "tap on the shoulder" method of appointing high court judges after the first independent audit of the system said it should be suspended because it was biased and outdated.Advertisements this week for this year's appointments make it clear that only those who have filled out an application form will be considered. Lord Falconer has bowed to criticism from the commission for judicial appointments, set up by his predecessor Lord Irvine as an independent watchdog. He has resisted calls from the commission, headed by Sir Colin Campbell, vice-chancel lor of Nottingham University, for an end to the "automatic consultation" with certain top judges and heads of the legal profession on a candidate's suitability. Nor will candidates, as the commission recommended, have to be submit to a job interview. But those consulted about appointments will be asked for the first time to mark applicants against objective criteria instead of making vague comments on their suitability. Ten years ago, expressing a desire to be a high court judge would have been seen as a disqualification for the job, which now pays £150,878 a year, with a half-salary pension after 20 years. In 1998, those aspiring to the high court bench were allowed to apply for the first time, but other lawyers continued to be nominated, without their knowledge, by senior judges or the lord chancellor. In its first audit, published last July, the commission criticised the selection procedure as "opaque, outdated and not demonstrably based upon merit". The first outsiders to be allowed to investigate the inner workings of the system, the commissioners called for "radical change" and a "complete overhaul". "Given the nature of the current appointments process, it is impossible to demonstrate that the best candidates are always appointed, or that the system is not founded on patronage," they said. The commission criticised the automatic consultation system, saying the views of those consulted "did not, in the majority of cases, relate directly to the criteria for appointment, nor was it always supported by evidence". The dual system, in which some candidates apply and others are nominated, was singled out as unacceptable. Out of 175 candidates in 2003, 83 were nominated and 92 applied. Five of the nine candidates offered high court posts by Lord Falconer were nominees and three had been nominated by the lord chancellor. For the 2005 competition, candidates will no longer be nominated but some senior lawyers are expected to be headhunted and invited to apply.