A private prison was criticised by its staff and a judge yesterday following the collapse of a manslaughter trial over the death of a prisoner on suicide watch.Four officers from Rye Hill prison, near Rugby, run by Global Solutions Ltd, were cleared of all charges in connection with the death of Michael Bailey, from Birmingham, who was serving a four year sentence for cocaine dealing. He was found in March 2005 hanged by his shoelace from the door to his cell in the segregation block.Daniel Daymond, 23, of Rugby, Paul Smith, 39, of Warrington, and Samantha Prime, 29, also of Rugby, were acquitted at Northampton crown court of charges of manslaughter by gross negligence in connection with Bailey's death.Ben King, 21, of Southbrook, Daventry, along with Mr Daymond, was cleared of perverting the course of justice by doctoring log books for suicide watches. All were cleared on the direction of the judge, Mr Justice Grigson. He said: "No one who has heard the evidence in this court can have any doubt that the death of Michael Bailey was a tragedy, not least because it was avoidable."Outside the court Bailey's mother, Caroline, said: "This case clearly shows there were failures in Rye Hill prison and GSL ... I hope the outcome of this case brings changes."Paul Smith, manager of the segregation unit where Mr Bailey killed himself, resigned from GSL before the court case. He said after his acquittal. "Straight from the start I had expressed concern about the level of support and training. I told senior management about it and they didn't do anything." In a statement released through his solicitor, Mr Daymond said: "[Michael Bailey's] death was a tragedy that was wholly avoidable. I hope that today's decision will focus attention on the way in which Rye Hill Prison is run."A spokesman for GSL said: "This whole matter will be looked at very carefully. Self-harm is an issue that prisons work very hard to avoid."The jail was the subject of criticism by the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, who found the staff were inexperienced.