On London's streets no teenage boy is free. His eyes are peeled, he keeps his head down and his senses ever alert to the danger of intimidation, assault or worse. His female counterparts too have grown more wary.Even if they've never been hurt or harmed or have heard of statistics showing they're unlikely to be, the young are nervous of streets they should be able to walk in tranquility. Some have greater cause for fear than others, not least those young males inhabiting the very twilight worlds from which the worst horrors flow. But all shudder at the muggings and killings of other boys their age, as do all who live in their neighbourhoods. Dangerous youths have always stalked big cities, their reputations casting long shadows. But has their influence ever been more grimly corrosive than it is in the capital today?One month into his mayoralty Boris Johnson has been busy being seen to be honouring campaign pledges to break this spell. Coming from a Conservative, his remedies have had a novel quality. At first they recalled the old, ignorant self-gratifying Tory "tough talk". Gradually, though, Johnson sketched in the other side of his policies: he was conscious that far more had to be done to divert those drawn to criminality down other paths; he displayed an intellectual grasp of why gang membership might offer security and a form of kinship unavailable elsewhere.Johnson's argument that Ken Livingstone was out of touch with ordinary Londoners' concerns could be persuasive when he addressed this theme. Now that he's won, we await delivery.The most visible initiatives so far have been deputy mayor Ray Lewis's knife crime summit at City Hall and the Met's implementation, with Johnson's support, of Operation Blunt 2, which involves stop-and-search without "reasonable grounds" for suspicion and the deployment of metal detecting "knife arches" at transport hubs. The risk of "crackdown" remedies is that their short-term progress is superficial and their long-term impact, counter-productive. My (Labour) assembly member, who's also on the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA) has reported a good response so far from local people. Let's hope it lasts: loss of public trust due to gratuitous harassment can store up trouble for the future. Let's hope too that this activity signals and foreshadows a long-haul effort to cure the profound social malaise, one that won't secure headlines so easily. Sending such messages is important, even if they cost us small freedoms: that's why the public transport booze ban is by and large OK with me. Significantly, members of Johnson's team are going out of their way to say that law-and-order solutions alone are not enough to deal with knife crime or any other youth delinquencies. "Immediate measures," are necessary said Ray Lewis, Johnson's deputy for young people, but it is also "imperative that we look at why so many young men and increasingly women are growing up angry, and disengaged from society". Kit Malthouse AM, deputy for policing, echoed the sentiment: "The long-term solutions to youth crime are complex and will require a wholesale cultural shift." All very Dave, as you'd expect. But will it be effective too? This stress on the need to challenge and change forms of behaviour that inhibit, harm and sometimes destroy the lives of far too many Londoners is by far the most encouraging and potentially impressive thing about the Johnson mayoralty so far.The Blond's enthusiasm for philanthropy and charities as means for healing social ills should be scrutinised closely, but not dismissed out of hand as a veiled return to pre-welfare state forms of provision. If the government won't tax the richest, good luck to Boris if he can charm a few quid out of them. The "third sector", operating at arm's length from the establishment, can sometimes reach people, young and older, whom the law and social services cannot. Johnson's not offering much more than Livingstone ended up doing. But he's invested the enterprise with energy and flagship commitment. Gordon Brown, in these days of desperate need, could learn something from him. He could begin by junking his dubious online child screening schemes and invest the money in frontline youth workers instead.Read the transcript (pdf) of Ray Lewis and his colleague Ian Joseph talking recently to Channel 4 and recognise that, for all their conservatism, they are at one with liberals in comprehending that the only way to turn around a kid who's on the ruinous road to damaging someone else is to mend the damage that's been done to him. There seems to be a developing consensus that enforcement responses achieve little in the end unless coupled with therapeutic ones; that both are required if we're to liberate troublesome kids from their destructive destinies and free the rest of us from our dread of them. What's needed next is political will. Could Boris Johnson be leading the way?