It is shocking but not surprising that so many children and young people are on the DNA database. A late amendment to the 2003 Criminal Justice Act, made in the first week of the Iraq war, allows DNA to be taken on arrest for all offences for which the police keep records.Stories abound of children arrested for throwing snowballs, pulling each other's hair and allegedly damaging a neighbour's fence by throwing mud or kicking footballs.The European Court of Human Rights' decision that the DNA database breaches human rights should mean that those who are not convicted cannot have their DNA retained. However, the government's recent proposed amendment to the policing and crime bill allows regulations on retention to be developed without full parliamentary scrutiny.This amendment gives no rights to anyone except those who shout the loudest, who will be treated as special cases or subject to exceptions on the whim of the home secretary. It is a slap in the face for the many MPs and lords who have called for the DNA database to be put on a proper statutory footing.In contrast, Scotland removes innocent people's DNA profiles automatically, except in a small minority of cases. The Scottish government this week decided to allow only temporary retention of DNA from children who have admitted to some more serious offences in its pioneering Children's Hearing System.Why can't this happen south of the border? The answer lies in the privatisation of DNA testing in England and Wales and the government's obsession with building a new biotech economy. In its misguided race to be first to commercialise the human genome, the government regards privacy as an inevitable loss. Hence, the much-criticised data-sharing clause in the coroners and justice bill allows ministers to share any data – including genetic information linked to electronic medical records – without people's knowledge or consent. A DNA database could then be built by stealth in the NHS, as a public-private partnership.There is no health benefit to this proposal, nor will it help to tackle crime. Less than 1% of crime scenes yield useful DNA profiles, and the proportion of crimes solved using DNA has not increased over the last five years, despite the DNA database more than doubling in size.Young people taking part in a recent mock trial delivered a majority verdict against a universal DNA database, on the grounds that it would be too expensive, undermine the basis of the legal system and threaten civil liberties. These young people are wiser than our government: MPs should be thinking twice before they vote away their rights in the coming weeks.