Police raided three safety deposit box centres in London yesterday and secured about 7,000 boxes, many of which they believe have been used for the proceeds of crime for many years.Four business premises and three homes in London and Hertfordshire belonging to the directors of the firm Safe Deposit Centres Ltd were searched. Four people were arrested in the "unprecedented" operation, codenamed Operation Rize, police said. A man, 60, and a woman, 44, were detained on suspicion of money laundering offences, and two men, 47 and 53, were held for obstruction. Assistant Commissioner John Yates of the Metropolitan police said intelligence indicated that the centres were linked to a range of crimes including paedophilia, firearms, drug trafficking, money laundering and prostitution. "Each box will be treated as a crime scene in its own right," he added. More than 300 officers and staff were involved in the intelligence-led operation, run by Scotland Yard's specialist crime directorate with armed support.Courts have given police permission to search storage boxes in the past, but never this many at once.Yates said: "Operation Rize is a huge undertaking by the Met to tackle criminal networks who we believe are using safe deposit facilities to hide criminal assets. In the main, this industry operates legitimately, and it is in the public interest that we target this particular business to stop any criminal activity."He added that the boxes would be moved to a secure location and people who wanted to claim their legitimate belongings would have to produce evidence of ownership. He said a "test of reasonableness" would apply to those who might have difficulty in proving, for example, the origin of family heirlooms.Safe Deposit Centres was set up 22 years ago by four north London businessmen. One, Milton Woolf, 52, of Hampstead, remains a director. The company's website says: "Our centres provide a wide and varied range of safe deposit box sizes. Whether it's jewellery, cash, documents or computer data ... there will always be one to suit your needs exactly."Claimants wishing to collect their belongings should contact the police call centre on 0800 030 4613.