The home secretary, Jack Straw, has overruled the prisons minister, Paul Boateng, in a Home Office clash over how to keep discipline inside youth jails, according to Whitehall papers leaked to the Guardian. Mr Boateng objected to a more liberal approach now being introduced of releasing early those juveniles who behaved well, saying it would lead to suggestions that the prison service was rewarding them with reduced sentences as the only way to get them to behave. The approach also brought a warning from the director-general of prisons, Martin Narey, about whether he could make it work. But Mr Straw rejected Mr Boateng's criticism and backed demands from Lord Warner, head of the youth justice board, for a more liberal use of the carrot rather than the stick. The options under the incentive scheme to enforce discipline among the more troublesome teenagers include rewarding good behaviour with early release, in-cell television and allowing them more trips home during their sentence. The clash between liberal and hardline approaches at the highest levels of the Home Office took place after prison governors complained that the new juvenile detention and training orders did not give them the power to add extra days to a sentence for bad behaviour. A leaked letter from Mr Narey to Mr Straw of February 12 makes clear that the home secretary rejected the option of new legislation to restore the punishment power of governors for juveniles under 18. "In consideration of this I wanted to be open about how I will be encouraging governors to use the incentive of early release to encourage good order. You will remember that at a recent bilateral Paul Boateng expressed some concern about that," Mr Narey wrote, going on to make clear that he recognised some of the prison minister's concerns. He said most young offenders' institutions were coping well, but there was a problem in three jails where the over 18s, who could be punished with extra days, were held alongside the under 18s, who could not. Mr Narey also said the scheme was in danger of undermining the anti-drugs policy, which has so far proved successful because a positive drug test inevitably led to extra days on the sentence. "But a juvenile who tests positive for drugs can have no such sanction imposed." He said nothing could be done about teenage offenders who smashed up their cells. If governors reported the matter to police, the courts had no custodial sanction because "the maximum available sentence for criminal damage under £5,000 is a three month period in custody, and the detention and training order [DTO] is a minimum of four months. "We are doing everything we can to manage this and trying to make the system work. I think we can. But you need to know that to do so I am encouraging governors to exploit the ability of governors to release juveniles early from the custodial part of the DTO if they have made good progress with their sentence plan. "In other words I am saying that I think we can manage without the stick if we can make reasonably liberal use of the carrot. "We have no intention of making early release routine. But I recognise Paul's concern that its frequent use might lead to suggestions that we were having to reward young hooligans with reduced sentences as the only means of getting them to behave." The chief inspector of prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham, warned this month that the ban on governors adding extra punishment days on the end of the new sentences had seen some teenage offenders assaulting staff and smashing their cells with impunity, and violence was a growing problem in the youth jails.