At least once a week, Julie would wake up and know from her husband's expression that it would be a battle to get out of the door and go to work. "He couldn't deal with the fact that I earned more than him and he'd start shouting at me if he woke up feeling grouchy," she recalls. "Once in a while, he'd hit me. If it was bad, I'd have to phone in sick. Over time, my boss got more and more fed up and eventually I was sacked. Then my husband hit me for not bringing any money in." Five years later, Julie is long free of her husband and she has a high-flying job as an office manager. She is understandably proud of the courage it took her to leave literally everything behind - that was the price she had to pay to start a new, safer life. But the one person she believes could have supported her more was her boss. "I'd told her what was going on. At that time, she was the only person I'd told. But rather than providing any help, she made my life 10 times worse by getting rid of me." Julie's story is by no means unique. One in four women will suffer domestic violence, according to victims' charity Refuge, and many of them face the added burden of disciplinary action at work - the place they often feel to be their only safe haven. The Government believes it's high time employers offered greater support to people with personal problems like domestic violence, not just because they have a duty of care towards their employees, but because it's in their own interests. The Cost of Domestic Violence, a report by Professor Sylvia Walby at the University of Leeds, assesses the cost to the UK economy of time off work due to injuries inflicted on one partner by another at nearly £3bn. In addition, domestic violence can influence an employee's morale, work performance and productivity, as well as their career development. "In the worst-case scenario, the employer may even lose the victim to death. Two women are killed each week in the UK by their current or ex-partner," says Refuge's spokeswoman, Olivia Lamb. "Of course my ability to do my job was affected," says Julie. "I was living in fear. My mental health was a mess. But I really do believe that I had been working in a supportive environment, it wouldn't have been like that. In fact, my next employer was a major influence in me leaving my husband. She pointed me in the direction of proper help and made it clear that she would stand by me, even if things got bad." The reality is that very few companies have a policy on domestic violence and some people - including Dianah Worman, diversity adviser to the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) - believe that developing one is not the answer. "It's not about policies or firms taking a parental role. HR couldn't broach the subject with someone," she says. Stephanie Klass, commercial law partner at Berg & Co, solicitors, agrees that employers need to tread very carefully. "I do think those who believe staff may be experiencing domestic violence should enquire as to whether that individual needs help, but I don't think they should voice their suspicions directly. And if such enquiries or offers of help are consistently refused, the employer must respect that decision," she says. The fact that domestic violence remains so hidden poses a major problem for employers, even if they do want to help, according to Rebecca Gill, policy officer on women's equality at the TUC. "Many of the women we anonymously surveyed on the subject had lived with domestic violence for 20 to 25 years and had never told anybody," she says. "In fact, the reason we did the survey was because trade unions were coming to us, saying that they were facing disciplinary cases on behalf of these women, but that they were reluctant to say why they'd been absent." But she insists that this is no excuse for employers avoiding the issue. "They have a major role to play. We are not asking them to be counsellors, but to signpost women to where they can get help and put in place any procedures that could help. Just having a poster on the noticeboard with a phone number could save a life. Meanwhile, a large company could help a victim who does come forward about their abuse by offering a transfer to an office in another city, which could enable them to escape the violence and begin a new life. We know that financial dependence is a crucial part of the psychological abuse that a lot of these victims suffer." Others go much further. Domestic violence suffered by an employee at South Hams and West Devon Primary Care Trust prompted the trust to tackle the issue for all staff. Sue Behenna, then the HR manager, says benefits for employees suffering from abuse now include the provision of temporary mobile phones, special paid leave, financial loans and redeployment. "It's often seen as a taboo, private subject that employers have no business to get involved in, but I felt that was wrong," she says. It's not only victims who have been receptive to the policy, she says. "Many managers had unwittingly stumbled across the issue before and tried to help, but in hindsight realised they'd been clumsy. They appreciate the measured approach we now have." Nationwide building society has a policy that is particularly effective because victims don't have tell their employers about the violence to gain the support. Its emphasis on work-life balance, for example, allows people to take time off at short notice for short periods, without saying why. In addition, Nationwide provides a welfare fund with interest-free loans to help alleviate immediate financial problems, plus around-the-clock access to free and confidential counselling services. "If people are happy at work, they'll do a good job and there are also benefits for us around staff loyalty," says spokesman Tim Hughes. Other employers are focusing on helping people not to become victims in the first place and some even help potential perpetrators to develop better ways of coping with stress. And companies that offer employee assistance programmes (external and general counselling and information services) are often helping victims without realising it. Kevin Friery, director of counselling at Right Corecare says he hears from many domestic violence victims. "We recently had a case of someone who lived with a particularly nasty man and the only way she was going to be able to break away from the violent and drug-ridden relationship was to physically move away. We worked with her employer to get her redeployed." Domestic violence can exist in isolation but it is often linked with other issues like alcohol and drug addiction. "That's one of the reasons I believe employers need to have policies around all these things," says Friery. "They need to accept that all personal problems can spill into the workplace and that they should therefore have a role in providing support." As with domestic violence, though, few employers so far have taken this on board. In fact, many take a contrary approach, having followed the trend from the States of introducing random drink and drugs tests which, if positive, can lead to instant dismissal. Friery believes this is misguided. "Testing should not be carried out unless the employer is prepared to take a sympathetic manner. The employee may be dependent - which is essentially an issue of ill health and should be treated as such," he explains. Especially, Friery points out, because it is more and more often stress in the workplace that causes an employee to turn to drink or drugs in the first place. Consequently, Right Core care is among a growing number of organisations involved in helping employers to formulate a firm but compassionate drink and drugs policy. "In fact, many of the policies that work are similar to those in place for domestic violence - providing counselling and advice on where to get treatment, attempting to prevent the problem occurring in the first place and enabling staff to take time off to deal with their problem where necessary, as well as accepting that many employees may not want to admit to having a problem," says Friery. Alcohol Concern, which also helps employers create policies covering both alcohol and drug use, agrees this is the way forward. "We too put the emphasis on rehabilitation rather than disciplinary procedures," says a spokesman. "In fact, we encourage employers to create a culture in which staff who have a problem can come forward rather than being caught out in random testing." And this, believes Dianah Worman of the CIPD, is the approach that employers should take when it comes to all personal problems that affect their employees' working lives. "Employers need to develop a climate of trust so people feel they can talk about it," she says. But if the Government, as well as many charities, get their way, employers of the future will have a far more intercessionary role than that and the boundary between home and work may become increasingly blurred. · The 24-hour National Domestic Violence freephone helpline: 0808 2000 247. Alcohol Concern information line 020-7922 8667.