Motorists who cause deaths while using their mobile phones could in future face five years in prison, the government proposed today.They could be convicted under a new offence of causing death by careless driving which was proposed in a Home Office consultation paper that outlined a series of plans to crack down on bad driving. Under existing laws, anyone found guilty of causing death by dangerous driving can be sentenced to up to 14 years in prison, but those convicted of killing through careless driving will only receive a fine. The government said it was seeking to close what campaign groups have complained was a "big gap" in sentencing options between the two offences. The Home Office minister, Baroness Scotland, said it was "absolutely right to seek to respond" to concerns over the discrepancy, and the government had devised "some pretty radical proposals to create a tougher legal framework to deal with bad driving".She said: "If you were chatting away on your mobile and not looking where you're going or eating a sandwich at the time, and you kill somebody, it is very hard for the person whose family member is dead to be told that you were just being careless and thoughtless." The government has already made it illegal to use mobile phones while driving, except with hands-free systems. The government wants to change the culture of bad driving offences in the same way that attitudes towards drinking and driving have altered in recent decades, Baroness Scotland said.As well as more serious sentences for careless motorists, the consultation paper contains proposals to prosecute disqualified or unlicensed drivers who cause death while driving illegally. The new offence would carry a five-year sentence. Less serious motoring offences, such as driving while disqualified, would carry electronic tagging or community work sentences rather than the threat of imprisonment. The courts would also be compelled to take serious injuries into account when sentencing motorists. Part of the sentencing process would include "restorative justice schemes" for some motoring offences - designed to give victims of crime an opportunity to tell the offender about the impact the offence has had on their lives.The paper also included proposals to replace the offence of "wanton and furious driving", which dates from 1861 and originally applied to driving non-motorised vehicles on private land, with a modern alternative.Officials said the new offences could create demand for an additional 800 prison places at any one time, but they argued that using more community punishments for lesser offences would balance the figures. Reacting to the proposals, John Thurso MP, the Liberal Democrat spokesman for transport, said: "There is a clear need to change the legislation to offer the police and the courts appropriate offences and punishment in cases where people have been killed or injured through negligent driving."However, he said that he regretted that the government had not incorporated its proposals in to the Road Safety Bill, which is already going through parliament, and which focuses on drink driving, speeding, and the training and testing of drivers.