An epidemic of domestic violence is sweeping Britain's homes, fuelling the disintegration of family life and the sharpest rise in crime for almost two decades. Exclusive figures obtained by The Observer reveal that reported violence within the home has doubled in some parts of the country in a year. Research carried out by the Racial and Violent Crime Task Force, set up after the Stephen Lawrence inquiry, has revealed that, of the 8,000 incidents they deal with each month, 76 per cent are domestic, 22 per cent racial and 2 per cent homophobic.Senior Metropolitan Police officers believe there are as many as 35,000 cases of domestic violence each month, most unreported. 'The scale of this problem is mind-blowing,' said John Godsave, of the Racial and Violent Crimes Task Force. 'We have to make domestic violence as socially unacceptable as smoking and drink-driving.' The findings horrified groups working for women. Julie Bindel, of pressure group Women for Justice, said much more needed to be done to help women report abuse. One of the biggest problems, she said, was refuges for battered women. 'These are the last places anyone would want to go. People would not need to ask why women go back to violent men if they looked at some of these so-called refuges.' Liberal Democrat home affairs spokeswoman Jackie Ballard said that the figures only revealed the tip of the iceberg: 'For the majority of women who come forward to report domestic violence, it is not the first time, but more like the fortieth.' In Avon and Somerset, the number of incidents has risen from 4,791 in 1998-89 to nearly 9,973 in the year to March 2000. In the West Midlands, where the crime rate remained relatively stable for four years, domestic incidents have risen from 14,011 in 1996-97 to a staggering 25,225 over the last year. In Northumbria and the Metropolitan Police area, domestic violence accounts for nearly 80,000 incidents. Meanwhile, Victim Support has recorded a 40 per cent rise in cases of domestic violence, from 25,000 to 35,000. Home Secretary Jack Straw will this week unveil crime figures which reveal a steep rise in violence for the second year. Women's groups and criminologists have joined the police in calling for a national strategy to identify and convict people of what police now call 'family crimes'. The Government believes that changes in society - with people divorcing more frequently - have contributed to the rise. Shadow Home Secretary Ann Widdecombe will use the rise in the figures to say the Government is soft on crime: 'When the crime rate falls, Jack Straw is happy to take credit for it; he doesn't say it's because fewer crimes are being reported.' Professor Elizabeth Stanko of Royal Holloway College, London, who carried out the research, said: 'The focus of the politicians is wrong. It has taken years of work to get women to come forward and if they do you expect crime levels to rise.' The Met will this month publish minimum standards for domestic, racial and homophobic crime. They have also extended their definition of domestic violence to include threatening behaviour, violence or 'psychological, physical, sexual, financial or emotional' abuse between adults who are or were partners or family. 