Two teenagers were today convicted of the murder of a promising City lawyer who died clutching his wedding plans after being attacked outside a tube station.Tom ap Rhys Pryce was stabbed through the heart during an attempted robbery at Kensal Green, north-west London, as he made his way home from an after-work function on January 12 this year.Donnel Carty, 19, of Kensal Green, and Delano Brown, 18, of Sudbury Hill, north-west London, killed Mr ap Rhys Pryce, and attacked and robbed another man at the same underground station less than 20 minutes earlier, and used both victims' mobile phones later that night, the Old Bailey heard during the trial.The jury was also told that traces of Mr ap Rhys Pryce's blood were discovered on a pair of trainers found at the house were Carty was arrested. Forensic tests linked Brown with the clothing worn by Mr ap Rhys Pryce when he was killed.The jury saw CCTV footage of the man being robbed on a platform at 11.07pm and a minute later, two men in hooded tops running out of the tube station.Mr ap Rhys Pryce was attacked outside the station at 11.30pm. The jury also heard that the morning after the murder, Carty tried to use Mr ap Rhys Pryce's Oyster travel card, which he claimed to have found lying on a wall.After the verdicts, Carty went over to Brown and shook his hand, putting his arm around him.Crown prosecutor Jaswant Narwal said: "The streets are safer without them. Acting callously and stupidly, they viewed their victims as easy targets for getting hold of cash, mobile phones and travel cards."If anyone resisted, they were attacked. Tom ap Rhys Pryce unfortunately paid with his life. We hope now that Tom's family can at least gain some comfort from this conviction."Richard Horwell, prosecuting, told the trial that the two defendants murdered Mr ap Rhys Pryce, a promising young man, with everything to live for, through sheer greed."It did not matter to them that this man had worked hard for his position in life, that he had a promising career in the legal system ahead of him," said Mr Horwell. "It did not matter that he was to marry in September. All that was best in life was ahead of him but to them he was no more than a means to an end and they treated him accordingly. The motive was greed. He was being targeted as the victim of a robbery."Mr Horwell described the victim as a proud man and said there were indications that he had tried to resist his assailants. "Tom ap Rhys Pryce was a proud man and there is a real prospect that he did not submit to the demands of the robbers. He may well have taken them on and if he did, the robbers rose to the challenge and they proceeded in their attack on him."He said the last call Mr ap Rhys Pryce made on his mobile was to his fiancee before he boarded the tube to let her know he was on his way home.After the murder, Carty used this mobile and Brown used one belonging to the other man to phone their girlfriends. Carty sold Mr ap Rhys Pryce's phone to a shop assistant for £30 the next day.Carty and Brown both denied murdering Mr ap Rhys Pryce. Carty also denied robbing him, but Brown admitted this charge. Both men pleaded guilty to robbing the other man.When arrested on January 18, Carty said he was innocent of the allegations and claimed he had been in a pub in Kilburn with relatives and friends, and stayed the night at a relative's house. When police searched this house, they found a pair of trainers that forensic tests showed had a drop of Mr ap Rhys Pryce's blood on one toe.DNA from several people, including Brown, were found on the trainers. Officers also found a top with traces of Brown's DNA and fibres found on Mr ap Rhys Pryce's overcoat were microscopically indistinguishable from the material of that top.Brown also said he had been in Kilburn the night of the murder and initially claimed that he had nothing to do with either the robbery of the other man or the robbery and murder of Mr ap Rhys Pryce.When the other victim's mobile was discovered at his home, he claimed he had bought it from two men.But when remanded in custody the next day he said he had robbed Mr ap Rhys Pryce but claimed it was Carty who killed him.Carty and Brown will be sentenced tomorrow.