An elderly anti-nuclear campaigner was kidnapped, stabbed and left to freeze to death more than 20 years ago after disturbing a 16-year-old burglar at her home, a court heard today.Stafford crown court heard that Hilda Murrell, 78, was found dead three days after disappearing from her home in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, on March 21 1984. Andrew Harold George, 37, a labourer of Harlescott, Shrewsbury, denies kidnapping and murdering Ms Murrell. Opening the case for the prosecution on the first day of Mr George's trial, Richard Latham QC said Ms Murrell, who was not married, was abducted from her detached home at a time when the defendant was in care at a nearby children's home. "The fact of the matter is, she either walked into her home which was already being burgled by the defendant or the defendant walked in on her minutes after she returned home. We say this is a case involving a burglary that went wrong, seriously wrong," Mr Latham said. "This defendant attacked her in her own home. Whatever it is that he did she was seriously injured but, in all probability, still conscious at the house. She was then kidnapped." Mr Latham alleged that Ms Murrell was taken in her own car, a white Renault 5, shortly after visiting a neighbour's home to pay off a 16p debt after buying some raffle tickets. Addressing the jury of six men and six women, Mr Latham said: "She stayed but a moment and that's the last sighting of her in what I might describe as normal circumstances. The court heard that a number of witnesses saw a woman the prosecution claim was Ms Murrell being driven along what was described as an eight-mile "abduction route" to Hunkington, Shropshire. The car was found abandoned near Hunkington on March 21 beside a field 300 metres from a coppice where the body was discovered on March 24 during a search by a police officer and a gamekeeper's wife. As the jury was shown a picture of Ms Murrell's partially-clothed body, which was lying on its right side at the base of a tree, Mr Latham told the panel: "That is what he had done." A knife was found nearby and post-mortem tests showed that although Ms Murrell died of hypothermia, she had been stabbed three times in the abdomen. The frail pensioner - who was 5ft 6ins and weighed less than eight stone - had also been stabbed once through the upper arm and had suffered a broken clavicle. Although there were no signs of a sexual assault on the body, there was no doubt that a sexual assault had taken place, Mr Latham said. "Those three stab injuries were disabling, but they were not in fact fatal. In fact, death was due to hypothermia. The murderer left this unfortunate woman on her own in the cold to die a slow death from her injuries," he said.The jury was told that Ms Murrell was a well-known figure in her hometown of Shrewsbury and Mr Latham said she had lived a "distinguished" life. She was educated at Cambridge University and graduated in 1927, having read French history at a time when it was rare for a woman to enter further education. Mr Latham said: "After university she ran a very successful gardening and nursery business. When she retired she sold the nursery to somebody you may have heard of, Percy Thrower, and in retirement she took a keen interest in environmental matters." At the time of her death, the anti-nuclear activist was scheduled to give evidence at a forthcoming public inquiry into plans for the Sizewell B nuclear power station in Suffolk. "She was concerned about the problems of nuclear waste," Mr Latham said. "She was an active, highly intelligent individual who would have been unlikely to give in easily." The trial continues.