The quest for a crime-free society has forever occupied great minds. Yet the best-planned schemes have seldom worked in practice. Jeremy Bentham's notions of the perfect prison, designed to turn all inmates into useful citizens, did much to shape our now crumbling Victorian jails. And the dreams of benign hi-tech cities of the future have produced little beyond DisneyCorp's would-be idyll, Celebration, Florida (seewww.waltopia.com).Some hope that genetic science could provide a solution. Scientists decoding the genome have identified the 'good behaviour gene', which produces the enzyme needed to break down aggressive impulses. Those most susceptible to bad behaviour might be helped to take evasive action from, it is suggested, the age of three; yet the studies simply confirm that genes are just one factor in the complex mix of nature, nurture and free will. The internet's ability to track behaviour - which has, for example, transformed the policing of child pornography - has led to such ideas as a wholesale switch to e-cash, which could make all monetary transactions traceable and thus hamper much illegal activity. Increasingly, the 'big idea' about crime is that the smart thinking will now have to take place on a smaller scale. Partly this is because the great philosophical issues around crime and punishment - for example, does society want retribution or rehabilitation? - have fought each other to a standstill. The phone-in shows might still be shaped around the 'hangers and floggers' versus 'bleeding-heart liberals', but the spirit of pragmatism and delivery simply wants to ask: what works?This means plenty of pilot schemes, sifting through case studies to find out why CCTV works in one place but not in another, and encouraging manufacturers and retailers to 'design crime out' of the products. This doesn't mean that ideas go out of the window. But a hard-nosed look at what does and does not work is overturning many of the hidden assumptions that have shaped thinking about crime.The immense influence of the 'broken windows' theory - that social cohesion benefits from sorting out the smaller problems - changes the way communities are policed. This evidence also suggests that the politicians' much-loved 'crime crackdowns' can work. But they are extremely expensive and can have a permanent effect only if they are pursued over time. One way to reduce crime, and free up resources, would be to make fewer things illegal. More than 300 new offences have been introduced since Labour came to power in 1997. The criminalisation of so many minor offences, from riding bicycles on pavements, helps to explain why a third of British men are likely to acquire a criminal conviction by the time they reach middle age. The government's reluctance to dabble beyond cannabis liberalisation has made them wary of assessing how new drugs laws would affect crime.More of our crime-fighting efforts may be counterproductive. The growth in 'gated communities' appeals most strongly to those who have least to fear from crime. Urban thinkers stress that our individual impulses to create a fortress society dissolve the 'social glue' necessary for people to care about crime. Perhaps the more effective way to reduce crime is to create more open spaces, where walking and cycling encourage 'natural surveillance'.That would mean real community policing too. The public have always wanted more 'bobbies on the beat'. The expert objection, that police on foot would come across a crime too rarely, misses the point. Low-crime Japan has thousands of neighbourhood police booths within six or seven blocks of every resident. It makes people feel secure. Ironically, sociologists trace a sharp increase in the fear of crime in Japan to the introduction of US TV imports. Last year's 'whistling policeman' experiment in West Bromwich's town centre found that playing a tape cut shoplifting and antisocial behaviour. Perhaps we should forget the hi-tech genetic testing and iris-recognition software: the idea of the future may be a return to Dixon of Dock Green.