At a leisure centre on an Oxford estate on Monday night, Steven was given a pair of boots. It would be premature to say that these boots have changed his life, but they have certainly improved it for now - and helped to make him a success story for a legal experiment.Last summer he stole a bike from a friend's house. He sold it and then got caught. Thames Valley police gave him a final warning. But that week he stole and drove his father's car and took out hundreds of pounds from his cards at a cashpoint machine. He got caught then, too. The magistrates had three options: absolute discharge, custody, or a referral order in a scheme being piloted in 11 areas including Oxfordshire and expected to go nationwide next year. Because Steven, 16, was in court for the first time and pleaded guilty, he was eligible and was given a referral order lasting six months. In October he appeared before a youth offender panel of two community volunteers, Helen Morgan and Maxine Dancey. It was arranged through Gaynor Hall, his officer from the Oxfordshire youth offending team (YOT), who had his case from the point of his first arrest. The theory is that the panel should discuss with the offender, and the victim, the most suitable action to take and agree a "contract". Oxfordshire has been a pioneer of "restorative justice" in the UK, where offenders make amends to their victims. As his father was the victim, Steven (not his real name) was ordered to do 20 minutes of housework a day, Monday to Friday, and an hour on Saturdays.  Turbulent There were more problems in Steven's life that would make him at risk of reoffending, and the panel wanted to address those issues, too. These went back a long way. His mother died of cancer when he was a toddler. When his father's new wife moved in, their lives blew up. Steven was fostered for a year. His father took him back when he split up with his wife, but their relationship remained turbulent. The panel referred Steven to a psychiatric nurse and to the youth mentoring scheme, where he would see a volunteer male adult twice a week. He wanted to go to a course on cars, teaching responsible road use. And he agreed to go back to school, which he had stopped attending. Two months later, when the panel reviewed his case, it was mostly good news. Mostly. Steven was doing his chores and going to the motor course, had an appointment to see the mental health team and the mentoring was getting sorted out. But he just would not go back to school. He was diagnosed, belatedly, with dyslexia. He has a chronic lack of confidence. His teachers think him brilliant at art, but he found everything about school hateful. A resourceful head of year at his school then found him a place on a another motor vehicle course, full time. But he got the letter late and thought he had missed the chance to register. He could not face sorting it out. "He was shattered, he did want to go but he couldn't get beyond being shattered," said Gaynor Hall. When she arrived one morning to take him to register, he ran off. The next morning she got him out of bed and drove him to register. She still wasn't confident that when the course started he would go. In the meantime he had a horrendous fight with his father; they both got drunk and threatened to kill each other, and his dad called the police. But when Ms Hall arrived 10 days later for the start of the course, she handed him a pair of boots he needed for it. His face, and attitude, were transformed. "He was excited about doing the course. I think he realised it was for real," she said. He had found out there were people he knew on the course, and told Ms Hall he wanted to go there with them. "Just getting a pair of boots was the difference between stopping him going or not," she said. The school paid the deposit on the boots. Ms Hall got them on loan for a month. His father has started to say well done to him for the first time. On Monday night, at the leisure centre, his six-month referral came to an end. In a shabby room, with music from the gymnasium blaring through, Ms Hall and the panel sat in a circle with Steven and his dad and told him they were proud of him. And the school had found the money to give him the boots permanently. "Just thanks for all your help," he said, quietly. "The six-month referral order was just what we needed," said Ms Hall. "They gave us just enough time to do something meaningful with him. The fact that he's got up and got out and is doing something has made a big difference as far as his self-esteem is concerned." Steven was her first referral order case, but throughout the county 150 have been issued since August. The Home Office has trained 45 panel members from Oxfordshire. Maggie Blyth, head of the county YOT, said they had not attracted enough young or ethnic minority panel members, and only a third of members were men. A review of the orders by academics from Goldsmiths College in London and Leeds and Kent universities also pointed out that there were few manual workers or unemployed people on the panel. There are some civil liberties concerns about referral orders, because the offender needs to admit guilt to be eligible. Around 40% of victims attend.  Risk In the Oxfordshire YOT there are 70 people, from police, probation, health, education and social services, working in six teams. Standardised reports, called Assets, are produced, assessing the needs of the offender and the risk he or she poses to others, on each of the 2,000 young people arrested each year in the county. The YOT scheme, like the referral orders, is labour intensive and reliant on professional and voluntary people sharing information, banging heads together and going the extra mile - what Ms Hall calls "a few little particulars and a lot of patience making things happen for these kids". Cases can go wrong, avenues of potential can turn into cul-de-sacs, and luck can play a part. Steven said later he did not think he would reoffend: "Unless, unless - no, there's no reason." His father is "95% certain" that he won't. Being up before the magistrates gave him a fright. Ms Hall is begging him to do his art GCSE and has suggested a college course in motor mechanics next year. He thinks there might be more money in painting and decorating. There is a job application, filled in and ready to go, on his fridge. He no longer has a criminal record. He is free: an opportunity but also a challenge.