I can't help wondering if some people, reading about Roshonara Choudhry's attack on Stephen Timms MP, didn't mutter "serves him right" for voting for the Iraq war.Ditto another grim Islamist face staring out of yesterday's front page, that of Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, the alleged mastermind behind the Yemeni cargo bombs.Several of my friends – yours too, I expect – said the same behind their hands after the 9/11 attacks toppled the Twin Towers in New York. Clever Mary Beard, professor of classics at Cambridge, explained this point of the view at the time, so I recall.It just goes to show that even clever people can be educated out of their wits because whatever motivated Choudhry and allegedly al-Asiri existed in minds like theirs long before 9/11 or the half-cock occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan turned their very unoriginal thoughts to murder as a means of making sense of unhappy lives.I've not been following the latest excitement closely. None of my immediate family is currently planning a trip – always a selfish reason for concentrating. And all media usually go a bit mad about the dire security warnings and beefed-up procedures that routinely follow terrorist threats. We all get over-excited and love scaring ourselves and our readers or viewers.For that reason alone, I read very little of it – and discount most of what I do read. Too much money and vested interests riding on it, just as there is in the average spending cuts row. Even gallant charities have budgets to defend. And the terrorists just love all the attention, which makes them feel important.I don't know anything about al-Asiri and will refrain from reading too much into that narcissistic photo the authorities published. But 21-year-old Choudhry, who told her lawyers not to defend her and stayed in her cell, sent out a pretty clear message.She did not recognise the court and did not care what happened to her. A sad conclusion as well as a misguided one at age 21. Instead of watching Strictly or The X Factor she bought a couple of carving knives and stabbed her local MP while approaching him with a smile – seven years after Tony Blair took the decision which, so she told the police, moved her to try to kill Timms."I was hoping to get revenge for the people of Iraq," she explained, though I doubt if that explanation would stand up to much personal scrutiny. We'll see. She was 14 in 2003 and girls have issues at 14.But there's a larger point here. The late Edward Said, the Palestinian-American literary critic and post-colonial commentator, acquired fame and reputation for his work on "Orientalism", the idea that the west created a vision of the east that rendered its leaders susceptible to servility and colonisation.There is surely much to be said for it, though terms like "west" and "east" are a bit too sweepingly vague to be of much use. The 15-16th century Portuguese who rounded the Cape of Good Hope and established trading enclaves – losing most to the Dutch and later the British – have little in common with the 21st century United States.Imperial traffic is also a two-way affair. As I never tire of pointing out, half of Europe lived in terror of Ottoman Turkey, imperial, expansionist and Muslim, until well into the modern era. And North African pirates were stealing our womenfolk from French and Cornish ports to sell them into slave markets well into the 18th century.It's one thing that sensitised folk to the horrors of the Atlantic slave trade – finally abolished in Britain in 1807 and a hot issue at the Congress of Vienna 1814-15, which sorted out Napoleon's legacy. For all the chat, he did not see human rights as extending to the revolutionary ex-slave state of Haiti.My point here is a simple one. Whether they know it or not this week's accused belong to a long tradition of what the writer Ian Buruma – a clever man like Edward Said – called "Occidentalism" in a book he co-authored (Atlantic Books £8.99) with Avishai Margalit in 2004.Occidentalism has a very old history and can be variously described. But one unifying theme is a fear and dislike of modernity in all its forms. It can be leftwing and anti-British or American on imperialist grounds or it can be rightwing, rooted in religion or cultural objections, nostalgia for an idyllic rural past, for example.Japanese intellectuals bent on "overcoming the modern" cheered the near-destruction of the US Pacific Fleet (fatally they missed the carriers) at Pearl Harbor in Honolulu on 7 December 1941.Odd that, since Japan had embraced the modern with rare success since the Meiji Restoration of 1868-1912 and thrashed the Russians in war in 1905 – a victory for modernism over our own barbarism, Leo Tolstoy said at the time. Pearl Harbor was a victory for Japanese adaptation of western technology and strategy, albeit a short-sighted one since they were bound to lose the war in the end.As Buruma (himself a Japan and south Asia specialist) and Margalit point out, modern is as slippery a concept as west or east. Does it mean materialism or science, the anti-spiritualism of the European Enlightenment, atheism, specialist branches of knowledge, secular societies, capitalism, sexual freedom, the emancipation of women?Which of those prompted the Muslim staff at a swanky hotel in the Maldives to insult the unwitting Swiss couple who thought they were renewing their wedding vows, albeit in a foreign language? Swine, infidel, bastards ... they didn't hold back, according to the YouTube version. Had the couple been personally offensive – or was it just routine Occidentalism caught on fiendishly unfair western technology?There's a long list of options there and west-bashers (in both east and west) can pick and chose. Plenty of grounds exist for complaint in the modern era about the historical impact of west on east, though there is also plenty to cheer about.On the whole the story has been more fruitful than bloodthirsty. We have killed each other in large numbers, but there are more of us all living – and doing so above poverty levels – than ever before.Most of the time we rub along and, let us hope, we will probably continue to do so, because the east is now back as a major force on the planet, cultural, economic, political. Some of its influence will be good, some potentially bad.What we don't want is people who feel violent antipathy towards the other side – west or east – to launch revolutionary war, conventional or jihadi, against their perceived enemies, either state or non-state actors, in the name of a "clash of civilisations" or similar nonsense.The US-UK Pacific war with Japan (1941-45) was scarred by racial animosity on both sides, as was Hitler's parallel war with the Russians – though not the west. That's why he killed himself rather than risk capture and why his successors surrendered to Montgomery, not to Stalin.What has this to do with unhappy Choudhry being tried in absentia at the Old Bailey? Probably not much; the political is usually personal in crucial ways, especially the weird and violent stuff. She won't get martyrdom, if that was what she wanted. But she'll have to go to jail. A waste of her young life – and our money.