'Many internal areas remained dirty and vermin-infested, and too many prisoners lacked basic requirements such as pillows, toothbrushes... more prisoners than in 2005 said they felt unsafe on their first night... there was a general attitude of institutional disrespect towards prisoners... some officers appeared to treat prisoners as a lower order... we heard an unusually high number of complaints about assault and bad treatment by staff.'This was Her Majesty's prison, Pentonville, in north London in July 2006. Anyone interested in the subject will know who is speaking. This is the one unmistakeable voice of the Chief Inspector of Prisons and her team. For 25 years now, under three very different chief inspectors, the inspectorate has spoken, loudly and with unique authority, to identify and check what goes wrong in our least-known but hugely important public service. The last chief inspector, David Ramsbotham, let me accompany his colleagues on one of his inspections. I was deeply impressed by the thoroughness and integrity of their work.This voice is now to be muted, even smothered, by the government. The Police and Justice Bill proposes to merge the Prisons Inspectorate with four other inspectorates, those of police, probation, court administration and the Crown Prosecution Service. There will no longer be an independent personality looking at prisons, but simply a deputy to a chief inspector who will be in charge of everything. The fearless character of the present prison inspectorate will be lost. It is hard to discover the government's motive for this vandalism. The change will save no money. The motive may not be malicious, but the consequences have not been thought through.On Tuesday, the House of Lords will debate this change. The Commons looked at it only in standing committee; ruthless timetabling prevented any discussion by the whole House at the debate stage. We shall be faced in the Lords on Tuesday with the honeyed words of the Home Office Minister, Patricia Scotland. She will argue that the merger is in line with the government policy of treating crime as a seamless whole, beginning with prevention and detection, proceeding through the courts, punishment and prison, ending with post-release help and monitoring.All these services need to work better together. It does not follow that the Prisons Inspectorate needs to be submerged in the way proposed. For there is a fundamental difference between this and the other inspectorates. The others are rightly concerned with the smooth and efficient running of a public service.The prisons inspectorate deals with something different - the conditions in which human beings are held who have been deprived of their liberty by the verdict of a court. That is why the United Nations convention against torture, by which the UK is bound, provides for 'a system of regular visits undertaken by independent international and national bodies to places where people are deprived of their liberty in order to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment'.Delegations come from across the world to study our prisons inspectorate because of its high reputation in this cause. Soon, nothing may be left except a pile of old reports. The minister will multiply her assurances that all will be for the best in the new homogenised inspectorate. But the essential robustness of the present system will have been compromised.This is at a time when such robustness is particularly needed. When overcrowded to the point of being full, Pentonville holds 1,127 prisoners. On the day of the last inspection, it held 1,125. Last week, the prison population in England and Wales stood at 79,806, just 162 short of the limit on capacity.In overcrowded prisons, rules tend to be broken and rights ignored. Overcrowded prisons are sending out into the world individuals who might in better conditions have kicked the drugs habit, learnt to read and write or trained themselves to hold a job. There will always be argument about the merits of prison. There can be no arguments in favour of a prison system hidden from the public gaze, where abuses multiply because there is no one to detect them.If it mutilates the Prisons Inspectorate, the government will be disabling the messenger rather than listening to the message. The House of Lords has a chance this week to make the government think again.· Douglas Hurd was Home Secretary from 1985 to 1989 and is chairman of the Prison Reform Trust