A student dentist who stabbed her lover's 17-year-old pregnant wife to death in a fit of "jealousy and desperation" was jailed for life yesterday.Manchester crown court heard that Harmohinder Sanghera, 23, had launched a "ferocious and sustained attack", using a 6.5in (17cm) kitchen knife to inflict 43 wounds on Sana Ali at her home in Bury, Greater Manchester. She deliberately lifted the victim's shirt while she lay on the floor and stabbed her in the abdomen.Sanghera, known as Mindy and described as an "intelligent and independent young woman", was in the third year of her course at Birmingham University when she killed Ali in May. She had discovered that Said Ali, with whom she had been having an affair for almost two years, had married his cousin in Pakistan in December 2006. He later told her his wife was expecting a baby.As he passed sentence, Judge John Saunders told Sanghera that he had considered the "degree of planning and premeditation" that had gone into the crime. "She [Ali] was trying to make her marriage work and she was 11 weeks pregnant at the time of her death, a fact of which you were well aware," the judge added. "You waited until you could be sure nobody was in the house. You tried to disguise her death as suicide. That was unsuccessful because she fought to save her life."Said Ali had told the jury, which reached a majority verdict, that Sanghera had constantly asked him about his relationship with his wife and said there was an imaginary box in her stomach. "There was a box inside which she'd just turn to. She used to say, 'Right, time for the question box'." She wanted to know if he had had "shenanigans", meaning sex, with his wife. Sanghera told the jury she had travelled to Bury to meet Ali. She had wanted to "tell all and end the affair". After speaking to Ali, she said she had left the house.Outside court, Ali's mother Maryam Fatima said the judge and jury had given the family justice. "Sana will be happy today. Sana will smile today. Sana will be in peace today."Zafir Ali said his family would for ever miss Ali, his daughter-in-law. "Much play was made by the defence around the credibility of my family and friends by an apparent learned defence counsel," he said. "We are, however, thankful the jury saw beyond the smokescreen that was created by the evil lies of Harmohinder Sanghera, projected by her defence, family, friends and affiliates."Detective Superintendent Jane Antrobus, of Greater Manchester police, said the case was tragic. "Sanghera was jealous and desperate and went to incredible lengths to try to save her relationship, the result of which was this horrific murder. These terrible circumstances have wrecked two families - both have lost their daughters. Sana was an innocent victim who did not deserve to have her life, and that of her unborn child, taken in this way.