Camberwell magistrates court on Wednesday had 60 riot-related cases to get through but only room in the cells for 30 defendants. Since most of those charged had been refused bail and were coming from prisons around the country, this caused court staff huge logistical problems. Some prisoners were transferred to the cells beneath the courtrooms, the rest had to wait in vans parked outside.A month after the riots, two courts were dedicated to hearing riot cases all day, and by 9.30am the hall outside the courts was crowded with family members and solicitors waiting for the hearings to begin. All seats in the corridor were taken and visitors were queuing outside the courts.Most of the parents waiting to hear their children's cases had not seen them for the past month, except for brief prison visits. The refusal to grant bail was making many families angry. "He hasn't been away from his son for a week ever, let alone a month," the wife of one defendant said, adding that she couldn't understand why her husband, charged with assault, had not been granted bail. "He's never been in trouble with the police before."In court one, Judge Tan Ikram was anxious to press forward with the long list of cases, but solicitors had to wait as court staff went to search for defendants. "I don't know where your client is," the court administrator told solicitors for the first listed case. "He could be in the cells, he could be in one of the vans outside."A morning spent in the courts reveals the enormous pressure the Crown Prosecution Service is under to process the huge number of cases arising from last month's arrests. Most of the cases were very brief procedural hearings, and the judge took just a few seconds to inform the defendant that their cases would be heard next month at the Inner London crown court, but in a number of cases there were delays because the CPS was not ready with sufficient evidence to proceed.One prosecutor, Nicholas Earl-Quarcoo, was responsible for the day's cases in court one, and he admitted that the scale of the paperwork in front of him was overwhelming. On several occasions he told the judge that the prosecution case wasn't yet ready, because CCTV evidence had not yet been produced by the police, or because he simply hadn't had a chance to read through the piles of papers relating to the case. On several occasions he asked the court to adjourn cases to allow the CPS longer to prepare their cases."You appreciate the difficulties experienced by the prosecution in dealing with such an unprecedented volume of cases. The full file has not yet been received by the CPS," he said apologetically.In some cases there was brief discussion of whether sufficient evidence might be forthcoming later, and at times the judge appeared underwhelmed at the strength of the evidence already available. In the case of one man, charged with burglary – who was arrested as he ran away from a retail park on the night of the riots but had no stolen property on him – the prosecutor said he was waiting for more evidence from the police. The defence solicitor said there was no case to answer."Your evidence is that he was seen running but you are not quite sure why?" Judge Ikram said. "There needs to be more evidence than he was seen running for a burglary charge.""You may have seen the voluminous amount of paperwork before me," the prosecution lawyer said again, excusing himself for failing to provide all the required answers.The court heard a young woman charged with receiving a Pentax camera bag and a crash helmet, stolen from Comet. Both items were not on her person when she was arrested, but on the street, near her feet. Her solicitor said it was not clear if the crash helmet was new or old; the judge pointed out that "from my knowledge of retail, they don't sell crash helmets in Comet"."Due to the unprecedented volume of cases, I'm afraid I just haven't had time to go through this particular file," the prosecutor said again, in apology. "You will no doubt be aware of the unprecedented volume of work facing the CPS."There was a request from one defendant's lawyer that he should be granted bail because he wanted to start university later this month, and was particularly anxious to take up his place this year before tuition fees were imposed, since he didn't think he would be able to afford to study next year. The request was denied due to the seriousness of the charges against him, with evidence suggesting his DNA had been found in four separate premises.Outside the court, the parents were talking to each other, commiserating and sharing their anger.There was relief from one mother, whose son had been charged with burglary, that the council had not yet contacted her to evict her, but having heard that this was being proposed as a possible punishment, she remained worried about the catastrophic impact that would have on her younger children.She was still trying to process what might have caused her son to get involved in that night's events. "We've never had much. I'm not a materialistic person and I tried to bring the children up to value the little things. We haven't got the latest labels. Would that matter to him? He's 18 ... it probably does," she said, asking not to be named."I'm deeply disappointed in my son. He's no angel, but he's a follower. A conviction is going to alter his life."