Only one in three burglars think they stand a serious chance of getting caught, new Home Office research reveals.Ministers will launch a campaign tomorrow to urge householders to protect themselves by avoiding obvious temptations for thieves. However, this follows a rare government-funded study of career burglars, showing that many deterrents traditionally advocated by politicians, from high-visibility policing to improved security, seem to have little effect on housebreakers. Criminals are influenced mainly by whether they think there is anything worth stealing. Barely one in three of them judged they had a high or medium risk of being caught while inside a house - despite the recent furore over whether householders who disturb burglars should have the right to use force against them - or while still in possession of their haul later. Once rid of the goods they were even more relaxed: only just over one in 10 judged there was more than a low likelihood of getting caught. Since almost three-quarters of the sample of more than 70 robbers, burglars and thieves were in jail when surveyed, the researchers at London's South Bank University caution that their answers may reflect some bravado. However they conclude that even for those worried about being caught, the drive to steal to fund a drug habit often overrode any caution. Half of the burglars who had noticed new security measures in their area, such as gated alleyways, were still not dissuaded. And while more than half of those who noticed more police in the neighbourhood did change their behaviour - by stealing elsewhere or being more cautious - offenders felt that high-visibility policing would not last for long because it used so much manpower. The best deterrents were burglar alarms and thinking there was someone at home. CCTV was close behind. Only just over half were deterred by strong-looking locks and less than a third by Neighbourhood Watch schemes. Hazel Blears, the Policing Minister, will launch the campaign tomorrow to persuade the public to take more care. 'When people leave wallets on tables, use mobile phones at stations, leave keys in the ignition or windows wide open, they are easy prey,' she will say.