NB: see 22 January addition* Journalists love to tell stories about false expense claims. There's a rich and amusing history of such tales, as an "expenses" word search on the gentlemenranters.com  site illustrates.One of the most common reminiscences on the site (now, sadly, in abeyance) concerns the way in which rookie reporters were actively encouraged by their bosses, let alone their peers, to bump up their expenses.Every Fleet Street veteran had first-hand experience of the custom and practice, which they learned originally in their days on local weeklies and regional evenings.Of course, at local level, the amounts they fiddled were far lower than on the nationals, where most papers had systems that allowed their journalists to obtain cash advances on expenses they had yet to compile.At every newspaper I worked on as a staff member - from the Barking Advertiser to the Lancashire Evening Telegraph, from The Sun through the Sunday Times to the Daily Mirror - there was a tacit acceptance that expenses were not genuine.There were occasional management crackdowns. In rare instances, people were obliged to pay back sums of money. In even rarer instances, people were fired for going way beyond the limit (usually having previously received a warning). What never happened, in my 49-year experience, is that a newspaper called in the police. I can't recall anyone being prosecuted for what was, admittedly, fraud. But a fraud in which the newspaper's own management was always complicit.So I am amazed by the case of the Barnsley Chronicle versus its former sports editor, Andrew Lodge, that resulted in his prosecution and conviction for fraudulently claiming £447.32. I find myself in sympathy with Lodge. He pleaded guilty to the charge yesterday, admitting that he claimed the sum for mileage when covering four away-from-home Barnsley football matches despite having travelled by bus. He was fined £85, sentenced to 60 hours' community service and must repay the money to his former paper.A Press Gazette article on this strange case is illuminating about the sequence of events that led to his arrest. Lodge had been with the Chronicle - owned by the Hewitt family - for 25 years. (And his father, Keith, had been sports editor before him and spent 34 years with the paper).Lodge told Press Gazette that it was "custom and practice" for journalists to subsidise their comparatively low wages (in his case, £22,000) with mileage expenses. When the paper discovered the falsity of his claim, in November 2011, he was fired. So he launched an employment tribunal action.After being informed in June 2012 that he was unlikely to win, he withdrew his claim. He was told that even if he did win he would be unlikely to recover more than his costs. At around this period, Lodge launched his own website – Barnsley News and Sport – in competition with his old paper. The following month, July, Lodge was visited by a police officer and told he would face criminal charges.Last December, he was arrested after being told he had failed to answer a police summons, which he told Press Gazette he never received.During the hearing, Lodge explained to the judge that he had not claimed for expenses to which he was entitled, such as subsistence allowances for working long hours away, hotel bills, bus fares and meals.His lawyer, David Lawson, said Lodge "has never been a greedy man" and "was not highly paid."Press Gazette quotes the Chronicle's editor, Andrew Harrod (who was not appointed until last October) as saying: "Our evidence was it involved far more than just four matches… We are disappointed that it's got to this stage. But we can't turn a blind eye to what is effectively theft."I wonder whether many, or any, journalists will agree with that.Sources: HoldTheFrontPage/Press Gazette*A spokesman for the Barnsley Chronicle has been in touch and said that many salient facts relating to the case had been omitted in Press Gazette's coverage. Without going into further details, I am happy to note this objection.