Jail sentences should be reserved for violent criminals and those convicted of a handful of other serious offences, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, told conference delegates today.In a rethink of Lib Dem policy on law and order designed to shake off the party's reputation for being soft on crime, Mr Hughes said courts should work on the presumption that all serious violent offences should mean jail. But this should be matched by a presumption that non-violent offenders will not receive custodial sentences - a change which would see Britain's soaring prison population tumble. Mr Hughes told the Lib Dems' annual conference in Brighton: "Cheque fraud may be wrong, but it is not in the same league as stabbing somebody. "It is time for Liberal Democrats to prioritise policies and campaign against violence."Jail terms should be imposed only for a few non-violent offences, such as peddling hard drugs or child pornography, causing death by reckless driving and intimidating witnesses in a trial, he said. Mr Hughes, who acknowledged that his party had been perceived as soft on crime, said that the Lib Dems should be "compassionate but also strong". He branded Labour's successive home secretaries, Jack Straw and David Blunkett, as "the authoritarian tendency", accusing them of putting fundamental civil liberties under threat, on the back of public concerns over rising crime and terrorism. Under Labour, law and order policies were "drawn up in six hours, debated for six days and lasting for six months", he said. Mr Hughes voiced opposition to government plans to remove jury trial for fraud defendants and to allow juries to hear details of previous convictions before arriving at their verdict. "Defence of civil liberty and justice for all our community are not mutually exclusive but inseparable," he told delegates. "But we must be blunt with our warning. Those who perpetrate violence against fellow human beings are undermining our development as a civilised society. "We will always work for rehabilitation and reform. But we will never let either the thuggish individual or the tyrannical government abuse their power at the expense of others." Mr Hughes said his decision to push for a tougher approach to violent crime was prompted by personal experience in his inner-city constituency of North Southwark and Bermondsey, in south London, where voters felt society had failed to respond to rising violence. Mr Hughes also set out proposals for named police officers to be appointed for every community, on a minimum three-year contract, and for greater effort to be put into supervising former prisoners after their release from jail.