Scotland Yard's driving policies are to be scrutinised in the light of the revelation that a car carrying the head of its traffic division to a meeting did 82mph in a 40mph zone.Chief Superintendent Les Owen is to face misconduct proceedings. His official driver pleaded guilty to speeding through the London suburbs in February. The proceedings against Mr Owen will be supervised by the Independent Police Complaints Commission. Redbridge magistrates court was told that during a journey along parts of the North Circular Road and the A12, the Vauxhall Omega in which Mr Owen was a passenger reached a top speed of 86mph in a 50mph zone. The driver, PC Mark Bradley, pleaded guilty to speeding and was fined £250. Last week the court's decision to endorse his licence with six points was reduced to three on appeal. After an internal force hearing, he received "words of advice" on his future conduct. At his misconduct hearing, Mr Owen will be asked to explain why he allowed himself to be driven at such great speed in circumstances which did not amount to an emergency. He is expected to deny acting improperly. Mr Owen has led high-profile road safety initiatives, and is a leading figure in the London Safety Camera Partnership, which coordinates the placing of speeding cameras on London streets. Eighteen months ago he said: "We aim to educate drivers first and foremost about the hazards and the repercussions of speeding." On another occasion he said: "By making drivers aware of the consequences that speeding cars can have on themselves, their passengers and other motorists and pedestrians, we hope to change behaviour on the roads, making them safer for everyone." The case against PC Bradley and Mr Owen was pursued after experts were given a tape from the car's video camera so that they could examine footage of a fatal road accident the officers encountered during their journey. The tape revealed the speeds at which the police car had been driven, prompting the experts to pass on details for independent investigation by the West Midlands police. The revelation has emerged as figures show that 35 police officers have died in road crashes in London since 1980, more than the total number of officers killed in all other circumstances. Jenny Jones, road safety advisor to the mayor of London, said the speeding incident involving Mr Owen merited immediate investigation. "I will be looking for a report from the commissioner about this. Police officers must obey the law but they must also set a good example. "That does not seem to have happened here. The idea that the driver should only receive 'words of advice' is ludicrous." She said driving practices needed a thorough review. "We need to look at the circumstances in which officers are allowed to break the speed limit and to consider whether they are the right circumstances. "We also need to know about the training and whether the rules which exist and being adhered to."