A man died today after being knocked down as he tried to stop a suspected car thief escaping with his vehicle.The 57-year-old man from Preston, who is believed to have been going on holiday with his wife, was killed after being run over as he tried to stop the thief at Liverpool's John Lennon airport. Merseyside police confirmed that the man suffered fatal injuries in the incident at around 5.35am. Merseyside police said the victim's wife had got out of the couple's silver Volvo estate to get a trolley and her husband was unloading cases from the boot when a man approached the car and got into the driver's seat. The victim then went to the front of the car and tried to stop the man driving off, but the offender moved the car forward and the victim was knocked down and trapped under the car.The offender then got out of the car and into what is believed to be a waiting maroon-coloured Ford Escort, driven by another man, and they both escaped.Merseyside fire service was called to the scene to release the victim, but he died at the scene. Superintendent John Myles said: "I am appealing to anyone who witnessed this despicable and cowardly crime to come forward. The victim and his wife were looking forward to going on holiday when tragedy struck. These people need to be caught.""We believe that the offenders left the scene in a maroon Ford Escort car. I am appealing to anyone who may have seen the car at about 5.40am this morning to contact us." An area outside the arrivals and departures building was cordoned off this morning and crime scene investigators were examining it. Services at the airport have not been affected by the incident. Robin Tudor, corporate affairs manager at John Lennon airport, said there had been a similar incident just before Christmas. "In December a car was taken under very similar circumstances but thankfully no one was injured during that incident," he said. "This is the first time anything like this has ever happened." Mr Tudor said the pick-up and drop-off point outside the departure terminal had been closed off while police carried out their investigations. He said: "This is a very tragic incident and our thoughts are with the family of the man who has died."