Even before it is aired, tomorrow night's BBC Radio 4 programme on the 14-year-old witness whose flawed evidence led to the collapse of the Damilola Taylor trial has been condemned. True to the Murdoch media's tradition of seizing every opportunity to denigrate the BBC, the Sunday Times has already accused the programme of putting the identity of the witness at risk by declining to disguise her voice. The witness, known only as Bromley, her police codename, is still living with her mother in a safe house under a witness protection programme. She was the prosecution's star witness in one of the highest-profile murder cases of the decade. The killing was condemned by the prime minister, home secretary and leader of the opposition. The four youths accused of the murder were cleared after the judge ruled Bromley's testimony unreliable because of her persistent and proven lying. But there are two reasons why Bromley should be allowed to air her side in tomorrow's programme. First, because of the Bar's inability to recognise just how inappropriate our current adversarial system is for juvenile offenders and witnesses. Bromley was only 12 when she said she saw the killing. Her cross-examination was brutal, but necessary under the adversarial system. Her evidence was torn to shreds by Courtney Griffiths QC, one of the defence counsel. But she was just 14, regarded as mentally disturbed by her school, facing a 46-year-old LSE-educated QC, head of chambers and honorary lecturer in law. The programme says she has "lost both her childhood and her future" from her involvement in the case. She has been moved to 39 different houses, has not been back to school, and has been forced to sever all ties with her father and brothers, who chose not to go into hiding. Mr Griffiths, who is chairman of the Bar Council's public affairs committee, shows no remorse. He personified the Bar's blindness in his response to the programme: "The idea that this poor child has been damaged beyond recognition as a consequence of that experience (his cross-examination) is, I suggest, complete nonsense." The second reason for supporting tomorrow night's It's My Story is the hope that it will spark a new debate on the benefits of an inquisitorial system. It could begin with juveniles. This would keep barristers under a much stricter and necessary rein. It could be a first step to wider application.