Babies in prison mother-and-baby units are being taken from their mothers well before the age of one year as a matter of policy, without any research to back it up.The Prison Service policy of separating "sooner rather than later" has come under the spotlight through a court battle by a reformed drug addict to keep her daughter with her for as long as possible. Claire Frost, whose story is told on BBC2 tonight, launched her legal battle when the authorities decided to send her baby, Lia-Jade, away at nine months to be cared for by Ms Frost's parents. Several other women have taken similar cases to court, but their identities have been protected. Mr Justice Munby gave permission for Ms Frost, her baby and parents to be named, with the agreement of the official solicitor, representing Lia-Jade, to allow public debate. There are four mother-and-baby units in English prisons, two taking babies up to 18 months, and two up to nine months. The decision on when to separate depends on a number of factors, particularly the length of the mother's sentence and whether family members are available to care for the baby. Following a court of appeal ruling in 2001, the upper limit is not absolute. Experts agree that early separation can lead to long-term psychological problems for a child. But the limited environment of a prison deprives a child of the stimulation that is vital to its development. Ms Frost, 25, was pregnant when she was jailed for six years in September 2002. She had been on heroin when she and two friends attacked and burgled an elderly man. Her sentence was reduced to five years. After Lia-Jade was born in January 2003, she was allowed to stay at New Hall prison, near Wakefield, Yorkshire, which takes babies up to nine months. Her mother's earliest possible parole date was March 2005, when Lia-Jade would be two years and two months. The prison authorities decided that Ms Frost and Lia-Jade should not be moved to a unit for babies up to 18 months old; the baby should go to her grandparents at nine months. Ms Frost took the case to the high court, arguing that early separation breached article 8 of the European convention on human rights, the right to respect for family life. She was backed by the official solicitor. Dora Black, a child psychiatrist who advises the Home Office, described Ms Frost as "making an excellent job of mothering" but said that prison was not the right environment for Lia-Jade. Mr Justice Munby quashed the decision to move her at nine months because of flaws in the decision-making process, but ruled that it was up to prison authorities to decide when the baby should be moved. Three weeks ago, at 16 months, Lia-Jade went to live with her grandparents. Soon afterwards, Ms Frost was moved to Askham Grange open prison, which has a mother and baby unit that takes babies up to 18 months. This was the prison to which she had been asking for a transfer with her baby. · Prisoners' Families: Silent Sentence, BBC 2, 9pm tonight