Three decades ago one out of three rape attacks reported to the police ended in conviction; today it is just one in 20. Worse still, the variation between police force areas is huge. Some 14% of reported rapes in Northamptonshire end in conviction; fewer than 1% in Gloucestershire. Even Margaret Thatcher, no fan of equality, believed there should be equality before the law, but in England there is a fourteenfold variation in the chances of conviction. This is a postcode lottery just as serious as the one over medical treatment. Thanks to the Fawcett Commission on Women and Criminal Justice, which produced its annual audit of its justice and equality proposals yesterday, the shocking statistic is getting better known.Why has the conviction rate dropped so dramatically? It is a convoluted story, made more complicated by improvements that have been made in both police and court procedure. Some police forces have introduced special rape teams, take rape training seriously and made available suites where victims can be interviewed. Judges are less likely to allow intrusive or over-aggressive questions by defence teams. There are more rape crisis centres, sexual assault referral centres, witness care units. The law has been tightened, yet the conviction rate has continued to drop remorselessly. In the latest statistics, only four out of 42 forces had rape conviction rates of more than 10%.There has been a large increase in reported rapes - from 4,900 in 1995 to 14,100 in 2004. But even with this number, the British Crime Survey suggests another 85% go unreported. Yet of the 15% that are reported, some two-thirds never get to court - one-third because victims decide they do not want to go ahead with what they regard as a traumatic process; and one-third because the prosecution believes the case will not stand up. Even then only 28% of those that go to trial end in conviction. One reason for the latter result could be prejudices of juries. A survey by Amnesty International, carried out late last year as part of its Stop Violence Against Women campaign, found one third of British people believed a women was partially or completely responsible for being raped if she had behaved flirtatiously. As the director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald, noted, this was "shocking".What the latest Fawcett report shows is that until now reforms within the different arms of the criminal-justice system have been too piecemeal. Only 10 of the 42 police forces in England and Wales had dedicated rape investigation teams. The number of sexual assault referral centres, where victims can receive counselling, medical examination and not be forced to report their attack to the police, has only risen from three to 14 in the last three years. But there are signs that momentum is picking up. Ministers are exploring whether to provide more protection to women who are raped when drunk. One-third of rape attacks on women happen after they have been drinking. Currently the law only presumes there has been no consent when a woman is asleep, unconscious or her drink has been spiked. A consultation document in 2000 proposed it should include women who were drunk, but this was vetoed by David Blunkett. It is now being revived. So is the idea of expert witnesses, used in Australia and Canada, who can explain to juries the different responses women have to rape and why some delay reporting attacks.What is missing is the sense of urgency. Under a 1999 act, courts could have been using the videos of interviews given by rape victims when they first go to the police, so that the jury can see how traumatised the victim was and have a better understanding of the enormity of the allegations. But the section has not been introduced because of a shortage of transcribers. Courts need transcripts. The plan was refloated this week as though it was a new idea. It is not. What it needs is implementation.