Tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" was the mantra that characterised Blair's first election campaign. It was geared to appeal both to the law-and-order lobby and to those of us who believe that crime takes place for a variety of complex social reasons which cannot, fundamentally, be changed simply by punishing individual perpetrators.Now in the Queen's speech the government puts forward its new "tough" measures on "anti-social behaviour", defined by Tony Blair as "low-level aggression, vandalism, fights in town centres on Friday and Saturday nights, anti-social neighbours, fly-tipping, abandoned cars, graffiti, truancy". Improper disposal of chewing-gum was dropped from the list at the last minute, but gives a vivid insight into the government's mentality, which seems to be: "These things are all really horrid! Nice people hate them! Let's ban them, and fine people for doing them, and they will stop!" It's the infantile wish to make unpleasant things "just go away" elevated to the level of policy - as with so much of this government's social legislation which, from education to local government, has little regard for process and the ways people and environments actually work.For "tough on the causes of anti-social behaviour" has nowhere been heard: there has been little attempt to ask why these disparate things happen (and hence how they might be prevented). And they are very disparate: violence, low-level or otherwise, is different from fly-tipping, and both are different from truancy. Yet lumping them together as "anti-social" makes it easy to avoid thinking about their social causes - they are seen, precisely, as not social. If anyone in government really thought about violence, they would make hitting children illegal tomorrow. Imagine a Queen's speech which put anti-violence at its heart: which said, "we, as a society, will make physical violence, from the smack to the pub brawl, absolutely unacceptable; we will nurture our children and teach them to nurture others - and we will make sure parents or carers have the time to provide that nurture". But instead, even single parents are shoved into jobs, children receive little attention - and now, as part of the new crackdown, parents are to be penalised for their children's vandalism or truancy. There is no joined-up thinking in this government's punitive emphasis on the responsibilities of parenting while simultaneously treating children mainly as impediments to their parents' labour power, nor in allowing the physical punishment of children when, besides being wrong, it is known to be one of the prime causes of subsequent aggression. Graffiti and vandalism are a different kind of problem, linked with a lack of things to do and places to go for young people without money in both urban and rural areas. Local authorities have seen endless budget cuts over recent decades and youth activities, leisure services, libraries, clubs, have all suffered severely. Schools and councils have been forced to sell off playing fields and open spaces where kids might have let off steam. Cleansing departments have also been affected: most are now privatised and run minimal services. Fly-tipping often takes place because it is difficult to get rid of larger objects easily: and to take anything heavy to the dump or the recycling centre, you need a car! The removal of bins from stations and urban areas during the IRA bomb-scares also contributed to a "just drop it" culture. Reasons for truancy are another issue altogether: they cannot be divorced from the pressures of the education system and the fact that it seems irrelevant to many parents as well as their children. It is part of the government's own policy to make education less and less inclusive - if "flagship" schools are designed to help children seen as having most "potential", is it surprising that those who don't fall into that category feel less and less inclined to bother? As different as these "anti-social" problems are, they have one thing in common: unlike tax evasion or motoring offences they are found mainly among people who have the least money, space and resources, and who are always at the sharp end of shifts in government policy. And governments can wreak levels of social destruction that mere vandals could only dream of. For several decades we had an administration which claimed there was "no such thing as society" and acted on that principle in ways which devastated local environments, and working class communities in particular. We still live among the effects of that devastation; in fact the gap between rich and poor has widened. New Labour's social crackdowns have a naive and amnesiac quality. It is as if they want to bring back a "sense of society", but by force - and without the cost of fostering that society in other policies. Creeping inequalities in education, health services, housing and pensions contribute to the lack of belonging that many people feel, the sense of disconnection, of just not caring - whether about going to school, or dumping an old sofa. This government's endless clamping down on those who already have the least stake in "society" is no solution but, ultimately, another contribution to the anti-social climate they so deplore. j.williamson@pobox.com