An extremist convicted of trying to flee the country after he was caught with terrorist material on his computer has been jailed for two years and seven months.Afsor Ali, 27, who posted a YouTube video warning of a terror attack on the royal wedding, was found guilty of three out of four counts of possessing terrorist material at the Old Bailey.Ali, of Bethnal Green, east London, had earlier admitted possessing someone else's UK passport in an unsuccessful bid to flee by Eurostar to Paris in March.On Tuesday he also pleaded guilty to a bail offence by failing to attend a court in February.Judge Charles Wide QC told him he had made a "really determined attempt" to evade justice as he jailed him for 16 months for the passport offence and eight months for skipping bail, to run concurrently.He jailed him for a further 15 months for possessing terrorist material, including information from al-Qaida on how to make a bomb and how to use an AK-47 gun.The judge told Ali he had lied in his evidence when he tried to make the jury believe that while he was "radical and committed" he was "not an extremist and did not support terrorism". He said: "It is absolutely clear you are an extremist and you do support terrorism."While you were on bail, subject to strict conditions, you did not report to the police. Sadly action was not taken as early as it should have been."You then made a really determined attempt to flee the jurisdiction. You acquired somebody else's passport. I am told you had a lot of money on you. It is very obvious you were getting help. You are not just a loner. That is a very serious matter."Ali, dressed in a cream tunic and hat, made no reaction as he was sentenced. Earlier in mitigation, his lawyer, Naeem Mian, argued that Ali had made no attempt to disseminate the terrorist material and there was no suggestion that he was himself a terrorist.During the trial, jurors were told Ali was first arrested in December 2011 when he took part in a protest against US drone attacks in Pakistan alongside members of the banned group Muslims Against Crusades outside the US embassy.He was released without charge but during the investigation an MP3 player, laptop and external hard drive were seized from his home during a search.When they were examined, they were shown to contain documents that were useful to terrorists, the court heard.When police searched his home months later, they found Ali's new computer also contained extremist material, jurors were told.During the trial, the prosecutor, Oliver Glasgow, told the court Ali had promoted extremism in YouTube videos under the alias Asad Ullah. In a clip from 2012, he warns viewers not to attend the royal wedding because of a terror attack. In another clip, Ali hails the 9/11 attack as "an historic event", the court heard.The jury was also told that in addition to documents he was charged with having, police recovered two personal recordings of a telephone call between the defendant and the radical Islamist Omar Bakri Mohammed.And he had a transcript of a speech given by Bakri in which he seeks to legitimise suicide bombings.On 29 November 2012, Ali was charged with possession of documents or records containing information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism contrary to Section 58 of the Terrorism Act 2000.He was found guilty of possessing two electronic files containing Inspire – the al-Qaida magazine – and another file containing the document 39 Means to Serve and Participate in Jihad. He was found not guilty on a fourth count.The judge ordered the destruction of the computers and MP3 player.