A junior doctor who sexually assaulted and secretly photographed female patients with his mobile phone during intimate examinations has been jailed for 18 months.Suhail Ahmed, 28, who was working at Torbay hospital in Devon, would section his victims' beds off from the rest of the ward so he was alone with them. Ahmed, from Cardiff, then carried out intimate examinations of the women, who were in their 20s, claiming his mobile phone was being used to time their heart rate.Exeter crown court was told some of his patients were in extreme pain or recovering from surgery at the time of his attacks, between March and June 2012. They have been left traumatised and one cannot bear to leave her house. He was caught and suspended by the hospital when two women separately made complaints about their examinations.A police investigation uncovered 110 images of patients at the hospital in "various stages of undress" uploaded on to his computer from his mobile phone. Footage from a secret camera Ahmed hid in a property owned by his family was also discovered. He pleaded guilty to 11 counts of voyeurism and two counts of sexual assault by touching.Judge Francis Gilbert QC ordered Ahmed to sign the sex offenders' register, adding: "You asked female patients in their 20s to remove more clothing than was necessary for examination purposes and on two occasions you touched them. You then used your mobile phone during examinations to photograph those patients."You said you were using your phone to time their breathing or their heart rate. Your victims describe their distress at what you did and the continued effect it has had upon them. A doctor is trusted not only by his patients but also by his employers."The offences took place while Ahmed was working as a trainee surgeon. David Bowen, prosecuting, said: "The defendant from time to time used to examine female patients. Some of them were in pain, some in extremis, some were awaiting an operation and some had been operated upon."Bowen said Ahmed also performed "perfectly appropriate" medical procedures on his patients.Footage from the camera hidden in a property owned by Ahmed's family showed young women using the bathroom. These victims have not been identified. Ahmed initially denied any wrongdoing but later admitted the offences during a police interview. Defending, David Martin insisted the photographs had not been distributed or shown to anyone. "Here is an individual who has in every way ruined his career," Martin said. "It was a tremendous achievement to get to where he had and it has been thrown away in this ridiculous behaviour."