Perception and realityDo you believe that crime levels in this country have risen, fallen or stayed the same compared to 10 years ago?Risen 74% Fallen 4% Stayed the same 22%In which one of the following scenarios do you feel you are most likely to be the victim of a crime?Walking in the street 55% In a pub or club 19% At home 14% Using public transport 12%Despite Government promises to be tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime, only 4 per cent believe that crime levels are lower than they were 10 years ago. The perception that crime is on the increase is popular within all sections of society. And while the incidence of all crimes is thought to have increased, we feel that drug use has increased most of all. Eighty per cent of all Britons believe that drug taking is more common now than it was 10 years ago, a view likely to have been fostered in part by David Blunkett's decision to re-classify cannabis. Most people feel they are most likely to be a victim of crime when walking in the street. But women are significantly more likely than men to hold this view (64 per cent and 47 per cent respectively). Men, however, are far more likely to believe that they will be the victim of crime in a pub or club (28 per cent versus 12 per cent).Have you ever been a victim of crime? Yes 49% No 51%Have you ever been the victim of any of the following crimes? Burglary/theft 33% Violent assault 9% Road rage 8% Mugging 7% Fraud 4% Rape 1%Which of the following crimes do you personally fear the most?Burglary/theft 32% Physical attack 28% Rape 18% Mugging 13% Terrorism 11%Has anyone you know ever been the victim of a crime?Yes 70% No 30%Has anyone you know ever been the victim of any of the following crimes?Burglary/theft 52% Mugging 23% Violent assault 22% Road rage 15% Fraud 10% Rape 6% Murder 4%Did you report the crime? (Asked of all those who have been victims of each crime)Yes Reported itFraud 96% Burglary/theft 94% Violent assault 86% Mugging 81% Rape 58%Perceptions that crime levels are on the rise - despite evidence to the contrary - are unsurprising as almost half the adult population has been the victim of crime at some point in their life. Young males are most likely to have been crime victims, but crime hits all parts of society, illustrating the impossibility of insulating ourselves against it. The oldest within society (65+) are most likely to have been the victim of burglary or theft. In contrast, the young are far more likely to have been the victim of violent assault: 17 per cent of 16- to 24-year-olds have been the victim of violent assault compared to just 4 per cent of those aged 65+. Many crimes still go unreported. Our poll shows that 19 per cent of those who have been mugged, and 14 per cent of those who have been violently assaulted, failed to report the crime. Even more worrying are the 42 per cent of rapes which, according to our poll, go unreported.Do you believe that communities should play a greater role in trying to eradicate crime or do you think the responsibility should be left entirely to the police?Communities should play a greater role 65%Responsibility should be left to the police 35%Do you have a neighbourhood watch scheme in your area?Yes 45% No 55%Are you actively involved in the neighbourhood watch scheme? (Asked of all those who have a scheme in their area)Yes 35% No 65%Do you think it is acceptable or unacceptable for householders to use potentially deadly force to protect their property against intruders? Acceptable 68% Unacceptable 32%The perception that the police are struggling to cope with a crime wave has led a majority of Britons to adopt the view that local communities should play a greater role in trying to eradicate crime. Women are significantly more likely than men to advocate community involvement (72 per cent versus 58 per cent) and the idea also has greater support at the top end of the social scale. However, despite strong levels of support for communities aiding police in the fight against crime, it appears that only a minority are willing to become personally involved. There is strong support for householders using potentially deadly force to protect property against intruders. The results indicate a considerable level of support for the view that criminals forfeit certain rights when illegally entering a property. Protection and preventionWould you support or oppose the introduction of a national ID card?Support 86% Oppose 14%In which of the following public places do you believe it is acceptable to install CCTV cameras for security purposes?Shopping precinct 84% Residential streets 68% Public toilets 45% At work 29% None of these places 2%If the law were changed to allow possession of registered handguns, would you be tempted to carry a gun for protection?Yes 22% No 78%Do you currently carry any of the following on a regular basis for self-protection purposes?Rape alarm 4% Whistle 4% Other 9% Nothing 83%Fear of crime is such that a clear majority of Britons would be willing to risk the potential infringement of their civil liberties in the hope that this would reduce its threat. The introduction of a national ID card wins impressive support from all parts of society. We appear to be little concerned about the gradual infringement of personal privacy in the pursuit of increased security. Only 2 per cent of the population object to CCTV cameras in principle, and it appears that their ubiquity has led to an increasing acceptance of their necessity. This tendency is best illustrated by the significant minority (45 per cent) who believe it is acceptable to install CCTV cameras in public toilets, for instance. It is clearly felt that CCTV cameras have a significant role to play in combating crime. Almost a quarter of Britons would be tempted to carry a gun for the purpose of self-protection if the laws were changed. There are striking differences on the basis of region, with only 7 per cent of Londoners tempted to carry a gun, compared to 55 per cent of those living in Yorkshire/Humberside, and 45 per cent of those living in the West Midlands. The lower take-up rate in London may be a reflection of the relatively lesser fear of crime exhibited by Londoners. Men are more likely to consider carrying a gun, although the differences between the sexes is not as great as might have been anticipated (23 per cent of men versus 20 per cent of women).Which of the following initiatives do you believe would be most effective at reducing crime levels in this country? More police on the street 29% Harsher sentencing 28% Better discipline in schools and at home 18% More activities for young people to get involved in 13% Eradicating poverty 9% Community initiatives such as neighbourhood watch 3%From the following list, indicate the one measure most likely to make you feel saferMore police on foot 47% More use of CCTV 21% More police in cars 15% Additional street lighting 6% Neighbourhood watch scheme 6% Cheaper home security measures 5%Do you believe that the police are adequately equipped (in terms of numbers and resources) to deal with crime?Yes 22% No 78%Do you support or oppose the introduction of private police forces and security groups to assist the police?Support 64% Oppose 36%Although increasing the number of police on the streets is considered to be the most effective initiative overall, certain social groups - those who have previously been a victim of crime and those at the lower end of the social ladder (C2DE) - view harsher sentences as a more effective deterrent. Whether or not an increase in police numbers would be truly effective, it seems that, at least, we'd feel safer. This wish for an increase in police numbers generally and, more specifically, an increase in high visibility policing is a product of the widely held view that the police are inadequately equipped. As for introducing private police forces, while Britons across the board support the move, there are some considerable differences. Women are significantly more in favour (73 per cent versus 55 per cent of men) and the 16- to 24-year-olds are far more likely than any other age group to support the proposal (83 per cent).If you were to witness a street mugging how do you think you would react?Call the police 57% Intervene to try and stop it 30% Leave it to others to deal with 13%Perhaps unsurprisingly, men are more likely than women to intervene in a mugging (38 per cent versus 24 per cent) - or at least men are more likely to say they would. Thirteen per cent of the population would ignore the situation, leaving it to others to deal with. This 'walk on by' attitude is most prevalent amongst the 65+ age group (28 per cent) and, less understandably, among Londoners (30 per cent).The making of a criminalWhich of the following do you believe is the single greatest factor in the creation of a criminal? Family upbringing 39% Economic deprivation 23% Peer group pressure 15% Natural inclination 12% Media and culture (eg violent films and music) 9% None of these 2%Do you believe that on-screen violence (in the form of films, television and computer games) encourages violence in society?Yes 73% No 27%The majority of Britons believe that it is nurture rather than nature that is ultimately responsible for creating a criminal. However, among Londoners, the order of the top two factors - family upbringing and deprivation - is reversed, with economic factors thought to play a greater role than family in prompting criminal behaviour.While only 9 per cent of respondents cite on-screen violence (in the form of films, TV and computer games) as the single greatest factor in the promotion of criminality, 73 per cent of Britons do believe it does encourage 'real world' violence. Significantly though, the 16-24 age group - the most likely to be exposed to on-screen violence - is the least likely to subscribe to the notion of a link between fiction and reality.Do you believe there are certain ethnic groups who are more likely to commit crime?Yes 55% No 45%Which of the following ethnic groups do you think are most likely to commit crime? (Asked of all respondents who believe that certain ethnic groups are more likely to commit crime)Asian 39% Black Caribbean 34% Eastern European 32% Black African 28% White British 19% Oriental 8% Other 9%Do you believe that an influx of asylum seekers will lead to higher crime rates in Britain?Yes 78% No 22%Despite a sense that there is nothing innate that distinguishes the criminal, with socialising factors seen as a greater influence, a majority of Britons (55 per cent) do believe there are certain ethnic groups who are more likely to commit crime. This belief is most popular among the 65+ age group (67 per cent) and least popular among the young, though 46 per cent of 16- to 24-year-olds still hold this view. The view is also more common among those at the lower end of the social scale: 62 per cent of the C2DE social groups - 'blue collar' workers - believe certain ethnic groups have a pre-disposition towards crime, compared to 48 per cent of 'white collar' (ABC1) Britons.Among those who hold the view that ethnicity contributes to criminality, Asians are most commonly cited. It's possible that this perception is a by-product of 11 September or of the race riots in a number of Northern towns in 2001. Among men, Eastern Europeans are seen as the ethnic group most likely to commit crime. It is tempting to speculate that this view has been fostered by a certain demonising of those coming to the UK in search of asylum. It is certainly true that a large majority of the British public associate asylum seekers with crime. If a faulty cash machine gave you £500, which you subsequently discovered had not been debited from your account, how would you be most likely to react? Take the money back to the bank and explain the situation 64% Keep the money but don't attempt to use the cash machine again 24% Keep the money and visit the cash machine again in the hope of getting more 'free' money 12%And if the cash machine accidentally gave you £50,000, which of these would you be more likely to do?Take the money back to the bank and explain the situation 77% Keep the money but don't attempt to use the cash machine again 15% Keep the money and visit the cash machine again in the hope of getting more 'free' money 8%From the answers to the 'cash point' questions, plenty of us, it seems, have the capacity to commit crime; it may simply be lack of opportunity and the fear of being caught that prevent us. Among those aged 16-24, a clear majority (57 per cent) would opt to keep the money at the £500 mark. If the stakes were raised and the machine dispensed £50,000, 5 per cent of all age groups who had promised to return the £500 would now decide to keep the money. However, a greater proportion would have second thoughts and elect to return the money to the bank.PunishmentDo you believe that crime levels are a top priority issue for the present government?Yes 55% No 45%Do you believe that Government initiatives can have a significant impact upon crime levels, or do you believe governments are powerless in their attempt to tackle crime?Government initiatives can have a significant impact 59% The Government is powerless in attempts to tackle crime 41%While a clear majority of the population believe that crime levels have risen inexorably over the two terms of the present Government, a majority do also believe that it's a top priority for the Government. However, a significant minority (41 per cent) think that governments are powerless in their ability to tackle crime. The youngest age group (16-24) are the most likely to hold this view.Do you agree or disagree with the proposed change in the law that will allow individuals found innocent when tried initially to be re-tried for the same crime at a later date? Agree 79% Disagree 21%There is widespread support for this move - perhaps, a reflection of the anger that has greeted perceived injustices due to 'double jeopardy', most notably in the case of Stephen Lawrence.Do you believe that the death penalty should be re-introduced in Britain for certain crimes? Yes 67% No 33%Which of the following crimes do you think should be punished with the death penalty? (Asked of all those who support the re-introduction of the death penalty for certain crimes)Murder 91% Terrorism 68% Paedophilia 41% Rape 23% Drug dealing 13% Other 2%Support for the death penalty is strongest among those aged 65+ (86 per cent) and lowest among those aged 25-34 (55 per cent). Those who have been a victim of crime are more likely to support capital punishment, but the most striking differences in attitudes are regional ones. Ninety-four per cent of those living in the West Midlands support the re-introduction of the death penalty, compared to just 34 per cent of Londoners. Indeed, Londoners appear out of step with the rest of the nation on this issue - London is the only region where capital punishment is opposed by the majority.Do you believe someone convicted of date rape should receive a different sentence to someone convicted of raping a stranger?Yes - it should be a longer sentence for the date rapist 15% Yes - it should be a shorter sentence for the date rapist 12% No - it should make no difference to the sentence 73%Which of the following judicial sentences do you think are most appropriate for someone convicted of viewing pornographic images of children over the internet?Non-custodial - added to the sex offenders register 10% Prison sentence - up to 1 year 7% Prison sentence - 1 to 2 years 11% Prison sentence - 3 to 5 years 20% Prison sentence - 6 to 10 years 16% Prison sentence - 11+ years 34% None of these 2%While the same proportion of both sexes (73 per cent) believe there should be no difference in the sentence, men are more likely than women to believe that date rapists should receive longer sentences (18 per cent versus 13 per cent).There is no tolerance for child-related sex crimes. Most striking is the 34 per cent who believe the sentence should be in excess of 10 years (39 per cent of women; 29 per cent of men). Do you believe a life sentence should always mean life imprisonment, ie prison for the rest of your life?Yes 87% No 13%Would you support or oppose the introduction of a 'three strikes and you're out' scheme whereby offenders automatically receive a prison sentence if they are convicted of any three crimes?Support 80% Oppose 20%A majority of every group within society believe life should mean life, with the exception of Londoners, who again demonstrate that they are a breed apart.Despite our prison population already being at record numbers, a large majority of Britons (80 per cent) would support the introduction of an American-style 'three strikes and you're out' scheme. There is broad-based support for this proposal, although Britons at the lower end of the social scale are significantly more likely to support the proposal.Do you believe prison should be used, primarily, as punishment, a deterrent or as rehabilitation?Punishment 57% Deterrent 22% Rehabilitation 21%Do you support or oppose measures to reduce the prison population in this country by electronically tagging them, and making them serve their sentence outside of prison?Support 54% Oppose 46%Have you ever been in prison?Yes 6% No 94%Do you know anyone who has been in prison?Yes 40% No 60%Do you believe that under-18s charged with serious crimes such as murder should be prosecuted as adults?Yes 82% No 18%Do you believe that under-18s found guilty of committing serious crimes such as murder should be treated more leniently than adults?Yes 32% No 68%Despite widespread support for measures that, if imposed, would increase the prison population, there is a tacit acknowledgment that something needs to be done to reduce the numbers in prison, with the majority in favour of electronic tagging of non-violent offenders so that they can serve their sentence outside prison. Yet Britons would be opposed to any scheme that could be perceived as making life too easy for offenders, as the prevailing attitude is that a prison sentence should, first and foremost, be about punishment. Those at the lower end of the social class scale are significantly more likely to hold this view. (74 per cent of those in social class DE believe prison should be used primarily as punishment compared to 44 per cent of social class AB.) A startling indication of the size of the prison population is provided by the proportion of the population who have been indirectly touched by prison - 40 per cent of Britons know someone who has been inside. There is little support from both ex-prisoners and the general population for the view that prison should attempt to rehabilitate offenders. And we are robust in our attitudes to child offenders. All age groups, including the 16- to 24-year-olds, believe that under-18s charged with serious crimes should be prosecuted as adults.