A new push to eliminate potential "ligature" points, including the removal of bars from windows of cells where high risk prisoners are held, is among the recommendations of the most recent official report on prison suicides.The Department of Health study, Safer Prisons, also suggests that jails must find alternatives to the materials which they currently use as bedclothes. It says prison medical staff believe that about one in five prison suicides would be preventable if there were closer supervision, better training, and increased use of shared cells. Harold Shipman's death was typical of many suicides in prison in that he hanged himself with his bedclothes in his single cell, as do more than 90% of those who take their own lives while inside. But there the similarities end. The health department study, which examined in detail 172 prison suicides between 1999 and 2000, makes clear that in many ways Shipman's death was atypical of the 94 people who killed themselves in prison last year. The study shows that more than 40% of suicides occur within seven days of arriving in prison, most of those involved show symptoms of psychiatric disturbance on arrival in prison or have a history of self-harm and most are being held on remand pending trial. This was the case with the serial killer Fred West and the Soham murderer, Ian Huntley, when he attempted suicide in Woodhill prison last June. Shipman had been inside for five years and there were no warning signs in his behaviour that led prison staff to believe that he was a suicide risk. The Prison Service said yesterday that the 74,000-strong prison population contains "very large" numbers of prisoners who suffer from social disadvantage, with experience of violence, abuse, psychiatric disorder and drug dependency, all of which raise the risk of suicide. "Self-harming and suicidal behaviour often pre-date custody, and may have started early in life. There are, regrettably, no simple solutions and the reasons for self-inflicted deaths are complex. Despite the Prison Service's best efforts, some prisoners will not disclose feelings and intentions regarding possible self-harm." Three years ago the Prison Service was optimistic that it could curb the rising number of prison deaths. In 2001, the then home secretary, Jack Straw, announced a target of reducing the annual toll by 20% within four years. A comprehensive strategy was put in place, developing safer cells, first night centres, detoxification, peer support schemes and listener programmes organised by the Samaritans. But last July, Martin Narey, the commissioner for correctional services, admitted he was disheartened by the lack of progress. "I thought we had cracked this problem three years ago. We have poured money into the problem to create safer cells, we have trained many more officers in suicide prevention and we have had tremendous support from the Samaritans, but the number of deaths continues to climb," he told MPs. Since then the deaths have continued to rise to a final toll of 94 in 2003. The rise in the prison population partly explains the increase. Increased numbers have not only brought greater difficulties in providing the staff for suicide watches and other schemes but also an increase in the "mix" of prisoners with mental health and drug abuse problems who are most likely to prove at risk. Some progress has been made. More than 3,500 safer cells without hanging points have been installed in the past two years. The early results seem promising from six prisons selected to be "safer locals", including Birmingham, Wandsworth and Leeds, which have had the whole anti-suicide package introduced. But as Deborah Coles of Inquest, the organisation that helps the families of those who die in custody, observed yesterday: "It is a shame that the self-inflicted deaths of 94 people in prisons last year did not merit this level of public scrutiny and interest. Every death in custody warrants a robust investigation to ensure that state failings are identified and lessons are learned."