Whoever wrote Jack Straw's speech in which he launched a vicious attack on penal reform groups this week levelled an outrageous slur on the work and efforts of the good people in this country who for decades have been campaigning tirelessly, and with little thanks, for a safe and effective prison system that works in all our best interests. Accusing the groups of being overly concerned about the "needs" of offenders, Straw said: "We hear far less often from these lobbies about the needs of the victim. I think they sometimes forget who the victim is, so lost do they become in a fog of platitudes." The "platitudes" he and his speechwriter are referring to no doubt are the complaints that there are way too many people in prison unnecessarily, the lack of resources to provide meaningful and constructive activities for them once they are in there, and the unacceptably high rate of ex-prisoners re-offending after release. None of the groups he refers to, however – the Prison Reform Trust, the Howard League, the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders or Inquest, to name but a few – have ever, as far as I am aware, attempted to condone, make excuses for, or justify the actions of those who cause harm or distress to others. The whole point of the existence of such groups is to prevent the state from subjecting people in prison to unnecessary suffering by abuse, neglect or systemic failure. Contrary to Straw's assertions, that is not because they harbour undue sympathy for criminals, but rather because they know that the reasons behind antisocial behaviour are varied and complex. They understand, as does the state, incidentally, that the majority of people who end up behind bars are disadvantaged in some way – lacking in social and work skills, in educational ability and achievement, or wrapped up in a spiral of mental health problems often exacerbated by drug or alcohol misuse. The groups that Straw appears to despise know what the government knows but refuses to acknowledge: that unless the problems that drive criminal behaviour are addressed effectively and re-offending reduced dramatically, then the rise in the number of future victims is inevitable. Their concern for victims, therefore, is indisputable.I met Straw a few weeks ago. Aptly, I guess, it was in a prison – Liverpool prison. We were there to discuss prison issues as part of a "prisons special" broadcast by BBC Radio 4's Today programme. I'm not going to lie – I found Straw to be a likeable, witty man, but squirmed when he spun the victims line. "We are going to put the victim at the heart of the criminal justice process," he said. It was especially embarrassing as victims' rights campaigner, Jill Saward, who suffered at the hands of two rapists at her father's vicarage in Ealing almost 20 years ago, was also present. Saward was scathing about Straw's populist pontificating and told me later that the government's neglect of victims' groups has meant that resources for those who support victims of crime "have never been scarcer". Several weeks later, I was back in Liverpool prison to discuss the value of writing with prisoners. Fifty men turned up in the prison library. Before we started, I told them that I often explain to people with little knowledge of prison that most people in there have the desire to be better when they come out than they were when they went it. "Is that true?" I asked. "Because if I'm wrong I need to know. How many people here have that desire?" To a man, every hand was raised. The fact is that in Straw's prisons, the odds are stacked against people in there getting out better equipped and motivated to manage a successful reintegration back into society. In spite of the efforts of the many well-meaning and dedicated people who work in them, Straw's prisons cultivate failure on a massive scale. The prison reform groups he derides do their best to limit that failure. Straw's party has been in charge of the prison system for more than 11 years. If he really cared about victims he would have tackled the failures of the system he inherited from the Conservatives in 1997 a long time ago. Hurling insults at his critics is just a weak and shysterly way of deflecting the blame. If I were him, I would sack his speechwriter.