Scores of criminals convicted overseas, including rapists and murderers, are being deported to Britain with virtually no official supervision, fuelling fears that they may reoffend.An Observer investigation has found that up to seven arrive each week and around 100 have come back so far this year. In the past eight weeks alone two convicted murderers, two rapists, three child molesters and three armed robbers have landed at Heathrow after being released on parole abroad. Due to a loophole in the law, they fall outside the British parole and social security system. The ex-cons, mainly from North America, are dumped here because they were born in Britain but failed to take out citizenship in their new countries and so are automatically deported at the end of their jail terms. Many left Britain as children when their parents emigrated and have no memories of their home country. The problem is underlined by the fact that convicted killer David Wood, one of the notorious 'Canadian Krays', is likely to be deported from Canada to Britain by the end of the year. If successful at a December parole hearing, the former leader of a brutal Toronto gang will be put on the first plane to London. His brother, Philip Wood, sentenced for the same murder, came back in September. Together with his brothers, Philip and Colin, David received a life sentence in 1986 for killing Karen Thomson. She was going to testify against Colin, then her boyfriend, but she was knocked unconscious with a rock and left to drown in Lake Ontario. A Canadian crime story became a British problem because the brothers were born in Scotland. As one-by-one they are freed, they will be deported back to a country they last saw as children. David's parole chances are thought to be high. Colin Wood will follow six years later after having his sentence extended due to escaping. Only then will Canada's triumvirate of feared ex-criminals be reunited on British soil. If they were allowed to stay in Canada, the Wood brothers would be subject to stringent parole conditions and assigned a parole officer. But because they served their sentences abroad they - like all the other returning prisoners - get no monitoring in Britain. Deported sex offenders, who would be obliged to be on a national register if convicted in Britain, are under no obligation to tell anyone of their whereabouts. 'With sex offenders sometimes we don't know where they are going, where they are living and what they are doing. It is a very worrying situation,' said Theresa Gilson, a case worker with charity Prisoners Abroad. The charity serves as the only safety net for the returning prisoners. It helps them find accommodation, jobs and sign on to the social security system. The charity has a policy that all sexual offenders must put themselves on the national register before helping them. But it admits some refuse. Many of those arriving at Heathrow are completely unprepared. In some cases the first time they knew they were to be deported was when immigration officials took them to the plane. Some arrive still wearing prison clothes and most have to borrow the Tube fare to London. Usually they sleep rough on the streets of the capital. They end up alone and penniless in a city most will never have visited before, which makes the temptation to reoffend strong. 'That is our greatest worry. There is a strong incentive to reoffend when you are put in that situation and there is nothing in place to help you or supervise what you are doing,' said Gilson. Many of those returning are more tragic than dangerous. They have been convicted for minor offences and are now banned from ever returning to the countries they grew up in. One such is Stuart Milne, who was born in West Ham but left at the age of 10 months when his parents moved to California. Thirty-four years later he returned to London to sleep on its streets after a drink-driving conviction led to a prison sentence and automatic deportation. He went from working in the computer graphics industry near Silicon Valley to relying on East End soup kitchens. He left a girlfriend and a child behind and is permanently banned from travel to the US. The Home Office admits there is a problem and is looking at ways to plug the legal loophole. One possibility is allowing prisoners who are to be deported to serve the final period of their sentences in a British jail. This would allow them to come under British parole rules. paul.harris@observer.co.uk