A neighbour strangled the landscape architect Joanna Yeates and then went shopping for beer and crisps with her body in the boot of his car, a jury heard.Vincent Tabak sent a text to his girlfriend claiming he was bored before dumping Yeates's body on the snowy verge of a country lane, the court was told.In the days and weeks following, Tabak, a Dutch-born engineer, spent hours following the police investigation into the case online and searching terms such as "manslaughter" and "extradition" on the internet. He told friends the killer must be a "detached crazy person".The jury at Bristol crown court heard that Tabak admits the manslaughter of Yeates, 25, but denies murder.Nigel Lickley QC, prosecuting, said there was no doubt that Tabak, 33, was responsible for Yeates's death but the jury had to decide if he had intended to kill her or cause really serious harm.Setting out the case, Lickley told the jury that Tabak and Yeates did not know each other, though they lived in adjoining ground floor flats in Clifton, Bristol.Lickley claimed that Yeates had been settling down for an evening at home when she was "interrupted" by Tabak. He strangled her with enough force to "squeeze the life out of her". The prosecutor said Tabak was a foot taller than Yeates and stronger, adding: "He was in complete control and knew what he was doing."Yeates walked home alone after drinks with friends at a pub on Friday 17 December last year. She bought a pizza and two bottles of cider and is believed to have reached her flat at about 8.45pm.Within a few minutes two people going to a party nearby heard two screams. "Those screams were Vincent Tabak attacking her," Lickley said.At 9.25pm – by which time the prosecution says Yeates was dead – Tabak sent a text message to his girlfriend, Tanja Morson, who was on a night out with colleagues. He wrote: "Missing you loads. It's boring here without you. V xx."Tabak then went to an Asda supermarket where he bought rock salt – for melting ice – along with crisps and beer. He sent his girlfriend another text: "How are you? I am at Asda. Was bored. Can't wait to pick you up."Lickley told the court that while Tabak shopped, Yeates's body was in the boot of his Renault Mégane. He drove to Longwood Lane, in Failand, three miles from Clifton, where he is believed to have tried to throw the body into a quarry. He failed and instead covered it with leaves. Fresh snow fell overnight to cover the body.Yeates's boyfriend, Greg Reardon, reported her missing when he returned to Bristol from a weekend away on Sunday 19 December. At 4.15am the next day Reardon and a police officer knocked on Tabak's door. He appeared "relatively calm" and told police he knew nothing about Yeates's disappearance.Lickley said that as Reardon grew increasingly worried about his girlfriend, Tabak was carrying out research on her disappearance. Tabak began to follow the websites of Avon and Somerset police and media organisations intently.When detectives announced they were looking for the pizza and its box that Yeates had bought but was not found, Tabak searched the internet to see rubbish collection times. He looked up information on the sentences for murder and manslaughter and researched extradition, DNA science and body decomposition.On one occasion he mentioned the puzzle over the pizza in a message to his girlfriend: "The whole situation is very mysterious. What happened with the pizza and more importantly with her????" In another message he described the case as "creepy".Yeates's body was found on Christmas Day and a murder hunt began.Tabak and his girlfriend went to Holland on 28 December. When police arrested a 65-year-old man in Bristol two days later Tabak and his girlfriend contacted the police and said they could have information about the man.Detectives travelled to Holland and asked Tabak again about his movements on the night Yeates vanished and noticed he had changed his version of events. They also took a DNA sample from him. He returned to the UK on 2 January and was arrested when forensic tests linked him to the crime. Yeates's parents, David and Teresa looked on from the public gallery as the prosecution case was outlined. When CCTV footage of Yeates on the night she was killed was shown, her mother dabbed away tears.The trial continues.