Police today named the 58-year-old man stabbed to death in a rampage by a knife-wielding attacker.The man who died after he was attacked in Edmonton in north London has been formally identified as Ernest Meads. He was a masonry expert and leaves a wife and a grown-up son and daughter.A postmortem at Hornsey mortuary this morning gave his cause of death as stab wounds.A close family friend said: "There was a big family Christmas planned which is now ruined as any sort of celebration would be inappropriate. Our condolences go to all the other victims' families at this tragic time."Mr Meads from Enfield was one of six people stabbed by a man who drove across six square miles of north London attacking people at random in different locations.Three of the other victims needed surgery after suffering life-threatening injuries in the attacks.Police were today questioning Turkish-born suspect Ismail Dogan, 29, a former mental patient, who was arrested after the attacks. He was discharged from a mental health centre in Haringey, north London, more than two years ago and medical chiefs were today investigating their final contact with him. Alf Jackson, director of the Barnet, Enfield and Haringey NHS mental health trust, said: "He was a former patient who had been discharged more than two years ago." Although he had definitely used the trust's services, it was still unclear whether he had ever been an in-patient or had been treated in the community. Police forensic teams were also searching the terrace house where Dogan lived in Birkbeck Road, Tottenham, north London. Yesterday's violence lasted around an hour as an attacker drove around in a car selecting victims, some of whom were on their way to work. Doctors said today that one of the five surviving victims, a 50-year-old man, was in a life-threatening condition. The status of another man, aged 66, was described as "serious", and the remaining three victims were "stable" in hospital. Dr Yasmin Drabu, medical director at North Middlesex hospital, said all five had suffered potentially life-threatening stab wounds, including to the stomach and abdomen. The attacks were so quick that some of the victims did not even see the knife and believed they had been punched. A pool of blood marked the spot where the first attack happened outside Edmonton Green railway station. Mr Meads, who was the fifth person to be attacked, was found in Advent Way, Edmonton, after he stumbled into the offices of a delivery company drenched in blood. Delivery worker Dervish Dervish, 54, said Mr Meads came into his company's reception office covered in blood, having been stabbed four times, and wearing a fluorescent yellow jacket like a construction worker. Mr Dervish said: "We lifted up his jumper and put cotton wool down until it was soaked in blood, then we turned him over and he had another wound in his back. I think he was stabbed again as he was trying to get away. "He was so white - I don't think he had any blood left in him, I've never seen a person so white. He kept saying 'I can't breathe, I can't breathe' and then he stopped. "I put my hand into his mouth to try and make sure he didn't swallow his tongue, but I knew he was gone. "His heart stopped two or three times and he was gone by the time the ambulance arrived. I felt like crying. He was just going to work and now he's dead. I just can't believe it." Chief Superintendent Simon O'Brien said: "It seems someone was getting out of his vehicle, picking people at random, stabbing them and then getting back in his vehicle. We don't know the motivation for the attacks at this stage. It's horrendous." Detectives said a knife had been recovered and was being tested by forensic experts.