 N, aged 40, HMP Kirklevington Grange, Sentence: three years, six months. Due out on HDC, his baby son is 14 months old. I know my older kids (15 and 16) are fine with their mother; she's a good mother to them. I will see them more often and I know it will be fine. I'm not saying perfect, but I think we can pick up the pieces. They know me but I don't want them to see me in here. It's my baby boy I'm worried about. His mother used to visit me with him, but now my mate brings him in each month. I haven't seen him for two months now. I've found out she's getting married to someone else. I think she's mad, but I worry about the baby. I think I'll get custody of him. My mate says the baby goes to anyone; he hardly talks much. That bothers me; it's all been out of my control since I've been in the nick. You only get snippets of info from mates, but I'm out soon. I'm going back to live with my mother, which will be funny as I left home at 17. But I need a stable address for tagging and I want my baby back. I need to. My girlfriend sold all the furniture in the house. I think she needs the money to feed her new boyfriend's drug habit. I'm worried if my baby has watched what's going on; he's still young but he shouldn't be in that atmosphere. My family see my ex-girlfriend out in the town but she never has the baby with her. I don't know who has him. I can't tell the social services in case they take the baby off her, and then what chance have I got to get him back? I have to depend on others to see him. He's too young to write to; I can't even phone him as she's had the phone cut off. I'm boiling inside, but what can I do until I get out? I think it would be easier to keep in contact with your children when you're in jail if you had a good relationship with the mother. You need to be adult and not on drugs. I love it when l do see him but I don't think he is developing like he should. She doesn't care and I have no say yet. I wish things had been different but I'll have to work to get it right again. He'll have a canny life if I get my way, and he's young enough to forget the life he has had so far.  B, aged 21, West Hill, Winchester  I made the biggest mistake ever leaving my girls with someone I thought I knew. I was found guilty of not protecting them, guilty of not seeking medical advice when I should have. My dad took the girls to hospital. I had an OK childhood, it wasn't perfect. My mam and dad divorced. I'm closer to my dad. When I get out, I'll see more of him, but he's ill and I'm not sure if he'll be alive. He doesn't visit me, it's too far. I'll never be allowed to see my children again - they were fostered after this happened. They are together. I thought they had fallen down while trying to walk but they had lots of bruises, so Dad took them to hospital. I really had no say in what was going on. They have now been adopted, but I've refused to sign the papers 'cos I want to get them back. I met the adoptive parents for 15 minutes; I didn't like them but they have my girls. The girls don't see their real dad. I had nobody to help me. I lived alone. I want to get them back but nobody will trust me. I can't talk to anyone in here. I've had to tell lies about why I'm here. The girls were good for me 'cos when I was pregnant I gave up drugs and alcohol and cigs, but I went back on the cigs. It was an awful, violent relationship. I know when I get out I will go back on to the drugs and drink as it will help to blot things out. I don't know what kind of life they lead now. I can't even think about it. Mothers should always be with their kids. All my friends have children and I'm not allowed to see or be near them if they are under 16. My sister has a young child so I can't see her now. I've made such a mess of everything.  Louise, who visits her son P, aged 24  Going in isn't easy. I feel like the criminal. I have to take off my shoes and socks. I have arthritis and it's hard for me to bend down: I've started to wear shoes that come off easy. We know they have a job to do, but they could be nicer about it. We know that they must get fed up with their jobs, but so do shopkeepers and they still have to be nice. We can't choose to visit somewhere else, though, can we? It was very difficult to overcome at first, but it was the only way to see him.  B, aged 17, Feltham YOI  I've done four months on remand. It's my third time in jail. I'm looking at five years when I get sentenced. I don't consider myself to have any future. It's difficult to break away. My dad knows. I'm going to try to change for my little brother. I will try my hardest. My mum died when I was 12. I've been mad ever since. My dad supported me; no agency helped. Social workers pulled me out of my family and sent me to a foster home two years after my mum died. For two years I lost contact with my family. From time to time I got a phone call, but I was never in and I never contacted them. Everyone visited but I wasn't interested. I've never had any counselling. My foster parents had a 14-year-old daughter - she could do no wrong. I had an argument with her and my foster father punched me in the face. I went in the kitchen and took a knife to protect myself. He ran out and called the police and a social worker. I was sent back to my dad's. I started to get arrested when I was in foster care but it got worse when I went home. I don't talk to prison counsellors. I don't trust them. Dad usually comes by himself because I don't get on with my stepmum. I'm close to my dad. I think my grandparents, my little brother and my dad miss me a lot. I feel more sad for them. They have always been there for me.  A, aged 17, Portland  His son is seven months old and his girlfriend is 17. My worst moment was when I was phoned from hospital and told I had a son. It's not nice to be away from kids - they need both parents at home. She lives with her parents and I've not seen her since Christmas. Life changed when she was pregnant, and I tried to stay in. We had been together three years. I've had no security with the people I knew. My dad left when I was four and my stepdad left when I was 12 or 13. Three of my uncles have been in prison and I found out my dad was in prison when I was 14. He was always in trouble. We had been close but after I was 14 we did not speak. I lived at home but stayed at a friend's house for weeks on end. I've not been to school since I was 11 or 12; I went out with my older brothers and uncles. This is my third sentence. My co-defendant is my girlfriend's brother. Things will be different when I go back. I'll have an apprenticeship course on release and I'll live with my mum. She paid attention when we were little and she's been supportive. My kid will make a difference - my kid seeing me in here.   Little Jack, aged 14  I only remember seeing Dad in prison once. My mother was a bit of a bitch to him, I think, and didn't want us to see him. I don't remember that much, but I know I would go to jail to see him if I could. I don't want to go to jail, but I don't think there's that much wrong with going to jail - loads of people go, don't they? My dad wouldn't like it if I went. Dad says that Mam brought us up properly. He says that they couldn't get on but she's a good mother. I like being at Nanny's because she doesn't give you grief and she buys meat for the dogs. I don't like school: it's a waste of time for me. I want to work for my uncle. I want to keep out of trouble. Dad says that jail is for mugs and idiots and you're better off working for a living. I don't drink or smoke, and drugs are for idiots. I go to the gym and I'm fit and can look after myself.  Zoe, aged 40, visiting HMP Acklington   I'm doing this interview for all the kids that sit in the visitor centre. I want them to know they are not crap just because of what their dad or mum has done. · Parenting Under Pressure: Prison, £15, is available from bookshops and the charity Young Voice. For further details, see www.young-voice.org or telephone 020-8979 4991.