The Metropolitan police-led report into sexual abuse by Jimmy Savile puts forward a chronology of offending spanning more than half a century:• 31 October 1926Savile was born in Leeds, the youngest of seven children.• 1955The earliest incident of abuse recorded by the police, which took place in Manchester, where at the time he managed a dance hall.• 1960In one of the handful of example cases given by police, a 10-year-old boy asked Savile for his autograph outside a hotel. Savile took the boy inside and seriously sexually assaulted him.• 1 January 1964Savile presented the first ever Top of the Pops for the BBC. He had previously become a DJ at Radio Luxembourg in 1958.• 1965The first recorded abuse by Savile took place at the BBC, at Leeds General Infirmary, where Savile was a long-term volunteer porter, and at Stoke Mandeville hospital, where he also volunteered.• 1966The start of what police have identified as Savile's peak period for abuse, which lasted for a decade.• 1970The first recorded abuse at Duncroft girls' school near Staines, Surrey, where Savile was a regular visitor.• 1972In another example offence listed by police, Savile groped a 12-year-old boy and his two female friends who were attending a recording of Top of the Pops.• 1980sAt some point in the decade a female victim is believed to have told the Metropolitan police she had been assaulted in Savile's camper van in a BBC car park. The police file cannot be located and the investigating officer is now dead.• 1990Savile was knighted, also receiving a papal knighthood.• April 2000In a TV documentary presented by Louis Theroux, Savile acknowledged the rumours about him being a paedophile, but denied it.• 26 July 2006Savile co-presented the final Top of the Pops, an occasion that gave rise to one of the allegations made to police.• March 2008Savile began legal proceedings against a newspaper that linked him to abuse at the Jersey children's home Haut de la Garenne.• 2009Savile was interviewed under caution by Surrey police investigating an alleged indecent assault at Duncroft school. The CPS advised there was insufficient evidence to take any further action. This was the year of the last offence recorded by the current investigation.Another example offence, in which a 43-year-old woman was sexually assaulted by Savile on a train journey between Leeds and London, dates from this year.• 29 October 2011Savile died aged 84. A Newsnight investigation into Savile's alleged abuse was dropped, and the BBC broadcast a tribute programme to him.• 4 October 2012An ITV documentary featured five women who recounted being abused by Savile during the 1970s. Operation Yewtree, the police investigation into offences by Savile and others, began the next day. Police initially based their investigations on the assumption he abused up to 25 victims. So far around 450 have come forward.