Police began digging up a garden yesterday near to where PC Keith Blakelock was killed during the Broadwater Farm riots 19 years ago in an attempt to recover weapons, DNA or other clues that could catch his killers.In an attack as brutal as it became notorious, the 40-year-old police officer was hacked to death with knives and machetes by a mob on October 6 1985, as riots raged on the estate in Tottenham, north London. Another officer, Richard Coombes, was so badly injured he never returned to work. Winston Silcott, Mark Braithwaite and Engin Raghip, then aged 26, 18 and 19 respectively, were convicted of the murder in 1987, but were cleared on appeal in 1991. Mr Silcott, 44, was released from jail last year after serving 17 years for the murder of an amateur boxer, Anthony Smith. The Metropolitan police launched a fresh investigation in December, when new evidence came to light. At 7am yesterday, acting on what Commander Andy Baker, Scot land Yard's head of homicide, described as "first-rate intelligence", about 40 specialist search officers started to excavate the tiny back garden of a two-storey terrace house at 16 Willan Road. Mr Baker refused to be drawn on what they might find, but said there was strong intelligence that "physical evidence" was buried there shortly after the murder, and that he was "very confident" it would be recovered. This might be one or more of the murder weapons, blood-stained clothes, or possibly Blakelock's missing helmet. The commander said that the occupants of 16 Willan Road, who moved into the house in the late 1990s, were not suspects and not linked to the investigation. Archaeologists are advising the police, who are using ground penetrating radar in the excavation. The digging could take three or four days, and every scoopful of soil will be sifted for fibres and hairs. The police are also following "several other lines of inquiry", said Mr Baker. The investigation is thought to have identified six new suspects by piecing together a "virtual video" of thousands of police and press photographs. More than 6,000 statements have been re-examined, and forensic experts have pored over Blakelock's bloodstained uniform and the weapons seized at the time. Mr Baker said relations between police and Broadwater Farm residents had improved significantly since 1985, and that most locals wanted the murderers brought to justice. While deprivation remains, there had been investment in the area, which was no longer seen as a crime hotspot. But Scotland Yard is acutely aware of the sensitivities the Blakelock case arouses among the largely black community. More than 3,000 leaflets have been delivered to local homes in the past few weeks and dozens of officers will be on duty during the excavation. Kwaku Frimpong-Manson, a bishop and the chairman of the local residents' association, said the murder had turned Broadwater Farm into a "ghost town", but people had moved on. "We want to continue rebuilding the community. This will be the end of something vile. Justice has to be done. For residents it means that we will be respected." But other local people were unconvinced. One group of men condemned the excavation as a "waste of time and taxpayers' money". They said the police would not be trying so hard had the victim not been one of their own. Lennox, who was 16 in 1985, said he would welcome the capture of Blakelock's killers but did not believe there would be convictions. "I don't agree with murder, but what about Mrs Jarrett [Cynthia Jarrett, 49, who died in her home during a police raid, sparking the October 1985 riots] and all the black people who die in police custody?" Moses, 19, born just months before Blakelock was killed, thought the police had treated black youths unfairly. "The police are not here to help, they're here to arrest people," he said.