 Brian Masters Daily Mail, February 10"[Maxine Carr] wants to be interviewed on a nationwide television programme. She wants to 'put the record straight' (the court has already done that, or did no one tell her?) and 'clear her name' (by pretending to innocence after all?) These are unworthy and rather grubby aims. Someone must make it clear to her that rehabilitation is not on the cards""She is one of the new generation which seems to assume that fame is its own justification. Well, fame arising from a connection with foul murder is better left to the history books. Carr's best strategy, if she wants to avoid being shunned and sneered at for the rest of her life, is a modest return to that dull anonymity whence she came. Any attempt to brave it out will be, at the very least, vulgar. We are told that she is not interested in the money which may be offered. But the fame will be just as poisonous."  Vanessa Feltz Daily Express, February 10   "She seeks national TV exposure in order to 'clear her name'. The fact that her name can never be cleared because she is a convicted criminal, found guilty of conspiring to pervert the course of justice, utterly escapes her. Her name will, quite rightly, be besmirched and sullied until all eternity. Carr's notion that TV could perform some kind of miraculous rehabilitation beggars belief. It is too late. The truth has already been uncovered. Justice has already been seen to be done. She has been exposed as an amoral, unfeeling, self-serving, despicably conscience-less human being. That will suffice. Showcasing Maxine Carr would be unpardonable."  Mick Hume  Times, February 9  "Nobody wants to see child-killers let off lightly. But Maxine is no Myra clone. The jury found her guilty of perverting the course of justice by giving Ian Huntley a false alibi, but not guilty of the more serious offence of aiding an offender. She should not have to take responsibility for Huntley's actions. But as an adult, she should take responsibility for her own, do her time and get on with her life.""At a time when society finds it harder to draw a firm line between right and wrong, and when former criminals can become celebrities, how convenient it seems to have a little hate figure against whom all can unite. This smacks of the morality of the jailhouse, where every offender can take some solace from spitting at child-abusers. It is not Carr's prospects that worry me, but those of the rest of us. The best outcome now would be if we never heard another word about Myra Mark II."  Peter Oborne Evening Standard, London, February 9   "There is no suggestion that Carr is a menace to society. Her crime was to provide a false alibi for her wretched lover. It was right that she should be punished, but it is wrong that public sentiment should be allowed to dictate how long she stays in jail. It is nothing short of disgraceful that [the home secretary] David Blunkett should contemplate changing the rules to keep Carr in jail. When she comes out, she deserves our compassion and not our hatred."  Euan Ferguson Observer, February 8   "What's a fitting punishment for Maxine Carr? Three-and-a half-years? Three-and-a-half eternities, until the very last tiny days of the sun, or the very last tiny days of the Sun, whichever comes sooner? Or even, terrifyingly, her own chosen punishment, which would appear to be freed now and allowed to move back to, and spend the rest of her life in, Grimsby? The public shouldn't be allowed to choose how long prison sentences last."