A young father thought he was going to die when he ended up in the path of an approaching train on an electrified railway track after being attacked in a case of mistaken identity, a court heard yesterday.David Gibson, 19, either jumped or was pushed on to the line carrying 750 volts as he waited at New Milton station in Hampshire with his partner and their baby son in November 2003. At Southampton crown court, Judge Christopher Leigh QC was told James Phillips, 27, had rushed through the station's ticket office and launched himself at Mr Gibson, whom he accused of being involved in an attack on him and his brother days earlier. But there was no evidence to suggest Mr Gibson had taken part in the incident. Mr Gibson was grabbed above the waist from behind and punched on the side of the head. "It caused him to stumble and lose his footing," said Roderick Blain, prosecuting. "He went to the edge of the platform but managed to steady himself." As the train pulled into the station Mr Gibson heard Phillips shout: "I'm going to kill you." Mr Gibson said he did not know how he ended up on the track. Witnesses thought he had been pushed but the train driver said he had jumped. "He recalls being petrified and thinking he would die [as the train approached]," said Mr Blain. The driver braked but the train did not stop until it was 20 meters past where Mr Gibson had been standing. After he scrambled to safety, Phillips chased him over the footbridge to the other platform. "You're dead when we get you," he shouted. "Carry on running. You're dead next time we see you." Phillips, of New Milton, admitted endangering the safety of a man without intent and affray. He was jailed for 21 months. Christopher Gillespie, defending, said: "He didn't deliberately set out to push Mr Gibson in front of the train." Passing sentence, Judge Leigh told Phillips: "What you did was terrifying and dangerous. It must have been a terrifying experience for Mr Gibson, the other people there and not least the train driver." After the trial, Detective Constable Trevor Wilson of British Transport police said it was a miracle Mr Gibson had escaped with his life. "He must have had amazing speed of thought not only to react quickly but have the presence of mind to avoid the live railway lines. He could have had 750 volts of electricity going through him. He managed to crawl... over the tracks in time to get out of the way of the train."