There was a build-up to yesterday's crime summit between Downing Street and the Association of Chief Police Officers. Using emotive rhetoric, government representatives have been talking about the "shame" of Britain's "yobs", about "drunken louts", "thug bars" and the need for zero tolerance on "yobbery".Tony Blair's language was particularly florid, revealing his anxieties about drunken thugs who kick down gates and hurl traffic cones. But when the rest of us worry about violent crime, do we also worry about louts, yobs and thugs or something different and more complex?The drunken football fans in Charleroi provided the press with the perfect excuse to indulge their snobbish cliches about hooligans. Downing Street's readiness to use these as symbols of Britain's violent disorder was more surprising. Outside those rarefied portals the tattooed skinhead hardly embodies popular anxieties. Indeed, in the inner city and country villages this figure may be tangential both to the problems and people's fears. I speak from personal knowledge. I live in an area of London where violent street crime has increased by 35% in the last two years. Most locals have had direct experiences, especially if there are teenagers in the family. The scenarios are boringly predictable; typically the victims are in their early teens, the attackers a few years older. The typical weapon is a knife and the typical spoils bikes and mobile phones. In Lambeth six mobiles were stolen like this between November 96 and October 97 and 2,500 between 98 and 99. "It has become," says assistant commissioner of the Met, Andy Trotter, like "dinner money theft."  Complex causes lie behind these crimes. Relative affluence exists alongside relative deprivation. There is a growing "must-have" consumer culture in which crime is seen to pay. There is a perception that the police are ineffective. Gender and race also come into it. White boys are the main targets, regardless of their background. Hereabouts, demonising drunken louts seems strangely irrelevant. For others, the real problems of violent crime and antisocial behaviour lie on estates which appear to be beyond the rule of the law. There the problems are twocking, ram raiding and intimidation of residents, sometimes racially motivated. Residents worry about overt drug dealing bringing a culture of violence, aggression and intimidation. In such cultures of antisocial behaviour, residents struggle to draw the line between normal and unacceptable delinquency. Clearly it was a country town Blair had in mind when he spoke of the cone-throwing drunk being marched by the local bobby to a cash machine in the market square. But even here the rhetoric of the skinhead thug seems inadequate. Certainly there are worries about drunkenness and disorder, but the talk in country towns is about students and school children, pouring out of the pubs and clubs at the weekend hopelessly drunk. Along with the fear of fighting and property damage, there is also fear for those involved. Will they drive and cause a pile up, will they hurt themselves, will they overdose? Such worries are about what's wrong with the kids and with society itself when young people no longer have a clear sense of what is acceptable. When it comes to actual crimes what country residents fear is organised property crime; their houses being broken into; things they value being stolen; not feeling safe. That, as the Police Association has been saying, amounts to a community not feeling protected, not feeling the presence of the police, whether those fears are real or not. What's common to all these situations is the feeling that people cannot rely on self-policing to hold minor delinquency this side of the law, or on external policing to enforce it. This is a new situation, and neither the police nor the public have had time to understand this feeling or the meaning of the rising crime figures. There are many reasons why people feel unsafe and anxious about violent crime and these may require different solutions in different areas. What is shared, though, is the need to feel the government is analysing the situation in a clear-headed, accurate way and that it will come up with solutions that are just and protect all groups equally. This is not done by inventing a skinhead slur where all problems of violent crime are reduced to the problems of drunken louts. This is bogeyman politics, spinning working-class men as hate figures to hide the fact that when it comes to violent crimes, something in the cocktail of current politics and social trends isn't working too well.  comment@theguardian.com 