It has been a long time since anyone credibly argued that the freedom of information so enhanced by the internet must always outweigh the need for some controls. Perhaps some such fundamentalists still exist; if so, they are living on a fantasy planet. The question in the real world is not if access to some types of material should be controlled, but how.That is the context in which today's new government consultation paper on the possession of extreme pornographic material should be seen. Long before the internet was dreamed of, there was always a wholly proper argument about where, not whether, the line should be drawn in obscenity law. The internet leapfrogged that by making pornography of every kind accessible to anyone online. But it did not in any way alter the propriety or even the essential terms of the original debate. Ever since, the law has been trying to catch up.The basic difficulty lies with enforcement. The nature of the internet means enforcement of the law over both production and consumption has had to change. It is hard for an individual nation state to control the production of pornography that is consumed within its borders - though it is far from impossible if states were to cooperate in applying the same rules. The change in consumption is even greater, since the retail of and access to pornography - and much else - has been internationalised. That means that the issue has become one of defining and then enforcing the laws against possession.It is to the government's credit that it acknowledges these difficulties. But there is also an unmistakable sense of ministers edging towards issues and then backing off them. Although the document is fairly explicit about some of the categories of adult pornography it is seeking to ban, there will be widely different views, not really addressed in the proposals, about the meaning of what is extreme and what is violent. Some of these have implications for what the government euphemistically describes as "our mainstream entertainment industry" and the fear is that ministers are reluctant to take on any vested interest of this kind for fear of being accused of interfering with the people's fun. Nor does the document explain how police can be helped from being swamped by the scale and difficulty of bringing viable prosecutions. In the field of child pornography, where laws already exist, police have already encountered many of these issues, without resolving them. The fear is that the same thing could happen in the field of violent adult pornography too.