A failed businessman who murdered a well-to-do elderly couple at their seaside home and stole from them to try to pay off his heavy debts was jailed for 30 years today.Odai Salah befriended Rosemary Windle and Maurece Smith, both 71, by claiming he could put them in touch with business contacts in the Middle East. But in January he armed himself with a knife and went to their flat in Torquay, Devon, where he strangled Windle and stabbed and suffocated Smith.Salah, 28, returned at least twice to the murder scene to create the impression the couple were alive, giving himself more time to use the cheques and credit cards he stole.Jailing Salah at Exeter crown court, Mr Justice Jack said: "I am satisfied the reason for your killing Maurece Smith and Rosemary Windle was to get at their money." The judge told Salah: "Lying is in your blood." He described him as cool and calculated and devoid of any moral sense; he was a clever man but with a "warped intelligence".Paul Dunkels, prosecuting, had told the jury: "This was a cold-blooded execution by the defendant of an elderly couple in order to get money from them. He saw Rosemary Windle and Maurece Smith as an opportunity to get money. He murdered them and then stole from them.He took their cheque books and credit cards and used them."Originally from Jordan, Salah came to the UK as a student in 2002. He studied at the school of law and social sciences at Glasgow Caledonian University. He set up a business distributing Lebanese food and wine but it failed in 2009.Dunkels said: "The defendant had been in financial difficulties for some time. He had resorted to various deceptions to get money or credit. Credit-card companies, banks and other organisations that had lent money to him were pressing him for repayment or for arrears of monies due to be paid. He had no money to repay them."Dunkels said Salah met the couple late in 2009. The victims were comfortably off, with Windle running a successful business selling linen and other goods to wealthy clients in the Middle East. Smith suffered problems with his hips and knees and walked with crutches.Dunkels said: "[Salah] was falsely representing himself to the victims as someone who could put valuable business their way. His purpose must have been to convince them that he had financial standing so as to win their confidence and to then somehow persuade them to advance money to him."It was not clear what triggered the attack, Dunkels said. "Perhaps he realised that he could not sustain the story of taking them all to Lebanon for big business any longer and that they could not be persuaded to hand over money to him willingly."After murdering the couple, he went to a bank and tried to pay a forged cheque for £27,000 into his own account. Nine minutes later he went into another bank and tried to pay in another forged cheque. Next day he posed over the phone as Smith to try to pay off a £4,658 debt.When police went to the flat they found Smith's body in an armchair covered with blankets and pillows and a cushion over his face. A broken knife blade was found under his body. Windle's body was found in the garage lying on the floor covered by a blanket.Salah had told the jury that he did not kill the couple. He admitted his finances at the time were "horrible" but said his future finances were looking excellent.Outside court, Detective Superintendent Steve Carey said: "Salah is an arrogant and practised liar. He was a desperate man who had run out of money and who was looking for any way to fund his lifestyle."