A 16-year-old who admitted stabbing another boy to death in a row over the sale of a £90 bicycle has been handed a life sentence.Danny Drake knifed Alim Uddin, 17, seven times at a block of flats in Brixton, south London, on 4 May.Alim had gone to meet Danny to ask for his money back after handing over £90 for a bike the defendant failed to deliver, the court heard.Danny, from south-west London, had denied murder but changed his plea to guilty on the second day of his Old Bailey trial after hearing the prosecution case against him.Sentencing him on Tuesday, Judge Stephen Kramer ordered Danny to serve a minimum of 13 years behind bars.Earlier, David Jeremy QC, prosecuting, told the court: “This defendant stabbed Alim Uddin to death. The reason, if there can be a reason, was that Alim Uddin had given the defendant £90 to buy a bicycle from him.“Danny Drake did not provide the bicycle and he did not give his cash back so the two of them arranged to meet so, as Alim Uddin understood it, he could be repaid. He was angry that the defendant had ripped him off. There were on both sides expressions of youthful bravado but nothing that suggested it would lead to a killing.“The friends of Alim Uddin described the two boys as being wary of each other but said Alim was not angry or expecting a fight. He just wanted his money back.”The victim went alone to meet Danny at Tilford House in Brixton, leaving his friends in a nearby park. Just before 5pm, a resident at the block of flats heard a thud and discovered Alim collapsed on his doorstep. The teenager was pronounced dead at King’s College hospital an hour later.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Danny Drake. Friends of the teenagers said the pair had been wary of each otherA postmortem examination found seven incised wounds – four to the front of his chest, one to his lower back, one to his shoulder and one to his thigh.Jeremy said: “The stab wounds suffered by Alim Uddin and the complete lack of injury suffered by the defendant paints a clear picture of how Alim Uddin came to his death.”After the murder, Danny tried to distance himself from what he had done, the court heard. He was caught on CCTV going home and then leaving a short time later carrying a bag and wearing a different top bound for a relative’s house in Tooting, south-west London.But when police searched his home, they discovered a blood-stained sweatshirt with DNA matching Alim’s on it, the jury was told. Danny had also taken clothes to a launderette in Tooting but, finding it closed, had soaked another top and a pair of jeans in the bath.Police found the clothes after they traced Danny to the second address, with a black bag that contained the murder weapon and the handle wrapped in a glove.