Scotland Yard yesterday released CCTV images of a sex attacker and potential serial killer who battered a mother to death after trying to strangle a prostitute.The man, aged around 28, used a wooden post to bludgeon Corrine Bailey, 38, an unemployed care worker, in Croydon during the early hours of August 16. Ms Bailey, who had two children, aged nine and 11, left her home just after 4am to go to her local 24-hour shop for a bag of groceries. She was sexually assaulted and beaten to death soon after leaving the store. Detectives said Croydon council CCTV cameras had captured footage of Ms Bailey walking to the shop and of her attacker prowling for victims earlier that night. They described him as "ferocious" and said he seemed "determined to kill" having tried to strangle another woman hours earlier. Police believe he may have mistaken Ms Bailey for a prostitute, although she had no connection to prostitution. Officers said they had increased patrols in Croydon, fearing the attacker would strike again. The man, who was 6ft 1in and slim, dressed in a red shirt and sporting what detectives called a "grown-out, blond crop", was first captured on CCTV talking to a dark-haired prostitute at a bus stop on London Road, at 2.40am. They walked together to an alleyway.Detective Chief Inspector Gary Richardson said: "She asked for some cash straight away but the suspect refused to hand any over." As she tried to leave, the man grabbed and began to strangle her. Mr Richardson added: "She was able to get close to the suspect and give him what she described as a hard bite on the neck. She then lost consciousness, she is not sure for how long. But when she came round, he was still standing near her feet." The woman screamed and the attacker ran off, chased by a passing group of young men. But he was seen again on CCTV in the same area at 3.30am, staggering as if drunk or drugged. Ms Bailey appeared on the CCTV footage at 4.11am on her way to the convenience store. She passed out of view carrying her shopping at 4.23am. Detectives believe it will have taken her only one minute to walk from where she was last seen on CCTV to the spot where she was killed. Her semi-naked body was found in a driveway near a Hindu temple at 7:30am. The murder weapon found at the scene was a wooden post, 40in-long (just over one metre), 3in square, with a groove running down its face. Police believe the attacker fished it out of a nearby garden or skip. They described it as a weapon which "somebody wasn't wandering around a great distance with". Scotland Yard detectives were examining local and national databases to see whether the man fitting the description had killed or attacked before. They appealed for prostitutes who might have encountered him, or anyone who recognised him from the CCTV images, to come forward. Detectives also asked local residents to check for missing wood from their gardens and sheds. 