A forklift truck driver at a printing plant pleaded guilty yesterday to stealing pages from the forthcoming Harry Potter novel. Donald Parfitt, 44, of Worlingham, Suffolk, admitted theft when he appeared before magistrates in Lowestoft, Suffolk.The court heard he was arrested a week ago after attempts were made to sell stolen pages of the long-awaited Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix to the Sun newspaper.Parfitt, who worked at Clays Printers in Bungay, Suffolk, where the book is being printed, told police he had found the pages in the firm's car park and saw it as an opportunity to make money, James Terry, prosecuting, said. Tight security was in place at the company to protect the confidentiality of JK Rowling's fifth Harry Potter novel which is due to go on sale on June 21, he added. He told the court that a Sun journalist received a call from a man who gave his name as James on May 5. The caller claimed he had the first three chapters of the book and offered them for £25,000. Mr Terry said newspaper staff arranged a meeting at a supermarket car park in Bungay, and alerted police who were waiting when the meeting took place and subsequently arrested Parfitt. Richard Mann, defending, said his client had pleaded guilty at the earliest opportunity and was full of remorse. Describing Parfitt as "very much the salt of the earth", he told magistrates: "He is a decent, hard-working man who loved his job. He is extremely embarrassed about the trouble he has caused. He is a man who desperately wishes that the whole episode hadn't occurred at all." Mr Mann said his client had finished a normal day's work at Clays. "On the floor in the car park was this particular item, some chapters from the new book. At that point he should have given it back but he didn't. "There was lots of talk about papers offering money for the new book and he thought this was an opportunity. He reacted in an instinctive, opportunist way. He immediately put it into his lunchbox. He thought of it at that point as good luck. It turned out to be very bad luck." Mr Mann said other people then became involved and although Parfitt had realised his mistake and tried to stop the sale of the pages there was little he could do because events had gone beyond his control. "It certainly was not planned. He acted compulsively. He is very much a broken man. He has had 24 hours in a police cell. The whole world knows he has been charged with this high-profile offence. His name is now associated with dishonesty. He thinks he is going to lose a lot of friends. He is certainly someone who will lose his job," the court was told. Magistrates adjourned sentencing until June 4 and told Parfitt: "We are considering all options." Two 16-year-old boys, who cannot be named for legal reasons, but who live near Beccles, Suffolk, admitted receiving stolen property. Their case was remanded to a later date as was the case of Garry Cox, 18, a carpenter from Harleston, Norfolk, who denies receiving stolen property.