Maxine Carr is one of a small group of criminals whose public notoriety has forced the authorities to construct a new identity for them on their release from prison.In December 1968, at the age of 11, Mary Bell was convicted of the manslaughter of Martin Brown, four, and Brian Howe, three, on Tyneside. She was sentenced to be detained at her majesty's pleasure and was released on licence in 1980. Bell became a public hate figure following the conviction and when she was released she adopted a new identity with the full consent of the Home Office. But her new life came un der threat last year. Under English law, the family had no right to keep its identity secret once Bell's daughter turned 18, in 2002. The daughter, a ward of court, was originally granted a banning order in 1998 after a tabloid newspaper tracked the family down. Details of Bell's new life were published after she cooperated with the au thor Gita Sereny on a book about her case, Cries Unheard, for which she received £50,000. Lord Goldsmith passed an injunction giving the family anonymity for life under the European convention on human rights. In February 1993, Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, both then aged 10, killed two-year-old James Bulger on a railway line in Liverpool. They were captured on CCTV leading the toddler to his death and were vilified in public. At the time of their release in 2001 Judge Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss granted a lifelong injunction, then unprecedented, to protect the new identities of the teenagers. At the time Dame Eliza beth said: "I had no doubt they were in serious danger of being killed or at least severely beaten." Thompson and Venables were sentenced to a minimum of eight years' imprisonment. The lord chief justice subsequently raised their sentence to 10 years, and Michael Howard, then home secretary, raised it to 15 years. However, an inves tigation by the European court of human rights declared the extension of the boys' minimum sentence unlawful. Thompson's and Venables' new identities took years to prepare. They were given new homes and new passports. They were also given a detailed new history to learn so their new identities were convincing.