 Duncan Williams, 36  Time served: six months on remand Crime: arson and criminal damage (acquitted)  On arriving at HMP Wandsworth the first thing that strikes you is the dark and doom- ridden architecture. Then comes the oversized, tattered clothing. That gives the prison officers in the "reception area" a reason to yell at you to: "Tuck your fucking shirt in, fella, you look like a sack of fucking horse shit!" The constant bullying from officers creates contempt, defiance and hatred. It is wrong to suggest that every prison officer is an uncaring, unintelligent sadist; there are many men and women working hard to do a difficult job as best they can. But thanks to underfunding, overcrowding, understaffing, poor training and old-school attitudes, there are far too few of them. By the time the majority of men are ready for release from Wandsworth they are - if they weren't before - bitter, hate-ridden individuals with little in the way of a future. Many are back within months of release. While I was there, most of us were not engaged in any constructive activity during the day. We spent 23 hours out of 24 hours locked in a tiny 8x12ft cell, two sharing. It was mind-numbing. I made at least three applications for educational courses within the first few days of arriving and never heard a reply. The nearest I came to education was when a group of 20 or more inmates were herded into a small holding room and issued with scraps of paper that we were told were an "educational standard" test. The pages had been photocopied so many times that the typeface was barely readable. Most people didn't care. They were grateful to get out of the cell for a few minutes. I used to read letters out to one man who was illiterate. He never got any assistance to learn to read and write throughout his stay. He was only in for three months for some drunken crime, but surely some better use could have been made of his time there? Drugs and addiction are the evil behind most crimes and the abuse does not stop inside. Heroin has replaced cannabis as the drug of choice because it stays in the system for less time, so it's harder to trace. Despite claims to the contrary, Wandsworth is awash with drugs. I remember sitting in a cell with one poor soul who had attempted to smuggle a large quantity of narcotics into the prison by secreting a stash up his backside; unfortunately, the condom he had packed the stash into burst. He fell into a deep coma and had to be rushed to hospital. Suicide is also rife in prison. Six men were found dead in Wandsworth by midsummer of 2000. In July, I was moved into a cell where a Spanish inmate had attempted suicide the night before. The cellmate told me the man had been beaten by someone and was in a state of total fear. He woke to find the man choking on a noose tied to a metal hinge. He pulled the man down in the nick of time and he was rushed to hospital. In this instance the police were called, but no charges were brought and no statements made. I left Wandsworth in December with nothing but a plastic sack, uncomfortable memories and the clothes on my back. I'd lost my flat, my job and my self-respect.