An 18-year-old man has been arrested in connection with the murder of businessman Akhtar Javeed, police said. Javeed, 56, was shot in the neck at his Birmingham soft drinks firm during a suspected robbery on 3 February. The suspect was arrested by West Midlands police in Derby on Thursday night.Javeed’s daughter Lilas described the victim as a “humble and simple” father and grandfather who worked tirelessly to provide for his family. She said she and her three brothers had been left shattered by the killing. “Everything has changed since the day he was taken from us,” she said at a press conference. “A devoted husband and caring father who selflessly did everything he could to look after the ones he loved is now gone, after having to suffer such a horrific attack. “It breaks our hearts knowing that his last moments were not spent with us as they should have been.”She added: “Nothing will fill the hole left in our hearts. That warm, happy, and comfortable feeling we would get whenever our dad was with us will never return.” Javeed was shot as he tried to fight off two masked men, having refused to hand over cash to them, according to police. The two offenders tied up staff as they tried to rob the warehouse in Rea Street South, Digbeth, at about 6.30pm. The victim, who lived in east London, was found injured in the street near his firm’s car park but died in hospital.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lilas Javeed appeals for information about the murder of her father. Photograph: Joe Giddens/PALilas Javeed appealed for anyone with information to contact police: “Please, please come forward. It would mean so much to us. You can’t bring our dad back but you can give him justice and protect other people from having their lives destroyed.” Det Supt Mark Payne described the shooting as a robbery that went wrong. He added: “We believe the business was deliberately targeted but we don’t yet understand why.”Bullets found at the scene showed a weapon used during the raid was not linked to any previous offences. A silver Renault Megane, believed to be the getaway car, has been seized and will be forensically examined.Officers are trying to trace a taxi seen driving behind the Megane and a potential witness seen walking with a bike along nearby Leopold Street at about 6.20pm.