A woman was today found guilty of perverting the course of justice by telling police she had been raped twice and harassed by a mystery stalker.Gail Sherwood, 52, a mother of three, prompted extensive Gloucestershire police investigations after also claiming she had received strange phone calls, been followed home and unwanted gifts including flowers had been left on her doorstep and car, Bristol crown court heard.Police began to doubt her and launched a covert surveillance operation that the prosecution said proved she was making up the attacks.The campaign group Women Against Rape has criticised the police and the Crown Prosecution Service for bringing the case, claiming the police launched the investigation having made mistakes when they looked into her claims that she was the victim of a stalker.The group said it was "alarmed" at the number of women being prosecuted for false allegations of rape.But Judge Julian Lambert criticised Sherwood, who will be sentenced next month, for a "vicious assault" on the "integrity" of the police officers who had dealt with her. He said she had cast aspersions against officers who had treated her with kindness and consideration.Outside court Detective Chief Inspector Paul Shorrock, the senior investigating officer, said the police and CPS had considered very carefully before investigating Sherwood. They had ploughed many resources into hunting the supposed rapist before concluding he did not exist. He said one reason why they felt it necessary to pursue Sherwood was to reassure other people living nearby that there was no stalker on the loose.Shorrock said: "We do not want to see victims of rapes not coming forward. We treat all allegations with care and seriousness."Sherwood claimed she was attacked at Haresfield Beacon, a beauty spot close to her home in Stroud, in April 2008.She said she was seized and raped after putting her dogs into her car. She called for help, a police helicopter was scrambled and Sherwood was found, her hands tied together to a fence above her head.On 1 June Sherwood claimed she heard noises outside her home in the early hours of the morning and she went to investigate."It suddenly seemed quite cold in the room," she told the jury. "A shadow stepped from behind the curtain with an arm in the air. There was an almighty smack on my head. The next thing I was in a vehicle and we appeared to be driving at quite a speed up a very rough track."Again she said she was raped. This time Sherwood was found by police in the grounds of Nether Lypiatt Manor, near Stroud, the former home of Prince and Princess Michael of Kent. Her mouth was covered in tape, her hands tied together. She told officers the rapist was the same man who had attacked her in April.But by then, Sherwood was already under police surveillance. Footage of her played in court showed her walking by herself to her car at the time she said she was being abducted.Sherwood will be sentenced next month.