Police in Birmingham have arrested a second man on suspicion of murdering a married couple found dead in their home last week.Avtar Kolar, 62, and his wife Carole, 58, were subjected to a "horrendous attack", according to West Midlands police. They were discovered at their semi-detached house in Handsworth Wood by their 37-year-old son Jason, who is a serving officer with the force.Postmortem tests have revealed the couple, who had been married for 40 years and have four children and eight grandchildren, died as a result of blunt force trauma to the head. Both had been struck a number of times.Detectives arrested a 41-year-old man in the early hours of Sunday. A 24-year-old man, who was arrested on Friday, is still in custody.Detective Superintendent Richard Baker, who is leading the investigation, said his team was following "a number of lines of inquiry" and had assigned 60 officers to the case. "We encourage anyone with information to speak to us no matter how insignificant they feel the detail is," he said.Baker suggested a possible motive was gold theft after a spate of recent burglaries in the area and played down suggestions the murder could be linked to Jason's police work. "Clearly his role as a police officer has established himself as a line of inquiry but what I can say at this time is there is nothing to suggest at all that Jason's role as a police officer has anything to do with the motive," Baker said.Jason Kolar went to his parents' house after family members could not contact the couple. The two arrests in the case came after Crimestoppers offered a reward of £10,000 for information leading to the killer or killers. It described the double murder as a "vile crime".The arrests followed an emotional appeal for information on Thursday by two of the couple's children. Michelle Kirwan, 39, described her parents as "the sweetest, kindest people that I have ever met". She added: "Our hearts are broken forever and our lives will never be the same."Avtar Kolar, 32, said: "We are now reaching out to anybody out there who could please, please help. No matter how little or however much they can, somebody out there knows who did this, so please I beg of you help us catch the person or people who has taken these two most special people away from us."