A former boarding school headmaster who sexually and physically abused boys during the late 1970s and early 1980s was today jailed for 21 years.Derek Slade, 61, of Burton-on-Trent, Staffordshire, was found guilty of sexually assaulting and beating 12 boys aged between eight and 13 following a four-week trial at Ipswich crown court. He was convicted of more than 50 offences, including possessing pornographic images of children on a computer.The judge, Peter Fenn, recommended that Slade serve at least 14 years before being released on parole and ordered him to pay £30,000 towards prosecution costs. He said Slade's victims – who were abused between 1978 and 1983 – had "lost days of childhood innocence", been left with feelings of inadequacy, blame and worthlessness, and had become men whose "lives were seriously damaged".Jurors heard that Slade ran St George's private school, which was initially based in Wicklewood, Norfolk, then moved to Great Finborough, Suffolk, in 1980.Prosecutors said Slade meted out "brutal" beatings, hitting boys with a slipper, a table tennis bat and his bare hand. He also ordered youngsters to write about "whackings I have had" and gave "kickings" to boys who upset him.Boys had also been used as waiters at private dinners, then "chosen" by Slade and his guests, jurors were told.The court heard that most pupils were the sons of service personnel and that pupil numbers rose from about 20 in 1978, when Slade and colleagues opened the school, to 350 in 1983, when Slade left.Slade was arrested after former pupils complained two years ago. One victim said he had never told his parents what had happened. Another described Slade's assaults as "reigns of terror". Several victims were in court for the sentencing. Some wept and one applauded as Slade was led away. One victim said afterwards the sentence was "good enough".Slade admitted assault, indecent assault and child pornography offences. He denied other allegations of assault and indecent assault but was found guilty after a month-long trial. He also admitted being a paedophile and told jurors there was a sexual motive behind the corporal punishment. However, he denied more serious sexual assaults, including prosecution allegations he hosted "midnight feasts" after which boys would be abused.The court heard St George's had been in the spotlight in 1982 when the BBC Radio 4 Checkpoint programme reported on its harsh regime. School inspectors had investigated and made some criticisms but had not substantiated the BBC's allegations.Speaking after the hearing, Detective Inspector Adrian Randall, who led the inquiry, said: "While Slade may have committed these offences 30 years ago, for the victims their pain remains very real. I cannot begin to imagine how difficult it must have been for these men to come forward and try to make sense of what happened to them decades ago as defenceless young boys."Randall said about a dozen officers had spent 18 months investigating the allegations. Sources said after the hearing that investigations were continuing and the "chapter was not closed."