A centenarian who slit his elderly wife's throat in what a judge described as "an act of love" was spared a jail sentence yesterday.Bernard Heginbotham, 100, is thought to be the oldest person in Britain to be convicted of manslaughter. He admitted killing his 87-year-old wife, Ida, but pleaded diminished responsibility. He attacked her after her health deteriorated in April and she was about to be transferred to another nursing home. Heginbotham had nursed her through her illnesses - she had arthritis, two hip replacements and a number of falls. As her health worsened, she became more dependent on her husband. He slit her throat after he learned that she was about to be transferred. He wept yesterday as he was given a 12-month community rehabilitation order by Mr Justice Leveson at Preston crown court. The judge said that Heginbotham had been under intolerable pressure and the case was unique. "At the age of 100 you need to come to terms with all that has happened and settle into a new life for the time that remains to you, one hopes of some length," the judge told him. When he realised he had killed his wife of 67 years, with whom he had six children, Heginbotham attempted to take his own life. The judge said: "Bernard Heginbotham, the killing of your wife, to whom you had been married joyously for some 67 years, followed by your attempt to take your own life, was an act of desperation carried out in an effort to end her suffering while you were under intolerable pressure. "It was, in truth, an act of love and I have no doubt you suffered a medical disorder at the time and the responsibility which you bear is substantially reduced. "It was, as you will well know, a terrible thing to do but I accept entirely the circumstances in which you did it, and your feelings of guilt and remorse have been truly overwhelming." Mr Justice Leveson fell short of demanding an inquiry into the circumstances that led to Mrs Heginbotham being moved between the care homes, but said he was "concerned" by what he had heard of her treatment. Mrs Heginbotham was found in her room at the Kepplegate nursing home in Preesall, Lancashire, with a cut throat on April 1. Police believe her husband - a retired butcher - had used a kitchen knife to attack her. Hilary Banks, prosecuting, said the couple were devoted to each other and were loving and caring: "On April 1, her condition deteriorated and her son, Neville, was informed immediate arrangements would have to be made for her to be moved to a specialist care unit," she said. "The defendant was told by his son and was distressed and tearful. The defendant arrived at 4.30pm and was admitted by a staff member. He was taken to his wife's room. The member of staff then left." Mrs Banks said Heginbotham admitted that he had gone to the home with a weapon and injured his wife's throat, which resulted in her death. When he was arrested by Lancashire police on suspicion of murder, he was found to have attempted suicide. He told officers: "My poor Ida." Later, in interviews, he said: "I must have gone berserk." Defence barrister Guy Gozem said: "Everything prior to this incident points to a man devoted to his wife, dedicated to her care. Everything since points to a man full of remorse and the family united in supporting him." After the hearing, Detective Inspector Phil Burke, of Lancashire police, said "It's tragic, really, considering the age of the gentleman. For nearly 70 years, he has been devoted to his wife and looked after her and he now felt that he was in such a position that the only way out was to kill her. "He was very upset. He cared for her all his life. He was a very independent man who didn't want his family to take too much control. I think it's difficult when you see a man like that in court, but at the end of the day, I think it's right that he comes to court and the court have got the range of sentences available to decide in controlled circumstances what is to be done." The family's solicitor, Alan Godwin, said they were relieved the case was over. "Their hope now is that their father will be allowed to spend what time remains to him privately and peacefully in the company of his family." The charity Age Concern said the case was a tragedy for all concerned. "The impact of home moves can be devastating for older people. They are often forced to move from a home where they are comfortable as their health deteriorates." said a spokesperson.