Tony Blair admitted yesterday that the government's crackdown on loutish behaviour on Britain's streets has yet to reach the "critical mass" stage that persuades culprits that it no longer pays to be a nuisance.During a visit to Harlow in Essex, the prime minister heard residents say that Labour's anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos) were having some effect on the quality of their lives - but not yet enough. Confirming plentiful evidence that bad behaviour "ruins neighbourhoods" is a major issue for many voters, the prime minister admitted that "there remains much to do. But police and councils are using those powers. The public are coming together and the louts are on notice." Mr Blair and the home secretary, David Blunkett, are keen to persuade more local authorities to go to court and obtain Asbos against disruptive adults and youngsters, and to do so more often. Asbos, which ban people from a specific anti-social act for at least two years with criminal penalties if breached, got off to a slow start in 1999. But official figures published yesterday suggest that their use is rapidly rising. Mr Blair admitted: "You cannot change a person into something else - let's be realistic - but what has to happen is that the penalty they are paying for being a nuisance becomes more of a hassle for them than to stop being like that. We have to get to a critical mass, so people say it is no longer worth doing it." In the Potter Street district of Harlow, a new town which has had its share of problems, the authorities claim that anti-social behaviour has fallen dramatically since they obtained seven Asbos, 20 acceptable behaviour contracts, two injunctions and two dispersal orders against neighbourhood troublemakers. One voter who had been abused and punched by a neighbour told Mr Blair that an Asbo had worked. "My life was hell for two years but now I have got it back again," she said. A shopkeeper said that a dispersal order against unruly youths "seems to be working" but criticised slow police response times. But the shadow home secretary, David Davis, said that, with 800,000 more recorded crimes under Labour "many people now accept yob culture as a fact of life". In Harlow alone there had, on some counting methods, been a 166% rise in violent crime since 1999, he said. "It's all very well Tony Blair talking about asbos, but simply issuing Asbos is not the answer to chronic levels of crime and disorder. Unless there are police on the streets, actively enforcing Asbos, they won't provide the security people demand," Mr Davis said. Mr Blair also wants more police on the streets, a move which is popular despite expert evidence that it is not the best way to tackle crime. Yesterday's Home Office figures showed that 2,455 Asbos have been issued since 1999, 1,323 in the year up to March - including 422 in Manchester, 59 in Liverpool and 122 in Leeds.