French police have launched a nationwide manhunt for a British businessman whose girlfriend was discovered battered to death in the bathroom of their luxury Paris hotel.The body of Kinga Legg, 36, was found covered in bruises slumped in the bath of the couple's suite at Le Bristol hotel on Tuesday evening.Her boyfriend, London-based entrepreneur Ian Griffin, 40, has not been seen since he checked out of Le Bristol hours before the body was found. Police said he asked for his girlfriend's room to be left undisturbed before driving off in his car, a Porsche with a British number plate.It was only around 8pm that the alert was raised by a member of staff who was puzzled by the lack of response to a family phone call. Legg, a Polish-born import-export manager of French nationality, is believed to have died as a result of being hit repeatedly, said a spokeswoman for the Paris police."The body was discovered in the bath with a lot of bruises on it," said the spokeswoman. "There were traces of blood on the body, as well as in the bath and on the tiled floor. It was also clear from furniture which had been overturned and broken that a major fight had taken place."Last night border police were on alert for any sign of Griffin, who was being "actively searched for" by investigators leading the inquiry into her death. Police declined to comment, however, on reports that he was believed to be heading south towards the French Riviera. They confirmed they had contacted British police in an attempt to find out more about Griffin's history.Police believe the two had a tumultuous relationship which had exploded into physical confrontation after a night of drinking and socialising at some of the French capital's most glamorous locations. The couple, who had been together for several years, were understood to be arguing about breaking up. "They had gone out a lot on Monday night and [had] both drunk a lot of alcohol," said the spokeswoman.The exclusive hotel, where rooms start at around £650 a night and can reach as much as £2,000, is a fixture on the social scene of the city's elite. French president Nicolas Sarkozy, whose official residence is just down the road, is known to enjoy dining there with his wife, Carla Bruni, and this year its restaurant was awarded a third Michelin star.Last night the room in which Legg had been staying was sealed off while investigators combed it for evidence. A hotel spokesman declined to comment on the events surrounding the death.