A fourth man has been released on bail in connection with the murder of Mary-Ann Leneghan, the teenager who was sexually assaulted, stabbed in the neck and left to die in a park on Saturday.Mary-Ann and a friend, 18, were thought to have been abducted by six men who assaulted them for hours last weekend before stabbing Mary-Ann and shooting her friend. The 16-year-old's body was found in Prospect Park in Reading, Berkshire, early on Saturday after her injured friend crawled to the side of the road and flagged down a car. Her companion, who has not been named, is under police guard in hospital, where she is said to be in a serious condition. Superintendent Dilip Amin, police area commander for Reading, said it was "very fortunate she was still alive". He said: "She is very ill from the injuries she has received, but she has been very brave in helping police." Police believe the two young women may have been deliberately targeted, though they were not able to confirm whether the attackers were known to them. Thames Valley police said that a man in his 20s had been arrested in south London yesterday morning after raids on a number of houses. He was later bailed until June 2 by police. Three other men who were arrested earlier in the investigation were released on police bail. The teenagers' ordeal is believed to have begun at between 10pm and 11pm on Friday when they were approached by six men in the car park of the Wallingford Arms, a disused pub in Reading. They are then thought to have got into the men's car - which was maroon or burgundy - and been driven to the Abbey Wood guest house in Connaught Road. It was there that police said the two girls were subjected to a "disgusting ordeal". "They were taken against their will," said a spokeswoman for Thames Valley police. "They were subjected to physical abuse throughout the evening. We do not know how far [the men] intended things to go that night." The teenagers and the men left the guest house between 3am and 5am. Their last stop was Prospect Park, where Mary-Ann's friend managed to struggle free and raise the alarm. Police confirmed last night, after tests, that the teenagers had been sexually assaulted. The spokeswoman said police were working to identify the gun used in the shooting. A £10,000 reward is being offered for information about the murder. Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick, leading the investigation, said: "Our main focus continues to be finding the offender or offenders responsible for this horrendous attack and bringing them to justice," he said. "Our thoughts are with the family and friends of the girls involved and they have our deepest sympathies. We owe it to them to find out who is responsible for this murder and assault. "We continue to appeal for people who saw or heard the burgundy vehicle in the areas mentioned to come forward to us as soon as possible. All calls will be treated in the strictest confidence. "We also urge other people with information, no matter how insignificant they feel it may be, to come forward." In Prospect Park yesterday morning, friends and relatives gathered to lay flowers at the spot where Mary-Ann died as police in wetsuits searched through the reeds of a nearby pond. Teachers from Prospect college, which Mary-Ann attended, shepherded groups of children to the scene, where they left candles, flowers and school ties, on which some had scrawled "RIP, Mary-Ann." A card on one bouquet read: "To Mary-Ann. We will always be with you and we'll miss you a lot cuz we've lost a gr8 friend"; another, from her elder sister, said: "Mary-Ann, why why why? Mez, you know if I could take my heart and put in yours I would. Anything I would do for I will always love you. Miss you, Love big sis." A classmate, Scott Yule, 16, said that he had seen Mary-Ann the day before she was murdered. "I saw her, her mate and some boys," he said. "She looked like she was with some dodgy people. She looked miserable and sad." He described Mary-Ann as being a confident, popular girl with a "big mouth, everyone knew her". But he said she had taken a turn for the worse about six months ago and had started missing school. In a statement yesterday, Prospect college said: "We are deeply saddened by the tragic news of the death of Mary-Ann Leneghan. Mary-Ann was a year 11 student at the college. She was a popular and friendly student and was due to sit her GCSEs in a few days' time. Our thoughts and sympathies are with the family at this very difficult time. "The college is in a state of shock and mourning. Counselling will be made available for students and staff of the college." Mary-Ann's father, Bertie, visited the scene of his daughter's murder shortly before 2pm yesterday. The 50-year-old builder sobbed as he stared at the tangle of ties, flowers and candles. He then crossed himself and left. A wreath laid earlier by Mary-Ann's mother read simply: "Hope you are at peace, my darling, love you and miss you." Away from the scene, which was teeming with schoolchildren and TV crews, some of the people who use Prospect Park every day were struggling to take in Mary-Ann's murder. "We all feel very shocked by what's happened," said one, who was taking her dog for a walk. "I can't think of anything like this happening before. If I was walking around here on my own, then I'd be afraid. I don't go into the woods, though; I stay out in the open." Mike King was also walking his dog in the park yesterday. "I can't believe something like that could happen in a smashing park like this," he said, pointing to the buttercups and cow parsley. "I come here twice a day with my dog to watch the seasons changing, and now this happens. "You get car robberies round here, and my car's been broken into; but I can't say I've even heard of anyone getting mugged here," said Mr King. "She was only 16 years old - she hadn't even started to live her life had she? I'm getting on a bit and I think I've probably seen the best of it."