Boris Johnson today claimed early success in honouring his pledge to reduce crime and disorder on London's public transport system.Announcing that dedicated police teams would be deployed across 30 locations in January 2009, the capital's mayor produced statistics showing that robberies on buses had fallen by nearly 38%, violent crime by 5.6% and "overall crime" by 16%, as a result of trials at three transport "hubs" in different parts of the city.  Johnson added that separate teams tackling bus crime already based in 11 inner-London boroughs would now be "made permanent" after "bus-related crime in the borough was reduced in the boroughs served by the teams by 13.6% in recent months." These teams were introduced by Ken Livingstone, Johnson's predecessor as mayor, in March. Johnson released the information in the company of Transport for London's commissioner, Peter Hendy, his deputy for policing, Kit Malthouse, and senior police officers at a press conference in Bexleyheath police station, thereby honouring, he said, another pledge, this being to take a close interest in London's suburbs, where voters had a decisive influence in his securing power.  The mayor's confidence in the official police data – which also showed a substantial fall in reported sexual offences – was in marked contrast to his scepticism about such figures during this year's election campaign, when Livingstone regularly cited police figures to back his claim that crime had fallen across the board under his mayoralty. Quizzed about this by theguardian.com, Johnson appeared to acknowledge that his attitude had changed since joining "the frontline" at City Hall. He asserted that he was using "the best statistics we have".  Guardian.co.uk has learned that the mayor has plans to compile and publish his own statistics about crime in London, which will be unaffected by the changes in definitions and categorisations over time that make long-term assessments of crime levels more difficult. In another shift of position since the election, this one more of emphasis, Johnson went out of his way to stress that "I don't believe there is a plague of out-of-control kids all across London. There is a minority that needs to be deterred. We need to create reassurance."  Answering questions on the financial crisis and the implications of the credit crunch on Londoners, Johnson repeated his view that "there has been greed and deceit" among London's bankers but that "we must navigate a way out of this that does not punish innocent members of the financial services industry."  He declined an offer to propose a limit on City bonuses, saying he was no more likely to do that than pronounce on Premiership footballers' wages, but he expressed faith that in the present climate "it was highly unlikely that people will award themselves exorbitant bonuses".Johnson also renewed his plea to the government not to preside over reductions in investment in London public transport infrastructure projects, such as Crossrail and the upgrading of the London Underground. With Britain "allegedly teetering on the edge of a recession" that would be "the very worst thing we could do", he said. Asked how he intended to continue honouring his commitments on crime when the Metropolitan police was being required to make economies, Malthouse indicated that important savings would be made through the greater "civilianisation" of custody suites at police stations, which would be "cheaper and arguably more efficient".Hendy explained that TfL has been able to contribute to the funding of the new transport police provision, largely as a result of not having to implement Livingstone's election pledge to bring in higher congestion charge for so-called "gas-guzzlers" and also by making Johnson's consultation on the future of the charge zone's western extension less expensive than the previous one under Livingstone "in the interest of taxpayer value".