Tony Blair is intensifying his law and order crackdown by backing plans to dock housing benefit from tenants found guilty of antisocial behaviour by the courts.The measure, originally tabled by former Labour social security minister Frank Field, has won support from the Department for Work and Pensions, as well as the Department for Transport, Local Government and the Regions. Mr Field has already had discussions with the local government secretary Stephen Byers and is in talks with the Home Office. The sanctions would be imposed on any tenant found guilty of antisocial behaviour twice in three years. The latest initiative came as Tony Blair rejected a storm of criticism over Downing Street's plans to dock child benefit from parents of tearaway children. Mr Blair used Labour's final local election broadcast last night to push home his message. He said: "If you ask anybody the single biggest problem they have - and it goes right the way through the system - it is antisocial behaviour." Ministers, intent on tackling the so-called "neighbours from hell", believe they can frame Mr Field's proposal to overcome human rights objections and difficulties over the precise definition of antisocial behaviour offences. The government has given Mr Field's proposal a second reading and arrangements are being made for the bill to be piloted through the Lords. The proposal has the support of the Conservatives. But opposition politicians rejected plans to curb child benefit for parents of persistent truants, accusing Mr Blair of responding to street crime by making a crude appeal to traditional Labour voters ahead of Thursday's local elections. Campaigning in London, Mr Blair insisted he was un apologetic about the inadvertently leaked plan, saying: "We are examining the issue of when people are paid substantial amounts of benefits by the state and their children are persistently truanting, committing offences. Is it really fair that they owe no sense of responsibility in return? "There is a need to examine all the issues because it is not just the government, schools and police that are responsible - parents also have work to do." But Alistair Darling, the work and pensions secretary, declined to back the proposal on radio. He said: "The test for me and all my colleagues is: would it work and would it be effective? We haven't reached a conclusion yet, but we are considering it." Estelle Morris, the education secretary, backed the plan, saying truancy levels had been far more stubborn than anyone had predicted. She released figures showing that 40% of street crime, 25% of burglaries, 20% of criminal damage and a third of car thefts were carried out by 10 to 16-year-olds whoshould have been at school. She added that ministers had turned to child benefit docking after magistrates courts had failed to take advantage of powers passed in 1996 allowing the courts to impose fines on parents who fail to stop their children truanting. The Magistrates Association admitted a reluctance to impose fines since most of the parents of truanting children were on benefit. Case law requires magistrates to take means into account. Speaking after she had unveiled separate plans for police to be permanently stationed in as many as 400 schools in England, Ms Morris said: "I think it is something we will have to think about. It is not going to be a first line call but let's be clear about what we are talking about - it is parents who, warning after warning after warning, don't send their child to school. This is a small group of parents who turn their back on their responsibility to send their child to school." The leaders of head teachers and classroom teachers were divided over the plan. Eamonn O'Kane, general secretary of National Association of School Masters/Union of Women Teachers, warned: "The government should think long and hard before going down this road. Taking child benefit off parents who have tried but failed to tackle their children's behaviour would be a very unfair and discriminatory practice."