Parents could be stripped of child benefit if their children repeatedly play truant or commit crime, under controversial plans being considered by Tony Blair. The draconian measure, which will infuriate many Labour MPs and is understood to have divided the Cabinet, follows increasing concerns over teenage offenders. The collapse of the Damilola Taylor murder trial last week and Blair's pledge to get street crime 'under control' by the end of September have raised the stakes for the Government. The plan to punish parents financially for their children's misdeeds is understood to have been discussed at Cabinet level for three weeks. 'We are looking at other ways of making sure parents face their responsibilities,' a Downing Street spokeswoman said last night. 'This is one of a number of ideas.' The Home Office is already extending orders that compel parents of troublesome teenagers to attend classes in managing them, while courts have long had power to fine adults for failing to ensure their children attend school. However, critics argue these measures penalise the poorest families, such as single mothers, whose offspring may be beyond their control. Education Secretary Estelle Morris is expected to announce a separate crackdown on truancy this week. But the Prime Minister is said to have been shocked by fig ures showing that 80 per cent of truants caught in a sweep of shopping centres were accompanied by an adult, often a parent - suggesting that they condoned the child's behaviour. But he is keen for any new law to exempt parents who have genuinely tried to get their children to school. The new measures would also breach the principle that child benefit - now £15.75 for the first child and £10.55 for others - is a universal payment that goes to all parents to recognise that bringing up a family is expensive. Chancellor Gordon Brown and Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott are believed to be unconvinced. The plan risks comparison with Blair's proposals two years ago for hooligans to be marched to cashpoints to pay on-the-spot fines for anti-social behaviour. This was condemned as unworkable. The Department of Work and Pensions is said to have warned against extending the new proposal to take from parents other Government help, such as housing benefit.