It used to be said that when the US sneezes, Britain catches a cold. Perhaps it's not the best analogy to use when talking about tackling drugs, but one idea from the US certainly seems to be catching on.Specialist drug courts, where people who commit drug-related offences are coerced into accepting treatment and monitored by trained judges, have been operating in the US since 1989. There are now more than 450 in 50 states and all the evidence shows a clear reduction in drug use and reoffending.Now the prime minister, Tony Blair, says he wants to introduce a network of drug courts throughout England and Wales, based on a successful pilot scheme in Wakefield. The Scottish executive has also announced plans to launch a drug court in Glasgow by the autumn.The moves follow the introduction last October of drug treatment and testing orders, where drug abusers with lengthy criminal records can have their addiction treated instead of being jailed or heavily fined.The rationale behind drug courts is clear. Almost a third of all crime against property is drug-related and it is estimated that almost two-thirds of persistent offenders misuse hard drugs. Traditional punishments have failed and so a new approach is being tried.According to judge Jo Ann Ferdinand, a leading light in New York's drug courts circuit: "The emphasis on treatment instead of jail recognises that drug use is not simply a law enforcement problem but very much a public health issue. Drug courts are a success and are based on the belief that treatment works and that legal coercion can be effective in getting people to enter treatment."The Wakefield project started after a visit by Keith Hellawell, now the government's UK anti-drugs co-ordinator or drug "tsar" but then chief constable of West Yorkshire police, to the world's first drug court in Miami in 1995. Following a multi-agency approach, Britain's first court began sitting in Wakefield and Pontefract in 1998.Using specially trained magistrates, it offers rigorously enforced treatment programmes with routine and random tests, sanctions and incentives, monthly review hearings and graduation for those completing the programme. So far 170 court orders have been made and around 40% of offenders have successfully completed their programme.Val Barker, assistant director, public health for Wakefield Health Authority and chairwoman of the Wakefield drug action team, says: "We really believe we have started something that works and we know from some of the successes in Wakefield and abroad that they do work."I'd be delighted if drug courts took off in the rest of the UK because what has been done up until now hasn't worked, what we have done on our own hasn't worked, but joint initiatives to tackle the drug-crime link really make a difference to people's lives."David Edwards, executive director north for Turning Point, which provides treatment services for the Wakefield project, says it's the most exciting development he has seen in 30 years."The only service we know serious drug users come into contact with is the criminal justice system. Either we bang them all up or try a carrot-and-stick approach to do something about it. It can't be done on a voluntary basis because it won't hit the heavy, difficult, entrenched end of drug abuse," he says.Drugs and legal charity Release supports the idea of drug courts but warns there must be proper access to treatment for them to be effective. "It is not a panacea - it is part of the solution, not the whole solution. There is a shortage of skilled drugs workers at the moment and that is the real issue. How do you get new people into these posts?" says deputy director Ian Robinson.The Scottish drugs forum welcomes the initiative in Scotland but says drug courts need to be clear about what group they are targeting. "This is a more expensive intervention, more than community-based drug services, which needs to be targeted at high tariff offenders who need it most. The key issue is about the balance of provision - whether too many or not enough people are being pushed through the criminal justice system," says director Dave Liddell.Paul Turnbull, deputy director of the criminal policy research unit at South Bank University in London, helped carry out the recent Home Office evaluation of drug treatment and testing orders, which he describes as "promising but not yet proven"."Recent evidence on the drug court movement in the US is reasonably robust but there is no hard and fast evidence to show that having an established relationship between judge and offender produces positive results," he says."What we can say is that the whole package provided through the court process is of benefit. The courts are only a part of that and the fact that they can offer treatment and integrated systems for getting people back into a normal lifestyle is part of the process."