When 19-year-old James Chester used a fake birth certificate to pose as a schoolboy, no one noticed for three weeks. He befriended 14-year-olds in his class, until social workers were alerted to his real age and he was expelled.A year later, aged 20, he tried to get into another school but staff became suspicious when an adult who was not his parent phoned to vouch for him.Last year Chester abducted a 13-year-old girl from Portsmouth, after visiting her family home while dressed in school uniform. A major police hunt which ended when the pair were found three days later in Northern Ireland.On Monday he pleaded guilty at Portsmouth crown court to multiple counts of sexual activity with a child. He also admitted abducting the teenage girl on August 5 last year. Judge Graham White ordered two psychiatric reports on Chester, now 22, who will be sentenced in September. He was remanded in custody.The family of the girl believed at the time of the abduction that Chester was a schoolboy. Her father, who cannot be named for legal reasons, said: "I hope he gets locked away for a long time. What he has done to my daughter and our family is unforgivable. She's only a young girl ... we trusted him and he wasn't anything he said he was. He abused my daughter and he has mentally abused the rest of us."Chester was due to appear in court in September 2007 but jumped bail and went on the run to continental Europe. A Hampshire police spokeswoman said Chester, formerly of Garnier Street, Landport, was finally caught in Doncaster in January this year. "He went near enough round Europe and went to France, Germany, Italy and Prague among other places before returning to this country," she said. In September 2005, aged 19, he used a fake birth certificate and a forged letter of support to become a year 10 pupil at St Edmund's Catholic school in Portsmouth. He was expelled and reported to the police after social workers were tipped off, but no action was taken against him. The school did not inform parents about the incident at the time, but sent letters in September 2007 after he was arrested. Heidi Simister, of Southsea, whose daughter was in year 10 at the time, said: "I should have been told about this then. I can't believe a 19-year-old could have pretended to be a schoolboy." One teenager said Chester had joined the school claiming to be a 16-year-old who had missed lots of GCSE coursework. She said: "I met him at the age of 14 through a friend. She introduced him as a good mate ... he wanted to catch up so he looked into joining our year and was allowed."A year later, when Chester was 20, he attempted to get into City of Portsmouth Boys School. Staff became suspicious when an adult who was not Chester's parent or carer phoned the school to vouch for his application. Background checks were made, and school bosses became aware he was an adult posing as a child.They reported it to Portsmouth city council's admissions team and warnings were issued to all schools and neighbouring local authorities.