The tabloids do not like the idea, believing it to be a soft option. But police, prosecutors and the youth justice board have been backing restorative justice for some years. Last week the home secretary signalled he intended to incorporate the approach into both the adult and juvenile parts of the criminal justice system. Liberal campaigners, who have been urging the UK to adopt the scheme after it successfully transformed the New Zealand youth justice system in 1988, have every reason to cheer.For the tabloids, the new scheme means offenders who are ready to admit guilt and say they are sorry will get off scot-free. But the programmes have much deeper roots than this. Their aim is as much to help victims as divert offenders from the formal criminal justice system. Offenders are not just required to meet victims, but make offers of reparation too.Thames Valley police introduced the earliest British scheme by bringing shoplifters face to face with store managers in 1994 and later extended the principle to police cautions. The youth justice reforms in 1999 greatly expanded the programme, with the power to attach reparations and contacts with victims to all proposals from final warnings through to supervision orders.Some areas have given victims the option of choosing a community reparation programme where they had no wish to meet offenders. And Essex has replicated the original Maori approach, introducing family group conferences where offenders arrive accompanied with their entire family to meet victims and mediators. The 1998 British crime survey suggested victims were two to one in favour of reparative schemes for crimes like burglary and mugging. Over 40% were ready to accept an opportunity to meet their offender. But the best supporting statistic was the one chosen by the home secretary: "More than 75% of victims who choose to take part in restorative justice are glad they did so."This week's consultative document contains case notes on victims, who were helped by restorative schemes to put behind them the physical and emotional damage they had suffered. Where the current proposals fall short, is the way in which restorative justice is being bolted on to the criminal justice system, rather than being seen as a free-standing alternative. As the government's consultative document concedes, abroad it is not used as an add on, but as a mainstream alternative.