Officer Krupke, you've done it again.This boy don't need a job,  he needs a year in the pen.It ain't just a question of misunderstood; Deep down inside him, he's no good! Gee, Officer Krupke, West Side Story, Stephen Sondheim (1961)Michael Howard yesterday swept aside 40 years of British criminology when he pledged to base his crime policy more on Stephen Sondheim's lyrics in West Side Story than on those who excuse juvenile delinquency as a "purely social disease". The Conservative leader said the attitudes of the delinquent gang members in West Side Story were "all too prevalent in British society today". But what of the small print in his speech, which pledged a return to the "prison works" heyday of the "old home secretary Michael Howard"?   Prisons  Mr Howard says Labour's decision to cap prison numbers at 80,000 is "an extremely dangerous approach" and says it will not be a question of "if" but "how many" new prisons are built under the Tories. Mr Howard's "prison works" policy means he is willing to let inmate numbers rise regardless of cost. Official projections say that prison numbers, if unchecked, could reach between 91,400 and 109,600 by June 2009. He also said yesterday he wants to scrap the early-release tagging scheme which means a further 3,500 places to find. The prison service's latest plan to build a "super prison" provides 1,500 places for about £110m. At this rate Mr Howard yesterday committed the Tories to between 10 and 22 new prisons more than Labour, costing £1.1-2.4bn. There was no mention of such expenditure, other than saying "the cost to society of failing to take action is greater than the cost of prison building itself".   Home detention curfew  His pledge to end the "dangerous early-release scheme" rests on claims that since it was introduced in 1999 some 3,500 crimes have been committed by prisoners released prematurely and tagged. But the scheme has proved one of the most successful ever community punish ments. So far, 92,280 prisoners have been released, placed under curfew and tagged, with about 3,500 tagged at any one time. Some 1,977 out of the 92,280 have committed further crime, a reoffending rate of less than 3%. As for the 3,500 crimes committed, 964 were motoring offences. The risk assessment scheme used by prison governors is, if anything, too cautious and the scheme could be expanded.   Stop and search  The Tories oppose the police giving a printed reason to all those stopped in the street as recommended by the Macpherson inquiry into Stephen Lawrence's murder. Mr Howard claimed yesterday it will take seven minutes for an officer to fill in the paperwork at the station, taking him off the streets for more than an hour if he had stopped a dozen people. The Metropolitan police plans to start doing this from October. David Blunkett said its introduction would be phased in after practical objections. Home Office pilot projects suggest that while many police officers "did not embrace the procedural change" they got on with the job and it was done "without any major adverse reactions in terms of public response, crime or public practice". In fact, such stops took place about once every two hours. The public welcomed being given a reason and the research found that if hand-held computers were used there would be no need to return to the station.  Crime figures Mr Howard said yesterday crime had risen by 85% since 1997, putting his faith in police-recorded crime figures by arguing that the British Crime Survey, which shows crime has fallen substantially over that period, is less reliable as it excludes 12m offences a year. But he failed to mention the 85% rise is more than com pensated for by changes to recording methods and counting practices. Chief constables themselves say the crime rate has fallen.   School exclusions  Appeal panels over school discipline are to be scrapped and enforceable home-school contracts introduced. The panels were introduced by the Tories in 1987 and despite a few cases where they have over-ridden headteachers they have been the exception. As for legally enforceable contracts, will schools try to sue parents whose children's homework is late?