An Iraq veteran faces life in prison after being convicted of the racist murder of a Bangladeshi waiter whom he shot dead in an Indian restaurant on Orkney when he was 15.Sergeant Michael Ross, now 29 and a sniper with the Black Watch, jumped over the dock and tried to escape after the jury at Glasgow high court today found him guilty of murdering Shamsudden Mahmood in June 1994. Police captured him after he ran through a side door. The majority verdict ended one of Scotland's most troubling unsolved murders. The killing, described in court as "savage, merciless and pointless", is thought to be the first and only racist murder in the Orkney islands, a peaceful community with one of the UK's lowest crime rates.Mahmood, a waiter at the Mumutaz restaurant in Orkney's main town, Kirkwall, was killed in front of customers, including families with children, by a masked gunman who fired a single shot.It emerged during the six-week trial that Ross had been the police's main suspect, but that they had insufficient evidence to charge him. Witnesses had told police the then army cadet held violently racist views and that guns fascinated him.His father, Edmund — then a police officer initially involved in the murder inquiry, and himself a gun collector — unwittingly gave police their first breakthrough.He told colleagues he had 9mm ammunition very similar to that used by the killer, and his son's room was searched, revealing a notebook with a Nazi swastika, an SS symbol, and "death to the English" written on it.A balaclava was also found.It then emerged that Ross had been seen dressed in similar clothing to that worn by the killer when he carried out military-style manoeuvres in nearby woods a fortnight before the shooting. He had boasted to one girlfriend about stealing a handgun from his father's collection.Detectives had tried to establish whether the murder was drug related, racially motivated, a crime of passion or a contract killing. After drafting in extra officers from the mainland, they visited 2,354 homes, checked 2,983 vehicles and drafted a list of 8,693 people connected with the inquiry.Ross's father was jailed for four years on a charge of concealing evidence during the investigation.He was eventually sacked from the police after being convicted of attempting to pervert the course of justice when it emerged he had lied to his own force and had tried to cover up crucial evidence about the ammunition.A former Marine, James Spence, told detectives he had given PC Ross two boxes of ammunition — not just one sealed box as the policeman had claimed. Spence said the officer asked him to lie about this several times.However, the case against Ross was insufficient until a key witness walked into Kirkwall police station in 2006 with a note revealing he had confronted the killer that evening in nearby public toilets. William Grant, 51, said he had seen Ross leaving a cubicle with a handgun before he allegedly said: "Oh shit."After being confronted by police, Grant said he had become overwhelmed by guilt after keeping his secret for more than a decade, not even telling his wife. The case was reopened, and last year Ross was charged with the killing while serving in Northern Ireland. The court heard that, after leaving school, he had joined the army, where he served in Iraq and was promoted to sergeant, winning commendations for his bravery and a decoration in 2005. The prosecution admitted its case was circumstantial, but said it was compelling. The advocate depute, Brian McConnachie, told the jury Ross was a racist. One witness heard Ross saying: "Blacks should be shot and have a gun put at their head." However, his defence lawyer, Donald Findlay QC, produced several black soldiers who had served with Ross and testified to his bravery. In one incident, jurors were told, he had cried when a black member of his unit had been killed. Findlay said Grant's evidence was a "shambles" and insisted it was "unthinkable" a boy could commit such a cold-blooded crime.Speaking after the verdict, Detective Inspector Iain Smith, the senior investigator in the case, said the murder had been a "shocking and sickening crime". The discovery of Ross's notebook quickly led the police to believe "a racial motive was the most significant reason this crime occurred".He added: "It was a senseless crime. He was 15 at the time. It is an extremely unusual crime. The circumstances are unusual, if not bizarre."In a statement issued through Northern constabulary, Mahmood's brother, Abul Khair Mahmud, now living in Bangladesh, said: "Justice has been done."The family feel happy with the verdict and happy with the performance of the police. We are grateful to all who worked to bring the accused to trial."The judge, Lord Hardie, told Ross he would defer sentencing until next month following social reports.