Tony Blair has given his personal backing to Home Office plans to put parts of the probation service and a group of prisons out to tender for the first time, according to the leaked official account of a recent Downing Street meeting.Mr Blair gave his strong personal endorsement to the market testing programme, which will see the introduction of private companies and not-for-profit voluntary organisations to run parts of the £4bn-a-year prison and probation services. The official confirmation of Downing Street backing for the decision to sell off a group of prisons for the first time comes as Colin Moses, chairman of the Prison Officers' Association, announced his resignation from the board of the National Offender Management Service (Noms), which now runs the newly merged prisons and probation services. The leaked account of the Downing Street meeting, which took place a fortnight ago on November 18, says that "an announcement on the group of prisons for market testing" is to be made in the next few weeks. It also says that senior Noms officials have been asked to identify areas of the national probation service for market testing, to begin on a small scale at first in the next financial year. This will be the first time that probation services have been put out to tender. Officials have been asked to draw up a blueprint by next April and are expected to concentrate on accredited programmes which are used to tackle criminals' offending behaviour, drug testing and treatment orders as well as probation hostels. It is expected that not-for-profit voluntary organisations may be asked to take over some probation provision as well as private security com panies. The leaked memorandum shows that the prime minister's endorsement followed a presentation which was attended by the home secretary, David Blunkett, the minister for correctional services, Paul Goggins, and the Home Office permanent secretary, John Gieve. It was also attended by Martin Narey, the Noms chief executive, and other senior Noms officials. Ministers strongly deny that the proposals for market testing - known as "contestability" in Whitehall - amount to privatisation. The meeting notes stress that the emphasis is on providing higher quality services rather than lower costs. Mr Blair was told that there had already been some success in persuading the courts to use fewer short prison sentences and there had also been a significant diversion away from community penalties toward curfews. In addition, the prison population was now lower than had been predicted, and was holding at about 75,000. "In broad terms, if we keep the prison population from growing too quickly, there will be more investment in community sentences, and for tagging and tracking," says the memorandum. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation officers' union, said he believed this showed Noms was a vehicle clearly created to force through privatisation. "The sell-off of community supervision will lead to greater bureaucracy, a deterioration in service and more, not less, reoffending," he said. Mr Moses told the Guardian that he was resigning from the Noms board because he had been told that he had only been appointed in a personal capacity and not as a trade union representative. The POA has voted not to cooperate with the contestability competitions when they involve prisons.