Detectives investigating the murder of the Brighton teacher Jane Longhurst have recovered her watch and a matchbox from the common where her burning body was found.The special-needs teacher, 31, was found strangled and set alight on Wiggonholt Common, near Pulborough, West Sussex, on Saturday after a passing motorist noticed a fire. She had disappeared five weeks earlier. Sussex police said the wrist-watch, matchbox and one single match that were discovered in woodland were being tested by forensic experts in what could be a "significant breakthrough". Detective Chief Inspector Steve Dennis said: "We believe we are now just one step behind the person who did this. "He has kept Jane for four to five weeks and has released her in some form of panic attack. "There are certain things found at the scene that only someone who knew Jane could have known. To carry Jane's body and to place it here would have been very difficult. It would have looked awkward and suspicious." He said Miss Longhurst's decomposing body would have smelt in the weeks before she was dumped. Anyone who had noticed changing odours in their house or garage was urged to come forward. He said someone may have made "a terrible mistake" in killing the teacher. It emerged that Miss Longhurst was an avid bird watcher and regularly visited the bird sanctuary where her body was discovered. Police said that it was likely she knew her killer and tests were being carried out to establish whether she had been sexually assaulted. Police are also searching for Miss Longhurst's mobile phone, a Nokia 3310. The victim's mother, Liz Longhurst, her sister, Sue Barnett, and her partner, Malcolm Sentance, issued a statement urging anyone sheltering the killer to give them up. Mr Sentance, 34, an education welfare officer who shared a flat with Miss Longhurst, reported her missing. She was last seen by a neighbour approaching her front door carrying shopping bags. The family's statement said: "Anyone who knows anything about what happened, we beg you to come forward. If you are protecting a loved one, or you think someone is hiding something, try to imagine how you would feel if this was your daughter, or partner, or sister who had been killed in this way. You would want to find the person who did it."