Detectives investigating a string of sexual assaults in south London have not ruled out the possibility of copycat attacks.Nine women have been attacked in Clapham and Brixton in the last month, the Metropolitan police said. Officers have advised women to be vigilant and asked them to report anything that makes them feel unsafe.Two men aged 34 and 30 have been arrested in connection with the attacks and bailed pending further inquiries. A third man, 32, who was arrested in the early hours of Monday, remains in police custody.Commander Simon Letchford said: “We have linked, we believe, nine cases. We are going to keep an open mind on that. It may well be that we have one attacker, it may well be that we have copycat individuals.”He added: “We would encourage anybody who has either been a victim, they believe they have been attacked by this male, or anybody who knows him or has any information whatsoever – that could be the absolutely vital piece of information we need to arrest him as soon as we can.“We are certainly keeping an open mind as to whether he has committed other offences anywhere across London and I would encourage anyone who’s been a victim, or who recognises this male to contact us as soon as possible.”The suspect is described as a man with dark hair and of Mediterranean or Middle Eastern appearance. The investigation has been handed over to a serious complex case team. In the latest incident, police were called shortly after 5.40pm on Saturday after a woman was approached by a man while her back was turned. The victim called for help after he began touching her, and the attacker fled in the direction of Landor Road. The string of alleged offences began in Clapham on 9 October. A 23-year-old woman was grabbed on Clitheroe Road and assaulted, and the suspect ran off after she raised the alarm. Early the following morning, a man tried to engage a 30-year-old woman in conversation before grabbing her on Deauville Court. On 22 October a 32-year-old woman was followed along Trent Road by a man who put his hand up her dress.Three attacks were reported in as many hours on Monday evening, involving women aged 35, 28 and 26. The youngest of those victims was recorded on CCTV being approached from behind by a suspect as she tried to enter her home. On Wednesday evening two more attacks targeted women aged 28 and 31.