They grace the grounds of stately homes, historic houses and even modest suburban residences, but antique garden ornaments are increasingly finding their way into the hands of thieves who capitalise on easy pickings to the tune of millions of pounds a year.According to art recovery experts there is an epidemic in stolen statuary in England and Wales that is being fuelled by the increasing demand for salvage to feed the boom in home and garden renovations. Gangs of thieves, who study magazines such as Country Life to locate their spoils, find the lead and stone figurines, iron benches and sundials easy plunder. Statues weighing in some cases half a tonne are rolled off their plinths, hydraulically lifted on to trucks and moved within days through the hands of unscrupulous dealers. The increasingly lucrative crime, however, is considered a low priority for most police forces and the small number of gangs responsible continue to escape justice. Jim Hill, a retired detective from Thames Valley arts and antiques squad who now works to identify and locate stolen antiques, said everything from 19th-century Coalbrookdale iron benches worth £1,500 to 18th-century lead statues worth tens of thousands of pounds were being stolen from homes across the country every month. The black market in ornaments is increasing as their value rises. A Sotheby's sale of around 600 lots in Billingshurst, Sussex, which included a mid-19th century sculpture by Thomas Ridgeway Gould and a couple of 18th-century lead Arcadian figures, made £1.4m. "Thieves are finding house burglaries much more difficult nowadays and they know they get heavy sentences for it so they are taking the easier pickings of stealing garden statues. It is at epidemic proportions," Mr Hill said. The rate of recovery of statues is low, but there are some lucky finds. A few days ago Mr Hill's company, Art Recovery Ltd, restored a life-size stone statue of a Greek goddess, which weighed half a tonne, to its owner Sir Tatton Sykes at Sledmere House in east Yorkshire, a year and a half after it was knocked off its plinth during the night and stolen.The statue, Goddess of the Harvest, had been in its position in the grounds of the stately home for 100 years. Within days of the theft in December 2002 it passed through the hands of a dealer in Huddersfield to a shipping agent in east London, where it was crated up and loaded on to a boat at Harwich, to be shipped out to Chicago and into the hands of an American collector who had bought it over the telephone. "It was really down to a stroke of luck and some footwork," Mr Hill said. "We circulated a picture of the stolen statue and had a call from someone saying they remembered seeing it going into a crate at a shipping agent in east London. I went down there and tried a number of agents before meeting a forklift truck driver who remembered seeing the statue go into the crate. "The agent gave us all the papers so we were able to find out which ship it had gone on and who the buyer was in Chicago. One of my colleagues flew out to Chicago to identify the statue and luckily the new owner was very accommodating and handed it over." Humberside police have yet to interview the dealer in Huddersfield or Sir Tatton about the stolen statue, which is worth tens of thousands of pounds. Philip Venning, secretary of the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings, said the scale of the thefts is growing. "Some of it is sold in this country, some goes abroad. "It can range from very valuable or elaborate items through to things like York paving stones." In an attempt to hold on to their vulnerable property, some owners are drilling holes into statues and inserting microchips so they can trace them if they are stolen. "People are even having replicas made to put outside the house and storing the valuable antiques inside," said Peter Sinclair, executive secretary of the Historic Houses Association. Many legitimate dealers in architectural salvage are angry that their industry is refusing to help reduce the market in stolen goods by signing up en masse to a scheme known as Salvo. Steve Tomlin, who runs a salvage yard in Minchinhampton, Gloucestershire, said only a few dealers had taken up membership of the scheme, which demands that members check the provenance of antiques before buying them. "Where there is a trend a market place will develop and inevitably and sadly it will be both legitimate and the black market," he said. "It is not just those who steal these things, but also those people who buy them without asking where they came from. "Once these things have passed through five or six hands they are legitimised by the laundering. This is a market which runs into the millions of pounds a year and it is not being treated seriously by the police."