There had been several rumours of riots when I drove home on Tuesday night, but I knew that many of them were false alarms. When I pulled up my car, I saw lots of riot police, lots of vans, thousands of spectators, and a handful of teenage hoodies with bricks and stones, more mouth than action. The police did a really good job of dispersing them over an hour and a half and it seemed that all was quiet.But then a couple of lads and one drunk elderly man began pulling at Bargain Booze's shutters, as another kicked cracks into the bank's door. He was drunk and angry and clearly hated the police, and judging by their first-name terms he was no stranger to them either.Some of us ended up "kettled" while the police at either end of the precincts kept control of the lads with the stones. I was wearing my dog collar, which made this experience all the more surreal.As some men picked up bricks and got in line to lob them at police vans, the action shifted from one place to another so no matter where you stood, you ended up in the thick of it at some point. Bizarrely, whenever it came near me, one or other of the brick throwers would halt fire and ensure I was somewhere safe – on occasion even escorting me and physically shielding me from rocks – before giving the OK for more missile throwing.Then some of the youths set fire to Salix: a place that enables people to find somewhere to live. People began to get really pissed off with the "bored young lads destroying our community" as one bloke put it.I spoke with the reporter whose car was set on fire just moments before. He seemed very shaken and later some residents told me that the lads had set on him for filming and photographing them – after all, it would count as "evidence". And there I was with hundreds of others with my iPhone out seemingly completely immune.Oddly, one man put down the golf club he was using to smash shop windows when he saw my collar. He went red and nodded at me. Others put down stolen goods, and still others walked up to proclaim their disgust at what was happening. But as the drinking ("free beer!") got underway, cars screeched into the area that clearly were the organised element of the criminal culture and I thought it wise to cover up.As I watched through the thick, black smoke billowing from a burned-out car, talking to residents of the blocks of flats in direct line of the fire, I saw teenagers loot an electrical good sole trader's shop. Don't get me wrong when I say this, but if they'd nicked the TVs and laptops I could almost understand it, but they simply brought them outside and smashed them to bits in the street.Young girls drinking alcopops "dared" each other to go and nick something. Lads tried to break into Lidl and set fire to it, and mothers sent small children in to fill shopping bags with food and beer because they were too young to be arrested. I wasn't the only one challenging some of this – other residents were trying to talk sense into those who had somehow lost all sense of their normal boundaries, but it seemed like one big joke to a mass of hysterical people laughing all the way to the bank. How could anyone put their children in such a dangerous position, never mind ask them to commit crimes?Suddenly there was a mass exodus: the precinct had been compromised and there were shouts of "iPhones! Xboxes! Everything! You can get whatever you want!" Hoodies went up and scarfs went over faces, in they went and more "respectable" cars started arriving to collect the goods. Youths started arriving with hammers and the women and girls backed off. What appalled me most were the amount of families – with kids in the back seat – involved in all of this. Children hung out of car windows videoing it all on their mobiles.I was able to leave once the police vans were smashed up and they retreated temporarily. Amazingly, just a few hundred yards away, all is peaceful and the riot is "on TV". My clothes stank of smoke and I wanted to weep with rage at a society that has disenfranchised so many for so long while brainwashing several generations of children to want, want, want.I also feel a kind of empty, shocked sorrow that I heard young children being taught to hate the police as they arrived, that parents would send them into dark, dangerous buildings to loot to feed their own greed, happy to teach them that stealing and looting and robbing and mindless waste and destruction are "funny", because if I heard that once I heard it a thousand times tonight. "I just think it's funny!"I saw the faces of police personnel, hardened with concentration for the task at hand, while people laughed at the potential damage they would inflict on somebody else's wife, son, daughter, mother.The trouble is, we do have a two-tier society, and with bankers being allowed their bonuses despite stitching us up every which way, we will continue to pay for this in more ways than one. With the cuts aimed primarily at the poor and the needy and the disenfranchised, things can only get worse.And what will we do? Continue to promulgate the values that have created this deadly cocktail of haves and have-nots, faithless, hopeless people who have been taught that consumerism is a recreational right and all moral and religious education completely nonsensical? Surely that would be nonsensical.