John Reid was under renewed pressure last night after a judge gave a man who downloaded child pornography a suspended prison sentence, citing overcrowded prisons and the home secretary's appeal to the courts to spare less serious offenders a jail term.Judge John Rogers QC, sitting at Mold crown court, in North Wales, gave Derek Williams, 46, a six-month sentence suspended for two years, saying he had to consider the current sentencing climate. "As of yesterday I have to bear in mind a communication from the home secretary," he said, referring to Mr Reid's appeal to the courts not to jail less serious and non-dangerous offenders because the prisons were "very close to capacity".Williams from Penygwdwn, North Wales, last night admitted that he was "lucky to be out", but said the judge was "only doing his job". He told BBC News: "You cannot blame the judge for what he has done. His hands are tied." David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said last night: "We now have a situation where sentences are being dictated by the prison capacity and not the severity of the crime."Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust, said: "The government has failed in its duty of care to protect Britain from serious and violent offenders, and in particular paedophiles. Was this the government that came into power with the slogan 'tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime?' This government has been anything but that."Williams was given a suspended sentence after pleading guilty to 10 charges of making indecent photographs between November 2005 and May last year.Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor, said the judge had followed guidelines which gave him the choice of not sending the man to prison. He told Sky News: "What you've got to do is ensure that dangerous offenders go to prison. The sentencing guidelines panel has said repeatedly ... if you can avoid sending people to prison, for example because they are not dangerous, try and avoid doing so, because very often you will reduce reoffending by doing something for them in the community."Mr Reid hinted yesterday that an RAF base, probably in Yorkshire, is to be drafted in to ease the prisons crisis. Jails in England and Wales are at bursting point, with about 80,000 inmates. Hundreds are being housed overnight in police stations and court cells.He also confirmed that the prison service is in the final stages of negotiating to buy two prison ships similar to HMP Weare, which was anchored in Portland harbour but sold as its seaworthiness certificate was about to expire.Mr Davis was sceptical. "This would not be the first time John Reid has trailed something, only for it to fail to materialise," he said. The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, said the case illustrated "the inevitable domino effect of a government lurching about in blind panic trying to solve a prison overcrowding crisis of its own making".The case also drew criticism from the NSPCC. The organisation's director, Dame Mary Marsh, said: "It is unacceptable that people who have committed crimes against children are not jailed simply because prisons are too full if the severity of the crime requires a prison sentence."