A 65-year-old man who raped and sexually abused children for decades - a campaign described by a judge as the "worst" ever - was sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment yesterday.Robert Smith was jailed amid angry scenes at York crown court after pleading guilty to 42 sex offences, including rape and serious sexual assault against 21 children between 1954 and 1984. In at least one instance he abused two generations of the same family.As he was led away, his victims and their relatives shouted "rot in hell". Far from admonishing them, Judge Paul Hoffman, the recorder of York, concurred. "Your outbursts are entirely understandable and I have nothing but sympathy for your suffering," he said.Passing sentence he told the court he had consulted the law book Thomas' Sentencing Encyclopaedia and had been unable to find a case "as bad as this one".He told Smith, of Scarborough, North Yorkshire: "Yours is the worst case of its type that I've ever encountered in nearly 42 years of criminal practice. It stands apart in its sheer scale of wickedness and your callous disregard for the victims' feelings. For 30 years you abused the trust placed in you by parents and children."He said Smith had used the children as "sexual playthings", adding: "You dominated these children by your presence and behaviour. They were terrified of you and you abused them through fear."The judge said Smith showed a "prolonged and insatiable depravity". As Smith left court, he gave a V sign to the public gallery.Many of Smith's victims, who were aged between four and 16, were abused over a number of years and remained traumatised by the abuse, which had resulted in nervous personalities, stammering and stuttering.Outside the court one of Smith's victims said it would be a "fitting end" for his abuser to die in jail. "The sentence he's got has come at the right time," he said. "He's an old man now." The victim also encouraged all other victims of sex abuse cases to come forward. Another victim said: "Justice has been done. It's been a very traumatic experience and we just want to get on with our lives."David Brook, prosecuting, told the court that the offences prosecuted were sample counts, as many of the victims could not remember the numerous occasions they were abused in detail. Smith was jailed for two years at Hull crown court in 1993 for six counts of indecent assault and three of gross indecency.In 1987 he was cautioned following allegations of indecent assault by victims who were also involved in the offences for which he has been sentenced yesterday. Detective Inspector Mick Moore, of North Yorkshire police, said those instances represented a "missed opportunity" but added: "I think it's fair to say that, not only have I never been involved in an investigation such as this before, but I don't know anyone else who has."The court heard that the children, many of whom were abused over a number of years, obeyed him out of fear. One woman, who was raped by Smith, was so terrified of what would happen if she confronted him that he went on to abuse her children too.Smith was arrested in June 2005 because one of the victims contacted police when he realised the paedophile was living near a school in Scarborough. He told police Smith had abused him on "perhaps 30 occasions". During mitigation Simon Reevell, Smith's lawyer, said the attacker cooperated with police, and had pleaded guilty to 42 charges. Mr Reevell said Smith wanted to apologise for his actions, but he was heckled by a victim shouting: "Too late."