It has become something of a cliche for residents near a crime scene to shake their heads and say: "You'd never expect something like that to happen around here." No one around Thornton Road in Bradford said that today.The junk-filled dead-ends, abandoned factories and boarded-up flats where the city's sex workers plied their trade were exactly the sort of place a killer would do their work. One already had. In 2001, the beaten, naked body of 19-year-old street worker Becky Hall was found behind a car park on Thornton Road.In a pub up the street from the home of Stephen Griffiths, charged today with the murder of three women, the landlady was furious. A close friend of Suzanne Blamires, whose remains were found in a river on Tuesday, she said police must take some responsibility for her death.They forced her to work in such a dangerous location, she said. Until 15 years ago, prostitution in Bradford was concentrated on Lumb Lane, the mainly Asian street immortalised as "The Lane" in the 90s drama Band of Gold. But police drove the women south to the industrial area around Thornton Road where fewer residents would complain, said the publican. If they'd intervened earlier, Suzanne would be alive, she said.She saw her for the final time last week when the 36-year-old popped in between clients. "I'm not allowed to serve the working girls drinks, but they come in to use the toilet," she said, refusing to be named for fear of upsetting Suzanne's family. The two had been friends since childhood. Suzanne hadn't grown up in poverty. "Her family was the envy of the street, as they went on safari in Africa when everybody else was going on holiday to Blackpool." By the time Suzanne reached adulthood, her life was unravelling. "She was on heroin in her early 20s," said the publican.Most of the women were on drugs. "We never see police around here until this," she added. "They drive past in vans or send PCSOs who don't even have the power of arrest."These women don't deserve to die. They're all somebody's daughter, yet they're described as prostitutes in the media and it makes it so sleazy. She had the loveliest childhood and home; she and her sister had everything going for them." Tonight Nicky Blamires, Suzanne's mother, spoke of her life. "Suzanne was a bright, articulate girl who went to college and was training to be a nurse. Even though she ended up on the wrong path, she tried to protect her family and kept herself to herself, so people knew very little about her. She always knew she could come home and the door was always open."In Chain Street in the red light district, a friend of Shelley Armitage watched as police searched derelict council houses. The woman, a heroin addict, said the street workers would charge clients "around £20 or £30" – enough to provide two hits of heroin, she said. "All the women who work the beat are ill," she said. "It's either heroin, crack, alcohol or methadone, or a combination. They don't deserve this to happen to them."On City Road, on the edge of the red light district, a Christian charity, Teen Challenge, had a caravan last night. Every Thursday, outreach staff invite sex workers for tea and biscuits. All three murdered women were regulars, said Brian Hendlesby, the charity's chief.Armitage was the most frequent. "She was very bubbly – you heard her before you saw her. She'd signed up for our residential rehab course in Wales before Christmas, but never went through with it. We often find the women themselves are motivated, but their partners are also drug users and drag them down. It was that way with Shelley."Outside Griffiths's flat in Thornton Road, Charlie Daniels, a former sex worker, waved a book she had written about her experiences in prostitution. This was a disaster waiting to happen, she said. "Bradford should have been prepared. We haven't learned any lessons from Ipswich. We need to deal with alcohol and substance addiction." She was referring to "Suffolk strangler" Steve Wright. "We need to deal with homelessness and poverty, why women still go on the streets, and why they're not getting the support they should."Outside the police station, the press conference which revealed Griffiths was to be charged was watched by Sharon Norman, 36, forced into prostitution by a relative at 17 and since working in Bradford's shifting red light area. She had called to report an alleged violent attack by her partner. Violence was an almost everyday part of her work, currently on hold because she is five months pregnant with her third child."I've been raped frequently and had knives at my throat. I admit, I've robbed some of them and they've come back looking for me. But a lot of them are seriously disturbed," she said. "They like thinking they're in control when you're with them in the car."• This article was amended on 28 May 2010. Shelley Armitage was named as Shelley Armstrong in the photo caption. This has been corrected.