Five members of a "snakehead" gang have been jailed for a total of 42 years for their role in the kidnap and torture of a man who owed them money.The gang, from London, abducted their 27-year-old victim, Chen Cun Liang, from the Spring Deer restaurant in Tyldesley, Greater Manchester, where he was working during July last year. Mr Chen was then subjected to a two-week ordeal in which he was assaulted and tortured with knives, machetes, and metal and wooden batons. Members of his family in China were forced to listen to assaults via the telephone.All five men pleaded guilty at Manchester crown court to offences including kidnap, blackmail, grievous bodily harm and false imprisonment. He Chen, 26, was sentenced to 13 years for conspiracy to falsely imprison, conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm and blackmail. Chen Ming Jien, 27, was given 10 years, and Zhang Long and Zun Yan Chen, both 22, were given eight years for kidnap, false imprisonment and conspiracy to cause GBH. He Wang, 38, was sentenced to three years for false imprisonment. It is the first snakehead kidnap to be reported in north-west England, which has a large Chinese community. Manchester police hailed it as a breakthrough after receiving unprecedented cooperation from authorities in China, who allowed detectives to travel there to gather evidence against the gang. Chen Cun Liang had arrived in England from the Fu Jian province in February 2002 af ter his fishing boat was destroyed in a typhoon and he was unable to support his family. His passage was assisted and organised by snakeheads, the gangs who are involved in illegally trafficking people from China to various countries, at a cost. He allegedly owed the gang £7,000. He was working at the restaurant on July 5 when two other Chinese men came in. Another six men arrived after a mobile call was made. One of the men recognised Mr Chen, who was kicked and punched and bundled into a car. A hood was placed over his head and he was taken to a house in Longsight, where the beatings continued. The next day he was driven to Long's home in London, where the beatings continued for a further 13 days. He was eventually released after he was forced to write an IOU for £7,000. An IOU is perceived to be as good as cash in China. He was taken to Euston station, where the gang members bought a ticket and put him on a train to Manchester. He was found in the city by police. Greater Manchester police had been notified of the kidnap via the Chinese embassy. Detective Superintendent David Chetwynd, of Greater Manchester police, said: "Chen Cun Liang has been beaten and assaulted whilst being held against his will. Knives, machetes and batons were used to inflict serious injuries. Many of the beatings took place whilst the victim's family were on the phone in China and able to hear." He said Mr Chen who had shown great strength of character, remembered his ordeal "as if it were yesterday". He added: "His attention to detail and recollection of incidents throughout his ordeal have been the most accurate I have seen with any witness." Judge Fawcus, the trial judge, recommended that all five men be deported after serving their sentences. 