A man who stabbed his identical twin brother to death as they squabbled about past disputes on New Year’s Eve has been told he will spend at least 13 years in prison.Robert Cerqua, who stabbed his sibling Christopher with a kitchen knife, had sobbed in the witness box as he told the court he loved his brother and described how they had been inseparable as children.Jailing Robert for life at Winchester crown court, Mr Justice Teare said: “His [Christopher’s] death and its consequences have had, and will continue to have, a devastating effect on your parents and those close to you.“You grew up with your brother and from time to time worked with him in the building trade. When you were both sober, it seems you got on well.“But when each of you had too much alcohol, there was a risk an argument might break out leading to violence. That had happened before and it happened on New Year’s Eve.”At the time of the murder, the brothers, then aged 31, were back at the family home in Hythe, Hampshire, and sharing a bedroom after long-term relationships broke down.Robert had told the court the pair often fought after they had been drinking; he claimed his brother was addicted to strong cannabis.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   999 call from mother of man guilty of stabbing identical twin – audio recordingHe said that on the evening of the killing – 31 December last year – they sat at the kitchen table, drank cans of lager and sang together. But the mood soured and Robert sent his new partner a text saying they were talking about the past and had “things to sort out”.The argument exploded after Christopher demanded a can of one of Robert’s beers and he refused.Robert told the jury: “When I looked up he turned round with a kitchen knife in his hand. He was glaring at me. I thought: ’I’ve got to get the knife’. My memory is a bit hazy but we scuffled.”He said he heard Christopher “yelp” and continued: “I looked down and I had the knife in my hand.” He could see no blood but realised that he had “caught him”.The brothers’ father, Peter, tried to save Christopher, while their mother, Denise, made a frantic 999 call. Robert ran out of the house without stopping to put on his shoes. “I panicked. I didn’t realise how badly he was hurt,” he said. “I wasn’t hanging around.”Robert was very drunk in the early hours of New Year’s Day when police found him and broke the news that his twin was dead. During a police interview, he said: “I killed my fucking brother. Nine out of 10 times it would be all right. Just my luck he had to die on me.”Robert’s barrister, Patrick Upward QC, asked him to describe his “true feelings” towards his brother. With tears in his eyes, Robert said: “I loved him.”Robert told the jury the brothers were very close as boys. “As kids we were inseparable,” he said. Asked by his barrister how they had got on after leaving school, Robert replied: “Really well, just like brothers should. We used to go fishing together, we played golf together. Pretty much any hobby that I had was his too. We were so similar.”The pair stopped spending so much time together in their early 20s when they began relationships with two women. Robert said Christopher did not see “eye to eye” with his partner.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christopher Cerqua was stabbed to death by his twin brother with a kitchen knife. Photograph: Hampshire constabularyRobert told the court that there were problems between the brothers when they had been drinking. “We would usually fight,” he said.A few months before his death, Christopher’s personality changed dramatically, his brother said. Robert told the court that Christopher became addicted to skunk and was smoking up to £80-worth a day. “It used to make him mad,” he said.In the weeks before his brother’s death, Robert said Christopher had bitten him three times, once on the neck. “It looked like a love bite,” he said.“It hurt. He just laughed.”On New Year’s Eve Robert and Christopher drank cans of lager together at the kitchen table. Robert said he felt really happy because of a new relationship he had recently started and planned to set up his own business.Robert said he wanted to talk to his brother about his behaviour. In particular he wanted to make sure Christopher would be able to get on better with his new girlfriend than he had with his previous partner.The court heard that Robert Cerqua had served previous prison sentences for offences of battery and affray relating to domestic incidents involving his former partners. He also had previous convictions for motoring offences and criminal damage.Outside court, Det Insp Simon Baker, of Hampshire police, said: “This is a double tragedy for the family who have lost one son and now have another who has been convicted of killing him. Our thoughts remain with Christopher’s family and friends.”Following the conviction, Julia Woodward, senior prosecutor for the Crown Prosecution Service Wessex, said: “This case is a terrible family tragedy.”