When you heard last week that David Gest is claiming Liza Minnelli beat him up sooo badly that he now needs zillions of dollars in damages, didn't you - admit it - smile? Didn't you think, dear God, this ghastly couple, while imagining the diminutive Minnelli up on tippy-toes, flailing wildly at her improbable spouse?Of course, had the accusation been reversed, had it been that he had systematically beaten her, there would have been no trace of humour. Since the 1970s, the matter of domestic violence against women has been properly dinned into us as a monstrous, inexcusable crime where the man is always, but always, guilty.The peculiar parallel thinking, however, is largely unchanged over centuries. A man called 'hen-pecked' or 'pussy-whipped' is a man insulted; the behaviour of the hen or the puss is as nothing to the charge of his unmanliness that he cannot control her. And thus, while the man who thumps is guilty so, too, is the man who is thumped. A relationship counsellor once told me that she considered the battering of men to be one of the final taboos, and that as long as both parties to the violence feel a vested interest in keeping shtoom - the attacker for fear of punishment, the attacked for fear of ridicule - families will continue to play host to the last great unmentionable. I know, I told her: mine did. My uncle was a wiry, little fellow; very Welsh, very Chapel, he worked the railways that carried the coal from the mines and, come weekends, he took his bucket into the valleys to raise money for striking miners. His wife was a proper Mrs Spratt; hulking and hard and glazed of eye, what we children called spooky and even kindly adults would concede to be a little odd. With hindsight, nobody should have been surprised that something was awry, but our darling uncle went to such elaborate lengths that, eventually, we were. He 'fell down the stairs' at least as often as any woman ever did, while he lived, for years, with the kickings and the beatings and, oh, the shame. Not until his relentless tormentor was dead and most decently buried did he unburden himself to his only sister - my mother - who, in turn, was horrified that he'd carried this alone for so long. Yet even as he whispered his secret (such a terrible secret, to him, that if he were alive today I could not write a word of this), he defended himself; there was not a thing, he said, that he could have done about it. And my mother, wise as she was, agreed that indeed there was not. She saw, as he did, the closed doors on all sides. She saw that there are reasons other than embarrassment for a man to tolerate his abuse; he cannot strike back physically, even where the inequalities of muscle favour the woman, lest he be charged a 'wife-beater' - and in any case, as was certainly true of her gentle brother, he may well not be of the striking persuasion. He cannot complain, not really, for to whom should he take his grievance? While every woman at the wrong end of a fist can, should she find the will, lift a telephone and dial from an expanding choice of numbers for support, precious few comparable facilities exist for men. There is, for instance, a comprehensive list of links and organisations designed to help victims of domestic violence that has been compiled by the BBC; in five print-out pages there are dozens specific to women, several specific to gays and lesbians, several others specific to race, religion and age (children, Asian, Jewish, the elderly) - but specific to men? One. Yet if we do scrabble around for data, we can sensibly conclude that the problem is dramatically larger than the scant efforts at solution. Even without being able to count the goodness-knows-how-many who, like my uncle, would die of the humiliation if he went public, the most recent British Crime Survey nevertheless finds some 9 per cent of domestic violence victims to be men, wounded at the hands of women. The doughty Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, of the Family Division of the High Court, has expressed concern that 10 per cent of young women think it acceptable to hit their partners - indeed, she marched off last month to address an audience of law reformers at Number 10, telling them that one in six men will be the victim of domestic violence at some time in his life.She further explained that while 120 women are killed every year by a current or former lover, 30 men are killed in similar circumstances. It is a smaller number, but hardly an insignificant one. If that 30 out of 150 were from, say, an identifiable minority group instead of simply 'men', one might expect a nation scandalised and state-funded agencies set up to investigate the scandal. As it is, hardly any of our national newspapers bothered to cover Dame Elizabeth's speech. The Mankind Initiative, a registered charity set up to help male victims, reports indifference from police and care services, a chronic shortage of support and money, and begs for a raised awareness of the issues. One fears, however, that they should not hold their breath, as the rest of us complicitly continue with the grand conspiracy. Not so very long ago, a man in our crowd appeared at a party with one hand in his partner's and the other in a splint. They'd had 'a mock fight', they both giggled, in which she'd broken his finger. Hilarious. Especially since he is a guitarist, eh? I pondered, for a moment, the word 'mock' and thought, again, of my uncle. But that was their story and they were sticking to it. And so we carry on, chuckling all the while at She Who Must Be Obeyed: when all is said and done, just a comedy line. Good for a laugh.