Surrounded by rolling English countryside, framed in bright sunlight, families are clustered at picnic tables, laughing and chatting; baby buggies are parked on the grass nearby. One mother is brushing her teenage daughter's hair. It is a perfect late-summer's day. But appearances can be deceptive. This is the garden of Askham Grange women's prison, in the picturesque village of Askham Richard, a few miles from York. In less than two hours, most of these people - husbands, children, mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers and friends - will vanish, leaving the inmates alone with their guards.For Susan May, mother of three and grandmother of four, three months shy of her 60th birthday, it is just another surreal aspect of finding herself still in jail, 12 years into a life sentence for the murder of her elderly aunt, Hilda Marchbank, a woman she says was as dear to her as her mother."For the first year," she says, "I just kept expecting my cell door to swing open and someone to say, 'It's all been a dreadful mistake.' Now I know that won't happen, but you never get over the disbelief." The years have brought bitter disappointment, with two failed appeals, the first in 1997 and the second in 2001. Now, however, her supporters are optimistic of an extremely rare third appeal, prompted by the findings of six first-year forensic science students at the University of Paisley. The students, who have been backed by several eminent scientists, and who all gained A+ grades for the project, claim that there is no definitive proof that a substance in which May's fingerprint was found was her aunt's blood. Analysis of three stains on Hilda Marchbank's bedroom wall formed the central plank of the prosecution case at May's original trial. Then, fingerprint expert Javaid Hussain testified that one of these stains was the victim's blood, and that another contained May's fingerprint - which, the Crown argued, must have been left in fresh blood, placing her at the scene at the time the murder was committed, not 12 hours later when the blood would have dried. While May's barrister Michael Mansfield QC raised doubts about the origin of these stains at her second appeal, the Paisley students have now replicated the tests carried out by Hussain, using three chemical reagents. They found that, using Hussain's methods, almost any biological material would have given the same positive result as blood, and concluded that there was very little hard forensic evidence linking May to the murder. Last year, the students' lecturer Dr Allan Jamieson, director of the Forensic Institute, Edinburgh, said that blood was just one of several materials that could have been present in the house giving the same result, but Hussain's insistence that it was blood "would have misled any reasonable person as to the weight of the evidence". The Criminal Cases Review Commission is currently taking the highly unusual step of reconsidering the case, although it could take weeks or months for them to reach a decision. But May is not holding her breath: she says she has no reason to trust the system, and cannot afford to hope too hard. Trim from her daily keep-fit and yoga regime, and deeply tanned from working in the prison garden, her white-blonde hair and no-nonsense Lancashire burr exude practicality and coping. Even so, there is a faraway look in her eyes. If she were at home now, she would be looking after her grandchildren, cooking, shopping - the usual things. Instead, her conversation is peppered with talk of lawyers and appeals, the indignities of the prison system, and the young inmates driven to drugs and suicide. Susan May lived in the tiny village of Royton, Lancashire, in the house where she was born, and ran her own hairdressing salon before giving it up to care for her mother and her mother's sister, Hilda Marchbank. Hilda, 89 at the time of her death, was frail and virtually blind. She lived nearby in her own house, and May often called on her several times a day, making her meals, cleaning and putting her to bed in the evening. But looking after her was never a chore: her aunt was good-natured and always grateful for anything her niece did. They were a close family, and May had no regrets about giving up hairdressing. Then, on the morning of March 12 1992, May arrived at Hilda's house to find her dead in her bed, battered and bruised. Cupboards had been flung open, but nothing valuable appeared to be missing. It looked as if a burglar had turned violent and then fled, terrified of taking anything that could connect him to the scene. May says she does not remember a great deal about finding Hilda, such was her shock. The police were ini tially sympathetic, and assigned a family liaison officer. May had been in the house every day for years, dusting and cleaning, so it seemed perfectly reasonable that she be asked to give her fingerprints for elimination purposes. Then, on March 30, she was charged with murder. She was incredulous that anyone could think that for no reason she could kill someone she loved. "The day she is supposed to have been killed was March 11, my mother's birthday. It seems a daft thing to say: I could never have killed her at any time, but on Mum's birthday, of all days." Certain that the case would never make it to court, May engaged the family solicitor, who had never represented someone accused of a murder before. At the original trial, the prosecution called more than 60 witnesses, the defence just two - May's daughter Katy, and Dorothy Cooksey, May's best friend. Cooksey and May were born within a few months of each other and had lived in the same street virtually all their lives. Cooksey remains adamant that her friend is incapable of hurting anyone. "She's the most gentle, generous person," she says. "She never once complained about taking care of her aunt, or her mother. Even in prison, the younger girls come to her for help, and she does whatever she can for them." Cooksey, a neat, softly spoken woman, her dark hair flecked with grey, is an unlikely rebel. Yet what she perceives as the stark injustice of May's case has driven her and a small group of loyal friends, middle-aged and middle-class, to believe what they once thought impossible. "I was brought up to always trust a policeman, to believe in law and order, that innocent people didn't end up in jail," she explains. "Who would have thought at my age I'd be holding a placard, trekking to prison?" May's supporters are hopeful of launching an appeal this autumn and are in talks with lawyers. Already they have the support of over 75 MPs and 25 Lords, and two local MPs, Michael Meacher and John McDonnell, have written to David Blunkett, the home secretary. Even Chris Ross, the neighbour the tabloids dubbed May's "toyboy lover", remains a close friend, and visits her regularly. The tabloids' sensational suggestion that May murdered her aunt to get her hands on an inheritance in order to lavish expensive gifts on him holds little water. Their relationship, May says, with weary resignation, had nothing to do with her aunt. Neither of them was short of money, and Hilda was happy to help her niece out financially from time to time. There would have been no need to resort to murder. May's friends believe that Hilda Marchbank was killed by a local burglar, who has himself since been murdered. They say police failed to investigate a host of leads and conflicting forensic evidence, including unidentified clothing fibres in Hilda's hand and other unidentified footprints and handprints. Two witnesses reported seeing a red car outside Hilda's house the night she died, and the relative of a local criminal appar ently knew of the murder before the body was discovered, reporting her suspicions to police. May says that her lowest point came after the failure of the second appeal in December 2001. "I'd just sat through the judgment and was taken from London back to prison, handcuffed, totally on my own in the back of one of these 'sweatboxes', seven hours without a toilet break or a drink," she says. A year after she was first convicted, her mother died; she was released for just a few hours to attend the funeral. "In a way," she says, "I feel I haven't yet had the chance to grieve properly for either auntie or mum." She has her "walking-through-treacle days", as she puts it, but tries to keep the worst of it from her family. "Sometimes, I'd be about to go on the phone, and I'd feel tears well up and I'd just hold off ringing till I felt a bit better," she explains. "But I never want them to feel they can't tell me when they're upset. They'd be telling me if I was at home." In the meantime, the women who congregate in her cell at night to put the world to rights have become a surrogate family. She has formed close friendships with several other prisoners and ex-prisoners, male and female, and become politicised through their experiences and her own. "Of course, not everyone who says they're innocent is innocent, but you get a feeling about some people," she says. "And I've seen terrible things: young girls who have had horrendous lives, becoming drug addicts, harming themselves. It isn't as straightforward as it seems from the outside." She says the prison experience has changed and hardened her. "It has to, otherwise you'd never survive," she says. "Early on, I was beaten up by a girl who was convinced I was guilty, and I just said nothing, nothing at all. You soon learn not to grass people up." She could, if she chose, now do community work outside the prison during the day. But the authorities view this as the repayment of a debt to society; and since she maintains her innocence, she feels it would compromise her to do it. Likewise, although a model prisoner in every other respect, she has steadfastly refused to participate in "offending behaviour" workshops. Had she admitted her guilt, she could perhaps have been free years ago. She is due for parole next year, but her main concern has always been to clear her name, something she paradoxically feels it is easier to do inside prison. "You feel they'd say, 'She's free, what's she worried about now?' and you'd go to the bottom of the pile," she says. She remains cautious about her chances of winning a third appeal. "I thought we had a strong case last time, but well ... " Her voice trails away. "Twelve years is a long time, but one day is too long when you're not guilty."