A report today showing a sharp increase in crimes committed by girls has prompted the government and researchers to investigate the underlying causes of this trend. According to figures in the Youth Justice Board's Annual Workload Data report, girls aged between 10 and 17 committed rose 25% from 47,358 in 2003-04 to 59,236 crimes in 2006-07.The most common crimes committed by girls were theft, violent attacks, criminal damage and public order offences.The reasons behind this trend are being investigated the government and academics. Preliminary research, conducted by London's South Bank University, suggested a number of contributing factors.One reason might simply be that the overall population of girls has increased and therefore the number of crimes committed by this population could be expected to rise proportionally. According to Susannah Eagle, data compiled by the team of researchers at South Bank University showed that in 2001 1.3% of the young female population committed an offence, whereas in 2005 1.5% of girls committed a crime, which was a small rise in criminality.Eagle also noted that the statistics released by the Youth Justice Board only took into consideration the absolute number of crimes committed by girls and not offences per person. "It is very possible, therefore, that there might not be more girls committing offences, but that some girls are prolific offenders," she said. The rise in reported crimes could also be due to changing social attitudes. Eagle suggested there was now a lower tolerance of minor offences, such as playground scuffles.Schools or adult bystanders were more likely to call in the police to deal with minor offences than in the past, bringing more girls into the youth justice system, she said. Eagle added this might be out of concern that the violence could spiral out of control. Underage drinking could also be a factor, she added. When the research team interviewed a sample group of girls who had committed a crime, there was a statistically significant link between committing a violent offence and the recent use of alcohol.Police targets might also be to blame, according to Enver Solomon, deputy director of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies."Police are under pressure to hit certain targets and kids are low-hanging fruits. Offences committed by kids – such as fights between girls in the playground – would be more likely to be recorded now than a few years ago," he said.Eagle emphasised that the number of offences committed by girls was still very low and said it was preferable to deal with these incidents outside the youth justice system. She said the figures should not be cause for alarm but that further research was needed into the trend.The Home Secretary today announced proposals to extend the British Crime Survey to include under-16s' experiences of crime, so that the government could "understand as fully as possible" young people's concerns and experiences and establish the most comprehensive picture of youth victimisation.In a statement, Jacqui Smith said: "I want to ensure that young people are offered as much protection from crime as possible, and receive support if they do become victims, whilst also tackling offending vigorously."She also announced that the Home Office would be publishing a Youth Crime Action Plan to coordinate this effort across government.