A man who harassed Luciana Berger, the Labour MP, in a string of antisemitic online rants has been jailed for two years after a trial at the Old Bailey.Joshua Bonehill-Paine, 24, wrote five hate-filled blogs about Berger, the MP for Liverpool Wavertree. He variously called her a “dominatrix” and “an evil money-grabber” with a “deep-rooted hatred of men”. In one, he claimed the number of Jewish Labour MPs was a “problem”.He illustrated his posts with offensive pictures, including a rat with Berger’s face superimposed on it, and hailed the “Filthy Jew Bitch Campaign” led by US white supremacist website Daily Stormer as “fantastically successful” after the MP was sent 2,500 tweets.Giving evidence, Berger said the posts had made her feel sick and “under attack”. She told jurors: “It’s fair to say I was the most concerned I have ever been about my personal safety since I was elected … In the midst of this ‘Filthy Jewish Bitch’ campaign the police were in constant contact with me. They were in my office and home and assisted my personal safety.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Antisemitic troll’s abuse had deep impact, says Luciana BergerThe court heard Bonehill-Paine had a history of online abuse, leaving a trail of devastation in the lives of those with whom he chose to “pick a dispute”. Bonehill-Paine, who smirked in the dock as he was found guilty on Wednesday, was already serving a sentence of three years and four months for stirring up racial hatred with a flyer for a neo-Nazi rally in Golders Green, north London, that was illustrated with a picture of Auschwitz, the Nazi death camp. While he was posting abusive blogs about Berger, Bonehill-Paine, of Yeovil in Somerset, was on bail awaiting sentence for making false claims on Twitter that several people were paedophiles. Sentencing, Mr Justice Spencer told the defendant he had “amassed a formidable record of hate crime” at the age of just 24. The judge took into account that he was due for release in April 2017, but said a consecutive sentence was “fully justified”.He also imposed a criminal behaviour order, carrying a penalty of up to five years in jail, barring the defendant from directly or indirectly contacting Berger, her former assistant and other named individuals. Police will have the power to monitor Bonehill-Paine’s online activities for the duration of the order, which is effective on his release from jail. “It is abundantly clear from all the evidence in the case and the material I have been provided with that he is tenacious in his use of the internet as a retaliatory weapon against anyone with whom he wishes to pick a dispute,” the judge said.