Rapists are to face tougher jail terms under a government crackdown on judges accused of not taking 'date rapes' seriously enough.Harriet Harman, the Solicitor-General, told The Observer attackers who know their victims are too often being let off with brief sentences, despite evidence that being attacked by a colleague or acquaintance is as traumatic as rape by a stranger. She will commit the government's law officers to acting as a 'safety net' for women, using little-known powers to refer sentences to the Court of Appeal - which can impose longer jail terms - to send a message to judges that rape must be taken seriously. 'I want people to be confident that if they have the courage to take a case to court the system will back them up and, if the sentence is not right, we are there as a safety net,' she said. 'There is a real new focus on making sure justice is done.' Sentencing guidelines suggest rape should attract a minimum sentence of five years, rising to eight years if the attacker was in a position of trust - such as a teacher or boss - and up to 15 years for serial offenders. Harman pointed to cases such as that of a 32-year-old man who met a girl of 11 in an internet chatroom after lying about his age and later coerced her into sleeping with him. He was sentenced to just three years in prison, plus two years on licence. In another case, a man who raped his estranged wife on a holiday and then stabbed her was given four years. Both cases were referred to the Court of Appeal by the Attorney-General's office and the sentences increased. Harman's decision will encourage many more victims to challenge sentences, although she risks being criticised for interfering in judges' decisions. Relations between the government and the senior judiciary are already frosty, with judges complaining of political meddling. Harman will argue, when she launches new Crown Prosecution Service guidelines on prosecuting rape later this month, that women will not testify if they fear their attackers will be out of prison again soon. She believes that since changes to the law were introduced last month making it easier to secure convictions, the challenge now is to demonstrate the courts take them seriously. Harman will argue the evidence suggests 'it is not rapes by strangers which attract unduly lenient sentences, but those where the victim and offender are known to each other'. Women are at far greater risk of attack from men they know. Yet acquaintance rape is less likely to lead to a conviction, with juries often apparently readier to believe that a woman willingly consented to sex when it is a question of her word against that of a friend or partner. Harman will also outline plans to train prosecuting lawyers in 'sensitive' handling of victims, ensuring they prevent the defence from mounting an inappropriate or irrelevant cross-examination, such as questioning of victims about their past sex lives. She will argue that sex attack victims are uniquely vulnerable, not only because they are likely to have embarrassing details laid bare in court but also because, if the attacker in acquitted, they can be left 'feeling stigmatised not just as a liar but as having consented to sex in circumstances which are repugnant to her'. While defendants can routinely appeal against jail terms, victims may not realise they have any way of challenging the sentence. The Attorney- and the Solicitor-General can refer cases only if a complaint is made to them within 28 days of sentencing, either by a lawyer or interested parties. Although the Court of Appeal is not obliged to raise the sentence, it must reconsider it - and cannot reduce it.