The government's decision to abolish the 42 local probation boards, as revealed by the Guardian this week, is designed to ensure the emergence of a "market" in criminal justice services. In doing so, it threatens the end of a publicly provided probation service.The idea is that improvements in the effectiveness and value for money in the supervision and rehabilitation of offenders can now only be achieved through the greater use of competition from private and voluntary providers, controlled centrally from Whitehall.Last year, when David Blunkett was home secretary, he wanted legislation to give him the power to direct the local probation boards to contract out their services. But a leaked letter from the present holder of the job, Charles Clarke, to his cabinet colleague John Prescott makes clear this did not go far enough."I have now concluded that this would not give me the scope and powers I need to commission end-to-end management through the national offender manager and the 10 regional offender managers I appointed last year, and to move towards a world where open contracts and tendering for all offender management services, including interventions and custody, are the norm," it says.Instead, the local boards are to be abolished and replaced by "new, smaller, more business-focused bodies" that will phase in the radical extension of market testing of probation services. Legislation to be introduced in December is to move the statutory duty to provide probation services from the local boards to the home secretary - and that includes accountability for managing dangerous offenders.The Whitehall regional network of offender managers will in future control the contracts, while the new local probation public "businesses" will be providers only. Failure could lead to the loss of a contract.Leaked correspondence between Martin Narey, the outgoing chief executive of the National Offender Management Service (Noms), and Home Office minister Baroness Scotland, shows that those who will sit on the new boards will "need to have senior business, financial and management experience, along the lines of those who serve on NHS trusts". Living in the local area is not a requirement. Narey says that if there were seats for local councillors or sentencers, "it would carry the benefits of community representation, but it would put the probation body at a competitive disadvantage in the market place".Clarke even envisages a time when in some parts of the country the public probation service will be left with no contracts "and would therefore cease to exist". The proposal evokes former Conservative home secretary Michael Howard's failed attempt to take direct control over the local police authorities by appointing all the members himself.The locally-run probation service, once a Victorian network of prisoners' charitable befriending societies, dates back to 1907, a legacy of Edwardian liberalism. It appears that Clarke now wants to mark its centenary by this wanton act of centralisation, and rub salt into the wound by announcing it during the government's Inside Justice Week (October 17-23), which aims to highlight the greater involvement of local communities in the criminal justice system. So much for the new-found enthusiasm for localism and civic renewal.There will be those who argue that the introduction of the national probation service and the restructuring of the local probation boards back in 2000 was the moment when any real power over the running of the community justice services was lost. But their abolition would end any pretence that the control and delivery of probation services was not the preserve of Whitehall, administered through regional civil servants.The leaked cabinet correspondence makes clear that the new directly appointed boards are to be run as "businesses" with a corporate approach to the management and supervision of 200,000 offenders each year. Anyone who thought the government was going to slow down its merger of the prison and probation services with a new version of Noms-lite has now had to think again.The introduction of the market in health and social care has seen costs rise as companies try to recoup their startup costs. In prisons, groups of jails are now being offered for tender to tempt more private companies into the market. Where will the buck stop in future when a registered sex offender strikes again? At the home secretary's desk or the head offices of Group 4? · Alan Travis is the Guardian's home affairs editor.