An election is on the brink of being called. Right on cue, Jack Straw - according to leaks in yesterday's Observer - is due tomorrow to unveil a new punitive package to deal with criminals. What could be more cynical?On one of the few issues where Labour is performing badly in the polls, it produces a last-minute crime package to reassure Middle England. In fact, to be fair, the sentencing review being carried out under John Halliday, a senior Home Office policy-maker, has always been due to report in May. It will be much more sophisticated than yesterday's headlines, as our home affairs editor explains today, but do not expect spin doctors to set out the complexity of dealing with crime. There are serious shortcomings with the present sentencing system, with too little attention paid to tackling re-offending. Supervision on release is restricted to heavy sentences; resettlement programmes, which can reduce re-offending, are extremely patchy; and there is far too little feedback to the courts about the effectiveness of different sentences. Within the system, too little progress is being made to improve literacy and numeracy skills, even though two-thirds of all inmates are ineligible for 90% of job vacancies because of inadequate skills. A progressive government should be seeking to create a more effective system of short-term prison sentences. But it should also be seeking to make more use of alternatives to prison. Skills-training courses are even more effective in the community than behind the prison wall. Remember the Lord Chief Justice's address to the Prison Reform Trust in February, setting out the fundamental failure of the system: overcrowding. Remember the chief inspector for prisons, interviewed in the Guardian in the same week, on how that challenge could be achieved: diverting 20,000 current inmates - women, boys, the elderly, the mentally ill, petty offenders - from the system. And remember the prison director's response one week later, that unless management and staff became more committed to reforming the current "hell holes", he would find "an easier way of earning a living". What would be desirable tomorrow - although it is not going to happen - would be a reminder by ministers of the limits of sentencing in a criminal justice system in which 98 out of every 100 crimes does not end with a conviction. Detection has always been a much bigger deterrent than length of sentence, but the clear-up rate has been going down not up. Contrary to Joe Public's beliefs, the government has succeeded in continuing to cut crime: a 20% fall in car crime and a 28% drop in burglary. But this drop was the result not of the tougher prison sentences endorsed by ministers, but of two other more constructive approaches. First, carefully designed crime-prevention programmes - better locks on cars and a £400m project to make 2m homes of poor and elderly people more secure. Second, true to Labour's last election mantra of being "tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime", its multiple anti-poverty programmes that have played their part in drastically cutting unemployment. What is more likely tomorrow is another depressing debate on the need for more prisons. We already send more people to prison than any other European state except Portugal. More, in fact, than the most hardline overseas regimes - Saudi Arabia, China and Burma. The prison population is already more than 50% higher than a decade ago. When will someone have the courage to say stop?