Twenty England fans were in custody today after a second night of rioting on the Algarve in Portugal.Mounted officers and riot police with dogs clashed for the second night running with around 400 supporters supporters in Albufeira after they were repeatedly pelted with bottles and other missiles.The ugly scenes, attributed by British officials to drunken behaviour rather than organised violence, prompted a huge police response and leaves the English camp firmly in Uefa's sights. It had warned England in the run-up to the tournament that repeated violence by fans could see the team sent home. Portuguese police spokesman Captain Manuel Jorge said there had been 20 arrests with more possibly to follow, and that one fan detained had been taken to hospital with an injury to his eye. The English fans in custody reportedly include supporters from Barnsley, Newcastle upon Tyne, Manchester, Oxford, Cleveland, Dudley, Faversham in Kent, and Hertfordshire. One Portuguese and one Russian fan were also arrested. The violence is believed to have started after fans threw beer at a group of Portuguese outside the La Bamba bar - where yesterday's disturbance first began. As the locals dispersed, the mob turned on another nearby bar attempting to break windows. Cpt Jorge said: "Around 2am they began throwing bottles and glasses into the road. They also threw tables into the road. The situation got hot, and the situation also involved 15 or 20 Portuguese people who were just passing by in the road. "The police needed to go in with horses and dogs to defuse it. " He said around 400 England fans were involved. The trouble again centred around the town's main strip of bars and at its height saw officers charging into fans who scattered before regrouping to taunt officers. Towards the end of the trouble a small group of supporters were still goading police outside Lineker's bar at the top of the main strip but by 4am all the fans had dispersed.The flare-up of violence comes a day after similar scenes wrecked the good image of England fans who had been praised by local police for their behaviour following their team's defeat by France on Sunday. Witnesses claimed the police were heavy-handed during yesterday's incident in the early hours of the morning and British officials stressed that they regarded the trouble as drunken disorder rather than organised football violence. But the father of a 10-year-old boy injured in the trouble outside a bar in the town branded the England fans "animals" and called for them to be "thrown out" of the country. Twelve other Britons are due to appear in court later today after being arrested for public order offences following yesterday's disturbance. A Home Office spokesman, speaking about the rioting said: "Isolated incidents of alcohol-fuelled disorder were always anticipated given the combination of alcohol, hot weather and football." Meanwhile, a soccer hooligan deported from Portugal has become the first England fan to receive a football banning order for violent behaviour at the tournament. Staffordshire police said it was delighted with the order made against Alan Walker, 29, who was arrested at Heathrow Airport earlier this week. A police spokesman said Walker, from Leek, Staffs, appeared before Uxbridge magistrates court yesterday. The court granted a three-year football banning order against Walker, a known hooligan whose previous order expired in November last year. Walker, a Stoke City fan, was detained on Saturday after attacking a Frenchman in Lisbon city centre and was later charged with a count of assault. His family described him today as a lout who could not hold his drink, but maintained he had been unlucky to be arrested. His stepfather, John Gibbons, 65, said: "He's a nutter when he's had a drink. He's a lager lout and can't handle his drink. "He's very easily led - you can tell him to do something when he's had a few drinks and he'll do it." Three people were due to appear in court this morning accused of violent disorder and arson in Boston town centre in Lincolnshire, after the Euro 2004 game between England and France.