Ronnie Biggs, the great train robber, was discharged from hospital yesterday after the latest in a series of health scares since he voluntarily returned to Britain.The frail 74-year-old was taken from Belmarsh prison to the Queen Elizabeth II hospital in Woolwich, south-east London, on Tuesday night after suffering what his family feared was a heart attack. But doctors later said he had pneumonia, which may have caused his heart to beat differently. After tests he was discharged at about 3.45pm yesterday and returned to the high-security jail. His son, Michael, said the scare was another reason why Biggs should be released. "My father is a very sick man and I have absolutely no doubt that the nature of his imprisonment has contributed greatly to this. To see my father so seriously ill and be unable to be with him is extremely depressing. "My father came back to close a chapter in his life. It would be nice if the present government was to show some compassion and at least take him out of a maximum security jail." Harry Cohen, Labour MP for Leyton and Wanstead, also said it was time Biggs was released. "I thought it was incredibly harsh to make him serve his full sentence. I think there are very strong medical and compassionate grounds and I think it's very cruel to imprison him until he dies - I think it would be a very cruel state that does that." Since he returned from self-imposed exile, Biggs has had three strokes and two epileptic seizures. He cannot talk, and is fed though a tube. He escaped from Wandsworth prison, south London, in 1965 after serving 15 months of a 30-year sentence for his part in the robbery, which netted the gang £2.6m. He started a new life in Brazil. The driver of the train, Jack Mills, 57, was coshed with iron bars in the early-morning robbery and never returned to work, dying in 1970. Biggs returned to Britain in 2001. His legal team sought a hearing at the court of appeal against his outstanding sentence, but in October the high court rejected an application to reconsider his jail term.He is not due for release until May 13 2020. He claims his sentence was harsh compared with the jail terms given his co-defendants, who received between six and 25 years.It is thought he returned home because he could not afford medical care in Brazil.