From his Porsche Boxster to his stylish watch, impeccably dressed Riccardo Nardi seemed every inch the successful barrister, with a growing reputation as a travel industry fraud-buster.But the outspoken lawyer, who castigated police and the Serious Fraud Office for having "totally failed" to tackle tourist trade corruption, carried out an astounding deception - swindling almost £1m out of his employer, the Association of British Travel Agents (Abta), over nine years. Yesterday, a judge at London's Middlesex Guildhall crown court called time on Nardi, who spent thousands of pounds renting Caribbean villas to "keep up with the Joneses" and cited buying new shoes for his wife, Samantha, as a hobby. He was sentenced to four-and-a-half years in prison. Nardi, a 37-year-old father-of-three, the former head of legal services at Abta, set up two bogus firms, Blake Travel and Sun Travel, to launder £962,005, which he siphoned off from Abta by making insurance claims for holidays that did not exist. But after one particularly hefty claim, Abta's head of finance became suspicious and Nardi was rumbled. Nardi, who joined Abta in 1991, said his £70,000-a-year job was "too much fun to leave". He was arrested at Manchester airport in February last year, returning from holiday. He admitted 24 deception offences. Mrs Nardi, 38, was also arrested, but eventually cleared of any wrongdoing when the crown offered no evidence against her. Abta, however, has launched separate civil proceedings against her to recover some of the money defrauded by her husband. The court has already frozen assets, including the couple's spacious £600,000 house in the Bedfordshire village of Pulloxhill, Nardi's Porsche and Mrs Nardi's BMW X5. Nardi's deception shocked the travel trade, which viewed him as a trusted professional. Abta, whose members sell 90% of package holidays bought by UK customers, welcomed Nardi's imprisonment, saying he had committed a serious crime as well as a gross breach of trust. Trevor Sears, a partner in London law firm Davenport Sears, which acted for Abta, said: "Mr Nardi played the roles of both gamekeeper and poacher for some nine years, on one hand fighting fraud within the travel industry and, on the other defrauding his employer. "Abta did so well cleaning out known bad elements, only to find themselves acting against the unknown enemy within their own organisation. It is a personal tragedy for Mr Nardi and his family, but I'm delighted we've been able to help the travel world redress the problem." Nardi fought back tears yesterday as Judge Duncan Matheson told him his family could end up destitute, while he would inevitably be disbarred and probably never hold a position of responsibility again. In the months before his arrest, Nardi's spending spiralled out of control, with huge bills for watches and exclusive holidays. Some who know Nardi never suspected he was such a trickster. "He is stylish rather than ostentatious," said one. "He loves cars, and what I would term collectors' watches. His home was beautifully furnished and the garden was perfect. "He had a stocks-and-shares portfolio, a sensible investment for a man in his position, though, of course, it was other people's money he was investing." Another travel business insider described Nardi as a "bit of a whizzkid".