The Lincolnshire couple jailed this week for three years for growing and selling cannabis used much of the profits to pay for medical treatment for people in a Kenyan village. They bought a computer for an eye hospital, paid for life-saving operations for people suffering from gangrene and helped pay the school fees for local children. The judge who sentenced them at Lincoln crown court told Michael Foster, 62, and Susan Cooper, 63, that: "I am sure you were doing good things in Kenya with your drugs money, whether that was to appease your consciences, I can only speculate."We can also only speculate what the point might be of jailing them rather than recommending them for an EU farming subsidy, but the case serves as a reminder that not all law-breakers are necessarily just in it for themselves.In their brilliant comedy skit, The 2,000-year-old Man, Mel Brooks and Carl Reiner imagined a man of that age being interviewed about all the famous historical characters, from Jesus to Joan of Arc, whom he had met during his long life. (Do get the CD if you have never heard it.) When asked whether Robin Hood had indeed robbed the rich to give to the poor, the 2,000-year-old Man replies: "He stole from everyone and kept everything."Certainly law-breakers who use their ill-gotten gains to do good may be few and far between. As criminologist Dick Hobbs remarked in his book, Doing the Business, the only Robin Hoods in east London nowadays are pubs.But some thieves have certainly been motivated by a desire to redistribute wealth. Peter Scott, the so-called king of the cat burglars, now in his 80s and living on a council estate just round the corner from the Guardian, wrote in his memoir, Gentleman Thief, that he felt he had been "sent by God to take back some of the wealth that the outrageously rich had taken from the rest of us". Much of the many millions he stole over the years, in the shape of artworks and diamonds, was given away, albeit not always to the deserving poor, and he always concentrated on the very wealthy or, as he put it "the real meaty jugular vein of society".Others who have fallen foul of the drugs laws have also helped out with good works in Africa. Leaf Fielding, one of those jailed in the wake of Operation Julie in 1978 for being part of the biggest LSD distribution crew in Britain, came out of prison and helped to set up an orphanage in Malawi.As Fielding makes clear in his book, To Live Outside the Law, many of the Operation Julie team were actually very idealistic about the benefits of acid. And our most famous cannabis dealer, Howard Marks, always a generous soul, could have been found at the Bloomsbury Theatre earlier this year doing a charity gig for the very worthy Beyond Food Foundation.Many high-profile criminals gave heartily to charity, but not always for noblest of motives. The Krays, for instance, gave £100 to the Aberfan disaster fund in 1966, the equivalent of £3,000 today. Their biographer, John Pearson, remarked at the time that this donation came to light, long after their deaths, that "the Krays were renowned for their clever manipulation of public opinion and largesse in the media spotlight. However, it's worth pointing out that this was the biggest cash donation the twins ever made and the only one to a charity outside London."Around the world there have been law-breakers who used their money for good causes. Phoolan Devi, the subject of 1994 film Bandit Queen, was the most notorious woman robber in India, but she had a reputation for aiming at the rich end of society because of her rage at the caste system.She later became a member of parliament speaking on behalf of the poor and dispossessed and was shot dead in 2001.The ancient folk song, The Lincolnshire Poacher, celebrated the activities of another lawbreaker more than 200 years ago. Maybe someone should get working on a Lincolnshire Cannabis Farmers song right now.