 A young woman has told a court that as a girl of 14 she was taken to empty flats and guest houses in Oxford by a group of men where she was raped by other men.The first witness in a child sex abuse trial at the Old Bailey described being groomed by the men after running away from her children's home, saying that they were "nice" at first before they became "demanding" and "threatening".The woman, who is now 21, cannot be named for legal reasons and was identified to the court as Girl B. She described meeting three defendants, Kamar Jamil, whom she knew as "K Dog", Akhtar Dogar and Anjum Dogar, whom she knew as "Jammy", and another man called Khan who is not in the dock, when she was 14.The trial of nine men accused of multiple rapes and extreme sexual abuse against children as young as 11, heard that the girl repeatedly ran away from her children's home with another 14-year-old, who is also giving evidence, to meet up with a group of men in Oxford.She described being ferried around guest houses, private premises, parks and cemeteries between July and mid-September in 2006, where she was coerced into having sex with the men.The Dogar brothers both told her they had guns so she would be scared for her life, she told the court. She said sometimes the men "would invite others as well". She said that at first she told the men she was 16, but then told them she was 14.On one occasion she was driven to a flat by Jamil and given alcohol, the court heard. After a while a "very fat and ugly" man in his late 30s arrived, she said. She told the court: "K Dog said I had to go with the man in the bedroom so he could talk to me." She added: "Obviously I knew what they wanted … I knew he was there to have sex with me."When she refused, he became threatening, the court heard. "He said I was wasting that guy's time and that I should go to the bedroom with him," she said. He grabbed her and pulled her into the room. The waiting man pushed her on to the bed, pulled her trousers down and raped her, she told the court. "I was struggling for a while beforehand but then I just gave up," she said.She told the court that on another occasion she called the police because she feared she was going to be raped by 11 men. She described being at a friend's flat when Anjum Dogar, Khan and Jamil kicked the door down. Soon after eight other men in their 20s and 30s arrived. Khan asked to speak to her but "he didn't want to speak to me, he wanted oral sex", she told the court. He demanded sex which she did "because I was scared".He then told her he was going to bring another man into the room, the court heard. She asked for a moment to tidy herself and tried to climb out of the window, but when it was too small she called the police. "I told them there were some men in there and I was scared," she said, adding: "I thought they were all going to have sex with me." She later refused to provide evidence against the men because she "didn't want any trouble".She also described an occasion soon after meeting the four men, when Jamil and Khan drove the girls to a deserted field outside the city and plied them with vodka and Red Bull. Her friend, Girl A, had "normal" and oral sex with K Dog in the back of the car, she said.After they had finished, he told Girl B to get in the back of the car."I felt like I had to and I didn't have a choice," she told the court.When she told Jamil, who was 21 at the time, that she didn't want to give him oral sex, he forced her to.Afterwards, he also "had sex with her", she added. Asked how, she said: "He just took my trousers off and had sex." She felt she couldn't stop him doing what he wanted her to do. Asked why, she added: "Because I didn't have a choice and I felt like I couldn't say no to him."She told the court she had met the men though Girl A, who lived at the same children's home near Oxford. The girls would run away, dressed as though they were "going clubbing" about three times a week, and "stay in Oxford for a week, two weeks at a time", she said.Kamar Jamil, 27, Akhtar Dogar, 32, Anjum Dogar, 30, Assad Hussain, 32, Mohammed Karrar, 38, Bassam Karrar, 26, Mohammed Hussain, 24, Zeeshan Ahmed, 27, and Bilal Ahmed, 26, face 51 counts, including rape, forcing a child into prostitution and trafficking. The men deny all the charges.It is alleged the men targeted young girls from vulnerable and chaotic backgrounds, and over a period of eight years subjected them to extreme physical and sexual violence, sold some victims for prostitution in Oxford and trafficked others around the country.The trial continues.