Where does the Securitas robbery stand as a landmark in British crime? The book Blaggers Inc: Britain's Biggest Armed Robberies, by Terry Smith, lists what have come to be regarded as probably the five major robberies – or would-be robberies – of the past half-century.The Great Train Robbery of 1963, in which £2.6m was stolen from a Royal Mail train on the Glasgow to London line, is still the best-known, not least because of the 30-year sentences given to some of the robbers. Ronnie Biggs, now 80, who escaped first to Australia and then to Brazil, was released from prison only this year on grounds of ill-health.The Bank of America robbery of 1975, like the Securitas robbery, had inside help. On that occasion, an electrician employed by the bank, despite a previous conviction for handling stolen property, was able to give the robbers a walk-in preview of the bank. A total of 94 safety deposit boxes were broken into and between £2m and £8m stolen. The robbers were interrupted and had to leave behind a Picasso and an Enid Blyton first edition. Some were never caught but others ended up with 23-year sentences.The Security Express depot robbery of 1983 saw nearly £6m being stolen. The robbers poured petrol over one of the staff at the depot in Shoreditch, east London, and threatened to set fire to him to obtain the combination numbers of the vaults. Two were jailed for 22 years but others got away.The Knightsbridge safe deposit centre robbery in 1987 was masterminded by an Italian, Valerio Viccei, and an estimated £25m was stolen, although there is no exact knowledge of how much was in the boxes. Again there was an inside man, the centre's manager. Viccei was jailed for 22 years, allowed to serve the latter part of his sentence in Italy and killed in a shoot-out with police while on day release in 2000.The Millennium Dome robbery of 2000 might well have been the most spectacular but it was nipped in the bud by the Flying Squad before its perpetrators could get away with an estimated £200m worth of diamonds from the Money Zone. The aim was to escape on a speedboat down the Thames. The main conspirators were caught red-handed and jailed for up to 18 years in 2002.What might also have been on the list was the Baker Street bank job, on which the 2008 film The Bank Job, starring Jason Statham and Saffron Burrows, was very loosely based. This became famous because the robbers tunnelled through from an adjoining building with a look-out man with a walkie-talkie on a nearby roof. Again, most of the robbers were caught and jailed.Smith comments in his introduction to Blaggers Inc that "the idea of the 'perfect crime' is a myth". A book on the Securitas robbery, entitled Heist, by Howard Sounes, author of Fred and Rose, and biographies of Bob Dylan and the writer Charles Bukowski, will be published soon. There have been reports that Darren Aronofsky, who made the Oscar-nominated The Wrestler, is to make a film of the robbery. Bruce Reynolds, who masterminded the Great Train Robbery, said of the Securitas conspirators: "Their problem was that their robbery, like ours, was too big. You throw down the gauntlet to society and obviously society has to respond."