The man arrested on suspicion of stabbing schoolgirl Arsema Dawit to death had been reported to police weeks ago for allegedly assaulting and threatening to kill her, police sources with close knowledge of the investigation have told the Guardian.The 15-year-old was found bleeding, wearing her school uniform, on Monday in a south London block of flats. She had been stabbed 10 times in the attack.Police confirmed that Arsema and her family had complained to officers weeks before her death, and that she and the suspect knew each other. On April 30, Arsema and her family told police about an alleged assault and threats to kill her made by a man in a branch of McDonald's in south London on April 16. They made the complaint in person.Last night police released a statement saying Arsema had later "denied" any knowledge of an assault on her when spoken to by an officer on May 12 while she was at school. Scotland Yard said: "Despite this, we continued to investigate the circumstances of the incident, and Arsema's mother was contacted on May 19. The investigation was still being progressed when Arsema was tragically murdered."The suspect, arrested after Arsema's body was discovered, was originally believed to be aged around 30, but further inquiries put his age at 21.Police believe Arsema met the man at church, where the teenager sang in the choir, and the two developed a relationship. The man had no previous convictions for violence, sources said.Scotland Yard is concerned about the fallout from the case and any suggestion that officers failed to take the complaint of assault made in April seriously enough. No formal inquiry into how police handled the original complaint was yet under way, but Scotland Yard chiefs have ordered informal checks to be made.Neighbours and people who described themselves as friends of the victim's family said Arsema had been subject to death threats made by a man who stalked her.Neighbour Wayne Fort, whose partner and nine-year-old daughter found the body, said Arsema had been harassed in the past by a man. He said that two months ago he had seen an argument between the man and a female member of her family, who was warning the man not to harm her sister again. "There was a chap who seemed to be infatuated with her," he said. "He seemed to have met her at the church. I could see from the efforts of the family they were trying to get rid of the man." Fort said his daughter was extremely upset after coming across Arsema's body. "She is in a very bad state - she didn't sleep much last night." The murdered teenager had celebrated her 15th birthday on Saturday.The head of the church where the two met confirmed Arsema had been a member of the choir. Yohanees Sibhatu, of the Eritrean Orthodox Christian Community church in south London, said: "She started coming to the church about three years ago, coming to choir practice on Saturday and mass on Sunday morning."Sibhatu said she had stopped coming as regularly in the past two years, attending just once or twice a month.Cathy Loxton, the principal at Arsema's school, the Harris academy in Bermondsey, said: "Arsema was a popular, friendly and well-behaved girl who had much to contribute to our school community." Arsema's schoolmates were told of the murder during special assemblies. A spokeswoman for the school said many youngsters were extremely upset, and some had been sent home. Arsema's death echoes other cases in which a victim was first harassed then later killed, with police accused of not doing enough to stop the incident escalating. Peter Woodhams, a young father, was shot dead on his doorstep in Canning Town, east London, in September 2006, exactly seven months after being slashed with a knife, an attack reported to police.Last July, police were criticised after it emerged that "honour killing" victim Banaz Mahmod, 20, had asked officers for help four times before her death. She was raped, tortured and buried in a suitcase after her father ordered her murder when he discovered she had a boyfriend.