A Home Office minister today said new antisocial behaviour legislation, which would make begging a recordable offence, was needed to help "coerce" homeless drug users into treatment. Bob Ainsworth told the Commons' home affairs select committee that an "astonishing" 86% of begging was linked with drugs, and the new measures were crucial to help "coerce" homeless drug users into treatment. The minister said: "Unless we've got [begging] as a recordable offence, how can we track these people who have a problem? How can we put in place an effective sentencing regime which gives them the treatment, the help, that they need?" Mr Ainsworth also defended plans to expand on-the-spot fines to a wide range of low-level offences, and to give powers to hand out penalties to private security guards. Mr Ainsworth said: "Unless we want to drag every one of these through the court, with the time and expense involved in that, then fixed penalty notices provide a good alternative."It would not necessarily be appropriate for fines for offences such as drunkenness to be imposed by anyone other than a police officer, he said. People would also have the chance to appeal, he added. But Tom Watson, Labour MP for West Bromwich East, said organisations such as civil rights group Liberty believed the new fining powers amounted to "arbitrary justice". Mr Ainsworth said that while there was currently a shortage of 8,000 foster parents, another plan in the new antisocial behaviour white paper was for "intensive fostering" - in which problem children will be looked after by specialist, salaried carers. It was expected to involve 26 cases initially, the committee heard. The Home Office's Louise Casey said the programme was "phenomenally intensive" and would cost £2,000 a week. "I know it seems like a lot of money but it's still cheaper than local authority secure accommodation," she added. Ms Casey admitted that the proposed measure of fining parents when their children were persistently truant was "unpalatable to some people" but was crucial to help deal with adults who condoned youngsters missing school.