Two Thai fishermen who have allegedly confessed to raping and killing the Welsh backpacker Katherine Horton on Koh Samui island showed no remorse yesterday when formally charged in court.Bualoi Posit, 23, stared at the floor while Wichai Somkhaoyai, 24, waved away the Guardian when asked if they had a message for the Horton family. One of their lawyers, Amarin Nuimai, said both had confessed to him that they raped and killed the 21-year-old Reading University student on Lamai beach on January 1."They were really drunk, they'd just seen a pornographic film," he told the Guardian after the men's first court appearance, a remand hearing. "They swam to the beach and wanted to have sex. When they saw Katherine they looked at each other and said: 'Let's do it.'"Ms Horton, from Thornhill, near Cardiff, was on the phone to her mother at the time. She tried to resist but was overpowered and knocked out before being raped and dumped in the sea.Neither man said anything during the 25-minute hearing at Surat Thani provincial court, where the case has been moved from Koh Samui because police fear local anger could lead to unrest.Both were barefoot, wearing T-shirts and shorts, and handcuffed. They were charged with rape and premeditated murder, and ordered to be detained for a further 12 days. Investigators expect to go to trial in the next 10 days. "We're waiting for five more witnesses, the DNA report from the forensic institute and the final details of their criminal records," said the provincial commander, Major-General Vinitnatavanon.When asked by the judges if they disputed the charges, the suspects shook their heads. They were not asked to plead. Mr Wichai cannot write and recorded his understanding of the charges with a thumbprint.Mr Amarin said he thought it unlikely his clients would get much sympathy: "In this case if the suspects were guilty of their crime then they deserve the death penalty. I feel sorry for the family and we bring justice for the family."Investigators had not abused the two suspects, Mr Amarin said. "Their bodies don't have any signs of police brutality, just scratches from Katherine."