Devastated friends of the American woman stabbed to death in London have paid tribute to the retired special education teacher, calling her an “inspiration”.Darlene Horton, 64, was hours away from returning home to Tallahassee, Florida, with her husband when she was killed on Wednesday night.Horton’s partner, Richard Wagner, a psychology professor at Florida State University (FSU), had been teaching summer classes that had ended that day. It is understood university officials have flown to London to support him.London knife attack: victim tried to warn others as she lay dying Friends of the couple and their two grown-up children have described a “fine family”, who played a big role in the university’s psychology faculty and were highly regarded within their local community for their philanthropy.Jane Marks, a neighbour, told the Tallahassee Democrat that Horton was “absolutely lovely. Just one of the nicest, sweetest family-focused people who is very happy in her space and place”.The couple are understood to have supported the Tallahassee Memorial HealthCare Foundation – a non-profit community healthcare organisation – as well as a theatrical group and a humane society.Wagner had been travelling abroad to teach for several years, accompanied by his wife, who began her career in education in the 1980s.Her former colleague told the newspaper Horton had a “vibrant personality” and “loved her students and was eager to do whatever she had to do. She would go beyond the extra mile”.Janet Kistner, a colleague of Wagner at FSU, said Horton, a keen tennis player, was “just a bright, inquisitive person”.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Woman dead and five injured in London knife attack – video report“We are a faculty that knows everybody as family. It’s very much a loss for all of us,” she told the newspaper.Mary Alice Linzy, a friend of Horton’s for 15 years, described how she saw reports of Wednesday night’s tragedy on Facebook before her identity was revealed.“We’re just a small little town here and we have this small tennis community,” Linzy told the newspaper. Horton’s tennis partners reportedly met at a local country club as usual on Thursday.“I’m just going to miss her so much. She was an inspiration for me,” Linzy told the newspaper. “Every time I step on the tennis court now I’m going to be thinking of Darlene. I just cannot believe it.”A 19-year-old Norwegian of Somali heritage was arrested on suspicion of murder after the attack that also left two women and three men injured, one seriously.Among the other victims, an American man was stabbed in the chest, an Australian female was stabbed in her back, an Australian man was stabbed in his chest and an Israeli woman was stabbed in her bicep. All have been discharged from hospital.