An attempt to outwit the Revenue men was stymied for the time being yesterday, when Customs officers boarded the country's first "floating off-licence" and closed it down.The good - but possibly illegal - ship Rich Harvest was stripped of more than £150,000-worth of drinks and cigarettes which were due to go on sale from the safety of international waters. She was boarded in Hartlepool docks where fly-posters for the 72ft yacht's cut-price goods have drawn an increasing stream of customers in small craft for the past month. The brainchild of a local businessman and a marine lawyer from Stoke-on-Trent, the ship was anchored 13 miles off the north-east port but had to make regular calls to Hartlepool marina to reload with alcohol and tobacco. "The Customs people came on board and said that any agreement we thought we had was null and void and they were seizing the stock," said Phil Berriman. The Rich Harvest has been an instant success for 46-year-old Mr Berriman and his business partner Trevor Lyons, 53, who researched navigation, smuggling and marine law before the £1.7m yacht was sailed to her station. The schooner's goods retailed at £6 a litre for spirits and 200 cigarettes for a minimum of £15, with an individual limit of 30 litres and 30 boxes of cigarettes for "personal consumption". Mr Berriman, who publicised the yacht's latitude and longitude throughout Hartlepool, said that the restriction kept the operation the right side of the law. Customs and Excise disagreed and the raid saw some 800,000 cigarettes and 800 litres of spirits impounded. A spokesman said: "The vessel was detained at Hartlepool and goods have been removed by Customs in the belief that they are neither declared nor duty-paid. We will make additional inquiries before any further action is taken." Mr Berriman, who estimated his weekly takings at £10,000, said that he would be taking legal action to recover the goods and free the floating shop to start trading again. He said: "The next thing we have got to do is to get Customs into court and get a judge to declare that they have acted illegally. Hopefully the judge will also clarify the position to the customers. In the meantime we are 99% certain that we are going to go abroad and buy more cigarettes and continue with the operation."