The home secretary, David Blunkett's "bang 'em up" reputation is so strong among judges and magistrates that Whitehall officials have had to show film clips of his Commons performances to convince them that his policy is not to jail minor offenders.Martin Narey, head of the newly merged prisons and probation services, told Guardian Society that magistrates were "pretty dumbfounded" to be told that Mr Blunkett did not want them to send people to prison, particularly for very short, ineffective prison sentences. In his interview, Mr Narey said that since Easter the rise in the prison population has levelled off because the message is getting through to the courts and they no longer believe the home secretary wants everyone to be sent to prison, irrespective of their offence. "Contrary to the image that is often given, the home secretary does not want people to go unnecessarily to prison. Dangerous and persistent offenders are still going to prison but there has been a drop-off in the numbers going to prison for very short sentences," Mr Narey said. The current daily prison population of 74,870 in England and Wales is 5,000 below official projections which estimate numbers might grow to 93,000, he said. The increased "headroom" was allowing some improvements, such as the reopening of resettlement wings. Mr Narey, chief executive of the National Offender Management Service, said last year the courts jailed 3,000 people for thefts such as shoplifting or stealing a bicycle, even though they did not have any previous convictions. He also disclosed that the first group of prisons to be put out to tender under the new government "contestability" programme is now likely to be a geographical cluster of public sector jails rather than the four juvenile prisons named by the Guardian last month. Ministers had yet to make a decision: "All I can tell you is that we anticipate that it will be a group of prisons. It may not be a functional group like the juveniles but it may be a geographical group like a cluster, but the public sector will have their chance to retain the work." He denied that the programme amounted to privatisation: "If the public sector are better on price and quality, then the work stays with them. Ministers have made that very, very clear. Privatisation is about putting work in the private sector and that is not what we are about." Mr Narey insisted that the presence of a representative of UK Detention Services on his service's board did not represent a conflict of interest, saying he, not the board, recommended to ministers where the contracts should go.