Women who report being raped are treated far more sensitively than ever before. The police are no longer as hostile and disbelieving as they used to be. The law has been improved in a number of ways that help the victim. It has largely banned cross-examination about previous sexual history in court; it now insists that a man's defence of consensual sex be based on reasonableness. All these developments (as well as granting victims of rape and other sexual offences anonymity) have been aimed at persuading women to report rape. And it has worked. The reporting figures show welcome increases. But the unexpected and unacceptable accompaniment is that conviction rates have fallen steeply. In 1977, one in three rapes reported resulted in a conviction. In 1999 it was one in 13. The latest figures show a rate of one conviction for nearly 20 cases reported.Last Sunday Channel 4 showed Consent, a two-hour reconstruction of an alleged rape in a hotel room, and the trial that followed a few months later. The courtroom scenes had a real judge and barristers, and a jury chosen from the electoral register. The alleged victim and assailant were actors, responding, unscripted, to the questions put to them. The events in the drama raised just about every issue pertinent to the way rape is dealt with in our system - and pointed to many of the reasons for its failure to provide justice.Most rapists these days are known to their victims. They are often friends, ex-lovers or work colleagues, as they were in Consent. Accused and accuser were together at a function. Afterwards he followed her up to her room. They kissed, but at some stage, according to her story to the jury, she decided she didn't want to have sex with him, and emphatically told him so. Her consent turned into refusal. He persisted, she resisted, but he was stronger. His version was simple. She did not say no; she did not resist. The episode was consensual all the way.There was not much extraneous evidence of importance, so the trial - as most rape trials do - came down to one question: did she consent or didn't she? Or, do we believe him or her? Except that the law doesn't make it as easy as that. And therein lies the crux of the problem. A jury has to be "sure" that the man is guilty (the old formula was "beyond reasonable doubt"). It's not enough that they think he probably did it. A "not guilty" verdict doesn't mean the rape didn't take place, or that the woman is a liar - only that the jury couldn't be absolutely sure. Such nuances are not widely understood. The raped woman is distraught and feels betrayed by the system. The rapist is free to rape again. Yet the fairness of our trial system is based on the need to prove that someone has committed a serious crime. Are we to make an exception for rape? That is inconceivable.The past decade or so has introduced a new trend to complicate rape cases - the level of alcohol consumed by the woman alleging rape. This offshoot of the issue of consent asks: when has a woman drunk so much that she is no longer capable of giving valid consent to sex? The government's attempt to find a way of defining her "capacity" (the legal word) to consent when she has taken drink has come under fire from the circuit judges (as revealed in yesterday's Guardian). Everyone has a different tolerance to alcohol. Clearly, at one end of the spectrum, a woman who is reeling around and falling about cannot give valid consent; one who had sipped one glass of wine probably could. It's the in-betweens who give rise to difficulties. How can you put into words the point at which someone crosses the line between having the capacity to consent to sex, and lacking it? How is the potential accused supposed to measure that distinction?Leave it to the jury to decide on the evidence before them, the judges say, just as they have to decide other issues of consent. But the role of the jury is itself open to question. We are not allowed to discover what takes place in a real jury room, so we can't be sure that the factors jurors take into account are correct in law. There are indications that myths and prejudices play too prominent a part. Some jurors in the Consent programme seemed to pay more attention to their own past experiences than to the evidence; others were unduly troubled by the woman's failure to report the rape until six days afterwards, though there are good psychological reasons for such delay. A survey in November 2005 by Amnesty International produced worrying results. More than a quarter of the public - and therefore of possible jurors - still believes that a woman wearing sexy or revealing clothing is wholly or partly responsible for being raped. Similarly, she is responsible if she was drunk (30%), or had not said "no" clearly enough to her alleged assailant (37%). But who, if not the jury, can better decide whether or not there has been rape? Certainly not a judge alone.I want to see many more rapists convicted. I do not want lots of innocent men to go to prison. At the moment, under our present system, trying to achieve the first will inevitably provoke the second. I do not have an easy answer.· This week Marcel saw Cabaret at London's Lyric Theatre: "It was thoroughly spoiled by a spectacularly miscast leading lady." Returning home in search of an antidote to his disappointment, Marcel watched a DVD of the 1972 film version: "Although Liza Minnelli was sensational, some of the best songs from the show had been jettisoned and a boring storyline substituted."