A 50-year-old man has avoided jail despite confessing to police that he had smothered his terminally ill mother in a "mercy killing" as she lay suffering in a hospital bed.Hope Harrison, 74, who had lung cancer, was thought to have died of natural causes until her son, Iain Harrison, told a psychiatrist and then police that he had killed her.A judge allowed Harrison, from Weymouth in Dorset, to walk free from court after ruling he was "racked with remorse and guilt" and had suffered enough.Judge Guy Boney QC said normal sentencing guidelines did not apply to the case. He said: "I take the view that you have suffered enough. This whole matter falls outside sentencing guidelines."She [Mrs Harrison] had very much reached the end of her natural life and had expressed the view that she wanted to die as soon as possible. It was an act of mercy."Rather than giving him a custodial sentence, the judge imposed a two-year jail term suspended for 18 months.Lee Christmas, defending, said Harrison had struggled to live with what he had done. He said: "His actions that day were an act of mercy. He and his sisters believed their mother to be in a great deal of pain. But for his admissions, it would never have come to light."Winchester crown court was told Mrs Harrison was diagnosed with lung cancer and admitted to the Dorset county hospital in Dorchester in March 2011.Her condition worsened and she was in terrible pain.Iain Harrison asked nursing staff if there was anything he could do to help her but was told all he could do was be at his mother's side.After her death in April 2011, Harrison attempted to kill himself and told a psychiatrist he was consumed with guilt after killing his mother. He handed himself into police and told detectives he smothered Mrs Harrison after his sister went outside for a cigarette.John Locke, a senior crown prosecutor in Wessex, said Harrison tried to kill himself twice and suffered serious injuries when he jumped from the window of his fourth-floor flat.Locke said: "On 21 February 2013 he confessed to this psychiatrist he was consumed with guilt after killing his mother by suffocating her. He then called the police who arrested him."He made the same confession to the police after declining to have a solicitor."Harrison was charged and admitted attempted murder. He was not charged with murder because it was not deemed possible to prove that his actions had actually caused her death.Locke said: "It was possible to prove that he attempted to do so, based on his own admission."He added: "This is a very sad case, where a son admitted carrying out an act because he could not bear seeing her suffering."As distressing as it is to see a loved one suffering and dying from cancer or a terminal illness, it is not for a person to decide when someone should die. Euthanasia is effectively murder and murder is a crime."