In Court 1 of Hammersmith magistrates court on Tuesday, a judge was deciding the fate of hundreds of photographs and pictures. District Judge Elizabeth Roscoe had to rule on whether works by and belonging to the artist Graham Ovenden, a convicted paedophile, were indecent. She decided they were, ordering the destruction of a number of them, including photographs of young girls taken by the French writer and artist Pierre Louÿs in the 1860s and 1870s, and works by the German artist Wilhelm von Plüschow.The judge acknowledged she would “invite the wrath of the art world” and said she was “no judge of art or artistic merit”. Her decision led one writer this week to compare her decision to “an act of medievalism to match any of the statue-smashing antics of the Islamic State”. Outside the court, Ovenden said: “I am a famous artist. I am an equally famous photographer, and they are destroying material which has been in the public domain for over 40 years.”What troubled Judge Roscoe was that some of the images “appear to be sexually provocative. Some, whether overtly or not, evoke poses by adult women that are intended to be sexually alluring.” She was assessing the images, she said, “on the basis of the ‘recognised standards of propriety’ which exist today”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A painting by Graham Ovenden, which was commissioned by Princess Diana for a charity auction. Photograph: National PicturesFrom a legal perspective, what is indecent in England and Wales is subjective. “It’s purely down to the [judge’s] personal opinion. A different judge could reach a different verdict,” says Alisdair Gillespie, a professor of criminal law at Lancaster University who specialises in child pornography law. Photographs come under the Protection of Children Act 1978, whereas paintings would be dealt with as a prohibited image of a child under a different Act.“The difficulty is that photographs that are classed as indecent are what we call child pornography, and the test is vague at best. There is no [permissible] defence of artistic merit, where there would be under obscene publications [which paintings are usually tested under], and there is case law that says context is irrelevant.”He acknowledges differences of opinion. “There has always been doubt as to where child nudity fits into our laws. Some countries decide child pornography means sexualised photographs [to distinguish] between indecency and sexuality. Our laws cover nudity, which other countries might not.” Once a judge has decided an image is indecent, he or she has no choice but to order its forfeiture. On the whole, he says, our child pornography laws work well. “Where I think it doesn’t particularly work is at the very nuances, the close decisions. But if you were the government, would you change the law? Probably not.”Gillespie says art is assessed in itself, and Ovenden’s conviction is not relevant to a judge. But what about the rest of us? In 2013, Ovenden, who has never shown remorse, was sentenced to two years in prison after his earlier non-custodial sentence for sexual offences against children in the 1970s and 1980s was ruled unduly lenient. But Ovenden, who had once produced a book titled Aspects of Lolita, had been considered a suspect figure long before his 2013 conviction. In 1991, US customs officials seized proofs from a book of images of children by Ovenden. Two years later, British officers removed boxes of photographs and videos from his Cornwall estate. In 2009 Ovenden was accused of making indecent images of children, but the case was thrown out.“I’m shocked that a judge would feel they had the right to destroy these things,” says the Guardian’s art critic Adrian Searle of this latest decision. He seems less bothered about Ovenden’s work (“I always felt he was a rubbish artist”) but says there are grounds for appeal to avoid the destruction of photographs by Louÿs and others. “The judge needs to see it in the context not of Ovenden and his proclivities, or what use he put the photographs to, but in terms of [the works’] interest and importance in relation to early photography.” Also, Searle points out, they will have been reproduced over the years – destroying the originals seems idiotic.Can you ever divorce an artist’s life from their work? “Knowing Van Gogh shot himself, does that change the way you look at his paintings? Caravaggio was a murderer – does that make you look at him differently?” Searle asks. “There are lots of things we don’t like for all sorts of temporal reasons. What is unacceptable now may not be unacceptable in the future, and ditto in the past. The Victorian sculptures of black, naked slave girls tell us something about the Victorians – they are historical documents as well as sculptures.”The attitude, says art writer Jonathan Jones, “where people [think] the art exists in its own sphere – I think that’s not true at all. Ovenden’s art probably does reflect aspects of his life we now find deeply troubling.” The question of how harshly we should judge the art by its artist remains. Can you read Alice in Wonderland in the same way when you’ve seen Lewis Carroll’s photographs of naked girls? Or listen to Benjamin Britten’s work, knowing he wrote great music for children, with such attention, because he had an obsession with pubescent boys (as detailed in John Bridcut’s 2006 biography)?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The Sower by Eric Gill, at the BBC’s Broadcasting House in London. Gill was found to have abused his daughters, but the statue remains in place. Photograph: BBC/Corbis“One school of thought is the artwork is divorced from its creator and we should make an assessment of the work in isolation from any consideration of the artist’s intentions,” says Jonathan Pugh, research fellow at Oxford University’s Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics. “One issue that muddies the water is a question of complicity. Certain kinds of art might involve complicity in further wrongdoings. If we think that displaying certain works might entice people to carry out wrongs of the sort that are depicted in the work, then that might be cause for moral concern.”If we only allowed art by artists with unimpeachable moral standards, we’d have empty libraries and galleries. But it appears there are degrees of what we will tolerate. If the sexual abuse of children seems to be the crime that a viewer or reader cannot get over, apparently it’s only for a while. There are no calls for the works of Caravaggio, for instance, to be hidden or destroyed, even though his paintings Victorious Cupid and St John the Baptist are of a naked, pre-pubescent boy, an assistant with whom Caravaggio is believed to have been having sex – which we would consider to be abuse by today’s standards. Instead, they are considered masterpieces. But you don’t have to go back centuries. The BBC, while busy purging all mention of Jimmy Savile, has said there are no plans to remove sculptures by Eric Gill – a man who abused his daughters, and had sex with not only his sister but also his dog – outside Broadcasting House, despite calls from charities representing people who have survived abuse asking them to do so. The Tate, which removed 34 works by Ovenden from its online collection following his conviction, has many works by Gill, who died in 1940. The Tate said it had sought to establish any connection between Ovendon’s work and his crimes, and that the prints can still be viewed on application.It has been pretty obvious that in the art world, and in wider society, great art confers a degree of protection, which has to explain why many in Hollywood stick by Roman Polanski, even though the film director sexually assaulted a child. The passing of time, and the death of an artist, also seems to help rehabilitate work. “If the art is good then the story of the life illuminates it,” says Jones. It would be a mistake to consider Ovenden a “great” artist, he adds, and some of Ovenden’s work now looks “extremely troubling”, but that does not justify its destruction. Demonising art, he says, “is not a rational response to it. There is no way that you should punish the art for the crimes of the artist. A civilised society preserves art and tries to learn from it.”Ovenden was given 21 days to appeal, and those who disagree with the judge’s decision will be in the uncomfortable position of supporting a paedophile’s right to keep his collection of questionable images. Ovenden has suggested the V&A take them, but this would be up to the police. The police have the right to destroy them, says Gillespie. It is unlikely they could be displayed “but they could theoretically be stored. If the police were to do this, I suspect they would do so privately.”Pictures of children, particularly naked ones, are abhorred when we know about the reprehensible motives of their creator, but even when there is no suggestion that the artist has worrying intentions or desires, their work has raised suspicion. “This lens has crept between us and the art, that says this [a hysteria over abuse] is the thing you must look at,” says Frances Spalding, the art historian and editor of art journal the Burlington magazine. “It rather destroys the pleasure in looking at certain kinds of child nudity which can be, in other ways, an expression of a joy in life.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Many in the film world have stuck by Roman Polanski, who sexually assaulted a child. Photograph: Valery Hache/AFP/Getty ImagesSeveral works have been looked at by police, often by the artist mothers of child subjects, even though there has been no suggestion any abuse has taken place, or that the artists have suspect motives. In 2001, police visited the Saatchi Gallery after concern was raised about a photograph of the artist Tierney Gearon’s children, photographed naked on a beach. No further action was taken. “I don’t see sex in any of those prints, and if someone else reads that into them, then surely that is their issue, not mine,” wrote Gearon in this paper about the uproar. In 2007, a photograph of two little girls – one partially clothed and dancing over another naked child – by the American photographer Nan Goldin was seized from the Baltic gallery in Gateshead (it was later returned after the CPS decided it was not indecent).Richard Prince’s work, Spiritual America, an appropriation of a nude photograph of the then 10-year-old Brooke Shields, wearing makeup and posing provocatively, was removed from an exhibition at Tate Modern in 2009. Last year, a gallery in Germany cancelled an exhibition of photographs by the artist Balthus after public criticism. But both Prince’s work and Balthus’s photographs had been shown elsewhere without incident.The American photographer Sally Mann’s work Immediate Family, published in a book in 1992, became instantly controversial: her fascinating and beautiful black-and-white images, which included naked photographs of her three young children, were said to be pornographic by some (mainly on the religious right). Mann has defended herself, saying her photographs are “natural through the eyes of a mother”. She has talked of a time just before hysteria about paedophilia exploded. Child pornography, she said, “wasn’t in people’s consciousness. Showing my children’s bodies didn’t seem unusual to me. Exploitation was the farthest thing from my mind.”