The celebrity publicist Max Clifford was being held in court cells on Friday as he waited to be sentenced for indecently assaulting four teenage girls.A tired-looking Clifford waved to his friends in the public gallery as he was led by a dock officer, carrying the publicist's overnight bag, to the cells at Southwark crown court in London.The 71-year-old publicist is facing years in jail when he is sentenced by judge Anthony Leonard at 2pm.On Friday morning, Clifford sat silently in the dock listening through a hearing loop as the packed courtroom was told how the trial had been "extremely terrifying" for his victims.In a victim impact statement read by the prosecutor, Rosina Cottage QC, one woman said her abuse at the hands of Clifford had ruined her relationship with her parents, whom she felt she had deceived, and her husband.She said seeing Clifford protest his innocence on television brought back feelings of intimidation and fear. Cottage said: "She was further upset and distressed to see Mr Clifford refusing to apologise to the victims after the guilty verdict on the court steps."Another woman said she did not sleep for three days after she was indecently assaulted by Clifford. The abuse had ruined her fledgling showbiz career, Cottage read. "She had amazing opportunities but couldn't work in the industry because she was terrified what she would be exposed to."For a third woman, the abuse "took away her trust in other men. It was a skeleton in her closet she felt she couldn't talk about." Cottage said Clifford had aggravated his offending by abusing his power.Arriving at court earlier, Clifford posed for photographers and said: "I just have to make the best of it, that's what I've got to do." Asked whether he would appeal against his conviction he said: "Everything like that will be handled by my lawyers."His defence barrister, Richard Horwell QC, said Clifford should not be made a scapegoat for other failed prosecutions including those of the Coronation Street actor William Roache, MP Nigel Evans, and the DJ Dave Lee Travis."Mr Clifford is not to be made an example of following a number of failed prosecutions. He is to be sentenced for those eight counts and no more," Horwell said.He said Clifford had raised hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of pounds for charities, and that the last offence took place nearly 30 years ago, meaning the PR guru posed no risk of reoffending. "The public do not require protection from him today," he said.On Monday, following a six-week trial, Clifford was found guilty of eight charges of indecent assault against women and girls as young as 15 between 1977 and 1985.He was found not guilty of two other charges of indecent assault. The jury, which deliberated on its verdicts for 32 hours, could not decide on one further count, which the crown announced on Friday would be left to lie on the court file.