The killer police are seeking for the murder of four prostitutes in Suffolk is likely to be a confident, well-organised man in his late 20s or 30s, a criminal psychologist has suggested. The suspect is probably white, with a history of violence rather than sex attacks, and has lived or worked locally, according to Michael Berry, a senior lecturer in forensic psychology at Manchester Metropolitan University."What comes across in the case is that it is so well planned," Mr Berry said. "The longer the time elapses between a killing and finding a body, the more difficult it is to pinpoint the specific time of death."He believes the killer uses his local knowledge to conceal the body for long enough to destroy forensic evidence, but still ensure that his crimes will be discovered, which could be an important motivation for him."He is clearly organised and clever. He is unlikely to be obviously weird because the prostitutes are getting into the vehicle with him."Prostitutes made easy targets, he said, because of the nature of their work. "If a guy is smooth and hands over the money and she is comfortable, she is likely to take him somewhere away from cameras, nearby. She will protect him by doing this. That's when he kills her."The murderer is likely to be white, because killers tend to select targets within their own racial group, he said. He is also likely to have a history of violence, but not necessarily convictions.Mr Berry said that the killer did not fit the profile of a sex offender. "The chances are he won't have a big criminal history of sex offences, because he is comfortable with prostitutes and sex is unlikely to be the motivation. He's likely to be someone mature enough to cope with the stress and enjoy the buzz he is getting from doing it."It is not at all an impulsive crime to pick someone up and kill them and drive a distance away with a body. He would have to feel comfortable and not panic. There is also a drive he has got - to kill in such a short space of time."Mr Berry said psychotic or "vision" killers such as Peter Sutcliffe - who heard voices telling them to kill - were very rare. Instead, the killer may have a problem with prostitutes, either after undergoing a bad experience or for religious reasons.He did expect more anger from a serial killer. "It may be that the police are keeping quiet about this, but you would expect the bodies to be battered or degraded. The fact that they were naked could be to degrade them or potentially not to leave DNA on them."The speed of the killings was "very worrying", and raised the prospect that more than one man was involved. Mr Berry added: "Most people don't kill that quickly. I would expect him to carry on killing until he is caught. It will be a mind-game between him and the police."