Jonathan Freedland (The ‘PC gone mad’ defence is itself a form of racism, 30 August) labels as being guilty of “the laziest form of prejudice” any who assumed that the British Muslim community would be anything other than enthusiastic participants in the prosecution of abusers in their midst. In the same issue, Ruzwana Bashir courageously recounts her own story of sexual abuse by a neighbour in Skipton, reporting how she, and other victims of sustained abuse, were actively discouraged by family and friends from pressing claims against their abusers. The abusers, once finally prosecuted and imprisoned, were welcomed back into their communities on release. By contrast, the victims were shunned. I draw no grand conclusions from this, and agree with both writers regarding the required improvement of support for victims of abuse. However, Mr Freedland’s argument may display the very type of political correctness that stands in the way of an honest understanding of this issue.Allan MarsonEdinburgh• Jonathan Freedland is right. Political correctness is essentially racist, if a blind eye was turned in Rotherham under the assumption that Muslims do not share “in the collective revulsion at child rape or bloody tyranny in Mosul”. The same is true for multiculturalism, for it treats all cultures, no matter how backward some aspects are, as equally valuable. Turning a blind eye to backward treatment of women and superstition assumes that these communities, because of their heritage, cannot aspire to the enlightenment of 21st-century Britain. That is racism. Fawzi Ibrahim London• I am truly appalled that Ms Bashir suffered abuse as a child and that her family and the broader Pakistani community were not supportive. Appalled, but not surprised. Women have no status in Pakistani culture. We know of “honour killings’, forced marriages and now, thanks to Ms Bashir, we know that sexual abuse is not considered a crime by many Pakistani men. The fact that we have been prevented from saying so does not make it any less true.Ms Bashir suggests several ways in which the problem can be addressed, and I do not disagree with her. But whatever the many failures in the system, the abuse in Rotherham must be called by its name – racial crime. Asian men chose to abuse white children. If white men had targeted black children there would be no argument.I would like to hear leaders of the Pakistani community say they are sickened by the abuse in Rotherham and elsewhere, and that England, for all its faults, has been a fair, tolerant host for tens of thousands of immigrants, who have been offered jobs, homes, education and freedom of religious thought, amongst other benefits. I would also like to hear them say they are addressing the issue of women’s rights within their communities and are complying with the law in this regard. At the moment the silence is deafening. Geraldine ArmstrongGlenmore, Co Kilkenny, Ireland• As a social worker in child protection, I was prevented from exposing child sexual abuse by what I believed to be a culture of fear and shame in social services. Suspicious that children were being sexually abused, I encouraged their mothers to come to a group for social time, hoping that, gradually, they would begin to talk freely about home circumstances, and this they did. However, the suspected abuser must have become suspicious. He wrote to the director of social services demanding that I be removed from the case and to see the files on the case. I was removed and he did see the files (I had not recorded my suspicions). Years later, a health visitor told me the man had served a prison sentence for the abuse and grooming of several children.I believe I was taken off the case because my managers were frightened the man would go to the press with complaints about social service intervention in his private life. Also, the mothers were in some fear of speaking out.Abuse will continue to be covered up while those employed to expose it are not believed, or consulted.Name and address supplied• It is beyond doubt not only that many young people were sexually exploited in Rotherham but that they were failed by officials charged with protecting them. But coverage of Alexis Jay’s report into the case amounts to near hysteria. There has been little or no attempt on the part of the media to scrutinise the report, or enter into any sober analysis of its extensive and detailed findings. There has, for example, been no discussion of the rather crude methods used to produce the estimate of a minimum of 1,400 victims between 1997 and 2013. Even Jay warned that “the data must be treated with caution”.There has been a wholesale condemnation of practitioners involved in child protection in Rotherham, but little recognition of the fact – acknowledged in the report – that large numbers of staff, especially those in the frontline – carried out good work.I have been involved in child protection research for more than 25 years – a career that has included two major studies into child sexual exploitation. I have always been struck, by the commitment and ability of staff involved in child protection. I believe that a more considered examination of events in Rotherham would show this to true of workers in that area also.Dr Bernard GallagherCentre for Applied Childhood and Family Studies, University of Huddersfield• Following the resignation of Lady Butler-Sloss on 14 July, who has been appointed to lead the public inquiry into organised child abuse in her place? The foot-dragging on this is inexcusable. Clearly, any leak of information prior to a general election might be a game-changer. So it might be politically expedient to drag one’s heels on this matter.Professor Jay appears to have conducted a no-holds-barred inquiry in Rotherham, not only highlighting establishment failures but the ruined career of a woman who had tried to write a report on systemic failures there. However, the only convictions in Rotherham appear to be five men aged 21 to 30. These men could not been actively abusing children when they themselves were children in 1997.Surely Professor Jay’s report qualifies her to lead a thorough investigation with full public support? It would also allow her to follow up the lack of action against complicit police and council employees in Rotherham. I would suggest that her deputies might be the MPs Simon Danczuk and Tom Watson, who have campaigned so well.Helen PenderOakham, Rutland• There is no way, with present vastly overstretched resources, that the situation revealed by Alexis Jay’s report can be appropriately dealt with; an enormous increase in resources would be needed. This is never acknowledged, while overwhelmed social workers are blamed.Felicity WhittakerFormer social worker, Bedford