The man accused of killing the Crimewatch presenter Jill Dando almost 10 years ago had a fascination with female television personalities and had taken thousands of pictures of women who lived in his neighbourhood, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.On the first day of the retrial of Barry George, jurors were told that the accused was also fascinated by firearms, had a habit of following and approaching women, and had lied about his supposed alibi when questioned by detectives. George, 48, of Fulham, west London has denied the murder of Dando, who was killed by a single shot to the head on the doorstep of her Fulham home on April 26 1999. "The murder was, so the prosecution suggest, the work of a single individual, a loner, a man acting alone, with no rational motive to kill," prosecuting counsel Jonathan Laidlaw QC told the jury. "Whilst others in the Fulham area might have regarded the defendant as a lonely, harmless individual, there is evidence of a more sinister aspect to his pursuit of women," he said.George lived near Dando's home in Fulham and had an extensive history of medical problems.He told police he had a "personality disorder", and he was known to have lived out various fantasies in which he pretended to be both an SAS soldier who had taken part in the Iranian embassy siege and fought in the Falklands, as well as the cousin of the late Queen singer, Freddie Mercury. He had also taken on the names of Paul Gadd, the real name of singer Gary Glitter, and Steve Majors, an amalgamation of the name of the television character Steve Austin and Lee Majors, the actor who played Austin in the Six Million Dollar Man series. Right up to the time of his arrest in 2000, the court heard, George spent a great deal of time following single women in the area, even when it was clear that his attention was unwelcome. He told one woman "I know where you live" and asked another for a kiss. He had taken "thousands" of photos of the women. He also noted their addresses. "This must have involved him, on at least one occasion, in a form of stalking as he observed a woman in the locality with a view to identifying her home address and then recording a route to it," said Laidlaw. George had become aggressive with one woman who refused to talk to him, the jury was told."Whether the defendant harboured a hidden grudge against Jill Dando, believing her to have wronged him or figures he admired, such as Freddie Mercury, is impossible with any degree of certainty to determine," said Laidlaw. George was supposedly unhappy with the BBC's coverage of Mercury's Aids-related death.George also collected photographs and newspaper items about television personalities including Dando, Anthea Turner and others. Telling police who questioned him that he had not heard of Dando was "obviously another lie," said Laidlaw. The jury heard that George enlisted with the Territorial Army as SF Majors in 1981 and completed 29 training days, including courses in firing, stripping and assembling self-loading rifles and machine guns. He did not finish his training. He attended the Kensington and Chelsea Pistol Club in 1982 but his application for full membership was rejected. He also applied to join the Royal Green Jackets and the Field Ambulance Volunteers.The court was told that, while living in DHSS accommodation in west London in the 80s, George told a fellow resident he had been in the SAS and showed him a replica Heckler & Koch hand-held machine gun and a blank-firing Colt 45 pistol. On one occasion he had allegedly staged a mock attack on a friend's home dressed in a combat jacket and balaclava, during which he had fired a blank round from a handgun. The weapon which killed Dando has never been recovered. Dando was engaged to be married to consultant obstetrician Alan Farthing. She had been described as "excited and bubbly" on the day of her death by a booking clerk from whom she ordered tickets for Mamma Mia as a present for her fiance. At the time, she had mainly been staying at Farthing's home in Chiswick and was paying a brief visit to her own home when she was killed."The police have been able to establish that the defendant told lies about his movements during the morning of April 26," said Laidlaw. Two days after the murder he returned to places he had visited on the day "in a rather disturbed state", anxious to discover what the staff at those places could remember of his visits.George was accompanied in the dock by clinical psychologist Dr Susan Young. The court was told by the trial judge, Mr Justice Griffith Williams, that the defendant suffered from epilepsy and psychological problems which might make it difficult for him to follow proceedings without her.The trial continues.