Armed robbers have raided the home of the Manchester United star Darren Fletcher hours after he left the country for a Champions League match, echoing a tactic used a number of times in the past to target Liverpool players on overseas duty.The gang broke into the player's home in Bowdon, south Manchester, yesterday evening, threatening two women before going through the house stealing property. It was not known if either of the women was Hayley Grice, the girlfriend of the 25-year-old Scotland midfielder, with whom he has twin sons, or whether weapons were used. There were no reports of injuries.Yesterday, Fletcher and his Manchester United teammates had flown to Milan for the first leg of their Champions League tie with Internazionale, to be played tonight.Greater Manchester police said they were called to the house around 9pm after reports of an armed robbery. Three intruders had threatened the women and stolen property, a spokeswoman said.Bowdon, near Altrincham, is an upmarket village on the border of Greater Manchester and Cheshire, and is home to a number of footballers.In December, masked robbers stole jewellery from a home in the same village belonging to the Blackburn Rovers striker Roque Santa Cruz. The Paraguayan star was away for a match in Portsmouth at the time. His wife, Giselle, who was at home with the couple's two children, was robbed at knifepoint.In recent years, gangs have targeted the homes of a number of footballers at clubs that are playing abroad, particularly Liverpool players.In December 2007, the wife of Liverpool and England midfielder Steven Gerrard was confronted by burglars as he was away for a Champions League game. The couple's daughters were asleep at the time at their home in Formby, Merseyside.Other current and former Liverpool players to have been burgled in this way include Dirk Kuyt, Pepe Reina, Jerzy Dudek, Daniel Agger, Peter Crouch and Florent Sinama-Pongolle. The raiders escaped mainly with property, including watches and jewellery, cars and football memorabilia. In 2006, criminals who broke into the home of Everton player Andy van der Meyde also took his pet dog, although this was later recovered.The Greater Manchester police spokeswoman said that while officers were keeping an "open mind", there was as yet nothing to indicate a link between last night's robbery and any involving Liverpool players.Edinburgh-born Fletcher has made 200 appearances for United since joining them as a trainee, making his debut in March 2003. He is also a regular for Scotland and has occasionally captained the side, first doing so aged 20 in 2004.