The Home Office is being urged to set "visibility" targets which will compel police forces to put more officers in uniform, it emerged yesterday.The idea is part of a package of controversial measures recommended by the Police Superintendents' Association in a report which challenges many practices currently regarded as sacrosanct. It says forces in England and Wales should resist "double crewing" and send out officers on patrol on their own. Other recommendations include cutting the number of unmarked patrol cars and encouraging officers to eat in cafes instead of staff canteens. This is common practice in the US but has been frowned on by officers in Britain. The report, which is due to be sent to the home secretary, Jack Straw, next week, said many plain clothes officers should return to uniform. "The public would see an enormous increase in the number of officers immediately, and the service would benefit as a result. "We have reached the situation where an innocent member of the public could be standing next to a police officer without realising it, yet a criminal who invariably knows the identity of the unmarked car and its driver, would realise who the plain clothes officer was." The Superintendents' Association believes police must tackle a perception within the ranks that being a beat officer in uniform is "the lowest of the low". "A visible presence on the streets provides deterrence and reassurance, key factors in the concept of policing by consent," the report continued. "Those elements should not be sacrificed in the race to top the leagues of measurable indicators." The case for double crewing has been championed by officers on patrol, who argue they feel safer working in pairs. However, studies have shown officers are less likely to be assaulted if they patrol on their own. The report, entitled What the Public See is What They Think They Get, quotes from a thesis written by a Thames Valley officer which found double crewed cars "present the biggest risk factor as far as assaults are concerned". The association's president, Peter Gammon, said: "We want to challenge and generate debate about the way officers work. "The double crewing of police vehicles has become the norm and we are saying that there should be operational reasons for that, rather than just being routine practice." He added: "There's a lot more police officers out there than people think. Some 17% are in plain clothes and if we reduce that by just 5% you would have another 6,000 extra officers in uniform. This is all about being accessible to the public." The reluctance of officers to eat in public had to be challenged, he said. "They do it on the continent and in America so why not here? Would people really feel threatened if they saw an officer eating in McDonald's?" Mr Gammon said the association consulted various organisations, including the Home Office, the Association of Chief Police Officers, and the inspectorate of constabulary. "We want forces to read the report and get ideas for the future," a spokeswoman for the association said. "We believe the Home Office should make visibility a performance indicator, telling forces they have to improve by X amount every year." The Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers, said it supported the general thrust of the report. It said many forces were already using single crew patrols, but warned this was only safe in certain situations. The report will be published at the association's annual conference next week.