The Guardian approached 17 banks that are either based in the UK or have a presence here – and are therefore obliged to have strict anti-money-laundering procedures. They are also supposed to reject or flag any transactions that are a cause for concern.The Global Laundromat: how did it work and who benefited? We asked the banks three broad questions:1 Given the longstanding and publicly rehearsed concerns about money laundering through Moldova and Latvia, what steps has your bank taken to ensure that it has not been in receipt of so-called “dirty” money from transactions emanating from these countries?2 Did your bank’s internal anti-money-laundering processes “red flag” these transactions?3 Are you cooperating with, or have you ever cooperated with, the Moldovan inquiry into the “Global Laundromat”?We received these replies:HSBC HSBC is strongly committed to fighting financial crime. The bank has systems and processes in place to identify suspicious activity and report it to the appropriate government authorities. This case highlights the need for greater information sharing between the public and private sectors, each of whom holds important information the other does not.Royal Bank of Scotland/Coutts/NatWest We are committed to combatting financial crime and money laundering in line with our regulations and have controls and safeguards in place to identify, assess, monitor and mitigate these risks.Lloyds/Bank of Scotland We do not comment on individual customers. We have effective processes in place to check the identity of customers as well as various tools to help identify suspicious activity. Where we identify any potential money-laundering activity we advise the relevant authorities in line with our legal and regulatory obligations.Barclays Barclays complies with the rules and regulations in all the jurisdictions in which it operates and has systems and controls in place to mitigate the risk of the bank being used to facilitate financial crime. This includes risk-based systems and procedures to monitor ongoing customer activity, which we constantly review, and procedures for reporting matters to the relevant law enforcement authorities as appropriate. In addition, through a number of industry initiatives, Barclays partners closely with global law enforcement in the fight against financial crime.UBS UBS applies a robust money-laundering prevention framework across its business operations globally, consistent with locally applicable regulations. UBS employs a sophisticated set of IT-based monitoring tools to identify suspicious transactions (transaction monitoring) and trains its employees on a regular basis in all relevant aspects of anti-money laundering. We regularly submit reports on suspicious activities to AML [anti-money-laundering] authorities. On a global basis, we file a significant four-digit number of such reports every year. Depending on local regulation we freeze funds and terminate the client relationship after having made a report. In certain jurisdictions we may be required not to freeze funds after making a report to avoid tipping-off risks.Laws and regulations prohibit us from commenting on transactions. While we are unable to comment on specific transactions, UBS has strict guidelines with respect to corroboration and verification of sources of wealth. UBS operates under a robust money-laundering prevention framework (see question 1).We have not been approached by authorities to cooperate with the Moldovan inquiry into ‘Laundromat’.Santander We are not able to discuss specific client relationships. We have systems and controls to identify, detect and prevent facilitation of money laundering in addition to observing sanctions obligations. In all cases we cooperate fully with the relevant law enforcement agencies.Société Générale As a general comment, we would like to underline the fact that Société Générale, as a credit institution, is bound, at any instance, by strict provisions in terms of banking secrecy. As such, to illustrate, according to French law, ‘any member of a board of directors, and, if applicable, a supervisory board, or person, regardless of their title, who participates in the governance or management of a credit institution … is bound by professional secrecy.’ (Article L.511-33 of the Financial and Monetary Code). Any breach of these provisions is subject to penal sanctions. Similar provisions have been laid down by most foreign states. As a general policy, Société Générale does not comment on individual cases. Société Générale is subject to AML general regulations and performs KYC (know your customer) controls in accordance with such regulations and the OECD standards.Société Générale, such as any other credit institution, has procedures governing AML-KYC diligences on its clients. Should any alert arise in respect of any suspicious transaction, Société Générale would take appropriate steps in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and its own procedures.As a matter of general policy, Société Générale does not comment on potential judicial inquiries targeting third parties.Standard Chartered In line with our commitment to preventing fraud, money laundering and terrorist financing, we will investigate any indications of suspicious activity and if appropriate report those findings to law enforcement.BNP Paribus/Fortis BNP Paribas cooperates with its regulators and relevant authorities. However, due to its legal and regulatory obligations, it is unable to comment on any specific matters.ING It is ING’s policy not to comment publicly on individual clients or transactions. However, it goes without saying that we abide by strict policies and regulations regarding client and transaction screening and monitoring. When applicable, we report to and work with relevant authorities.Citibank Among our most serious obligations as a bank is to achieve the strongest possible system for anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance to protect the financial system from being used as a tool by criminals and terrorists. We continually take steps to strengthen and enhance our AML program in order to anticipate and respond to the changing patterns of criminal and terrorist behaviour.Bank of America declined to comment.