An HIV carrier who infected two lovers with the virus was today jailed for eight years for "biological" grievous bodily harm.In the first conviction of its kind in England and Wales, Mohammed Dica, 38, had been found guilty at Inner London crown court two weeks ago of "callously" conning his victims into having unprotected sex with talk of a vasectomy and promises of love.Dica was already married with three children before he embarked on the affairs with the two women. He persuaded his first victim to have unprotected sex with him by claiming he had had a vasectomy, then targeted the second with declarations of love and talk of a family. The court was told that despite the latest medication to delay the onset of Aids, the women - a divorcee and a mother of two, both in their 30s - could be dead within 10 years. Dica, from Mitcham, Surrey, showed no reaction as Judge Nicholas Philpot told him his behaviour was "despicable". "In each case you abused a loving relationship, loving on one side at any rate, and inflicted GBH. "Each woman is now infected with an incurable disease, has suffered a florid effect of the infection and manages to control her life but only with very frequent and heavy medication and that on a permanent basis," he said.Dica had claimed the women had known of his condition before having sex with him, although both women denied this. A former solicitors' clerk from Somalia, Dica was diagnosed with HIV in 1996. His is the first successful prosecution for passing on a sexually transmitted disease in England and Wales for 137 years. In March 2001 a man was convicted under Scottish law of reckless conduct after infecting his girlfriend with HIV.Detective Sergeant Jo Goodall from Lambeth community safety unit said she believed Dica had infected other women and appealed for them to come forward.But the Terrence Higgins Trust warned against a rush to criminalise the transmission of HIV. A spokesman said: "The law needs to be clarified and must not be dictated by precedent. If there was a rush of cases, it could discourage people from coming forward for testing and treatment."