The Yorkshire Ripper, Peter Sutcliffe, is aiming to win freedom by claiming that his human rights have been breached, a law firm said today.Sutcliffe - who murdered 13 women and attempted to kill another seven - will be represented by the lawyer Saimo Chahal, who will argue that the Home Office disregarded his human rights because they failed to fix a tariff for his sentence.He was given 20 life sentences in 1981 and told he would serve a minimum of 30 years. However, Chahal, a partner at London-based Bindmans & Partners who specialises in civil liberties, has said she believes that tariff was never formalised. The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said she could not see how Sutcliffe could be freed. "I find it hard to imagine circumstances in which he should be, but that is something that needs to be considered on the basis of the facts," she told BBC Radio 5 Live. "Top of my list of priorities, I have to say, is not Peter Sutcliffe's rights - it's the rights of those people who were his victims, and how we keep this country safe." Sutcliffe, now 61, began his sentence in prison but was diagnosed with schizophrenia three years later and transferred to the Broadmoor high security mental hospital. Chahal has said she wants to get Sutcliffe back into the prison system and has requested a reassessment of his psychiatric condition. A statement on the case on Bindmans & Partners' website said: "The secretary of state is in breach of article five of the ECHR (European court of human rights) in failing to set a tariff." A report on the Black Lawyers' Directory website said that, for Chahal, the case raised the issue of "how we treat mentally ill people who have committed heinous crimes". The report said Chahal was concerned that "there is a huge amount of information in the public domain about the (Ripper) case that is simply untrue". The husband of Olive Smelt, who survived being attacked by Sutcliffe, said it was "irritating" that the killer was claiming his human rights had been breached."He didn't give the victims many human rights did he? I'm too old to be appalled - I just find it irritating," Harry Smelt said. "It is water off a duck's back as far as Olive is concerned. When you reach a certain age, all that matters is waking up in the morning, putting your feet on the floor and getting on with it."He's where he belongs and that's it. I don't think he should be locked up in Broadmoor - it should be a normal prison." Sutcliffe attacked Olive Smelt with a hammer as she returned to her home in Halifax after a night out in 1975.