A fifth man has been arrested in Taunton on suspicion of murdering a teenager who was killed a day before his 18th birthday, police said today.The 19-year-old is being questioned at a local police station along with four other suspects, an Avon and Somerset police spokesman said.Lloyd Fouracre, 17 - who would have celebrated his 18th birthday today - died of head injuries after being attacked by a gang in Taunton in the early hours of Sunday morning. He was walking home from a birthday party with a group of friends when he was killed. The A-level student had been celebrating a friend's 18th birthday, and left the Taunton Vale Sports and Social Club with about 10 friends at around 12.20am.They were approached by a group of up to six men in Gipsy Lane where a fight broke out. Police said Lloyd was badly beaten, and died from his injuries in Musgrave Park hospital.Several of his friend's were also injured in the attack. Police refused to confirm whether a road sign had been used as a weapon in the fight.The group of six men fled the scene along a path leading to Corkscrew Lane, the police spokesman said.Three 19-year-old men and one 18-year-old were arrested yesterday on suspicion of the murder. The fifth man was arrested this morning. All are from Taunton.Lloyd's family are expected to visit the mortuary later today to view his body.Detective Superintendent Arthur Shaw, who is leading the investigation, appealed for any witnesses to the assault to come forward. "This was a violent assault where a young man has lost his life in tragic circumstances," he said. "Police are continuing to appeal for witnesses who may have seen the attack or have any information about the incident to come forward."Detectives are asking anyone who may have been picking their children or friends up from the Taunton Vale Sports and Social Club at the time to consider whether they may have seen anything suspicious.Lloyd had been a pupil at the town's Richard Huish College. Friends and classmates gathered at the scene of his murder to lay flowers. One card read: "Lloyd - no words can describe how we feel. You will be truly missed." Another said: "Thanks for all the great times." Anyone with information is asked to call Taunton CID on 0845 4567000 or contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.