Two "bent" Metropolitan Police officers were jailed earlier today for their part in a conspiracy to recover missing money for a criminal gang.Detective Constables Martin Morgan - sentenced to seven years - and Declan Costello - sentenced to 30 months - were caught in a trap sprung by anti-corruption officers."There is no more despicable spectacle than that of a bent police officer," said Judge Graham Boal as he sentenced the pair."The poachers and gamekeepers became indistinguishable. You have brought dishonour and disgrace not only on yourself but on the service you were meant to represent."Both officers abandoned their normal duties at Barkingside police station in east London to work for Robert Kean, a builder from Dereham, Norfolk, who has a string of previous convictions. Kean was desperate to find a former business associate, known as Mr X, and was prepared to pay his friend DC Morgan a substantial sum, possibly £50,000 for help. Kean and another criminal, Carl Wood, from Waltham Cross, spoke of torturing Mr X and putting his body in a car crusher if he could not hand over the cash, the Old Bailey was told. The two detective constables used their contacts and access to police records to try to track down Mr X on behalf of the two criminals. Morgan, who served in the Met for 21 years, had spells working in Stoke Newington and the south-east regional crime squad - both hit by corruption scandals in the 1980s and 90s - before being stationed at Barkingside. His integrity was not under serious scrutiny until 1997 when Scotland Yard's elite anti-corruption squad, the CIB, began investigating him over the disappearance of files containing details of police informers. Nothing was proved, but two years later Morgan came under further suspicion. Designated to deal with burglaries and robberies, he had gone outside his patch to work on a drugs case - an irregularity serious enough to lead a senior detective in east London to warn other officers to have nothing to do with him. With concern about his activities mounting, CIB launched a full-scale operation, codenamed Greyhound. This operation discovered the web surrounding the two police officers and their connections to the criminals. The CIB secretly bugged and monitored the officers work on behalf of the criminals and eventually pounced in early 2000. After two years of legal wrangling - during which the officers were suspended on full pay - the pair finally admitted their part in the conspiracy.