It is time someone put in a good word for Peter Hain. He has taken a lot of stick for asserting that the priority given to security in the Queen's speech proved life was safer under Labour. Peter's only crime was stating openly what Downing Street intended us to infer from the barrage of law and order measures put at the top of its prospectus. He was not off-message: just a little embarrassingly frank about the electoral calculation behind it.To those of us who have not seen the entrails of the focus groups that were dissected for guidance to a winning electoral pitch, putting security up-front does seem a risky calculation. As a general rule, the electorate prefers parties who offer them an upbeat message and promise - as New Labour did when it was younger - that things can only get better. The rating on confidence in the future is the key index on whether the public will re-elect a sitting government. Telling them that the threat is terrible, and will probably get a lot worse, is a curious way of identifying the government with a positive image of the future.The ultimate way to frustrate terrorism is not to be terrified by it. Yet we appear to be keen to do the terrorists' job for them by keeping the nation thoroughly frightened by proclaiming that al-Qaida are "on our doorstep". When the IRA was running a real bombing campaign on the mainland in the 1970s, the then Labour government took care not to reward the bombers by raising a climate of fear. It got on with its business, without discovering a compelling need for ID cards. Which is the next big risk in making security our pitch for electoral support. If we are going to claim that Labour makes Britain safer, we need to offer policies to convincingly prove it. Promising an effective system of ID cards by 2012 does not suggest the threat is that urgent. Nor has the government ever explained why ID cards would be any more successful in preventing terrorism in London than in Madrid, where ID cards had long been compulsory. Now we understand the public will not be required to produce an ID card on demand, but will be given the option of bringing it down to the police station for inspection just like a driving licence. It is difficult to see the determined terrorists, about whom we are warned, turning up at the police station, where they can be conveniently arrested. Apparently, there are some in the campaign team who have convinced themselves that making security against terrorism a central plank in the election will convert Iraq from a negative issue for the government into a positive one. That could be the biggest risk of all. Whatever case can be conjured up for the war, there is no avoiding the conclusion that, assessed by its contribution to curbing terrorism, the invasion - and even more the conduct of the occupation - has been a spectacular own goal. We have taken a country in which there were no international terrorists, and have created in it the perfect conditions for al-Qaida to thrive - poor security, accessible targets and a population with a grievance. But much worse has been the stimulus to terrorism beyond Iraq. The heavy-handed application of US firepower against urban communities and the abuse of detainees within Abu Ghraib have provided the best recruiting sergeants and fundraisers for al-Qaida. Both the US state department and independent analysts agree that terrorism has increased, not diminished, since the west invaded Iraq. Stressing the current terrorist threat will only reawaken doubts about the wisdom of joining Bush's war. But the most perplexing aspect of a campaign anchored on a threat to security is that it puts law and order at the centre of the election, although that is the one remaining issue on which the Conservative party is ahead in the polls. To New Labour strategists, that is not a puzzle but the reason for choosing security as a central front. They are devotees of the practice of triangulation, and believe that elections are only won by stealing your opponents' clothing, rhetoric, issues - and, hopefully, their votes. If the Conservatives pose as tough on law and order, then Labour must pose as even tougher. Whatever the tactical gains in the short run from triangulation, in the long term it threatens to poison our political system. The greatest challenge to our democratic process is the growing number in the electorate who find it hard to identify with any party, or to accept the conviction with which political figures hold their views. The most frequently articulated complaint is that "you are all the same". Yet, perversely, the objective of triangulation is to minimise the difference between a party and its rival, and to deny the electorate a real choice between competing value systems. The real enemy for Labour at the next election will be neither Tory nor Lib Dem but apathy. But we will not motivate our supporters to turn out and vote for us by pretending that we share our opponents' priorities. The tragedy is that there is a solid record of radical policies on which this government could easily stand for re-election. It has been responsible for the fastest improvements in health and education in half a century. Its economic policies have created 2 million jobs since coming to office - one for every two minutes in power. It has made more progress in cutting poverty among children and pensioners than any previous Labour government. There is no shortage of real achievements to put up in lights if the leadership had the confidence to fight the election on a different value system from that of the Conservative party. They were all embedded in the 10-point plan that Tony Blair famously presented to Labour conference, but which appears to have had little bearing on the priorities in the Queen's speech. Some of those priorities will be on parade next week, when parliament is presented with the pre-budget report on the spending plans for the years beyond polling day. After a daring land grab on Tory territory, No 10 will yet again depend on Gordon Brown staking out Labour's traditional areas of strength. It seems incapable of grasping that the cumulative effect is to strengthen the standing in the party of the chancellor, and to weaken its own. The fundamental problem is that, despite two landslide victories, the leadership remains nervous that Britain is basically a conservative nation. They see left-of-centre parties as holding power so long as they combine the public espousal of conservative values with a surreptitious pursuit of radical policies. Labour pays two major penalties for such timidity. The immediate problem is that a strategy of doing good by stealth prevents us from convincing many of our own supporters why they should make the effort to keep Labour in power. The more profound problem is that, when we leave office, we will have failed to build a progressive consensus to defend our legacy. r.cook@theguardian.com