Crown prosecution service lawyers may be allowed to "screen" prospective witnesses before trial to weed out the unreliable, the attorney general announced yesterday.The proposal comes after the Damilola Taylor murder trial, which ended a year ago with the acquittal of four boys charged with murdering the 10-year-old in Peckham, south London. The trial judge threw out the evidence of the sole witness, a 14-year-old girl codenamed Bromley, ruling it unreliable. Prosecution lawyers in England and Wales are banned from speaking to prospective witnesses about their evidence for fear of accusations that they have "coached" a witness or contaminated the evidence, for instance by mentioning something of which the witness was previously unaware. In some cases there are videotapes of police interviews with witnesses, but in most cases prosecutors have nothing more to go by than a witness statement written by the police after an interview. In Scotland, prosecutors regularly interview prosecution witnesses. In Northern Ireland and Canada, while the practice is not routine, prosecutors interview witnesses if there is a doubt about reliability or if they want to assess how the witness will respond to cross-examination. Witnesses in serious fraud office cases and army courts martial may also be interviewed in advance. Launching a three-month consultation process on the issue, Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, said: "I see definite advantages in introducing this new system in a limited category of cases where the evidence of one witness is key. "Many people think it is incredible that it doesn't happen already, that where the credibility of a witness is a key issue prosecutors have to decide if a witness is capable of belief with a written evidence statement alone. If we introduced pre-trial witness interviews it would allow prosecutors to weed out cases that ought not to go ahead, with the waste of time and money that entails and the damage to public confidence." He added that it would probably also produce more guilty pleas because defence lawyers would know that the witness had been thought reliable by prosecutors. The consultation paper says that in the other areas where witness interviews already take place, contamination of witnesses' evidence "does not appear to be regarded as a significant issue". Lord Goldsmith said he was confident that CPS lawyers would not attempt to influence witnesses. "I don't believe it's in the interests of the CPS to tell prosecution witnesses what to say. "It would be disastrous if a witness suddenly told a trial that prosecutors 'told me to say that'. Nothing could be more damaging." The paper says that in Scotland the practice is usually limited to serious cases such as homicides, sex offences or organised crime. But it recommends leaving a wide discretion rather than limiting it to particular categories of offence or witness. The document sets out a number of possible ways to avoid accusations of coaching or contamination, such as making a video or audio tape recording of every interview session. Full notes of the interviews would probably be handed to defence lawyers after being edited for "sensitive material", it adds. Defence barristers in the Damilola Taylor trial said Bromley claimed to be a witness to the murder only because of a £50,000 newspaper reward. The girl, who was 12 at the time of the murder, sang "I'm in the money" when she was questioned by police about her evidence.