Allies and opponents of Sir Ian Blair yesterday said they believed he would keep his job as Britain's most senior police officer, despite an official report into the killing of Jean Charles de Menezes blaming him for exacerbating the damage caused to his force. The Independent Police Complaints Commission said a string of failings led to the innocent man being shot dead after being mistaken for a suicide bomber.Sir Ian was criticised for his decision to try to block the IPCC investigation, which the report said allowed an attempt by at least one officer to tamper with evidence in an attempted cover-up.The IPCC chairman, Nick Hardwick, said Sir Ian's decision was responsible for "much of the avoidable difficulty" suffered by the Met after the Stockwell shooting. The report says the commissioner's actions were of "major concern" and "should never occur again". Sir Ian has already apologised.Just after the shooting on July 22 2005, Sir Ian wrote to the home secretary saying he feared an independent investigation could jeopardise lives. His plea was rejected as the law required the IPCC to investigate any police shooting.The commissioner will have to wait nearly a fortnight for a special meeting of the Metropolitan police authority to consider a motion that he resign or be sacked. It is unlikely to be passed and with Sir Ian repeating yesterday that he will not quit and the government reaffirming its support for him, he appears to be damaged but still in office for now.Last night the shadow home secretary, David Davis, who last week demanded Sir Ian's resignation, said he believed the commissioner would probably cling to office: "It's pretty unlikely he'll go. The MPA probably won't vote against him and the home secretary won't fire him." A senior police ally of Sir Ian said: "He's got the support he needs, that of the government."The IPCC report said 16 areas needed to be improved and Mr Hardwick said the Met's failings "could and should have been avoided".The report criticises Cressida Dick, the police chief in command of the operation, for failing to make it clear that her instruction to "stop" Mr De Menezes did not mean that she wanted him shot. It was revealed that she missed part of a briefing because she was sent to the wrong room and she had been unaware how far out of position was a firearms team vital to the operation she was running.She will not face disciplinary action, and nor will Andy Hayman, Britain's top counter-terrorism police officer. He was savaged by an earlier IPCC report into whether the Met had lied over the shooting.It concluded that on the day of the shooting Mr Hayman had "misled the commissioner". Yesterday the MPA announced that Mr Hayman would receive "words of advice".Mr De Menezes' family called for Sir Ian to resign or be sacked, saying his position was untenable. They are taking their case against the decision not to prosecute individuals to the European court of human rights. Cousin Vivian Figueiredo said: "Until all those directly involved in Jean's death have been held accountable in a court of law we will not rest."The report also revealed that police had no plan to deal with a suspected suicide bomber travelling on public transport even after the July 7 and 21 attacks on tubes and buses. Mr De Menezes was followed from an address police believed was used by a terrorist suspect, and he was supposed to be stopped by elite armed officers. But despite being ordered to get to the scene at 5am, they took over four hours and were out of position and unable to stop Mr De Menezes until he entered the underground system.Last week the Met was convicted of "catastrophic" health and safety errors which led to the shooting.