It was the very fact that Adele Eastman'simpact statement was so well written and so moving that confirms and enhances my long-held opposition to the procedure. It would have had even greater potency had the fiancée of the murdered lawyer Tom ap Rhys Price read it out herself in court, instead of relying on the prosecuting barrister doing so (which, incidentally, should not have been part of his role in the trial). My two main objections to the "victim's advocate" scheme were amply proved. It gives victims (or their representatives) an influence over sentencing, and it is hugely unfair as between different classes and categories of victims.Harriet Harman, the scheme's main architect, insists that allowing the victim's loved ones to express their feelings in court is not meant to influence the sentence of the judge. That is nonsense. Judges are human. To suggest that they will remain immune to a highly emotional account of the grief felt by the survivor - and of the wonderfulness of the victim - is unrealistic and absurd.I have spoken to a number of judges, in confidence; not one of them could guarantee that he or she would remain unmoved when calculating the sentence (or, in cases of life imprisonment, the minimum term). The discriminatory aspect of the scheme is obvious.The articulate, the educated and the attractive will be able to put up a quality performance; those with lesser advantages - and whose loved ones could not be painted in saintly colours - will be even more disadvantaged at the trial. The victim's advocate scheme is misguided and should be abandoned, or at least placed elsewhere in the trial process - after, never before, the sentence.It was just one sentence in a long lecture by the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, last week, but I wonder if it is the beginning of something bigger, which must be resisted. "I believe that the future constitutional role of the attorney general ... should comprise the responsibility for a serious government department with clear objectives which include upholding the rule of law, a duty to the crown and the guardianship of the public interest, and the resources to fulfil that role."This seems a funny time to be asking for a powerful, monied government department, when the attorney general's three-hats role is under debate, spurred by the loans for peerages issue. There are many who believe that his present multiple roles are not always compatible with each other. For example, should it come to it, how can he possibly decide whether or not to prosecute, say, Tony Blair over the loans fiasco?The first issue raised by his aggrandisement ambitions is: can someone who is not in the cabinet have a full-scale government department? Does Lord Goldsmith envisage that the attorney general should in future be ensconced within the cabinet? That would make his position as the independent guardian of the public interest even more questionable. Even if he stays out of the cabinet but is given a department, he will be seen to be closer to the hub of government than he is now, and therefore further from being truly independent, in the public interest.But the main question raised by his hint of wanting more power and money is - why?