The Lawrence family, the chairman of the Lawrence inquiry, and the Metropolitan police have all criticised Granada Television for providing a platform on Thursday night for the five principal suspects in the unresolved Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry. As the critics noted, the five young men declined for six years to talk to investigating police officers, refused to answer questions at the inquest into the killing, and even went to the High Court for a special order to ensure they could not be asked about the murder when required to appear before Sir William Macpherson's inquiry.  The idea that their appearance on ITV's new weekly current affairs programme, Tonight, was any adequate substitute for the three legal avenues they had spurned is absurd. Television interviews, even tough ones like Martin Bashir's, do not compare with police interrogations or court cross-examinations.  A police interrogation has palpable serious consequences. From the beginning the police are in control. The questioning can continue for hours. Suspects are unaware of the forensic evidence in the hands of the police or the evidence which eye witnesses have provided. None of this applied to Thursday night's interviews.  Similarly, while the viewing public saw just 50 minutes of interviews, a jury would have seen the suspects under intense cross examination for two to three days each in court. The suspects will have emerged for most viewers on Thursday as shifty, inconsistent, callous racists. But not for all. On some rundown estates, a new generation of young racists may have identified with them.  They may be ignorant, poor, and pathological, but like characters in Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs they managed to look modish. So should it have been banned? Of course not.  A free media is essential. Moreover it produced a huge response from its call for more information. John Grieve, the Met chief in charge, spoke of new 'nuggets of gold'. Last time he used that phrase - the Menson case - murder charges followed.