A 17-year-old boy was today convicted at the Old Bailey of murdering talented young footballer Kiyan Prince last May.Kiyan, 15, was stabbed through the heart outside the gates of the London Academy school in Edgware, north London, when a fight turned fatal.The young footballer - who was on the Queens Park Rangers youth team - had intervened in the dispute between his friend and the defendant, Hannad Hasan, who was then 16.Hasan, of Colindale, north London, got Kiyan in a headlock and stabbed him with a penknife.Hasan had denied murdering Kiyan, but admitted manslaughter. The prosecution did not accept his plea to the lesser charge and he was tried for murder.A first jury could not agree on a verdict. A retrial was held but abandoned two days after the jury retired in December last year because Kiyan's father, Mark Prince, approached a woman juror on her way home.At the conclusion of a third trial today, the defendant was found guilty of murder by a majority of 11 to one after three days of deliberation.Hasan claimed the stabbing was an accident, saying the knife he used was "a little toy".He told police that he had been trying to poke Kiyan in the arm - to give him "just a little scratch there but it went deep in ... because I never used a knife before".Hasan had been in trouble at his school for assaulting pupils, and had been suspended six days earlier after urinating in front of a teacher.Less the two weeks before the stabbing, he had allegedly threatened to "shank" (stab) a girl during a trivial dispute over a bus seat. No charges were laid, but witnesses to the bus incident came forward after they heard about Kiyan's killing.The jury at the first trial was not told of Hasan's previous violent outbursts. The judge at that trial criticised what he termed the prosecution's "catastrophic" failure to give the defence counsel sufficient notice of their intention to introduce evidence of the alleged bus incident. That failure led to the evidence being excluded and, as a result, the Crown Prosecution Service and Metropolitan police have launched a joint review of the prosecution.Jaswant Narwal, the district crown prosecutor at the Old Bailey trials unit, said: "As well as the deep loss felt by Kiyan's parents, this senseless knife killing has shaken an entire school and community."Knives, including penknives, are not toys, and we prosecuted for murder as we would if a gun had been used. No child should live with the risk of seeing their friends frightened, wounded or killed, and certainly not outside their own school."We thank the Prince family for their determination to follow us through these trials and also the pupils and teacher from the London Academy who bravely gave evidence a third time."Kiyan had been tipped as a potential England player and was nicknamed "the bullet" because of his speed on the football pitch.Joe Gallen, the head of youth development at QPR, said he signed Kiyan up after watching him play for just five minutes. He compared him to the England striker Wayne Rooney in the way he could lift his team by his presence.Speaking outside the court, Kiyan's mother, Tracy Cumberbatch, said: "It was the right verdict. It's been a horrible journey. I am so weak and tired. I am glad it's all over."Kiyan's father, a youth worker and former professional boxer, said: "Kiyan's life being taken from us in this cruel way has done irreparable damage to our family."Because his killer has tried to get away with his murder, we have had to endure further punishment and pain by going through a court hearing. "This part of our journey is over, but we still have a long and difficult time ahead of us as we try to rebuild our lives without our precious son. We are exhausted emotionally. People do not recognise the knock-on effect when someone is ripped from your family."He said the family would do all they could to "ensure that Kiyan's name is never forgotten, nor the countless other families that have suffered in this way". The family called for tougher sentences for youths caught with knives to prevent the increasing number of murders among young people.