A woman who had been drinking stabbed her boyfriend to death during an argument before being overcome by remorse, a court has heard. Jeweller Elizabeth Hart-Browne, 27, is accused of murdering Stephen Rayner on 17 September last year after the pair rowed at the flat they shared in Acton, west London.Hart-Browne stabbed her 25-year-old partner three times, with young children sleeping just feet away, after returning from a party where she had drunk champagne and wine, a jury heard on Wednesday at the Old Bailey in London. Hart-Browne said: “What have I done, what have I done,” after delivering the fatal wound to Rayner’s neck. On being told he was dead, she told police: “I have just killed the man I love,” the court heard. She denies murder.Rosina Cottage QC, prosecuting, said Hart-Browne and Rayner had been in an on-off relationship for six years, characterised by rows “stimulated by allegations of infidelity against Stephen Rayner and jealousy and controlling behaviour by the defendant”.On the night of Rayner’s death, neighbours heard a loud argument and the defendant screaming and crying. Katie Harrington described trying to save the young man’s life before the ambulance crew arrived and comforting a tearful Hart-Browne. She told the court: “I heard some noise coming from the car park area. I couldn’t hear exactly what was said, what was happening. “A couple of moments later, I heard a female voice that was very distressed saying ‘he’s been stabbed, he’s dead’. I put my shoes on and went outside. There was a man on the floor with a large pool of blood and there was a young lady [Hart-Browne] who was leaning over looking and holding his neck.” Another neighbour, David Winkworth, told jurors that when he went outside to investigate he saw Rayner’s legs sticking out on the ground and Hart-Browne sitting alone on her doorstep, repeating “what have I done, what have I done”. When police arrived, Hart-Browne allegedly told a police officer she had stabbed Rayner, saying: “I didn’t mean to do it, I’m so sorry.” After she was arrested and taken to Acton police station, the defendant was examined and found to have some minor scratches and red skin. In interview, she claimed that Rayner had hit her and held her by the throat, the court heard. Hart-Browne said she waved a knife at him and pushed her partner as he held on to her neck and hair, hitting him with the knife unintentionally.Cottage said: “The defendant says that she picked up a knife from the living-room table to defend herself while she was being violently attacked and that during the struggle they stumbled and Stephen Rayner was accidentally injured. “The prosecution say that she is lying and that she deliberately armed herself with a knife from the kitchen and just as deliberately stabbed Stephen Rayner with it intending at least to cause him serious harm, if not to kill him.” Hart-Browne told police she was not drunk on the night of Rayner’s death, but she was found to be twice the legal drink-drive limit and Cottage said alcohol “may well have influenced her temper and decision-making”. James Scobie QC for Hart-Browne told jurors it was a “case of complexity”, reading out a WhatsApp message in which the defendant pleaded with Rayner not to think “hitting, abusing me is OK”. The case continues.