A new punishment for persistent young adult offenders, involving mentoring and unpaid community work, was launched by the government today in a bid to relieve prison overcrowding.Home Office officials hope that the intensive control and change programme (ICCP) will halve the number of short prison sentences handed down to 18 to 20-year-old offenders in the five pilot areas in England and Wales. The launch of the initiative by the prisons minister, Hilary Benn, came as the prison population in England and Wales reached a record high of 73,105.Mr Benn said: "This tough and demanding community penalty aims to provide a credible alternative to custody. "Short-term custodial sentences with no support or supervision after release can't fully address underlying problems and provide limited opportunity for rehabilitation. "This new penalty will not only punish but will also directly tackle offending behaviour to reduce crime."Under the new scheme young adult offenders would be electronic tagged for up to 12 hours a day and subject to curfew, as well as being monitored by local police. Offenders would have to spend 18 hours a week on an offending behaviour programme, education, employment or training scheme, plus seven hours a week unpaid community work, such as graffiti cleaning. They would also have to work with a mentor and pay a compensation order to any victim for injury, loss or damage.The minister admitted that "quite a few" people sentenced to ICCPs would not stick to the demanding programme. Breaches of the programme result in the offender being returned to court and possibly sent to jail. ICCPs will be piloted in London, Nottinghamshire, Northumbria, Humberside and West Yorkshire from this month and in Hampshire, Lincolnshire, West Mercia, Cambridgeshire, Lancashire and south Wales from October. The director of the national probation service, Eithne Wallis, said the target was for 90 ICCPs to be handed down in each area by Christmas. When the scheme was fully rolled out she expected that it would cover about 5,000 offenders a year.Ms Wallis predicted that new programme would have a "significant impact" on reoffending rates in the 18 to 20 age group, which account for one fifth of all reconvictions. She said that the courts had already handed down ICCP sentences to three offenders this week. Hull magistrates court gave a 20-year-old an ICCP for street robbery and theft offences, and an 18-year-old at the same court was put on the programme for several motoring offences. The third recipient came from the London area, she added. "The ICCP is the most restrictive and intensive community penalty that probation has yet rolled out. We have very high hopes for this," she said.