Anne Owers, the former chief inspector of prisons, damns the indeterminate sentence for public protection as "a worked example of how not to legislate" (The prison system is too big to fail, and too big to succeed, 14 July). She does not clarify that this sentence only applies to violent or sexual offenders on a three-strikes-and-you're-out basis: they would only get it after a third such offence.In my daily interactions with prisoners I know that this is one sentence that is jolting them out of seeing prison as an occupational hazard. Yes, "there are 6,000 of these prisoners and only 130 have ever been released". However, these sentences began five years ago and alternative sentences would have been five to 10 years long.Owers says that "there have also been missed opportunities to invest properly in alternatives to prison". For someone whose own inspectorate (costing £27,000 per prison) received 60% more money in the last seven years, this is a surprising claim. Probation – the main alternative to prison – received a 70% real increase between 1997 and 2007. Working in this field, I saw that the money created new jobs and capacity to deliver more. But results – common to all the public sector – reflected diseconomies of scope rather than economies of scale. Ministers targeted timeliness, not productivity or output. While a waiting-list target for cancer patients might make some sense, timeliness elsewhere is like Tesco opening the shutters at 8am and forgetting if goods are there.Owers protests against the fashionable "my prison system is bigger than yours" argument. But simplistically criticising the doubling of the prison population since the early 1990s assumes crime numbers have stayed the same or are similar to western European countries, which have smaller prison populations. And will community sentences be better than short prison sentences? The problem is that the latter are typically awarded if someone has not responded to repeat awards of the former!As the article says, reducing reoffending is paramount. But understanding that most criminals are men aged 16 to 35 is crucial. Having worked in prisoner rehabilitation I know that most of them calculate that crime is worth the risk of a new sentence. Chances of changing minds are greater when their "career" has just begun and if the sentence – community or prison – is long.Fuelling these criminals is testosterone – reflected in aggression and a sense of entitlement. Are the police watching schools, clubs, pubs and nightclubs where these men get together?We cannot fix our broken society piecemeal. About 5 million people live in overlapping worlds of crime, poverty, unemployment, no qualifications, poor housing and health, addictions of alcohol and drugs, and broken families. The state gives them cash welfare benefits and non-cash health and schooling. Let us have a charity responsible for each deprived neighbourhood, giving it control over all benefit payments while it runs a team that has a doctor, a teacher and every other specialist needed to give comprehensive support. Real regeneration has to move beyond prison-bashing.