The first part of the public inquiry into Britain's biggest serial killer is over. The goal which the inquiry team set itself, has been eloquently met in Dame Janet Smith's massive six-volume, 2,000-page report. The goal was as far as feasible to discover how many patients Dr Harold Shipman, the Greater Manchester GP who was found guilty of murdering 15 in January 2000, did actually kill. The aim was to be able to answer the urgent questions of the surviving relatives and friends of the GP's dead patients: "Did Shipman kill my parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle or friend?"After looking in meticulous detail at 888 cases, the high court judge came to the conclusion there were 215 victims with another 45 where there were "real suspicions" and a further 38 cases where she could not reach a view because of the lack of evidence. Of this last group, she noted her regret that the families would be left in a state of uncertainty "but it was inevitable that there would be some cases where the evidence would not permit me to reach a positive conclusion". Two days before yesterday's publication, the next of kin were sent individual letters from the inquiry setting out the details of their particular cases. Some ran to 10 pages long. All the killings were carried out by injecting drugs, usually at a patient's home, but sometimes at his own surgery. His first murder was in 1975, just one year after entering practice in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, and although most (143) were committed while he was a single practitioner in Hyde, some 71 were killed earlier in his period at a group practice in the town. As the judge noted: "No one reading this report can fail to be shocked by the enormity of the crimes." He had betrayed his patients' trust "in a way and to an extent that I believe is unparalleled in history ... the way in which Shipman could kill, face the relatives, and walk away unsuspected would be dismissed as fanciful if described in a work of fiction". The judge expressed regret that she had been unable to reach a clear conclusion on the motivation for the killings. There was "no suggestion of any form of sexual depravity". There was no evidence that he killed for monetary gain, except in the case of the last victim, whose will he altered. Even there she was not convinced his motive was to inherit the estate. His incompetent forgery delivered to the family solicitor made "detection inevitable", as though he needed to draw attention to himself. She accepted a psychiatrist's view that the problems which had driven him to pethidine addiction in the 1970s, could have led him to other addictions including an addiction to kill. The inquiry now turns to the serious issues of how Shipman was able to continue with his killings for so long. It will look at the procedure for death certificates, that are notorious for the inaccuracies they contain; the ways in which Shipman reduced the number of deaths referred to a coroner; poor drug controls (the diamorphine - heroin - which Shipman obtained for one dying patient was sufficient to kill 360); and the failure of the safeguards introduced for crematorium funerals (a third doctor to validate the findings of two others). A number of new safeguards are already being applied including a national clinical assessment authority for poorly performing doctors; annual appraisals from the general medical council; new recording procedures for GPs (including deaths in surgery); plus tighter controls over drugs. Everything points to Shipman being a once in a lifetime occurrence, but the new safeguards will be rigorously scrutinised by Dame Janet.