The head of civil rights group Liberty is to take a top job in the new organisation investigating complaints against police, it was announced today.John Wadham will be a deputy chairman of the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC).Mr Wadham has, on occasion, been required to criticise police failures in his role as director of the human rights campaign group since 1995. But today he insisted there would be no conflict of interest in his new job. "If police officers want to do their job fairly, respecting human rights, then I'm going to be on their side," he said. "If people are breaking the rules, most police officers believe that they should be dealt with. So I don't think there will be a conflict. "Liberty and I have had a very good relationship with the police over the past 10 years or so, and I have been invited to speak at the Police Federation and Police Superintendent's Association conferences." He added: "I want to make a contribution to make the new body work." Mr Wadham's fellow deputy director, also appointed by the home secretary, David Blunkett, will be Claire Gilham, a deputy district judge and lecturer at Salford University. They will take up their full-time posts from September along with 15 commissioners, dealing with police complaints and investigating alleged misconduct. Salaries range from £50,000 to £70,000 a year. The IPCC, which will replace the existing Police Complaints Authority next April, is designed to improve transparency because for the first time civilians will investigate allegations made against the police, rather than inquiries being conducted by other officers. Mr Blunkett said: "The team's diverse background and wealth of experience mean they will be key to contributing to a complaints system that commands the full confidence of the public and police. "They will play a vital role in providing independence and ensuring the accountability and integrity of the system. "The establishment of the IPCC is an important part of the government's reforms of the police service. "It will help to ensure that complaints or allegations of misconduct against police staff are investigated thoroughly and that the system is open and transparent." IPCC chairman Nick Hardwick, who was appointed last December, said: "The commissioners will be the guardians of the IPCC's independence. "Their work will involve making fair judgments on cases, working to increase the confidence of communities and the police service." This week the Guardian reported that some Liberty supporters are hoping that the former international development secretary Clare Short could take over from Mr Wadham.