The family of a vicar's daughter who fell to her death from a window spoke yesterday of their loss as detectives said they did not believe she had been pushed. Rosimeiri Boxall, 19, died after falling 30ft from flats used to house homeless people in Coleraine Road, Blackheath, south-east London. Boxall was the adopted daughter of Simon Boxall, vicar at Open Gateway Community church in Thamesmead, south-east London. A postmortem found she had died from internal injuries.Detectives initially examined whether two teenage girls had pushed Boxall through an open window after a row, but yesterday police said: "At this stage it is not believed the victim was pushed or thrown. However, the death is being treated as suspicious." Police also said there was no evidence of a gang being involved.Two girls, aged 13 and 17, were arrested and released on police bail following the incident early on Saturday evening.In a statement released yesterday, the Boxall family said: "The loss of Rosimeiri, a much loved sister and daughter, has left a void in this close-knit family that cannot be filled. Rosi was adopted but she was our daughter and sister. She was a loving, caring person who brought frequently remembered times of fun and laughter to the family and who was much loved by her three nieces." Her father, Simon Boxall, 53, said: "She was there at the wrong time. She fell, or came out of the window, and that's as far as we know. It is a delicate time right now and the police are still in the midst of trying to find out what happened there." Rosimeiri was the youngest of five children. Her brother Josh said: "There are still a lot of blanks that need to be filled in ... She had moved out and was living with friends. We don't know if she had a permanent address as she would stay with different friends. She had been doing a childcare course at Plumstead college but did not finish that. We understand she was looking for a job. Although she did not live here she would drop back to say hello occasionally and she would call on her mobile." After the fall she was taken by ambulance to Queen Elizabeth hospital in Woolwich but died about an hour later. The building from which Boxall fell had been converted into seven or eight bedsits and is owned and managed by Greenwich council. A spokeswoman for the council said: "They are used as temporary accommodation for homeless people. The woman involved was not a resident."