January 1:Ms Horton is last seen by her best friend and travelling partner, Ruth Adams, in the evening. The pair had flown to the holiday island of Koh Samui for a short break on December 27 after 21-year-old Ms Horton had celebrated Christmas with her family.Ms Adams later tells police Ms Horton received a call on her mobile phone from relatives as she sat on the beach near the New Hut Bungalow resort, where they were staying.While her friend strolls along the beach as she chats to her family, Ms Adams returns to their bungalow and falls asleep. It is not until she wakes up that she realises her friend is missing. During the phone conversation with her daughter, Ms Horton's mother hears her scream before the line goes dead.January 2:It is reported that Ms Horton's battered body, still clothed in an evening dress, has been discovered in Lamai Bay, Koh Samui, by a jetskier.January 3:A murder investigation is launched, and police forensic scientist Dr Pattana Kitkailart, who performed a post-mortem examination on Ms Horton's body in the Thai capital, Bangkok, says she had been hit on the head and body and dragged before drowning.January 4:Lieutenant Colonel Thanongsak Aksornsom, of the Samui police, tells local media: "The suspect is probably a Thai national and we believe he is still on the island." He adds: "There was probably a rape."Dave Lewis, the president of the students' union at Reading University, where 21-year-old Ms Horton studied, pays tribute to her, saying: "Katherine was a credit to her friends, her fellow students and her family."January 5:Ms Horton's father, Ian, makes an emotional and direct appeal for help in finding his daughter's killer. He begs anyone with information about the death to "please help her father".There are reports that four men are being hunted over her murder. The group, two of them riding motorbikes, were said to have arrived at Lamai beach on the evening of New Year's Day, when Ms Horton disappeared. Newspapers report that local and foreign men have been DNA tested.January 6:The Thai prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, says the murder has damaged the country's reputation. "I have ordered police to get the killer of the British tourist in Koh Samui as soon as possible," he tells officials. "This case has caused severe damage to the reputation of our nation and the tourist business."Police in Thailand hope DNA samples taken from a number of men will help find the killer. Ms Horton's family members begin the long journey to return her body to their home city, Cardiff.January 7:Two different DNA samples have been recovered from Ms Horton's body, Thai police say. Tests in Thailand are reported to have shown the DNA is from Asian men. Police reveal that a British couple found Miss Horton's mobile phone abandoned on a beach.January 8:Investigators take DNA samples from fishermen on boats near the beach where the mobile phone was found. Police Major General Asawin Khwanmuang, leading the investigation, says police are collecting DNA samples from fishermen on five boats near the area where the phone was found, with tests on Ms Horton's body having found traces of semen that investigators believe could have come from her killer.Police say they have a shortlist of suspects and believe that they are close to making an arrest.January 9:Two Thai fishermen confess to killing Ms Horton, and DNA tests indicate that the suspects raped the victim, Thai police say. Officers arrested the two at a pier in Koh Samui after questioning more than a dozen suspects, both Thai and foreign.January 10:Under questioning, the fishermen tell police they saw Ms Horton while she was walking alone on the beach, talking on her mobile phone. A police spokesman says residents and shopkeepers on Koh Samui "hate the suspects for causing severe damage to the reputation of the country".January 11:The trial of the fishermen will be accelerated to restore Thailand's tarnished reputation, police announce. The accused, Bualoi Posit, 23, and 24-year-old Wichai Somkhaoyai, appear in court for the first time.January 12:The fishermen appear in court again and plead guilty to murdering and raping Miss Horton.It emerges that police are also examining a possible link between the two men and the unsolved rape of a British tourist on Koh Samui last October. A spokesman for the Royal Thai police says Somkhaoyai confessed to raping women in the past.A memorial service, attended by locals, tourists and Buddhist monks, is held near to where Ms Horton's body was found. In Cardiff, an inquest into her death is opened and adjourned.January 13:The two accused men are led into court shackled on the wrists and ankles. During a one-day hearing, eight prosecution witnesses are heard, but no defence witnesses.Thai law mandates court testimony in the case of serious crimes, even when a guilty plea has been entered. Judge Chamnong Sutchaimai says testimony has been concluded and he will make a decision by next Wednesday. The murder charge carries a maximum penalty of death.The fishermen are said to have told police they had been drinking and watching pornographic movies on their boat before swimming to shore, where they saw Ms Horton.January 15:News reports suggest Ms Horton's mother, Elizabeth, would prefer the killers to spend the rest of their lives behind bars rather than be executed. January 17:Ms Horton's funeral takes place in Llanishen, Cardiff.January 18:The two men are sentenced to death. A statement released by the family following denies it has made its views known or expressed any comment about the court in Thailand imposing the death penalty. The statement also thanks police officers for their support.