An endurance runner who dishonestly claimed more than £22,000 in disability benefits while representing his running club and completing London marathons was jailed for 10 months today.Paul Appleby regularly took part in full and half marathons while telling officials at the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) that he was unable to walk without two sticks or a frame and that he spent most his time confined to a wheelchair.The former coalminer, who told the DWP he took five minutes to walk 55 yards and needed help with his feeding, personal toilet and any outdoor activity, finished the 2004 and 2005 London marathons, with times of under three hours and 40 minutes.Appleby, 47, of Kirkby in Ashfield, Nottinghamshire, admitted one count of failing to notify a change in circumstance between 2001 and January 2005 at Nottingham crown court.The court heard that Appleby had made a legitimate claim for disability living allowance in March 1994, when he was forced to give up work owing to a back injury.He was, however, recovered enough by 2001 to join the Sutton Harriers Athletic Running Club and register himself as an endurance runner with the Midland Counties Athletics Association.There had been, prosecutor Ben Mills told the court, nothing on the application forms to suggest he had a disability."By 2001 he was running 10km [six-mile] races, representing the Sutton Harriers," Mr Mills said. "He was running half marathons and full marathons. In 2002 he ran the London marathon, all the while claiming disability allowance off the state."According to the Sutton Harriers' website, Appleby is recorded as finishing the 2005 London Marathon in three hours and 37 minutes.In 2004, when he was still receiving benefits, he completed the same race in just three hours and 35 minutes. He was also running half marathons in around one hour and 37 minutes.Mr Mills said the DWP had started investigating Appleby in 2005, secretly filming him warming up for races and running with the athletics club."No changes were reported to the department because, of course, the allowance would stop," the prosecutor said.When the DWP first interviewed Appleby, in September 2005, he admitted joining the running club and agreed that doing so meant there must have been a "massive change" in his circumstances. He also said he did not deserve benefits, Mr Mills added.The court heard that Appleby, who has one previous conviction for dishonesty, told investigators he did not report the change in his health because he "didn't think it was a problem". He was able to pocket a total of £22,309.06 over four years.Sarah Munro, defending, told the court all money Appleby had raised by competing in marathons had gone to charity. The Marie Curie Cancer Trust received sizeable donations.She said his original claim was genuine, but he had continued to claim, instead of finding work, because it enabled him to care for his wife, who suffers from depression."He does concede that what he did was wrong," Ms Munro said.Passing sentence, Judge Price said Appleby had demonstrated "blatant dishonesty"."In order to claim the allowance, you said you could only walk with difficulty; you needed crutches and a wheelchair. You also said you needed help with your personal toilet," he said. "We know now that in 2001 you were a member of a running club. You regularly ran long-distance races."In 2002 you completed the London marathon. You still continued to make claims for disability allowance. While you received that allowance you were clearly fit enough to work."Your offending amounted to blatant dishonesty and that is the sort of dishonesty that affects every taxpayer in this country. They funded what must have been for you a very pleasant lifestyle."You clearly found a lot of time to run, and one wonders how much time you did devote to your wife."Judge Price adjourned a confiscation hearing until March 22.