A gay man who was kicked and beaten to death in an apparent homophobic attack in London had survived the Soho pub bombing five years ago, it emerged yesterday.David Morley, 37, died hours after being set upon by a gang of teenagers who carried out a spate of assaults near the Royal Festival Hall, on the South Bank in central London, in the early hours of Saturday morning.Police said some items were stolen but they were investigating all lines of inquiry. At least one of the other victims was a gay man and detectives could not rule out homophobia as a motive.It emerged yesterday that Mr Morley, who was from the West Midlands but had lived in London for 16 years, was injured in another attack on gay men - the Soho pub bombing in April 1999. He was the bar manager of the Admiral Duncan pub on Old Compton Street when David Copeland, who had already struck at Asian and black groups in Brick Lane and Brixton, exploded a nail bomb in the pub killing three people and injuring more than 70.Detective Chief Inspector Nick Scola, heading the inquiry into Mr Morley's murder, said the victim and a male friend had been sitting on a bench by the Thames chatting for three hours when they were approached by six youths - two black boys, two white boys and two white girls. There was a "brief conversation" before the pair were knocked to the ground and kicked, but Mr Scola said the gang did not shout any homophobic insults.When Mr Morley's friend regained his senses, he alerted passers-by for help. Mr Morley, who suffered 40 blows, fractured ribs and a ruptured spleen, died later in hospital.The gang targeted six people in three incidents between 3.15am and 3.30am. After attacking Mr Morley and his friend, they moved on to a group of men and a woman, some of whom were French, and minutes later another man was battered over the head with what he thinks was a bottle.The area is near several gay entertainment venues, including Heaven nightclub, under Charing Cross station, and is a meeting place for people going to and from these pubs and clubs. Mr Morley was a frequent visitor to Heaven but police do not know if he had been there on the night he was attacked.The London mayor, Ken Livingstone, said: "London's lesbian and gay community, and visitors to the city, must be totally free of fear of hate crime. The Metropolitan police will have my full support in bringing the thugs who murdered Mr Morley to justice."In Soho, Mr Morley's friends spoke of their devastation yesterday at the murder of a man they nicknamed Cinders for his flamboyant penchant for dressing up. Five years ago, they watched with admiration as he insisted on going back to work at the Admiral Duncan after the bombing.Angel Souto, who runs Cafe Espania in Soho, said it was terrible to think he had been singled out after surviving the bomb. "David was such a pleasant person, not aggressive at all, just very easy going. This attack makes me feel absolutely horrible. It's pathetic."Mr Morley escaped with burns from the Admiral Duncan blast, but suffered flashbacks and panic attacks.Speaking to the Gay Times afterwards he described how he thought he was dead following the blast. "Everything went yellow and I thought - do I live or do I die?"Despite the mental and physical strain, he wanted to continue working at the pub. But a week after the bar reopened, he burst into tears when he opened the door to a group of Asian teenagers who had brought a sympathy card from families in Brick Lane - the subject of another of Copeland's attacks."I stood there crying in front of them," he said.Mr Morley left the Admiral Duncan last December to be come assistant manager at Bromptons in Earls Court -which, like the Admiral Duncan, is owned by the Spirit Company.He moved into a room above another of the firm's bars, the Birdcage in Chiswick, west London.Some colleagues speculated that the move was a result of the stress he suffered in the aftermath of the pub bombing."It really left its mark on him," said a friend, who did not want to be named. "I think he couldn't take the pressure of running a pub anymore and preferred to take a job as an assistant manager."Chris Walker, area manager for The Spirit Company, said Mr Morley had worked for the firm for 10 years. "David was a likable, helpful and very well respected member of our community. He was one of the nicest guys you could have working for you."