The governor's office inside Brixton prison feels as hot and airless as the cells surrounding it and John Podmore looks tired as he gulps down a large mug of coffee to revive himself. "Perhaps it was not a good idea to have a simulated hostage-taking while showing round a Home Office minister and a bunch of businessmen," the prison boss says wryly. Mr Podmore has just briefed visiting executives from the risk managers Marsh, accountants KPMG and a host of other City names about the mounting scale of prison problems - and appealed for help. His pitch is that ex-offenders - with the right training - make loyal employees. "We are wasting vast amounts of human resources," he says. Brixton is home to 800 inmates, twice as many as it was built for 200 years ago, and the criminal justice system is at breaking point unless the cycle of re-offending can be broken. Nearly 60% of prisoners are convicted of another crime within two years and more than half end up back inside. Employment is one of the most effective ways to change this and companies need to drop their prejudices and help, Mr Podmore told the packed meeting organised by Business in the Community, an independent business-led charity network. There is also self-interest for chief executives to consider: re-offending costs taxpayers - including businesses - £11bn a year; meanwhile, firms in the south-east face staffing shortages. National Grid Transco has led the way by giving 200 ex-offenders work digging roads for new pipes, he says. "If some company wants to throw a wedge of cash we can always work with that but if every multinational employed 10 prisoners we would really begin to change things." How easy is that given that the former teacher admits up to three-quarters of prisoners are illiterate and former - if not continuing - drug users? Mr Podmore says he can provide reading and skills training tailored to individual corporate needs. "It's up to employers to tell us what they want," he says. The jobs also have to be real: paying enough and interesting enough to attract people, give them a sense of purpose and direct them away from their previous way of life. "The first person someone leaving this prison is likely to meet is a crack dealer offering them drugs or a job to sell drugs which could earn them £1,000 a week. You have to offer something worthwhile to compete with that," he says. Among those at the Brixton briefing already trying to help is the Co-op, which has been employing ex-offenders in warehouses. Martin Beaumont, chief executive, admits his retail staff would be wary of ex-offenders but says there is self-interest here, too, since small Co-op shops in deprived areas have been directly affected by assaults on staff and robberies. "We have got to break the vicious circle [of repeat offending] and turn it into something more positive," he says. The government also put in its call. Baroness Scotland, Home Office minister for criminal justice, said she was particularly keen for the construction, utilities and transport industries to pitch in. "If we are going to change this paradigm [of recidivism], it's going to take all of us," she told the Brixton meeting. A network of regional offender managers is being set up to help local employers find jobs for those leaving jail, she said. "The government is not asking companies to do anything it is not doing itself." Julia Cleverdon, chief executive of Business in the Community, accepts there are difficulties for employers but believes skill shortages make this the ideal time to tackle the problem. Surprisingly, she puts it like this: "Do we need more Kosovans to come in or do we hire ex-offenders?" Lucy Macnamara, BITC's director of reducing re-offending, says the programme should not be seen as a way of producing immediate jobs. "It's a challenging agenda and many business leaders go back to their own locations and start to look at ways of helping. It may not be offering jobs, it may be providing other kinds of support," she says. Companies including the internet computing firm Cisco Systems; the electricity and gas supplier EDF Energy, and British Airways are participating in BITC's wider Prison Partners Programme, offering training, work experience or governor mentoring. Rod Eddington, BA chief executive, has been helping at Feltham young offenders institution. Mr Podmore says it is easy to be dismissive of a group who have more than their fair share of mental illness and will need considerable support, but some prisoners are natural entrepreneurs. As the governor so graphically puts it: "Some are very intelligent, very street-wise and have serious business acumen. You've got to be fast to sell crack cocaine outside Brixton tube."