Detectives hunting the killer of a 16-year-old girl are looking for six men believed to have assaulted her for several hours before her body was found.The body of Mary-Ann Leneghan was discovered early Saturday morning in Prospect Park, Reading. She had a single stab wound to the neck. Her friend, aged 18, who survived, had been shot and stabbed. Police said a car with six men inside had been seen moving around with music blaring from it, and that while with the men Mary-Ann and her friend had suffered several serious assaults. Mary-Ann's father described his daughter as clever and artistic, but both he and a friend said she had recently fallen in with "the wrong sort of people". Police described the attacks as horrendous. The killers had not been found yesterday but Berkshire police tried to assure local people that such incidents were rare. Detectives said Mary-Ann and her friend were in the car park of the Wallingford Arms, a disused pub in Reading, between 10pm and 11pm on Friday. A third person was seen in a white car with them, and they were also seen getting into a burgundy or maroon car with six men inside, all believed to be in their twenties. Police say they do not know whether the two girls were forced into the car, or whether they knew the men. By 1am the girls had been taken to the nearby Abbey Guest House to a room believed to have been used by one of the gang. Police yesterday would not say if the women had been sexually assaulted or raped, but said that while there, they suffered a series of assaults. Between 3am and 5am Mary-Ann, her friend and the men left the guest house. The car they rode in is believed to have been playing music loudly again, and, being crowded, would have sat low on the road. Just after 5am the 18-year old raised the alarm. Detective superintendent Mark Warwick appealed for witnesses with information about the car or its occupants: "It is vitally important we identify this motor vehicle and the people in it." He added: "We're not sure whether they knew the males and we're certainly not happy that they actually went with consent. These girls may have been in some distress from the moment they left the white car." Police yesterday released on bail three men they had arrested. The men were believed to be connected to the guesthouse. Mary-Ann's friend was in a stable condition in hospital and helping specialist police teams with information. Yesterday Mary-Ann's father spoke of the deep pain he and his family were suffering. Bertie Leneghan, 50, said Mary-Ann was clever and artistic, but "fell into the wrong crowd". She had been unemployed after leaving school, he said. "There's not much I can say really. We only got the phone call yesterday. It still hasn't really sunk in. I went up this morning and put some flowers there. She was very clever. She was very artistic, decorating glasses and all that. But I think she just got in with the wrong crowd." Mr Leneghan has been to see Mary-Ann's mother, Sue, 54, from whom he separated nine years ago, and said that the trauma had driven her into a near catatonic state. He said: "I went to see [her] yesterday and our whole family was there. She was just like a zombie, she was staring into space, she couldn't talk to you." Friends yesterday left tributes to Mary-Ann in the wooded park. Adrian Buckeridge, 16, said that he had spoken to her the day before the attack: "She always had a smile on her face," he said. "If something was wrong she would be the first one to come and sort it out. She looked after other people. She started hanging around with other people who weren't straight."