A woman who slept in the same room as the schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson on the night she was sexually assaulted and murdered today told a court how she had heard her call for her mother and for help.Ann Jasper, who is now 22, broke down in tears as she described how as a teenage schoolmate of the 13-year-old victim she had heard Caroline call out in the dormitory room they were sharing in a French hostel nine years ago."I could see her wriggling in bed, but I thought she was dreaming and I went back to sleep," she said, recalling the night of the murder in July 1996. Ms Jasper was giving evidence at a court in St Brieuc, Brittany, on the third day of an appeal by the Spaniard Francisco Arce Montes, who was last year jailed for 30 years for the murder and rape of the schoolgirl.He sat impassively in the dock as Ms Jasper told the court: "I could hear Caroline mumbling 'mum' and 'help' or something like that."It was the first time she had spoken publicly about the murder, which happened in Pleine Fougeres, Brittany, during a school trip in July 1996. None of the women who had been pupils on the trip were asked by the prosecution to give evidence when Montes was tried in Rennes last year.The 55-year-old admitted on Monday - the opening day of his appeal - that he had been responsible for Caroline's death, but said: "I killed her without meaning to do so."Today, Ms Jasper told the court that she had been woken in the middle of the night by the sound of banging. "It was something banging against the wall," she said. "I thought it was a bottle top hitting the wall."The court also heard from 22-year-old Melissa Hutchings, who had been sleeping on a bunk bed next to where Caroline was lying on a mattress.She broke down in tears as she told how she was woken by the sound of Caroline coughing and wheezing in the middle of the night, and the noise of a sleeping bag zip being undone. "It sounded like somebody was having difficulty breathing, and these noises went on for a couple of minutes," she said. "I didn't take much notice. I thought she was hot or having a bad dream."She also said she had seen a figure standing up in the room shortly afterwards, but had assumed it was Caroline and went back to sleep.Ms Jasper said she had got on well with Caroline, who she described as a "very friendly, kind and considerate" girl. "We were laughing and joking and talking about silly things like what we could call our kids when we were older," she said.Montes, an itinerant hotel and restaurant worker from Gijon, appeared unmoved by the witness accounts. He listened intently but declined to ask questions.He had been automatically allowed to appeal against his conviction under the French legal system. On Monday, he said he was doing so because he wanted to "explain everything that happened that day, which I did not do before".Caroline was found suffocated on the floor of the hostel room at around 8am on July 18 1996.Today, Ms Jasper and Ms Hutchings described how they had rushed to get help and were then told to leave the room when their teachers arrived.Elizabeth Baker, the teacher who organised the school trip for 41 students from Launceston Community College, in Cornwall, said Caroline had "blossomed" while in France. "She was very intelligent - quiet, but a bright young girl," she said.Montes evaded arrest until 2001 when a US immigration official tapped the Spaniard's details into a database after seeing him named as a suspect in a British newspaper he was reading. The Spaniard had been convicted or suspected of sex offences in five European countries. The appeal hearing continues.