Detectives hunting the killer of 11-year-old Rory Blackhall yesterday found a body at a house they were searching in Livingston.Police had descended on the house in the Camps Rigg area at lunchtime and officers in forensic suits were seen in and around the property. Last night Lothian and Borders police confirmed that the body of an adult had been found in the house. A formal identification and postmortem are due to be held today. The move came a week to the day after Rory's body was found hidden under an old tent in woodland not far from his primary school. The boy had gone missing after his mother dropped him off near his school on the morning of Thursday August 18. Earlier yesterday, police had renewed an appeal for help in identifying a man in a distinctive hat with flaps seen in the area on the day before Rory disappeared. The man was seen emerging from woodland. The witness, who was walking his son to school, said he had never seen the man before and had been unsettled by his behaviour. Detectives have received almost 300 calls since they issued a description of the man on Saturday. They had asked for the public's help to identify five men seen in the area near where Rory's body was found. "As a result of the appeals for the five individuals seen in the area over the days leading up to and after Rory's murder, we have now identified four of these people," said Detective Inspector Tom Martin yesterday morning. "However, we are still keen to speak to anyone who can identify the man wearing the deerstalker-type hat, seen on the morning before Rory's disappearance." The man police are looking for was described as 38 to 40 years old, 5ft 8in tall, with a gaunt, very pale appearance and a pointed nose with light or grey stubble on his chin. He was wearing a black bomber jacket zipped up to the neck, black jeans and black boots or shoes. Police also launched a text message service yesterday to encourage people to come forward with any information. The service was designed to allow the public to send pictures and video clips taken on their mobile phones. The murder squad has already set up a dedicated email service and telephone hotline and has taken more than 1,000 calls and 60 emails since the murder hunt was launched. Speaking yesterday morning, Detective Inspector Tom Martin said: "We are continuing to take a steady stream of calls to the inquiry line and email messages, but we recognise that most people these days have a mobile phone and may find it easier to text in information ... we would encourage anyone who may know something, no matter how insignificant they think it is, to please contact police." On Saturday, Rory's mother, father and elder brother visited the bank of flowers and tributes left near the spot where his body was found off Nellburn Path. Visibly moved as they read some of the cards that had been left, Michelle and Russell Blackhall and 14-year-old Conal laid a bunch of thistles and lavender with a card reading: "Rory-Pory, you are always with us in our thoughts and in our hearts. Our wee Rory, we love you."