Police have confirmed that a woman's body found at a roadside verge near Bristol yesterday was that of the missing landscape architect Joanna Yeates. Officers said they were treating the death as "suspicious" and continued to search the area where the body was found, three miles from Yeates's flat in Clifton. A postmortem is taking place today but the results are not expected to be known until tomorrow because of the freezing conditions in which the body was found.An Avon and Somerset police spokesman said: "While a formal identification procedure is yet to be completed, police are satisfied that the body is that of 25-year-old landscape architect Joanna Yeates, who went missing during the weekend before Christmas."Yeates had not been seen or heard from following an evening out with colleagues in Bristol. Her boyfriend Greg Reardon, 27, reported her missing two days later after returning home to their flat from a weekend visiting his family in Sheffield, to find her keys, telephone, handbag and coat but no sign of Yeates.The police spokesman said: "A postmortem examination has been taking place in Bristol today. However, because of the extreme freezing conditions in which Joanna's body was found, it is unlikely that any findings from this will be known until tomorrow (Monday) at the earliest.""Officers are, however, treating Joanna's death as suspicious at this stage but will not be able to discuss this further until the results of the postmortem are known. The police are once again appealing for information, in particular to help fill in the gap between Joanna's disappearance and the discovery of her body."A couple walking their dogs found the body on Longwood Lane in Failand, three miles west of Yeates's flat. The spokesman added: "Officers are keen to hear from people who may have seen anything or anyone acting suspiciously over the past week in the Longwood Lane area."Police are expected to be continuing their fingertip search in the Longwood Lane area throughout today and possibly longer." Chief Superintendent Jon Stratford said: "Our heartfelt condolences go out to Joanna's family for their loss. We have not stopped working hard throughout the Christmas period to find their daughter after she was reported missing.""Now we will work just as hard to discover exactly what happened to her and how she came to be in Longwood Lane on Christmas morning."Until the postmortem examination is able to firmly establish how Joanna died, we are keeping an open mind about the cause of her death. However, I would appeal to anyone with any information whatsoever that can help this investigation to please come forward and help us provide Joanna's parents with the answers they so desperately want and need."Her family and Reardon made emotional appeals for information about her, but came to believe she had been abducted.Yeates was last seen leaving the Ram pub in Park Street, near Bristol city centre, at about 8pm on 17 December. She shopped in Waitrose on the way – where she was caught on CCTV – and then rang her best friend to arrange to meet on Christmas Eve.She then went on to the Tesco Express on Regent Street, a quarter of a mile from her flat on Canynge Road, Clifton. Officers released footage of her buying a pizza in the supermarket.There was no trace of the pizza, the wrapping or the box in the flat – even though other personal items, including her mobile phone, were inside.When her body was found it was clothed and covered in snow. A white tent was set up on the spot close to the Bristol City FC training ground. A pathologist attended to examine the body before it was moved as darkness fell.Police immediately informed Yeates's family that a body had been found. Her father David, 63, said yesterday he and his family were "just waiting now for the police to tell us what we suspect"."Of course, we don't know for sure that it's her, but we assume that it is," Mr Yeates said. "Nobody else has been reported missing and it's the body of a young girl close to where Jo disappeared."It hasn't been a Christmas for us. I don't know what it's been. It's been surreal, totally unreal."Yeates said that if the body found was his daughter's, he "would be relieved" as her family assumed that she was dead. "We don't want to go to our graves wondering where she is and not being given the chance to say goodbye to her," he said. "We assume that she's dead so we'd like to say goodbye … our lives have gone."Mr Yeates also said he had assumed that she had been abducted because of the state the flat was found in. Thirty detectives have been working on the investigation and are being assisted by another 40 staff, including uniformed officers, forensic experts and search teams.The search also triggered an unprecedented campaign using social networks. Colleagues and friends set up a website dedicated to looking for her and invited people to download posters to print and put on display.• Anyone who can help the investigation can call the Operation Braid incident room on 0845 456 7000 or the independent charity Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.