One image seems to recur among the flashbacks and memories of Anna's ordeal at the hands of John Worboys and then her dealings with the Metropolitan police: the sight and sound of officers laughing as she attempted to describe what happened in the early hours, when she was drugged and incapacitated in the back of his cab.She claims they didn't take her seriously – they thought she had made it up.Nearly three years after she first went to the police alleging she had been the victim of a sexual assault by the driver of a black taxi, she is only now learning the truth of the failings and the full facts of her case.Now 21, she was a 19-year-old ­student at the time of the attack in July 2007. "They [the police officers] laughed when I described my injuries and said I must have been drunk and fallen over. I was not believed. They talked down to me as if it was my fault, as if I was the criminal, and I just felt they didn't take me seriously," she said.Her complaints against seven officers were central to the IPCC investigation, but she has mixed feelings about the outcome of the inquiry. While welcoming the truth the investigation has exposed, she said she was upset and disappointed no officers were to be sacked.Had the police acted properly upon her complaint, made within hours of her arriving home, she believes Worboys would have been stopped earlier and at least seven other women could have been saved from serious sexual assaults."The most disturbing fact was this was supposed to be a specialist unit for rape and sexual assault. I don't think the punishment is what it should be. If the officers had taken my allegations seriously, if they had looked at his car, or gone to his property, they would have found evidence. But they didn't do that and as a result so many women went on to be harmed."It is not enough to get a written or verbal warning. I just don't think these people can carry on in the police force in Britain."Police arrested Worboys after her complaint, but he was released without charge after officers believed his account that Anna was drunk.In February 2008, Worboys was arrested again and identified as one of Britain's worst serial sex attackers.Anna said she had never received an apology from the Met for the way she was treated. "This is the first time the whole truth has been revealed to me … It was quite hard at the end of two and a half years finally to learn the truth."Crucially, it is only now that Anna has realised the case was never passed to the CPS, and she alleges the officer who told her so was simply lying. Yet her complaint against the officer involved was not upheld by the IPCC, who said the officer had "incorrectly assumed the file had been passed to the CPS".She still has flashbacks of the moments she was in Worboys' cab and has had counselling for the trauma caused by the sexual assault and its aftermath. She is considering suing the Met for compensation.Recalling the night of the rape in July 2007, she said: "I had gone out with two of my friends to a club in central London. I left separately and I got a black taxi, a licensed black cab because I thought it was safe."The driver started going on about some celebration … He asked me whether I would share the celebration and have a drink with him. I said no, obviously thinking it was quite strange."Then he took some cash out and said: 'Oh, look I've won this, just please have one drink to celebrate with me.' I thought it was completely innocent, although I did think it strange that the taxi driver was drinking."I had a bit of the drink and I started feeling very light headed. The driver then came into the back seat and had got out his hands in which he had three pills and he forced one down the back of my throat."After that I don't recall anything."The next thing [I remember] was waking up in my bedroom the next day. I started having flashbacks when I woke up … of the taxi driver putting a pill down my throat … I didn't feel right. My tampon was missing. I had injuries on my knees and my arms."Anna, who was in student accommodation, asked the campus manager to view the CCTV near her block. "He told me to call the police immediately."The CCTV footage showed the taxi driver pulling up and at some point embracing Anna outside the cab. But when two police constables visited her, followed by a sexual offences trained officer, she claimed they did not take her seriously."When I told them about my injuries, they just laughed and said I must have fallen over. They kept saying they didn't believe it was a licensed black cab. They just didn't believe me from the start, I heard them talking to each other, saying: 'What sort of arrest should this be then?'"They asked me whether I had just drunk too much."After visiting a Haven sexual assault clinic early the next morning, where swabs were taken, she was told by police that the matter was being dealt with. "They said he had been arrested, which I thought was weird because they hadn't taken my statement, they didn't know the full allegations." Over the following weeks she was told the case had been passed to the CPS, and then in October that there would be no charges because the prosecutors said there was not enough evidence – all of which, she said, proved to be wrong."I felt disappointed. There were so many flaws. They didn't take my statement for a good few days, they didn't collect CCTV footage from the club, they took hours to respond. I had been drugged and they waited ages to take samples from me."Anna read of Worboys' 2008 arrest in a newspaper and contacted the police again. "It was extremely similar to what happened to me. I just knew it was the same person. I felt quite disgusted and I didn't want to believe it. The worst thing is that he could have been stopped, he could have been behind bars, and he wasn't. He was let back on to the streets."Anna's name has been changed.