The Notarantonio family dread the day when their former friends in the republican movement don uniforms in a future reformed community police force.Victor and Christopher Notarantonio say their sons are currently the victims of an IRA intimidation campaign which they believe makes nonsense of claims that the Provisionals are no longer engaged in violence.Francisco Notarantonio and his cousin Christopher are involved in a dispute with a local west Belfast man their fathers allege has the armed backing of the IRA. They say they have been told their two sons must leave or face a beating or shooting.Asked about the possibility of further policing reforms leading to republicans joining a new parallel community police force yet to be established, Victor, a veteran republican, said: 'I would hate that. It would give them official power over everybody in the community they fall out with. It would be the IRA in a legitimate uniform.'His brother nods in agreement inside Victor's home on the staunchly republican Ballymurphy estate. 'No way should they be allowed to take over the police and wear uniforms,' said Christopher, known as Christy.The family has been on the sharp end of loyalist and State violence during the Troubles. In 1987 Christy and Victor's father Francisco was shot dead by the Ulster Defence Association. It later transpired that the UDA assassins were guided to Francisco's door by the British army agent Brian Nelson. He had been given the murdered man's name and address as an alternative target to a top IRA man who was later identified as a British agent - Freddie Scappaticci, codname Stakeknife.The Notarantonios are perplexed and angry that they are now under threat from the republican movement.The brothers say their sons' problems began after they got into a fight with a local 'hard man' three years ago. They admit the boys beat up the man after he initially tried to bite one of their ears. The man the then teenagers fought with was slashed with a bottle during the confrontation. Victor said: 'After that incident I agreed with mediators that my son Francisco should leave Belfast for a while. That was three years ago and I believed once he returned that was the end of it. But this individual has kept the pressure on the boys since they came back, making threats to kill them and other members of our family. But he turned the story around, to claim the Notarantonios were threatening him.'The family alleges there is a hidden agenda: to drive all the Notarantonios out of Ballymurphy. The brothers claim that the IRA is trying to isolate the family even to the extent of barring them from every social club and pub in the Upper Springfield area.'The republican movement have put leaflets around this area stating that we are a crime family attacking this man in a so-called feud. It's total nonsense, and what hurts me so much is that we have been republicans all our lives.Sinn Fein strenuously denies there is any IRA threat either against the sons or the wider Notarantonio family. The party also claims that the dispute is just a personal feud between the family and the local man who claims he is being victimised.Sinn Fein's version of events is also backed up by the local Community Restorative Justice Project in the Upper Springfield area.The Notarantonio brothers however believe 'the recent pressure' on their sons to leave Ballymurphy stems from the Provisional IRA murder of their nephew Joe O'Connor in 1999. Joe, a member of the Real IRA, was shot dead in the area after a series of street clashes with members of the Provisional IRA. The family publicly blamed the Provisionals for the killing. Victor said that the Provos had now labelled the entire family as republican dissidents. One of his other sons is in prison for dissident activity, but Victor stresses he and most of the family still supports the peace process.