Extremist Muslims such as Anjem Choudry behave in ways that forfeits their right to call themselves Muslims, the cabinet minister Lady Warsi has said.The Conservative party co-chairman tells the Guardian she believes Muslims Against Crusades, outlawed by the government last week after threatening to disrupt Friday's Armistice day ceremonies, behaved in a way that means they "are no longer a follower of that faith".The group, proscribed last Thursday, had planned to mark Armistice Day with a "total lack of silence" to highlight "atrocities" in Iraq and Afghanistan and the "brutal torture of concentration camps of Guantánamo Bay and Abu Ghraib". They planned a "hell for heroes" protest for last Friday outside the Royal Albert Hall.In an interview with John Harris, Warsi said: "From the Islam that I have been taught, and grown up with … and most people have been bought up with, it has to be rationed, reasoned, contextualised. Now if you detach reason from religion, then you are no longer a follower of that faith. If you are a follower of a religion that is so clear in its support of humanity [and you behave the way they do] then you are no longer part of that faith."Asked by Harris whether Anjem Choudury had "forfeited" being able to call himself a Muslim, Warsi replied: "Well, they follow a religion, and the prophet who bought religion to earth, and yet nothing about the way they conduct themselves is in accordance with the teachings."Now I could stand up and say, I actually am Chinese. You take one look at me and say, 'well you're not Chinese, you don't look Chinese, and there's nothing about you that would allow you to say that'. That doesn't stop me from saying it, but it doesn't make me Chinese either. In my view, I fundamentally believe that the minute they detach reason from religion, they're not part of that faith any more."Warsi is a fearless defender of her faith but a critic of those she believes distort it. In June she said that Pakistan was failing to live up to one of the tenets of Islam which guarantees rights to all women.Some women in north-west Pakistan have to endure justice administered by tribes through the jirga rather than by the state. In January this year she made a speech saying Islamophobia had "passed the dinner-table test" and become socially acceptable in Britain. Prejudice against Muslims in Britain was now, she said, normal. She also warned against dividing Muslims into "moderates" and extremists" as it fuelled misunderstanding..