The mother of a 12-year-old girl, murdered by a paedophile who had carried out 27 sex attacks in Poland before fleeing to Britain, said yesterday that she could not understand how the criminal had been let into the country.Andrezej Kunowski, a 48-year-old illegal immigrant, was found guilty of the murder of Katerina Koneva, a west London schoolgirl, at the Old Bailey yesterday. He was sentenced to life imprisonment.It emerged that when he strangled Katerina in May 1997, Kunowski was on the run after raping a 10-year-old girl in Poland.After committing his first known rape at 17, Kunowski went on to attack more than 20 young girls and women, as well as one man with whom he shared a prison cell.Zaklina Koneva, Katerina's mother, said in a statement: "I find it impossible to understand how he was allowed into the UK to commit this crime. I am aware that he had serious criminal convictions and impending prosecutions in Poland. Something must be done to ensure such a thing does not happen again _ Today I do not feel that justice has been done. I hope that this evil murderer burns in hell."The Koneva family, originally from Macedonia, had come to England in 1995 and had settled in Hammersmith, west London.Katerina was alone in their flat when Kunowski appeared, apparently intending to sexually assault her. When her father surprised the serial rapist, he strangled her and escaped through a window.Detective Chief Inspector David Little, who led the murder inquiry, said Kunowski was "probably the most dangerous sex offender I have come across and certainly the most prolific".Kunowski fled Poland in 1996 when a judge allowed him out of prison for a hip operation as he awaited trial for the rape of a girl aged 10. He sold his flat and came to Britain on a tourist visa.Although his fingerprints were circulated to 125 countries, he was not traced until 1997 when immigration authorities realised he had overstayed his visa. The authorities found, when they picked him up, that he had forged Portuguese documents.Kunowski spent two months in a detention camp in Oxford and asked for permission to remain in the country and to apply for residence.He was released in August 1997. When his application was refused, he dropped out of sight and was placed on the immigration authority's missing list. By then, he had murdered Katerina.He was not caught until last year when he was jailed for raping a 21-year-old Korean student in London in 2002. Metropolitan police officers matched a DNA sample taken from Kunowski with a hair found on Katerina's clothes.Sentencing Kunowski, the judge, Peter Beaumont, said: "You took the life of a child who was just beginning to enjoy what this country had to offer her and her family as refugees from hardship abroad. It was a life of great promise. You ended it in circumstances of great violence and terror."The Home Office said it was "a matter of great concern" that a person such as Kunowski had managed to get into the country and that his past had not been discovered sooner. But it pointed out that the system had been tightened up since 1996.Today, all asylum seekers have their fingerprints taken when they enter the country and the prints are then fed into a European warning index to check for criminal activity.However, a Home Office spokesman said that the database's main function was to prevent asylum seekers fraudulently claiming asylum in more than one country. He said it was not designed to check on other kinds of crime and did not feed directly into police databases.DCI Little confirmed yesterday that officers from the serious crime directorate were looking at similar, unsolved sex crimes, but said there was no evidence as yet to connect Kunowski with any of them.Surrey police said they would check to see whether Kunowski could have been involved in the murder of Milly Dowler, the 13-year-old from Walton-on-Thames whose body was found in a Hampshire wood in September 2002. "There is nothing specific to link him to the abduction and murder of Milly - he is in the same category as 250 other offenders who have been, or are in the process of being, eliminated from the inquiry," said a police spokeswoman. theguardian.com/crime