A 21-month-old boy died covered in bruises after being beaten at his home, the Old Bailey heard today. Bobby Louch suffered a great number of injuries caused either by his mother or her then boyfriend, the jury was told.Richard Whittam QC, prosecuting, said: "At the time of his death, Bobby Louch was covered in bruises. He was recovering from a broken leg occasioned approximately 20 days earlier."The toddler had a burn on his right hand and the worst injuries were to his abdomen and head. "The sum total of injuries to his head was such that he is unlikely to have been remotely normal thereafter," said Whittam. "The injury to his abdomen was the result of a significant direct trauma, perhaps a punch or a kick."Collette Harris, 30, of Chapel Close, Dartford, Kent, and James Phillips, 25, of Dale View, Erith, Kent, deny murdering Bobby on 29 December 2008. They also deny an alternative charge of causing or allowing his death.Bobby was taken to hospital from Halcot Avenue, Bexleyheath, Kent, where he was living with his mother and Phillips, but died from multiple injuries.Whittam said: "There is compelling evidence that the multiple injuries suffered by Bobby Louch were the result of deliberate and repeated violence. The injuries which caused his death were inflicted when he was living with his mother and her then boyfriend, James Phillips."Whichever did that direct action, the other should have appreciated the danger to which Bobby had been exposed and should have done something about it," added Whittam.Whittam said Bobby had 40 injuries to his head and body which the pathologist thought had been caused by kicking and punching. These included two broken ribs, bleeding in the spine, massive damage to the brain and severe injuries to the abdomen, including damaged liver and pancreas.The injuries to the brain and abdomen were both potentially fatal, he said. "The likely cause of the injuries to the brain is multiple punches or kicks to the head. These brain injuries were of a type commonly seen following traffic accidents or falls from a height. The likely cause of the injuries to the abdomen is a punch or kick to the stomach area."Bobby's face was covered in bruises of differing colours which were less than 48 hours old. These included 39 mostly finger-tip-size marks on the face and body which could have been made by "forceful prodding". A bruise to the right ear could have come from pinching or an attempt to pick him up by the ear, said Whittam. "Bobby died as the result of multi-inflicted injuries."Harris and Phillips sat three metres apart and separated by a guard in the dock today.The jury heard Harris ended her relationship with Dan Louch, Bobby's father, in October 2008 and took up with Phillips. "It was clear to her friends that Collette Harris was besotted by James Phillips," said Whittam.He would sometimes look after Bobby on his own. Harris remained "extremely enamoured with him" but friends noticed a change in her behaviour, it was alleged.On 9 December 2008, Harris took Bobby to Darent Valley Hospital in Dartford. "He had bruises of what appeared to be various ages to his forehead and had a broken right leg," said Whittam. Harris told staff he had fallen and the bruises were from him headbutting his cot."Some hospital staff had suspicions that these injuries were non-accidental and wanted to carry out further tests. These tests and inquiries upset Collette Harris who became somewhat defensive. One doctor thought Collette Harris showed no hesitation when she was told further investigation was to be carried out," he added.Harris contacted Dan Louch. "She was in a hysterical state, stating that the hospital were 'victimising' her because Bobby had a number of bruises," said Whittam.The trial continues.