An intelligent emerging consensus on the way to combat crime sadly began to unravel at prime minister's question time yesterday. For the last few months the home affairs spokesmen from all three major parties have begun to support the argument of the main players in the criminal justice system that too many people are being sent to prison. The lord chief justice, the director general of the prison system, and the chief inspector of prisons have all spoken out against the increasing proportion of offenders being sent to prison. It has been a propitious time for making such calls. Contrary to tabloid newspaper hype, the country has been enjoying the largest and most sustained fall in crime for 100 years. For most of the last century, crime has been rising by a remorseless 5% a year. But in the last six years, it has fallen dramatically. Total numbers, it bears repeating, are down by almost a third. Yet, paradoxically, courts have become even more punitive. The proportion of offenders sent to prison has risen in the last decade from 49% to 64% in the crown courts. Prison numbers have increased by 25,000 to a grim and dangerously overcrowded figure of 72,000. It is this current contradiction in the criminal justice system that its senior figures have been trying to resolve.Unfortunately yesterday was a serious reverse. For the last few days the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, has been under attack by the tabloid press for supporting the lord chief justice's call for fewer first-time burglars in prison. Pathetically, this proved too much of a temptation to a desperately weakened Conservative leader. Breaking rank, Iain Duncan Smith jumped on this blatant populist bandwagon and asked the prime minister what he thought. Alas, instead of robustly setting out the reasons why this made sense, the prime minister played the tough guy card. He proudly boasted that far more first-time offenders were being sent to prison under Labour than under the previous Conservative administration. What he should have done was to remind the Conservative leader of the sensible support that Tory home affairs spokesman Oliver Letwin had given the idea. Just two weeks ago Mr Letwin congratulated the lord chief justice for "trying to distinguish between first-time burglars and persistent crooks or violent crooks". Lord Irvine was absolutely right to support the policy too. Burglary has dropped by a third in the last six years, down to just over 400,000. The reduction has nothing to do with the police (who only detect a mere 12% of all break-ins) or the courts, who only deal with a small proportion of the offenders. It is due to something much more practical: better locks on doors and more secure windows that Labour has rightly been helping to finance on many poor inner city estates. Even so, in one-fifth of all burglaries, entry continues to be made through an unlocked door or open window. The lord chief justice's new guideline on burglary was designed to improve the protection of the public, not reduce it. Where first-time burglars are breaking in to finance drugs - as many are - it makes more sense to send the offenders on a drug treatment programme in the community, not to prison. Prison, as a former Conservative home secretary noted, is an expensive way of making bad people worse. (Where burglars use force or threatening behaviour, the lord chief justice made it clear even first-timers should go inside.) Recent opinion polls by the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation's rethinking crime initiative showed public scepticism of prison. Could the prime minister please hold the line for once?