A court in Perugia last night ruled that Meredith Kercher's American flatmate and her flatmate's boyfriend should remain in jail while investigations continued into the Leeds University student's murder. Both had earlier pleaded their innocence.Amanda Knox, 20, from Seattle, and her Italian boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, 23, were heard separately at the closed-doors hearing. Knox's lawyer said she made a brief statement to the court, telling the judges: "I am innocent."Sollecito spent up to 30 minutes answering questions, his lawyers said. He said he was in his flat when Kercher was killed.The third suspect, Rudy Guede, who has dual Italian and Ivory Coast nationality, is in Germany where he was arrested after an international manhunt. Attempts to extradite him to Italy encountered a significant obstacle yesterday when it was reported from Germany that the judicial authorities were demanding further guarantees before clearing the move. Guede has reportedly admitted being in Kercher's flat in Perugia on the night she died, but said another man killed her.Knox repeated her original account, saying she spent the entire night at Sollecito's flat. At one point she had told prosecutors she was at the scene of the crime and had covered her ears to shut out Kercher's screams. Sollecito has said he is unsure whether his girlfriend spent all night at his flat. Both have stressed their recollections are confused, having spent the previous afternoon smoking hashish.Their lawyers have argued the evidence against them is insufficient. Knox's DNA was found on a knife in Sollecito's flat, along with that of her flatmate.But forensic experts hired by the American's lawyers said this week the traces of Kercher's DNA near the tip of the blade were too slight to conclude it was the murder weapon. However, prosecutors have reportedly found a drop of Knox's blood on a bathroom tap. A footprint was found near Kercher's bed, which prosecutors said belonged to Sollecito. His lawyers deny that it matches one of his shoes.Kercher was found dead on November 2 after being stabbed repeatedly in the neck and throat. The prosecutors believe she was killed while trying to resist a sex attack. DNA tests have reportedly established that Guede had sexual contact with Kercher. But he says he tried to save her.A court in Koblenz is due to decide next week on his extradition. But Germany wants an assurance that, if he were jailed for life, his case would be re-examined within 20 years.