A businessman who bankrolled a lavish lifestyle selling counterfeit clothes and jewellery has been ordered to pay back more than £700,000. Gareth Steed, of Pontypool, south Wales, had paid no income tax for years. He and his family also falsely claimed benefits. On the proceeds he took them on expensive holidays to the US and the Caribbean and bought a series of high value cars. Now he is faced with having to sell his £500,000 family home or spend four years in jail if he fails to pay the cash back within six months. Steed was ordered to pay back £707,200 when he appeared at Cardiff crown court in a proceeds of crime hearing last Friday. Steed had admitted cheating the Inland Revenue at the same court in April 2007. He was given a six-month suspended jail sentence for that offence. Police initially arrested him in 2005 on suspicion of money laundering. Police later found counterfeit goods after searching his business warehouse. "During the investigation which followed, it became clear that Steed and his family lived a lavish lifestyle," Gwent police said."This included high-value luxury cars, expensive holidays to the USA and Caribbean and the purchase and development of a house with swimming pool in Pontypool, valued at £500,000."He added that evidence from HM Revenue & Customs showed Steed and his family had not declared any income for "many years"."An examination of Steed's finances has revealed his lavish lifestyle to be funded from various forms of criminal activity," the police spokesman said.He added that last month, while giving evidence in his own defence at the same court, Steed admitted further criminal offences going back as far as 1994.He said the court heard Steed was judged to have a criminal lifestyle and the court set his benefit to be £863,303.The available assets of two houses, a gym business and cars were valued at £707,200 and an order was set in this amount.Detective Chief Inspector Chris Dodd, head of the Regional Asset Recovery Team (Wales), said: "This confiscation order is the culmination of years of dedicated work by the Regional Asset Recovery Team and Gwent police."Having been convicted earlier this year for cheating the revenue, it would have been manifestly unreasonable for Steed to be allowed to retain the proceeds of his offending."This result sends a positive message to the public of Gwent that their local officers will challenge and pursue the negative role models in their midst."A further message to those who choose to live a criminal lifestyle; - the Criminal Justice Community are determined to remove from you the profits and assets of criminality.