Ian Huntley cut the clothing from the bodies of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman as they lay in a remote ditch, his lawyer admitted yesterday.Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the schoolgirls, who vanished in the village of Soham, Cambridgeshire, on August 4 last year. He has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. The bodies of the 10-year-olds were found less than a fortnight after their disappearance, near Lakenheath air base in Suffolk. Their charred clothing had been found the previous day in a bin in a building at Soham Village College, where Mr Huntley worked as a caretaker. Cross-examining Roger Blackmore, one of several forensic scientists who gave evidence yesterday, Stephen Coward QC, for Mr Huntley, admitted that the caretaker had got rid of the clothing. "The case for my client is, having cut off the clothes of the girls at the deposition site he brought them back to Soham, put them inside one of the bins that we have seen outside the hangar, set fire to the contents and then replaced the bin inside the hangar," he said. "That is at least a possibility, isn't it?" Dr Blackmore replied: "It is, yes." The witness said he had visited the college to try to determine whether the fire in the bin had occurred inside or outside the building. He noticed "dark discolouration" of cobwebs on light fittings, which became lighter as one moved away from the bin. But he had not tested the webs for smoke exposure as he knew no way of doing so. Another forensic scientist, Peter Lamb, told the court that he had found 154 fibre transfers from the girls' clothing to items taken from Mr Huntley's home and car, and vice versa. Of these, 49 matching either Holly's or Jessica's shirts were found on items in the house or car, while 39 matching the house and car were found on Jessica's shirt and 38 on Holly's top. "There was very strong scientific evidence Huntley had been in direct contact with the clothing of Holly and Jessica," Mr Lamb concluded. "There was strong scientific evidence the clothing of Holly and Jessica had been in contact with the upstairs and downstairs of Huntley's home." There was also moderate evidence that their clothing had been in contact with the boot carpet of Mr Huntley's car. Mr Lamb said that he could not distinguish which fibres came from which girl's top, but could see differences between those from their tops and those from other Manchester United shirts - including one taken from Mr Huntley's house - because of differences in dyes and fibre composition. He also explained that several hairs found with the girls' clothes matched Mr Huntley's hair in microscopic examinations but did not provide a DNA match. He added that the test was difficult to perform and often failed to give a result. However, a hair found on Jessica's underwear provided a positive DNA match. Earlier, his colleague Helen Davey explained that her examination of the girls' clothing had revealed no typical evidence of semen stains on the clothing. Asked by Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, how immersion in water might affect potential traces, she said she would not necessarily expect a reaction in the initial examination process. But "if there had been a large number of spermatozoa there, I would still expect to find some." The jury also heard from Susan Blackmore, a scene of crime officer, who helped to examine Mr Huntley's home. Under cross-examination by Mr Coward, Mrs Blackmore confirmed that she had taken samples of several potential blood spots at the house. The prosecution alleges that Mr Huntley's former girlfriend, Maxine Carr, claimed he had told her that the girls had been in the house and one of them had a nosebleed. Ms Carr, 26, denies two charges of assisting an offender and one of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. The prosecution alleges that she gave the caretaker a false alibi for August 4. Asked about the marks, Mr Lamb said two were human but matched Mr Huntley and Ms Carr's DNA profiles. No blood matching either Holly or Jessica was found in the house. The case continues.