The killers of Damilola Taylor struck in four "missing" minutes between the last sighting of him alive and his death in a council estate stairwell where he staggered after he had been stabbed, police said yesterday.A woman told detectives she looked out a window and saw the 10-year-old, who was wearing a silver puffa jacket, walking alone along Cronin Street in Peckham, south London, at 4.45pm on Monday. She was fairly sure he was not being followed. Four minutes later, Damilola was found by a workman lying on concrete steps between the first and second floors of a block on the North Peckham estate. He had a wound to his left leg which left a trail of blood for 100 metres. The evidence of the new witness has given detectives a clearer picture of Damilola's last movements, and they hope to get further details when they interview two children seen with him 20 minutes before he died. The boy and girl were walking beside Damilola when he left a computer class at Peckham library. Detective Superintendent David Dillnutt, who is supervising the investigation, said the children had been identified from CCTV footage. They were expected to be questioned yesterday afternoon. The detective said further work had shown that the boy seen by another witness being dragged along in a headlock by one of three youths was not Damilola. However the prime suspects still remain three hooded youths who were spotted at the bottom of the stairwell when Damilola was found. Yesterday, well-wishers and friends continued to pay tribute to Damilola, and bouquets were left close to the spot where he collapsed. Among them were flowers left by the workman who found Damilola, cradled him and tried to stem the flow of blood with his fingers. Specially trained officers have spoken to 11 children who knew Damilola from Oliver Goldsmith primary school. Another 28 interviews have been arranged. Damilola said he was bullied at school and left a note in his locker with the Christian name of another pupil who might have been taunting him. Damilola's father, Richard, arrived at Gatwick airport from Nigeria yesterday morning. He has asked for time to be left alone with his family to come to terms with the loss of his son. Related special reportPolicing crimeRelated stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate