A woman and her teenage daughter who killed a pensioner to fund their drug habits were starting prison terms yesterday.Denise and Samantha Davies, aged 53 and 18 respectively, battered Agnes Hanrahan, 71, to death in her own kitchen. Denise Davies was jailed for life on Thursday after being convicted of murder at Chester crown court. Her daughter was cleared of murder but convicted of manslaughter and jailed for seven years. The court heard that mother and daughter were desperate for cash to fund their heroin and crack cocaine addictions. They used to live next door to Mrs Hanrahan in Widnes, Cheshire, until she moved to a different part of town, where they would visit her. On the evening of December 8 2003 they were so desperate for cash that they walked the four miles to Mrs Hanrahan's home. Mrs Hanrahan let them in and made them a hot drink before she was beaten to death with an ornamental clock. It is not known how much cash the pair stole, but they spent £150 on drugs later that night. They gave false alibis to police but became prime suspects when their DNA was found on two mugs in the kitchen. Detectives from Cheshire constabulary then bugged their home and recorded them speaking about the murder. Detective Chief Inspector John Chapman, who led the investigation, described the case as "unique". He said: "This is the first time I have come across a mother and daughter working together on such a serious crime. Agnes Hanrahan was a frail, quiet old lady who caused no bother to anyone. "She met a terrible end at the hands of Denise and Samantha Davies, who were serious users of heroin and crack cocaine, which played a large role in what happened. "Another unusual feature of the case was that Samantha was introduced to drugs by her mother. The family was clearly troubled." It was not the first time Denise Davies had taken part in a murderous "family enterprise". In 1993, she and her husband, John Davies, attacked an elderly couple they had befriended in Paignton, Devon. Denise Davies tied and gagged Mary Ellidge while her husband stabbed John Ellidge to death. John Davies was jailed for life. 