Leopard-crawling, flinging imaginary grenades and adopting firing positions: just some of the military drills overseen by Mohammed Hamid on Cumbrian hillsides, in New Forest glades and at paintballing centres in the Home Counties.His followers practiced press-ups, sit-ups and moving in formation. At night they trained in ghost-walking - moving through the undergrowth with the minimum of noise.But no genuine weapons were ever involved. One session took place in front of BBC cameras – and was even paid for by the corporation - as part of a documentary programme called Don't Panic, I'm Islamic. Despite the wealth of photographic and tape-recorded evidence placing the accused men at the sites, the prosecution had to convince the jury that the purpose was to provide training for terrorism.More than a year before suicide bombers attacked London, detectives and MI5 officers began spying on gatherings at locations across the country.The Islamist group used a summer campsite at Baysbrown Farm, near Ambleside, Cumbria, three times in 2004. Several paintballing centres in Kent, Berkshire and near St Albans were visited in the following two years, and weekend trips to remote parts of the New Forest were organised three times in 2006.Bruce Rowland, who lived at Baysbrown Farm, said he was aware of a number of "Muslim people" staying at his campsite. They usually arrived in a minivan and stayed for two or three nights.Officers observed them doing forward rolls down a slope and carrying sticks as if holding rifles. "They were seen to practise the tactics needed to defend themselves against an armed ambush," the court heard."They [adopted] positions from which they fired imaginary weapons and pretended to remove the pin from grenades before throwing them. They were seen to perform leopard-crawling, very low on the ground."Rowland initially dubbed them "my Taliban" but after publicity about Osama bin Laden became concerned and told them to stop using his top field. They eventually stopped coming.In the New Forest, the men were observed practising casualty evacuation excercises. Pictures later seized from their computers showed some doing forward rolls and raising sticks as if firing a gun. On the third trip, there were 10 men. They went for runs, held races on their knees and pole-vaulted a fence using a thick branch.Hamid told the men he had been organising camps for seven years and was preparing them to fight Bush and Blair. He said friends abroad were pleased with his work and claimed he had already sent three men to Afghanistan. "The training and imposition of discipline in association with the teaching provided by Hamid and Ahmet ... was designed to foster ... a feeling that they were training for jihad against the kuffar, or non-believers," David Farrell, prosecuting, told the court.Recalling a trip to Absolute Paintball at White Waltham in Berkshire, the undercover police officer, known as Dawood, recalled that Hamid had arranged for them to play alone. He said that Hamid directed players about how they should approach those described as the "enemy".Dawood said: "During those games we would move on his command. Everybody in the team would fight together on his command." Dawood was so successful he was awarded a prize for being the top player of the day."[Hamid] said that this kind of day was in preparation for the real thing as there would be a day when we would have to fight in the name of Allah."The prosecution claimed Hamid used phrases like "football training" and "Hackney Marshes" as euphemisms for overseas terrorist training. Asked about such terms, Dawood told the court: "He was not referring to football training. He was referring to firing a gun.When he was talking about the 'things', he was doing the gun motion with his hand."The manager of a paintballing centre in St Albans told the police that the men were like a small army unit responding to their leader. It was like an al-Qaida traing camp, the manager said. The game marshals noticed there was not the usual fun or laughter.David Farrell, prosecuting, insisted the men had received weapons training. "Paintballing by its very nature is firearms training - the issue being what the purpose of it is." The fact that the men sometimes used sticks instead of real guns was no defence, he said. The case was the first to brought under section 8 of the Terrorism Act 2006, which made it a criminal offence to attend a place used for terrorist training.