The black leather purse lay undisturbed for nearly 16 years in a police evidence bag, the only remnant of Vicky Hamilton's last hours alive. It held the mundane fragments of the teenager's life: a bus ticket, a hospital appointment card, an unsent letter to a girl called Jade.For 16 years, it also held an extraordinary but undiscovered clue: it had been chewed on by a little boy called Daniel, her murderer's infant son. Perhaps he had been given it to play with. He may just have found it and bitten on it.The discovery, in June last year, was a hugely significant breakthrough for the Lothian and Borders detectives running Operation Mahogany, the secret reinvestigation into Vicky's disappearance from the West Lothian town of Bathgate in February 1991. It confirmed their suspicions that she had been killed by Peter Tobin, a serial sex offender and itinerant odd-job man who had just been convicted of raping and killing a Polish student, Angelika Kluk. "That was the thing that really gave us the impetus," said Keith Anderson, the inquiry's chief investigating officer.The purse had been sent for forensic testing on the off-chance. It came back positive, with a "DNA rich" finding, and a month later, in June 2007, their suspicions were confirmed. The DNA was matched to Tobin's son, then three. Two days later, the police took control of Tobin's former home at 11 Robertson Avenue in Bathgate, and stripped the building. In the loft police uncovered a knife. It had fallen - or been hidden - between an end joist next to a supporting wall. It too was DNA tested and a fortnight later came a second startling discovery: a tiny scrap of tissue was found on the blade. It belonged to Vicky.Detectives studied records from Daniel's old nursery in Portsmouth which showed the three-year-old had been absent just three days after Vicky had disappeared. He was staying in Bathgate with his father, by then separated from his mother, for a short holiday."It was then that the inquiry took off like a runaway train," Anderson said.These discoveries brought Operation Mahogany full circle, bringing investigators back to the snowy night when Vicky had disappeared as she made her way home to Redding, near Falkirk, after spending a weekend shopping and socialising with her older sister, Sharon Brown, at her home in Livingston, a new town near Edinburgh.The sisters had hugged tightly at the bus stop. Vicky was "really nervous" about the 15-mile journey, her first unaccompanied bus ride, Brown recalled. "Vicky didn't know where she was going," her older sister told Tobin's trial in Dundee. "She asked me to repeat and repeat and repeat where she would get off the bus and get on the next bus."The teenager never arrived home. She was last seen in Bathgate town centre, apparently lost. She approached several people as she tried to find the right bus stop some 200 metres away for the last leg home. She was seen eating chips on a bench; another woman recalled befriending her and offering to share a taxi home.In November last year, her dismembered body was dug out of a two-metre deep pit by police in a back garden in Margate, Kent - her remains wrapped in plastic and concealed by concrete, then covered in earth.The house in Irvine Drive was once lived in by Tobin, who had moved there in March 1991 from Scotland, five weeks after Vicky had gone missing. His neighbours in the Kent seaside town believed he had just dug a sandpit for his young son.His name had never figured in the original inquiry into Vicky's disappearance. The police were treating her as a probable runaway: the disappearance of an unhappy girl whose parents, Michael and Janette, had divorced. Several months earlier, she had feared she might be pregnant. The police also counselled her over an unfounded rape allegation. Her purse contained a note with "Samaritans" scribbled on it, and an oral contraceptive leaflet.During Tobin's trial there were claims - unsubstantiated - that she had tried to run away before, and had smoked cannabis. The missing person theory seemed to be strengthened by the early discovery of Vicky's purse on February 21 1991 in St Andrew's Square, Edinburgh, near the city's main bus and railway stations.It was a false lead planted by Tobin, which led detectives to spend two fruitless months searching for her in London. Over the following decade, with the case kept alive by her family and townspeople in Bathgate, the police logged 7,631 names in the file. They took 3,965 statements, filed nearly 500 documents and 380 pieces of potential evidence.In the spring of 2006, Lothian and Borders police reopened her files again, setting up a cold case review called Operation Mahogany. The review officer, Bert Swanson, was meticulous. He studied every statement and every possible lead.Swanson soon decided Vicky had been murdered. "Based on the fact there was absolutely no proof of life at all, it was my interpretation, from all the information we had, that Vicky wasn't a runaway," he said last week.A breakthrough came, but from detectives with Strathclyde police. In October 2006, Tobin had been arrested for the rape and murder of Angelika Kluk, whose body had been discovered hidden under the floor of St Patrick's church in Anderston, Glasgow. Investigators had begun building up a detailed picture of Tobin's life. They discovered he had been living in Bathgate when Vicky had gone missing. It emerged he had a history of violent sexual attacks on young women.In 1994, he was sentenced to 14 years for raping and sodomising two teenage girls in Havant, near Portsmouth, whom he had sedated with the anti-depression drug amitriptyline, and alcohol. There were untested allegations of another sexual attack in the Glasgow area several years later.But with Tobin facing trial for Kluk's murder, Lothian and Borders police had to keep their interest secret to prevent prejudicing the case. They quietly drew up a forensic strategy, and submitted Vicky's purse for DNA testing. In April 2007, four days before Tobin was convicted of killing Kluk, the strong DNA traces were found. On June 1, they were matched to Tobin's son, Daniel. The discovery of Vicky's remains in Tobin's old back garden 500 miles away in Margate, on November 14 2007, sealed it, the police say. Four clear fingerprints from Tobin were recovered from one black wrapping; DNA samples from her body partially matched Tobin; forensic pathologists detected evidence of bruising on her arms and neck, and found traces of Tobin's favoured sedative, amitriptyline, in her liver. Frank Mulholland QC, the prosecutor, and Scotland's solicitor general, said this evidence was "damning". The police believe Tobin had met Vicky by chance while she tried to find her way home that evening. Anderson said: "We know Vicky Hamilton approached eight people, four of them men, so she was obviously very insecure. I honestly think that Vicky was a pretty lonely and insecure wee girl during that journey."