The month-long police hunt for Rachel Moran, 22, appeared to have ended tragically yesterday when a body was found on an estate in Hull and two men were arrested on suspicion of murder.The news dreaded by the Moran family was given to them by detectives only hours after a new tactic saw the launch of a huge search of private homes. One of dozens of three-strong squads of officers called for urgent back-up after entering a terrace house divided into four flats, close to the home shared by Rachel and her boyfriend Mark Shepherd. Humberside police have not named the men being questioned but confirmed that they had been taken to two separate police stations in Hull. Rachel had not been seen since she vanished after a New Year's Eve celebration in a pub near the Orchard Park estate where yesterday's discovery was made. Forensic experts sealed off one of two downstairs flats, in one of a series of culs-de-sac called "courts", while officers and pathologists in white suits began a painstaking search. A neighbour, who did not want to be named, said the terrace in Nashcourt, where the body was found, was used by a shifting population of teenagers, one-parent families and others on temporary council lets. He said: "I've been here 12 years but I don't know who has the one they're looking at. They have a cordon up and the place is swarming with police cars." Another resident, Tony Spriggs, 52, said that the estate was close-knit but some parts had a changing population. He said: "I'm only a couple of doors down, but I don't know who the people are. I think they have only recently moved in. I am very shocked by what's happened - I've two daughters myself and 15 grandchildren who all live on this estate." Rachel was described by her family, in a series of tearful appeals for information since new year, as "more like a teenager than a young woman in her 20s". She had planned to spend New Year's Eve night at her parents' home after leaving the pub party, but changed her mind when Mark rang to say he was at a party and their kittens would not be fed. She was last seen by passers-by shortly after leaving her parents' house in the early hours to feed the cats at Saxcourt, a similar flats conversion just along the main estate road from the scene of yesterday's find. Police have been frustrated by a series of witness reports - including the suggestion that Rachel was approached by a group of young men - which have failed to turn into substantial leads. The mass house search was announced earlier yesterday after advice from West Yorkshire police, who used the unusual tactic during their year-long hunt for Leanne Tiernan, a Leeds teenager abducted and strangled by a near neighbour in 2001. Gillian Shaw, 46, a social worker who lives in Orniscourt, another street on the estate, said the search was thorough, with officers checking her loft and garden shed. Humberside made the move after repeatedly combing scrubland and watercourses within a mile of Rachel's parents' home. No trace was found of the young woman, but her mobile phone, Irish passport and one trainer were discovered by divers in a drainage dyke. Rachel's mother, Wanda, had tried to persuade her not go out late on her own on New Year's Eve night. But Rachel was upset about the kittens and left.