A serial bigamist was spared jail today after a judge said she was a manipulative woman who had undermined the institution of marriage. Emily Horne, 30, who had married on five occasions but crucially never divorced, admitted it was time she got a divorce.The judge, Mushtaq Khokhar, gave Horne a 10-month suspended jail sentence at Manchester's Minshull Street crown court after she admitted bigamy at an earlier hearing. He said: "I take the view that when someone like you contracts marriage at the drop of a hat as you did, then it does undermine the institution of marriage."He said it was clear Horne, who is now living with a new partner, was impulsive. The court was told she has bipolar disorder, but was responding to treatment.Horne was married for the first - and only legal - time in December 1996, the day after her 18th birthday. Her husband was a soldier and they parted but did not divorce and she moved on to her next spouse while he was posted abroad. In 1999, she illegally married 33-year-old Sean Cunningham at Leeds register office using the false name Emily Lecont, and claiming to be a student physicist. She was in reality a glamour model, who had roles in adult movies.In December 2000 she married Chris Barratt, a 21-year-old website designer, again at the same register office and using another pseudonym. West Yorkshire police was later alerted and she was cautioned for two offences of bigamy in August 2001.Horne then met James Matthews on a train in 2002 and they were married four weeks later after she proposed in an unexpected and hasty text message. A week after the wedding she admitted she was still married to Barratt.Her fourth "husband" contacted police when she ran off with a friend and refused to return to him.Horne was jailed for six months at Ipswich crown court in January 2004, appearing under the name Amileannya Carmichael, after she admitted bigamy and was described as "a very predatory female".Her fifth and final "wedding" was to Ashley Baker on 14 September 14 2007, in a civil ceremony at Chadderton town hall near Oldham. Baker did not realise she was already married until she blurted out the truth as they travelled by train to Scotland for their honeymoon. However, she added that she still believed they were married "in her heart".The bigamy offence only emerged last summer when the couple split up and Horne made a false allegation to police concerning her husband's behaviour.After she was bailed and the case passed to Oldham CID, Horne vanished. In November 2008, she was found by police in the West Midlands and charged with bigamy.Horne claimed to have been "vindicated" as she left court: "I'm just delighted to be free, but I think it is about time I got a divorce. I need to put all this behind me." She refused to speculate if she would marry again.Lisa Baker-Conway, the sister of fifth husband Ashley Baker, told reporters outside court that she was angry about the judge's decision. She said Horne had lied about having cancer and pretended she had several miscarriages."My brother's life has been ruined and he has had to start again. He did love her and she manipulated him," she said.Detective Constable Colette Kelleher, of Greater Manchester police, said Horne left behind a string of broken relationships after her one legal marriage 10 years ago."She preyed upon and manipulated these men. Why she did this is unclear, and it does not appear she did it for any kind of financial gain or ulterior motive," she said."But what is fact is that on each occasion, she betrayed the love and honesty her husbands bestowed upon her by knowingly marrying them when she was aware it was a total sham. I can't imagine how painful it must have been for her fifth husband when she produced newspaper articles showing the marriage was based on lies and deceit."Kelleher said bigamy was not something to be "sniggered at or brushed under the carpet". She said it was a very serious offence and the lives of five men had been severely affected by Horne's selfish and cruel actions.