Ever since Halifax produced a survey finding that one in four British vets had treated a drunk dog, I have treated insurance company polls with a certain amount of circumspection. To brush up against an insurance company in the first place, you're more than averagely risk averse. And then to take the trouble to fill in a form as detailed as "have you ever treated a drunk dog?" ...Nevertheless, with a sample of 4,000 and such an amazing finding, Cornhill Direct deserves some attention: one in three of us sleeps with a weapon next to the bed. By weapon, of course, we don't mean the American sense of firearm or other item that might kill, but a golf club, cricket bat or heavy torch. Now, keeping it brief, let's run through the main reasons why this is totally stupid.First, these figures show a massive magnification of the actual risk of being burgled, and furthermore a wanton misuse of the time and resources available for burglary prevention. Far better to have locks on your windows and doors. Infinitely better.Second, burglars are not united by their cunning, far from it. This is anecdotal but worth it: my dad was a prison psychologist and had a burglar group once in which one guy had been caught because he'd woken the household by flushing the toilet; another had accidentally left his dog at the scene and the police just followed it home. They are, however, a bold type, and if you think how frightened you might be confronted by a puffing gentleman, naked except for his pants and bearing a heavy torch, you need to scale down that fear by some margin to judge how frightened a burglar would be. He will laugh, in other words - and I gender stereotype wildly but also advisedly.Third, most of us haven't engaged in physical combat, with or without a golf club, since we were eight years old, the exception to this being your career criminal, who will be much better at fighting than the home owner, and will divest him of his cricket bat in no time. So now he's got your school sportsday arms cache, as well as your DVD player.Fourth, guidance from the police suggests that, in the unlikely event that you do vanquish the burglar, self-defence will be a reasonable claim, even if you do have a weapon premeditatedly to hand, but I would be chary of taking this risk, myself. Bad enough to lose your iPod, surely, without your liberty also.And yet, even if the weapons storage is ill thought out, there is an interesting impulse behind it, more interesting than, "you nick my stuff, you encounter my heavy torch!" This weapons storage has much less to do with our perception of risk than we might suppose. What it really reflects is not a considered assessment of our vulnerability to crime but our instinctive understanding of the philosophical "protect or share" equation - the less one is prepared to share one's wealth, the more one feels moved to protect it. It is an instinctive understanding that the bonds of neighbourliness are destroyed by great gulfs in resources, so that if you are to live in comparative splendour, good luck to you and all that, but your faith in your fellow man will necessarily diminish, whatever the crime figures tell you.On the same day as the Cornhill study, by coincidence, arrive reports that the wealth gap is the widest it has been for 40 years. The wealthy no longer live among the poor, they rarely even meet them. According to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, the trickle-down effect is ineffective and does not reach the bottom quarter of society. Danny Dorling, who led the study, said: "Rich people are less likely to come into contact with poor people and vice versa. People don't see people who are beneath them." Well, yes and no. They may not literally see them, but they see them in their nightmares.mszoewilliams@yahoo.co.uk