Maxine Carr yesterday insisted that she had given her former boyfriend an alibi only because she was sure he had nothing to do with the disappearance of the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman.Examined by her barrister, Michael Hubbard QC, Ms Carr said it had never crossed her mind that the man she loved and with whom she hoped to begin a family could have been behind the deaths of the 10-year-olds. Asked why she had given Mr Huntley an alibi, she said: "Because I did not want Ian accused of anything he had not done." Mr Hubbard asked: "Why did you think it was possible he might be accused of something he had not done?" Ms Carr said she feared the police would discover he had been accused of rape three years before. She said: "A little light would go off and it would be - that's the man." Mr Hubbard told Ms Carr: "We know that you lied." Ms Carr: "Yes." Mr Hubbard: "Persistently." Ms Carr: "Yes." Mr Hubbard: "To the police." Ms Carr: "Yes." Mr Hubbard: "To journalists." Ms Carr: "Yes." Mr Hubbard: "Was it right to lie?" Ms Carr: "No" Mr Hubbard: "Why not?" Ms Carr: "You just don't lie, it's, it's not right." Mr Hubbard asked her if she had ever heard Mr Huntley's account of how the girls died before the trial. She replied: "No." He continued: "Against you, it is suggested that you either knew or believed Ian had killed those children." Ms Carr: "No." Mr Hubbard: "Unlawfully." Ms Carr: "No." Mr Hubbard: "Did it ever cross your mind." Ms Carr: "No." Ms Carr, 26, began her testimony by giving the court some details about herself. She had been born near Grimsby and had one sister. She said she had "anorexia nervosa" and that she was an "obsessive compulsive" when it came to cleaning. She said she had met Mr Huntley in February 1999 in a nightclub. Mr Hubbard then asked Ms Carr in detail about the events of the weekend of the girls' deaths, which she spent in Grimsby. On the morning after the girls died she said she and Mr Huntley spoke on the phone shortly before 7am. She said he told her that some children had gone missing but gave no details. That afternoon, she said they spoke again and this time Mr Huntley, 29, mentioned that the missing girls were Holly and Jessica. She said he added: "But the thing is, Maxine, these children came into our house." Ms Carr told the jury that Mr Huntley said he invited them into the house because one of them suffered a nosebleed. Ms Carr said: "He said one of them sat on the edge of the bed and that's when I flew into him. I said: 'What do you mean, the edge of the bed?'" Ms Carr said Mr Huntley told her the children had left after the nosebleed was staunched. She said it was decided that he would pick her up and take her back to Soham next day but insisted they had not at that point discussed her lying for him. Ms Carr said she was surprised that Mr Huntley's car, which he accepts he used to dispose of the girls' bodies, was so clean - it was usually a mess. The defendant, who denies assisting an offender and conspiring to pervert the course of justice, was asked how their home seemed when they arrived back in Soham. Ms Carr said the dining room carpet was wet. The prosecution has suggested Mr Huntley soaked the room because something happened there. She said she was "surprised" when she found their duvet and cover in the washing machine. Mr Hubbard asked: "Where had that cover and quilt been when you last saw them?" Ms Carr replied: "On the bed in the upstairs bedroom." She said Mr Huntley did not usually use the washing machine. The prosecution has suggested Mr Huntley may have sexually assaulted one of the girls in the bedroom. He denies this. Ms Carr said Mr Huntley was pacing up and down. She claimed he said "Oh God, if I was the last person to see them they are going to come after me." She said he refused to come clean to the police, saying it would cost him his job. She told the court that Mr Huntley kept saying it would have been much easier if she had been there. Ms Carr said Mr Huntley told her she could have been in the bedroom or the bathroom. She told him she would not have been in bed at 6pm. "So the bathroom was the only alternative," she told the jury. The court has heard she did claim to police she was in the bath when the girls called. In his evidence Mr Huntley claims it was her idea to lie. Ms Carr said the girls were no longer in her thoughts because Mr Huntley told her they had left the house. "They were out of the equation... It was all about Ian, his job, his reputation," she said.