A new robbery reduction programme is to be rushed into place within weeks to curb the alarming rise in street crime in the 10 hardest-hit areas in England and Wales, the home secretary, David Blunkett announced yesterday.Unveiling the initiative, Mr Blunkett said: "There is a feeling in some parts of our urban areas that it is not safe to walk on the street. We have got to stop that. It is the most profound job of government to ensure people feel secure in their homes and when they walk the streets". The programme - to be launched jointly with Tony Blair on Wednesday at a "round table" Whitehall street crime discussion - will see police officers switched away from traffic and other duties to targeted anti-robbery operations. Building on the Metropolitan police's safer streets initiative, the programme will focus initially on curbing the rise in muggings and the number of illegally held weapons on the street as well as the adoption of fast-track prosecutions to raise the conviction rate. Robbery hotspots are to be targeted both by undercover methods and by putting more officers on the street. The programme, which was to be introduced in July but has now been brought forward to April, is designed to curb the sharp increases - some as high as 42% - in the last 10 months in the 10 police force areas where 82% of all street robberies take place. Mr Blunkett, admitting that he was obsessed by the success of the New York police, said he wanted to improve the quality and speed of intelligence "so the police can move people very quickly to street crime hotspots in a way which has not been part of the police force in Britain". He said he hoped early evening and weekend courts could be introduced quickly to fast-track robbery cases. Night courts, an earlier government proposal, have met resistance, but Mr Blunkett said weekend and afternoon courts were more manageable. Overall street crime is likely to rise by 29% in the year, Mr Blunkett said. He said yesterday that "there is an exponential increase in kids aged 11-15 involved in mobile phone thefts, leading to more violent confrontations. He conceded that no new Treasury money has been agreed yet, but some forces are already in position to switch resources quickly due to the 1,500 extra recruits in the past four months. He said police could be released for targeted street work by increasing volunteering. He added: "We are facing head-on the thuggery and violence on our streets. We literally must reclaim our streets for the decent law-abiding citizens who want no more than to be able to walk safely, to live peacefully, and to go about their business freely, untroubled by attack. "We want more police visible on our streets, immediate action to speed the perpetrators through the system, action to protect victims and witnesses and to ensure that those who are remanded or convicted don't walk freely on our streets." He said that although crime overall was falling, nobody believed it unless they felt it on their own streets. The robbery reduction initiative will operate in the 10 police force areas, which saw 78,071 street robberies - a third of them involving mobile phones - in the 12 months to March 2001. They are the Met, the West Midlands, Manchester, Merseyside, Avon and Somerset, South Yorkshire, Nottinghamshire, Thames Valley and Lancashire. Two pilot projects concentrating specifically on teenage robbers will also start in April in Hackney, east London, and in Longsight, Manchester. Mr Blunkett said he wanted the initiative to be underpinned by a new cross-government action group chaired by the home secretary which will meet fortnightly to assess progress and overcome any unexpected obstacles. It will include Sir David Phillips of the Association of Chief Police Officers as well as ministers from the lord chancellor's, transport, health and attorney general's departments and the youth justice board. The programme will involve such measures as the use of video identity parades in the place of "live" parades which can take up to six weeks to organise. It is part of a wider pitch for a big spending increase from the Treasury covering prisons, a police reform package, new court sitting hours, extra remand places and an attack on the causes of after-school crime. The home secretary will also announce a package of emergency measures this week to arrest the rise in the soaring prison population which on Friday reached 70,132. A further expansion expected in the early release home detention curfew scheme for non-violent offenders was attacked yesterday by Conservative politicians after claims yesterday that 1,400 crimes have been committed by some of those released under the scheme in the last three years. Mr Blunkett said the figures were incorrect and only 2% committed further crimes while on the scheme, a figure that compared favourably with the 56% that recommit offences on leaving prison.