A nationwide crackdown on drunken violence in city centres starts this weekend as pubs brace themselves for rowdy crowds watching the Euro 2004 games. David Blunkett, the home secretary, announced the initiative to stop troublemakers, including those who have been banned from travelling to Portugal, causing trouble at home. A total of 2,700 people will be prevented from travelling to football matches abroad. Under the scheme, police forces throughout England and Wales will target weekend drinking. They will clamp down on individuals who drink irresponsibly and the problem bars and clubs which encourage them. Local partners such as trading standards officers and the alcohol industry are expected to work closely with the police to combat alcohol-fuelled disorder in city centres. During Euro 2004, action across the country will include high-profile policing of any public events, increased policing of known hotspots on England match days and targeting of known troublemakers. Mr Blunkett said: "The police and government are determined to tackle alcohol-fuelled violence this summer. The first challenge for the police is Euro 2004. "We've taken decisive action to reduce to a minimum the likelihood of serious disorder during Euro 2004 games and have had tremendous cooperation from the Portuguese police and security authorities. "The next four weeks will be a prelude to a broader drive against binge-drinking and under-age sales and consumption of alcohol. We are not prepared to tolerate city centres which are no-go areas, and are working to reclaim them for the decent, law-abiding majority."The broader scheme, which will start next month, builds on steps taken in the Licensing Act 2003 to bring an end to the disorder associated with fixed closing times, and giving the police and local authorities tougher powers to deal with problem premises. It will target around 70 police areas where tackling alcohol-related disorder is a priority. The Association of Chief Police Officers urged licensees to support the programme by ensuring that their premises were run properly, and that people did not drink excessively before coming out on to the street again.