A man has been beaten to death outside his parents' home after confronting a gang of more than a dozen youths.Alan Fessey was attacked after he confronted the group, apparently because they had been causing trouble and drinking in Nuneaton, Warwickshire, throughout the day on Friday. He had gone out after some of the youths allegedly vandalised his sister's car with the lubricant WD-40 and verbally abused her. A 15-year-old boy was charged with the murder last night. He will appear before Nuneaton magistrates today. Mr Fessey was attacked in front of his parents outside their home. One witness said: "Alan stepped in and told [the youths] to go away but they just got more abusive. "Then a guy who was with Alan hit the ... ringleader, who fell to the ground. The teenager then ran and broke a bit of wood off a nearby fence to use against Alan and his friend - but lost his bottle. He ran home to get his dad, who turned up 20 minutes later on a scooter. "It all happened so fast from there," the witness continued. "There was loads of shouting and screaming. Alan was trying to calm things down when two lads jumped on him and started punching him in the face. "Alan's parents, Ray and Carol, came over to stop the fight but then Alan was hit in the neck by a glass bottle thrown by one of the teenage boys. "I don't know if [the bottle] was broken but Alan fell to the ground straight away and didn't get up. Ray and Carol bent over him in the road screaming his name and shouting for help." The gang, made up of both boys and girls - the youngest thought to be 12 - fled the area while the Fesseys waited for an ambulance. Mr Fessey, from the Bucks Hill area of Nuneaton, was rushed to George Eliot hospital where he was declared dead an hour later, at 8.15pm. A postmortem examination revealed he had died of head injuries. Neighbours spoke of their shock at the attack. One local said: "The Fesseys are a warm lovely family. Everybody liked them and it is just terrible what has happened. "The place was swarming with police. There were eight police cars, seven police vans, a helicopter and all the roads were blocked off - it was awful. We can't believe that kind of thing can happen on our front doorstep." A 49-year-old man arrested in connection with the incident has been charged with affray and was released on bail to appear before magistrates on July 12. Police are appealing for witnesses to contact them. Detective Inspector Nigel Jones of Warwickshire police said: "We particularly urge any of the young people in the area to come forward to speak to us. We can assure them and their parents that interviews will be carried out in the strictest of confidence by specially trained officers."