A violent and wealth-obsessed career criminal who stabbed a financier to death three months after being freed from jail on early release was given three life sentences at the Old Bailey today.Damien Hanson was one of two men who tricked their way into the west London home of John Monckton, 49, a senior executive for insurers Legal and General, by pretending to be postal delivery men. Hanson, 25, and Elliot White, 24, both from west London, overpowered Mr Monckton, who died following a struggle in which his wife, Homeyra, 46, was stabbed twice in the back but survived.The alarm was raised by their nine-year-old daughter Isobel who partly witnessed the attack, in November 2004, as she hid upstairs in their home in Upper Cheyne Row, Chelsea. In a videotaped interview played during the trial last December, Isobel described how, after the robbers fled, she heard her mother frantically screaming for help. She ran downstairs where she saw "blood all over the floor" and on the walls.In court today, Mr Justice Calvert-Smith said Hanson should serve a minimum of 36 years in jail before being eligible for parole for Mr Monckton's murder, the attempted murder of his wife and robbery. He sentenced White to a total of 18 years for manslaughter, wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm and robbery.After sentencing the pair, Mr Justice Calvert-Smith paid tribute to the courage of Mrs Monckton and the couple's daughter."I commend the courage of Mrs Monckton and their daughter during their ordeal and since, and hope the end of this trial will be of assistance."The judge said the seriousness of Hanson's crimes had come close to warranting a full life term.Hanson showed no reaction as he was sentenced, while White bowed his head before being taken down.Defending Hanson, Michael Wolkind QC had admitted that there was no mitigation for his actions. "John Monckton lost his life, Homeyra Monckton lost forever the life she used to enjoy, no one can yet measure the level of bereavement her daughters have suffered. "By the jury's verdict, it was Damien Hanson who has brought tragedy to this family. I cannot begin to explain why a robber should force his way into a house and immediately attack his victims in this way with a knife, without restraint."Even the expertise of the consultant psychiatrist does not provide us with an explanation. There are no mitigating factors here which are worthy of consideration." Outside court, Detective Chief Inspector Alistair Tully said the sentence would be a deterrent to others considering breaking into homes. He also commended Mrs Monckton, saying: "Mrs Monckton has been very strong from the start from when I had to tell her Mr Monckton was dead."During the trial, Richard Horwell, for the prosecution, told the court: "Every householder's nightmare became a reality for the Monckton family. The house was like a fortress - heavily and obviously protected by various security systems."White sustained stab wounds during his struggle with Mr Monckton and left a trail of blood in surrounding streets. He also left traces of his blood at the murder scene. On arrest, he immediately admitted robbing the Moncktons. However Hanson, who was said to have been obsessed with rich people and their jewellery, said nothing. The jury was told that three months earlier he had been released after serving seven years of a 12-year sentence for attempted murder, when he and an accomplice had robbed a man of a Rolex watch after attacking him with a machete.The two men fled the Monckton house with a pair of earrings, two rings, a watch and a purse, a haul worth just £4,000. Afterwards, Hanson and White tried to burn their clothes with petrol bought four days earlier. The blaze was spotted by passersby who called the fire brigade.They also travelled to a restaurant in Shepherd's Bush, west London, where they were caught together on CCTV. This undermined Hanson's claim that he was not White's accomplice. Hanson claimed that at the time of the murder he was with his sister at a friend's house, but the friend told the court she had never met him. Hanson was said to have planned the robbery in considerable detail. On searching his bail hostel, police found he had been studying a copy of the Sunday Times Rich List and The Mail on Sunday's Rich Report.A document bearing the registration of a Mercedes car owned by a wealthy woman who periodically drove into London was unearthed. Material was also found suggesting he had an interest in the Duke of Devonshire. The court heard that Hanson began following rich women on shopping trips in Chelsea and Fulham. It is believed he spotted Mrs Monckton at the Via Venise shoe shop in King's Road. A business card from the shop was found in his hostel room.Mr Monckton was regarded as one of the most influential investors of his generation within his specialist field. His team of 25 people had just won an award for bond group of the year for the second consecutive time, and managed £34bn of assets between them.He was described as a "man of deep Christian convictions", who worked hard for Catholic charities and came from a high-achieving family. His cousin, Rosa Monckton, is the wife of the former Sunday Telegraph editor, Dominic Lawson.Hanson was excluded from primary school at 10 and had four criminal convictions by his 16th birthday. His childhood nickname was the Omen, and White told the court that his mother referred to his friend as the "devil's child".Hanson was said to have had difficulty coming to terms with his crimes. While an inmate at Highpoint prison in Suffolk he read Machiavelli's The Prince and Sun Tzu's The Art of War. An urgent inquiry has already been ordered by the home secretary, Charles Clarke, into how the two were free to kill. It is expected to report either later this month or early in March and its findings will be published.