The Soham murder trial today heard Maxine Carr turn on her ex-boyfriend, Ian Huntley, as she broke down in tears and said: "I'm not going to be blamed for what that thing in the box has done to me or those children."Ms Carr, under cross-examination on her second and final day in the witness box, made the dramatic outburst while raising her right hand and pointing directly across the court at Mr Huntley. Earlier, she told the court how she had been scared of the "abusive" and controlling Mr Huntley, who is accused of the murder of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman.She also claimed that 29-year-old Mr Huntley had forced her into lying to police during the investigation into the disappearance of the two 10-year-old girls, saying: "I was pushed into a corner. Mr Huntley put me into a position where I couldn't do anything but do that." The former classroom assistant denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two counts of assisting an offender. Mr Huntley, a former caretaker at Soham Village College, denies murdering the girls on Sunday August 4 last year, but has admitted a single charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr today denied having worked out that the girls were dead soon after they vanished, saying she had believed Mr Huntley had nothing to do with their disappearance and only lied for him to help protect him from losing his job.Ms Carr also told the court she did not come back to Soham on Monday August 5 for the purpose of providing a false alibi for Mr Huntley, insisting that she first discussed lying for her then boyfriend on the Tuesday evening, when she had returned to the couple's Cambridgeshire home from a family visit in Grimsby.Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, said that when Ms Carr returned to Soham on the Tuesday it was to begin lying in order to protect Mr Huntley. "No sir, I was going back but not to lie," she replied.Ms Carr said she and Mr Huntley had a "long conversation" on the Tuesday evening, Mr Huntley already having told her during phone conversations on Monday afternoon that the two missing girls had been in their house because one of them had a nosebleed. The "details" of the alibi were decided upon over the next few days, she said.Mr Huntley had told her it was Jessica, "the dark-haired one", who had the nosebleed and that one of the girls had sat on their bed and the other had been in the bathroom, she said."All he told me on the Monday was about the girls and the nosebleed and they had left the house and gone over the bridge and they were OK," she said.Mr Huntley had "answers for everything" about why the girls had been in the house, so Ms Carr had no suspicion that he had anything to do with their disappearance, she insisted.Upon entering their house, Ms Carr said she was struck by the fact that the washing machine was full, containing the duvet and linen from the couple's bed. Mr Huntley had never used the washing machine before and the first thing that went through her mind was that he had had "a woman in the house" for sex, Ms Carr said.Mr Latham asked: "And you are saying that even though you immediately thought of sex, it never occurred to you that the washing could have had something to do with the two girls?" Ms Carr replied: "No, that's disgusting."She never questioned him about her suspicions because of their fears about the missing girls, she said. She admitted thinking at the time that it was "appalling" Mr Huntley had taken the girls upstairs, saying: "He shouldn't be having children in his own home because people do things." Mr Latham asked: "Do what things?" Ms Carr replied: "Sexual things. It never even crossed my mind that Ian was in any way that kind of person."Ms Carr was then questioned about a BBC TV interview she had given on the Thursday. She admitted lying to the journalists that she had been in the bath in Soham on the afternoon of August 4, but said she had referred to the girls in the past tense because she no longer worked at their school.She told Mr Latham: "I have been feeling very, very guilty, sir, for a long, long time that if I had been there, I could have stopped them from dying."When pressed by Mr Latham, Ms Carr said she did not realise the seriousness of her actions in lying for Mr Huntley.Mr Latham said: "You are an intelligent woman, Miss Carr, you must have appreciated that, sooner or later, this was going to get reduced to writing in some form of a formal document, you must have known that." Ms Carr replied: "Sorry, sir, no."Earlier today, during questioning by Stephen Coward QC, Mr Huntley's counsel, Ms Carr repeatedly referred to her ex-boyfriend as "Mr Huntley" or "your client".Ms Carr also admitted that the version of events that she was recounting from the witness box was different from what she had told police.She said: "When I was being interviewed by the police, they were trying to say my partner, the man I loved, was a murderer. They were trying to say I was a murderer too. "They were trying to get every bit of information about him that was bad from me. I was not going to add anything bad to them. That's why, a lot of the time, I tried to make it look better for Ian."Mr Coward turned to Ms Carr's police interviews, when she said that she had lied to protect Mr Huntley "of my own accord", and that he had no hold over her. Ms Carr responded: "I am quite aware I said that to the police officers, to make Ian look better. I am hardly going to tell them he is an abusive person who controls you." She had done this, she said, because "I was scared, I was going home to that man at the end of the day". She said that she and Mr Huntley had first discussed her giving him a false alibi on Tuesday August 6, when she said that he had been in tears. Mr Coward asked: "Who do you say first raised the idea of you providing an alibi?" Ms Carr replied: "Your client, Mr Huntley." Mr Coward said: "Are you clear in your mind that's how it went?" Ms Carr answered: "Yes, sir." After Ms Carr had finished giving evidence, her lawyer, Michael Hubbard QC, rested the case for his client.The trial judge, Mr Justice Moses, then told the jury that the evidence had been completed and they could expect to be sent out to consider their verdict "sometime next week". The court would not be sitting tomorrow, as counsel were discussing the law before making their final speeches on Monday morning, he explained.He expected final submissions from all of the barristers to go into Tuesday, and once they were completed, he would then sum up the case, the judge added.The jury has already heard Mr Huntley say that Holly died accidentally in his bath, and that he killed Jessica as he tried to silence her screams, although he insists that he did not mean to kill her. He bundled the bodies into his car, dumped them in a remote ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk, where they were found 13 days later, cut off their clothes and set fire to their corpses.The trial continues.