Plans promoted by Tony Blair to introduce midnight courts across England and Wales next year to tackle "yob culture" are likely to be shelved after two pilot schemes proved less than successful.The night and weekend courts were introduced in London and Manchester to dispense immediate punishment in crime hotspots to hooligans, violent drunks and persistent teenage offenders. The prime minister trumpeted the idea of round-the-clock courts during the last general election as an example of how the government would tackle yob culture and street crime. The idea for extended sitting hours for inner city courts came directly from the streets of New York after a visit by the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens. But the preliminary findings of the two pilot schemes, which ran between May and September last year at Bow Street magistrates in London and at Manchester city court, are not encouraging. An unpublished evaluation report being studied by ministers at the Lord Chancellor's Department is believed to show that on average only 10 defendants were dealt with at Bow Street at the special weekend sessions, which ran from 5.30pm to midnight. Often the cases of three or four of the 10 defendants seen were adjourned for a court report. At Manchester the court started early at 9am from Monday to Friday but a private security company struggled to get the defendants there on time and the earlier hours were dropped three weeks before the pilot scheme was due to end. The Manchester magistrates also sat until mid-evening two nights a week to hear a small number of trials in which the timing suited the witnesses or victims. The report says the night courts are far more expensive with the cost of processing each defendant put at £4,000, compared with £1,610 for a full day in a magistrates court or about £100 a case. Each sitting needed a district judge or stipendiary magistrate, a clerk, a crown prosecutor, a duty solicitor, an usher, two security guards and probation officers. Probation staff who worked in the experimental courts were paid overtime and given their taxi fares home. They report that on some occasions there were only four or five defendants dealt with and that overall one in three who appeared during the course of the pilot schemes were beggars, who are normally cautioned. Most of the rest dealt with had been charged with being drunk and disorderly or common assault. Harry Fletcher of Napo, the probation union, said: "These pilots were inspired by the American model, but US courts have large cell complexes on the premises, British courts do not. The US justice system places great reliance on plea bargaining and therefore quick justice, the British system does not. "This expensive experiment should not therefore be rolled out nationally." Downing Street insisted that the schemes go ahead despite reluctance from the Home Office because of fears that some defendants would be too drunk or drugged to understand the proceedings if they were dealt with immediately. The plans for the pilot schemes were scaled down last December after it was discovered that the prison service would not be able to keep its doors open until midnight to receive those jailed or put on remand.