Hundreds of teenagers marched through north London yesterday to protest against violent street crime as police hunting the killer of 16-year-old Ben Kinsella, who was stabbed to death on Sunday, said they had arrested four people.The march ended at the spot in Islington where Ben, who had been on a night out with friends to celebrate the end of his GCSEs was killed.Earlier, Cherie Booth told MPs that she feared for her children's safety when they went out in the street, and warned that official figures underestimate the true scale of knife and gun crime among children under 16 .She said: "As a parent I am concerned about what's happening when my children are on the street and I know I am not unique in that by any means."Her remarks were seized upon by the Tories who said they were a "sad indictment" of Labour's crime policies.A spokeswoman for the Metropolitan police said that four males in their late teens had been arrested in north and east London on suspicion of murder.One was arrested in Islington on Monday afternoon, two in Chadwell Heath, Essex, that evening, and one in Bethnal Green, east London, yesterday morning.Two 16-year-old boys arrested earlier in connection with the investigation were bailed on Monday to return to a north London police station in late August.The latest arrests followed an emotional appeal from Ben's sister, the former EastEnders actor Brooke Kinsella, in which she described her brother as "a true angel". The Kinsella family begged young people to stop carrying knives and "think about the pain and suffering they will cause".Detective Superintendent Vic Rae, who is leading the murder inquiry, had expressed disappointment at the small number of witnesses who had contacted the police. But yesterday Scotland Yard said that more were getting in touch.John Macdonald, detective chief inspector of the homicide and serious crime command, said: "We have had a good response to our appeals so far, but we are still keen to speak to witnesses, in particular anyone who saw the stabbing itself, or anyone who has information about the identity of the suspects."The arrests came after officers searched two properties in Islington and recovered two knives near the nightclub where Ben was stabbed.Appearing before the Commons home affairs select committee Booth, who is chairing a Channel 4 series on street violence, said that anecdotal evidence suggested violence among teenagers was growing, but that official figures had failed to keep track of the problem."I think the evidence that we heard from people on the street and indeed the figures we were getting from hospitals, is that there are more people presenting with injuries caused in this way. Because this is almost a new phenomenon - that younger children are carrying knives and, sadly, using them - the statistics are not looking at the right areas."She said: "If young people think they can carry knives and no-one's ever going to pick them up carrying a knife then they are more likely to take one out. Whereas, if they think when they carry a knife that's going to be detected, that may well make a really big difference."Dominic Grieve, the shadow home secretary, said Labour had failed to tackle violent crime. He said police were "chained to their desks" by government red tape.Yesterday afternoon, Brooke, Georgia and Jade Kinsella joined hundreds of Ben's friends and local teenagers to call for an end to knife crime. Scores of young people gathered outside Islington town hall dressed in white T-shirts on which they had written messages such as: RIP Ben, Fallen Soldier, Standing Angel, and Don't use a knife, get a life.The protest was organised by Brooke Dunford, 16, who had known Ben since she was 12. She had used leaflets, text messages and Facebook to ask people to join in. She said: "I just couldn't sit around and grieve when this might happen to other people. Ben would have wanted this. He would want to be the last person this happened to."She turned up for the march in a T-shirt bearing the slogan 18? - a reference, she said, to whether she could be the 18th youngster to die in violent circumstances on the streets of London this year.The 400-strong march, behind a huge white banner reading Why Ben? stopped at the corner of North Road and York Way where the teenager collapsed after being stabbed. In front of hundreds of bouquets laid in her brother's memory, Brooke Kinsella addressed the crowd. "I haven't the strength or the energy to say everything I want," she said."This is another trial and another life lost. Please, please, if anybody knows anything, please can you help and get in touch with the police. Don't be scared, please be brave and help save another life."The actor Linda Robson, whose son Louis cradled Ben as he died, said that the 16-year-old's parents, Deborah and George, had decided to stay at home after viewing his body that morning. She also mentioned a text message that Brooke Kinsella had sent her daughter, which read: "I haven't got a brother now. Can we borrow yours some time?"