A Metropolitan police riot officer who told a court that a colleague racially abused a teenager and walked on the back of another denied today that he had a grudge against his fellow officer.PC Amechi Onwugbonu was travelling in a van with six other territorial support group officers when the incident in Paddington, west London, took place on 1 June 2007.PC Mark Jones said to Omar Mohidin, from Kuwait, that he was "robbing people while British soldiers are getting killed in Iraq" and walked over Ahmed Hegazy while he was handcuffed on the floor of the van, Onwugbonu told Kingston crown court yesterday.Under cross-examination Onwugbonu admitted he and Jones did not get on. He said he had been subjected to banter that went "beyond the line", such as having a dead mouse placed in his locker and F painted on the door of his locker after he failed a firearms course.But asked if he harboured grudges, he said: "I do not harbour grudges, no."Neil Saunders, for Jones, asked: "You don't like Jones, do you?"Onwugbonu replied: "I said we were not best buddies, no."Saunders told the court that, during interviews with the Directorate of Professional Standards about the racial abuse allegations, Onwugbonu had tried to "point the finger" at Jones in relation to another couple of incidents.One incident discussed took place the night before the alleged racial abuse. Onwugbonu said that after a pursuit of a car travelling at less than 10mph Jones had chased a man leaving him with his face "covered in blood", the court heard.Saunders asked him: "Did you ever say to someone, 'They beat a man up that failed to stop. His face looked like he had been in a cage fight. They are out of control'?" Onwugbonu replied: "I can't remember saying that."He had also told the inquiry into the 1 June events about a drugs raid on a house in Hammersmith, west London, in September 2006, the court heard. Onwugbonu said he heard a smashing noise and went to the living room to investigate."I saw a widescreen TV with a hole in the middle and PC Jones was there with a sledgehammer," he told the jury.Saunders put it to Onwugbonu that he was blaming Jones and wanted to "point the finger"."He was the only one with a sledgehammer," the officer replied. "I didn't see him do it and that is what I said."Jones denies assaulting Mohidin and Basil Khan, as well as a charge of misfeasance in public office.PC Neil Brown, 33, faces charges of racially aggravated threatening behaviour against Hegazy, and misfeasance in public office. Sergeant William Wilson, 52, PC Steven White, 31, PC Giles Kitchener, 31, and PC Simon Prout, 33, are accused of helping to cover up the offences and are charged with misfeasance in public office. The case continues.