The assets of the fake canoe death couple, John and Anne Darwin, have been frozen in a first step towards retrieving the £250,000 they conned out of insurance companies, it emerged yesterday.Cleveland police said there was a worldwide freeze on the Darwins' assets and the lengthy process of recovering the money had begun through the Proceeds of Crime Act. Police believe that when they were arrested last December their assets were worth about £500,000.The main assets were an apartment in Panama City, which Anne Darwin bought for £28,000, and land in Panama that cost £198,000 on which they had intended to build an ecological tourism centre offering canoeing. There was also a £23,000 Toyota Land Cruiser. Police know of two bank accounts in Panama, which contain a total of £270. A Yorkshire Bank account contained £2,300, two HSBC bank accounts £60 and £550, and two HSBC bank accounts in Jersey a total of £950.The couple, from Seaton Carew, near Hartlepool, had hoped to begin a new life in central America after getting into debt. In March 2002, six days after they were turned down for a £20,000 bank loan, John Darwin pushed his canoe out to sea and disappeared. Anne Darwin played the grieving widow for five and a half years, keeping the scam a secret from their adult sons, the police, the coroner and the insurance companies. John Darwin, 57, was jailed for six years and three months at Teesside crown court on Wednesday after admitting deception by faking his own death. Anne Darwin, 56, who denied 15 fraud and money laundering charges, was found guilty and jailed for six and a half years.Detective Inspector Andy Greenwood, who led the inquiry, said: "We will pursue them through the Proceeds of Crime Act. All of the life they have built in Panama has been on the back of criminal activity."Two insurance companies, Unat Direct and Norwich Union, said they had started legal proceedings against the couple for the sums defrauded. A compensation hearing will be held to determine how the couple can pay back the £250,000 they defrauded.