Nicola Downing can never live in 50 Irvine Drive ever again. She couldn't look at the back garden without thinking of Vicky Hamilton, who was buried under the sandpit where the family played.She could never walk across the patio without trembling at the thought of the pathetic body of 4ft 10in Dinah McNicol lying below.Yesterday a nervous Nicola went back to the house in Margate, Kent, nine days after police told her that the home where she had raised her family for 12 years could be a charnel house where suspected serial killer Peter Tobin buried his victims. She now knows about two bodies: there may be more'We had never heard of Peter Tobin and found the news devastating and unreal. I can only describe it as a nightmare that gets worse every day,' she said.'We lived in the house for 12 years and had a happy family home. What they have found is awful; it has turned our family upside down. Moving out of our home has been traumatic. We feel enormous sympathy for Dinah's father and what he is going through, and we want to get the answers he needs. Since we moved out, the developments have been shocking for all of us.'It started with a knock on the door and a sympathetic policeman telling her that their search for 18-year-old Dinah McNicol, who vanished 16 years ago, had led them to the ordinary three-bedroom terrace home near the beach.By Wednesday, a body had been found under the sandpit where Nicola's children played. However, it was not the remains of Dinah, but of another girl, Vicky Hamilton, who disappeared in Scotland at the same time. Another skeleton, thought to be Dinah's, was not unearthed from its shallow 2ft grave until Friday.Yesterday, Nicola and her partner walked hand in hand through the house with detectives and structural engineers, pointing out the alterations they had made over the years to help them in the search for bodies.The quest to discover these grim secrets started on Bonfire Night, when police forces across the country had quietly announced the reopening of a number of unsolved cases of murdered or missing young women. Forces had started what is known as a scoping exercise, in which the modus operandi of a suspect becomes a template for solving crimes.At that time, the name of the prime suspect was not mentioned. That came later, when the extraordinary events at 50 Irvine Drive made it clear that police were pursuing a serial killer.Slowly, the name Peter Tobin began to emerge, culminating in a court appearance in Linlithgow on Thursday where he was charged with the murder of Vicky Hamilton. He wore a matching lilac V-neck jumper and collared shirt. A carefully folded zip-up fleece was slung over one arm. Tobin appeared strangely avuncular - an old man anxious to dress smartly and sensibly against the winter cold.It proved too much for Vicky's father, Michael. The pent-up rage of years exploded as he joined his two brothers in hurling abuse at Tobin and thumping the prison van that drove him away. Police were forced to restrain him.Vicky was just 15 when she disappeared in February 1991 as she waited for a bus home to Redding, near Falkirk. She had been visiting her older sister, Sharon, in West Lothian and was waiting to change buses in the town of Bathgate, five miles away. The last sighting of her was as she ate a bag of chips on a bench in the town centre. Then she vanished.Tiny Dinah McNicol, from Tillingham, Essex, went missing after accepting a lift from a music festival in Liphook, Hampshire. The police have told her father, Ian, that the clothes and height indicate that the skeleton is hers, but are awaiting further tests before making a final conformation.She and a male companion were picked up at a petrol station on the A3 by an unidentified motorist. Her companion was dropped off at Junction 8 of the M25, near Reigate. Dinah was never seen again, although a total of £2,000 was taken from her Halifax account between 8 and 26 August at cash machines in six coastal towns in Kent and Sussex.Her 68-year-old father now says he feels a calm not experienced since his daughter went missing. His wife, Judy, died in 1980, unaware of what would become of their daughter. McNicol says he wants to bury her next to her mother and can now die in peace. 'We can actually have her remains put next to her mother's, actually have time to mourn and get on with life,' he said.But relatives of other missing young women cannot yet get on with their lives. They await the outcome of the painstaking and mundane work at Irvine Drive and other properties that Tobin made his home as he flitted from one temporary job to another.Yesterday forensic scientists in anti-contamination suits scrabbled through the earth, searching for human remains. The garden, having giving up the secret of its two hidden bodies, was a muddy mess with every blade of grass gone.It is an unlikely setting for such evil. But police are now looking at the deaths of up to 15 other women, spanning four decades.Detective Superintendent Tim Wills, who is leading the Essex police inquiry, said the search was a 'slow and painstaking process'. He added: 'There is no further update at this stage. The post-mortem examination is complete, but there is nothing further I can say.'In scenes redolent of 25 Cromwell Street, Gloucester, where Fred and Rose West hid the bodies of nine young women, a team of detectives, forensic science experts and crime scene specialists have begun drilling through the scree and concrete foundations of the Margate house, searching for further remains.A police spokesman described the next stage of the routine in uncovering the gruesome truth. 'We are currently searching the garden area up against the back wall of the house. We will then move inside, ripping up floor tiles and floor boards. A jackhammer will be used to search beneath the concrete ground floor and a ground penetration radar machine will be used to explore any abnormalities. Our search continues until we are 100 per cent sure nothing else is here.'One neighbour - John McCormack, 72 - was living in the street when the two girls vanished 16 years ago. 'It is being called the House of Horrors. No one can believe it. Nothing like this has ever happened. This is a nice peaceful community and everyone gets on with each other. This is why everyone is in total shock. It's just sick.'Another neighbour, Dave Martin, who has been in his home for 31 years, was reduced to tears when contemplating the fate of the two girls: 'Obviously we are not the worst hit people in this. My heart goes out to the families.'Prayers will be held today at the nearby Holy Trinity church for both the families of the two girls and local residents. The Rev Arthur Houston said the discovery of the two bodies had an effect on the whole community. 'We are in shock. It is horrific and our prayers are with the families concerned.'Those who might be among the serial killer's possible victims include Suzanne Lawrence, who vanished in July 1979 after leaving her sister in Harold Hill, Essex, and asking her to tell their mother she would be home later. Her body was never found. Or Barbara Mayo, a 24-year-old trainee teacher who was raped, strangled and dumped on the verge of the M1 in Derbyshire in 1970. There are also claims of links to the so-called 'Bible John' killings of three women in Glasgow in the late 1960s.The first facts of Tobin's life are unexceptional: Peter Britton Tobin was born on 27 August, 1946, in Johnstone, Renfewshire, the youngest of eight children from a Roman Catholic family. He had four older sisters and three older brothers. He reportedly joined the French Foreign Legion, but later deserted. At 19, he married a 17-year-old after forging a letter of consent from her parents.In 1968, another 17-year-old crossed his path. Tobin met typist Margaret Mountney at a Glasgow dance hall and married her a year later. The couple moved to start a new life in Brighton, where Tobin found work as a chef.'He was just 21 and I was 18 when we married,' said his former wife, now Margaret Mackintosh, 56, who runs a Highlands B&B with her fifth husband. On the surface, Tobin appeared charming and handsome - a clean-cut young man with a dark brown quiff and high cheekbones. But after a year, Margaret left.Two further marriages followed - the first, in 1973, to a 30-year-old nurse called Sylvia Jeffries. They married in a Catholic church in Brighton before going on to have two children - a son and a daughter, both of whom died.Tobin's third wife, Cathy Wilson, was only 16 to Tobin's 40 when they met in 1986. The couple had a son, Daniel, in 1988, marrying the following year before relocating from Brighton to Bathgate, West Lothian.She, too, left him, taking £25 from housekeeping supplies to buy a bus ticket to Brighton.According to the criminal profiler Dr Glenn Wilson, a reader in personality psychology at the Institute of Psychiatry in London: 'Serial killers are largely driven by the need for sexual excitement. There is a fetishistic, sadistic thrill to killing that turns them on and this scenario is imprinted on them from a very early age. There tends to be a cyclical pattern to the killings, because a desire will build up, then the killer will do it, and that recharges his fantasy battery, if you life. Then he can leave it for a while until the need to do it again will build up.'They will be likely to have enjoyed cruelty to animals and display a lack of empathy. They also tend to have the same physical type of victim - mostly young women, because of the sexual link.'The house in Margate bears sinister similarities with the notorious Fred and Rosemary West trial. As in Margate, the Wests buried their victims around their home in Gloucester. The Wests tended to prey on vulnerable young women, often picked up by the roadside - in their case, a motley assortment of hitch-hikers, lodgers or nannies whose transient lifestyle meant they would not be missed.Now police are turning their attentions to other properties where Tobin lived. Homes in Southsea, Brighton, Havant and Paisley will be subjected to scientific scrutiny. There is even a suggestion that a communal square in Brighton might be excavated.But it was on Irvine Drive yesterday that the search continued for unknown victims. As forensic police experts prepared to dismantle each brick, lift up the carpets, excavate the concrete floors and rip out the patio, relatives of the dead and missing endured more days in the years of pain of not knowing what happened to their daughters and sisters.But yesterday brought some solace for those who now know the fate of their loved ones, dismaying though that knowledge may be.Downing tools, members of the search team bowed their heads in a minute's silence as a wreath was placed next to the blue tent that has been placed over the spot marking the sandpit that covered Vicky's grave for so many years.Two detectives from Lothian and Borders Police laid the floral tribute on behalf of her father and her sister. Both had attached a note with their own thoughts. Every detail of Vicky's short life and gruesome death is about to become public knowledge as the scale of the crime unfolds. But yesterday their words to her remained private.Tobin's historyAugust 1946 Born Johnstone, Scotland.1969 Marries Margaret MacIntosh, 17, in Brighton. She leaves him after a year.1973 Marries Sylvia Jeffries in Brighton. Marriage ends in divorce.1989 Weds Cathy Wilson, 16, Brighton.1990 Tobin, Cathy and son Daniel move to Bathgate, West Lothian.February 1991 Vicky Hamilton vanishes from near Tobin's Bathgate home.March 1991 Tobin moves to Margate.1991 Dinah McNicol disappears, Hants.2004 Tobin moves to Paisley, Scotland.May 2007 Hired as church handyman at St Patrick's, Anderston, Glasgow.12 November, 2007 Police find remains of Vicky Hamilton at Margate house.15 November Tobin is charged with murder of Vicky Hamilton.17 November Police believe remains of second body found at Margate home are those of Dinah McNicol.· This article was amended on December 3 2007. Peter Tobin was charged with the murder of Vicky Hamilton in court in Linlithgow, not in Glasgow, as we said in the above article. This has been corrected.