Jacqui Smith today announced a "zero-tolerance" crackdown on anti-social behaviour, burglary and drug and alcohol misuse.The home secretary's tough message to delegates on the final day of the Labour party conference in Bournemouth was designed to outflank the Tories' renewed push on law and order."Let me be clear. I've zero tolerance of anti-social behaviour, and zero tolerance of its causes," Ms Smith said. "Causes like alcohol misuse. So from Monday, we are giving councils and police new powers to take the licences away from dodgy premises. "We should give no time to the idea that just because you are drunk and incapable that somehow lets you off the hook." Ms Smith said that she had zero tolerance of homes being broken into or bags being snatched to feed a drug habit, and zero tolerance of people not getting drug treatment "when the need it".Amid concerns from some Labour strategists that the party has ceded too much ground on crime, the home secretary also announced a new fund worth tens of millions of pounds to support neighbourhood patrol teams, including the issuing of mobile fingerprint machines to officers who will target low-level crime in every community. Other measures announced by Ms Smith today included: · Publication of local crime figures to back up the introduction of local beat patrols in every neighbourhood from next April· Shared local community safety budgets between police, local authorities and other agencies to help tackle crime and antisocial behaviour· Renewed attempts to secure cross-party consensus on counter-terror legislation· A new package of measures to tackle gun and gang culture, including providing "exit strategies" for gang members· The network of specialist help centres for rape victims across the country is to double from 18 to 36. Ms Smith's speech was designed to set out her "safety and security" agenda and focus on the tools that were needed to implement Labour's promise to provide a visible policing patrol presence in every neighbourhood. The extra ring-fenced fund for the next generation of police technology is designed to be used for equipment that gets officers out of the police station and on to the beat, including the 10,000 hand-held computers and mobile weapon detectors promised by Gordon Brown on Monday. The introduction of local crime data is designed to address the fact that, despite a 35% fall in the national crime figures since Labour came to power, most people believe that crime has gone up. Ministers hope the provision of local crime data will make clear the real situation and reduce fear of crime. The decision to double the number of sexual assault referral centres, based in healthcare centres and not police stations, is designed to encourage victims to report rapes. As well as medical help and counselling, specialist staff will offer victims the opportunity to deep-freeze samples so they can be used as evidence should they wish to press charges at a later date. Forensic evidence will only be passed to the police if the victim agrees. The increase will mean that there will be a referral centre in nearly every police force area across England and Wales. Ms Smith also used her speech to take a swipe at the suggestion by David Cameron, the Tory leader, and David Davis, the shadow home secretary, that Britain was a "broken society", branding the claim "just plain wrong". "The two Davids. What a pair they make," she said. "While one was on manoeuvers with the Territorial Army, the other was plotting midnight raids on Eton's tuck shop ... "But I'll tell you what. Neither of them has got a grip on crime, on its causes or on its consequences." Ms Smith added: "Tolerance and freedom. Fairness and respect, rights and responsibilities. That's what Labour stands for. Protecting communities and securing Britain's future."