The killer of an 11-year-old girl remained free for more than 30 years after the wrong suspect was convicted of the crime, a court heard today.In 1976 Stefan Kiszko, a tax clerk, was convicted of abducting Lesley Molseed and stabbing her to death on a moor.More than 16 years later, however, advances in forensic science led to Kiszko being freed and his conviction being quashed. Further investigation then led officers to charge Ronald Castree, 53, with the murder 31 years ago.Today, a court heard how Mr Castree had abducted Lesley from near her home in Rochdale, Greater Manchester, in October 1975. He then drove the girl to a "lonely scene" on the moors between Oldham and Ripponden, where he sexually assaulted and murdered her. Julian Goose QC, prosecuting at Bradford crown court, told the jury that police had initially charged the wrong man.But he said scientific progress since the attack had found Mr Castree's DNA to be an "exact match" to samples recovered from the dead child. He said: "Lesley, who was aged 11 when she was murdered, had been stabbed 12 times." The Molseed family had been enjoying "a typical Sunday" when her mother sent Lesley on an errand, the court heard.From that moment she was never seen alive again. Police later found her body abandoned on a moor. Semen was discovered on the body. The jury was told that Kiszko was freed after he was found to suffer from a condition that meant he could not produce sperm. Mr Castree, from Shaw, Oldham, denies murdering Lesley between October 4 and 9 1975. The jury of six men and six women has been told that the trial may last up to four weeks. Mr Goose said the DNA from the sperm heads found on the victim's body was an exact match with the defendant's own DNA profile. "The prosecution's case is that the semen was the defendant's and that his motive for murdering Lesley Molseed was sexual."Mr Kiszko served over 16 years in prison for a crime he did not commit," said Mr Goose. The innocent man died on December 21 1993, less than two years after his release from prison. Mr Goose added that, in 1999, further forensic examinations were carried out on the 1975 evidence. He said that by then all of Lesley's clothing had been destroyed, but scientists had retained adhesive tapings that had been used to collect samples from Lesley. The prosecutor said that, from these tapings, quantities of DNA were extracted from which a clear DNA profile of Mr Castree was obtained. In 2005 he was arrested for the murder of Lesley after he was detained in relation to an unrelated incident and police took a DNA sample from him. The trial continues.