A former soldier, who was having an affair with a woman he met through working at an animal charity, has been convicted of trying to kill his pregnant wife by planting a stolen grenade in her car.A jury took just an hour to find Nicholas Fabian guilty at Maidstone crown court of attempting to murder Victoria Fabian by booby-trapping her car near their home in Vigo, Kent.She suffered extensive leg injuries, but her unborn child survived the attack without injury as did her eight-year-old son from a previous relationship, who was also in the Mazda car.The trial heard that Victoria Fabian had confronted her husband after discovering he was having an affair with a woman he met while working at the Brands Hatch branch of Battersea Dogs and Cats Home.Fabian sent his mistress a text an hour before the explosion in March last year. It read: "Hello sexy, I love you so much xxx."Fabian, who was still an army reservist and who was weeks away from being deployed to Afghanistan, stole the hand grenade from a firing range during weapons training.Giving evidence, Victoria Fabian wept as she recalled the blast as she drove from the family home at lunchtime. "The windscreen shattered and there was a loud bang. I can remember thinking a tree or something had fallen on the car and Charlie was asking me what had happened, and I couldn't feel anything from my waist down so I told him to get out of the car."She said the next thing she remembered was "Nick running towards me, crying"."He was trying to get me out of the car. I remember feeling that I was losing a lot of blood."The explosion blasted holes in her legs and she needed skin grafts to repair the damage. She remained in hospital for two months.A fly-off lever from the L109 British army issue explosive grenade and safety pin were found by police along with a J-shaped fishing hook on the ground near the car, following the explosion.Examination of the debris suggested the grenade had been strapped to the inside of the driver's side wheel-arch. A nylon line was attached to the grenade pin at one end and the fishing hook at the other.If the line was kept taut and the barbed hook then inserted lightly into the tyre, the wheel would move just enough to pull out the safety pin, release the lever and prime the grenade to explode as the car was being driven out of the parking area at the back of the family home.Outside court, Detective Inspector Lee Whitehead, of Kent police, said Fabian's wife had conflicting feelings about her husband's conviction. "She has got mixed emotions about the result of the trial. He is still the father of her children. It's difficult to understand how anyone could attempt to kill her while she was pregnant in such a callous manner."Asked to describe Fabian, Whitehead said: "I would say he is a very dangerous and selfish man and all he wanted to do was clear the decks and move on with his girlfriend."Police believe Fabian may have staged previous attempts to harm his wife. The prosecution blamed him for tampering with his wife's brake pipes in September 2009 and setting fire to the other family car, a Skoda, when it was parked behind their home.Police investigated but it was only after the grenade attack on Victoria Fabian that her husband came under suspicion for the previous incidents. Fabian is due to be sentenced on Friday.