Heather NicholsonShe was raised in Wales, and joined the animal rights movement as a 26-year-old in the mid-1990s when she went to a protest against live animal exports. It was during this period that the former nanny met her future husband Greg Avery. A committed vegan, the 41-year-old once said she followed the strict dietary requirements because she didn't wish to "contribute to the murder, suffering and exploitation of animals". She worked for the RSPCA before joining Shac in a senior managerial role, for which she was paid £75 a week. In 2006 while awaiting trial in HMP Bronzefield in Middlesex for attacking a foxhunting supporter she told abolitionist online: "I would like to express my love and admiration to every one of you who cares about what is being done to animals and is doing something about it. Never underestimate how powerful you are and always believe that we will win."Greg AveryEstablished Shac in 1999 with his current wife Natasha Avery and former wife Heather Nicholson, both committed animal rights activists. The 41-year-old first became involved in animal rights protests as a teenager in the 1980s, carrying out raids with the Northern Animal Liberation League. He married Nicholson after they met at a protest against animal exports at Coventry airport, then divorced her and married fellow animal rights activist Natasha Dallemagne in 2002. As the de facto leader of Shac, Avery co-ordinates activists around the world. He has served several prison sentences, including one for assaulting a policeman, and has been accused of threatening to kill a Huntingdon Life Sciences employee and associating with "hard men" in the animal rights movement. Speaking from prison in 2006, he said: "Animal abuse occurs in every corner of the globe and is happening now. Wherever we find it we must fight it."Daniel Wadham, 21Joined Shac in mid-2005 and was taken under the wing of Heather Nicholson. She saw him as a potential successor to Greg Avery, to take over Shac. Wadham was responsible for four criminal excursions into Sweden with Nicholson. He was jailed for six months in 2006 for affray after he, Nicholson and Natasha Avery attacked a family in a car in Richmond, Surrey, which had a pro-hunting sticker in the window.Kim Gerrah Selby, 20Selby is half-French and joined Shac in the middle of 2006. She was used in the Europe campaign because of her language skills and travelled to Germany, Switzerland and Paris, where she took part in demonstrations and direct actions.Daniel Amos, 22He was Selby's boyfriend for a while, and they shared a room in a house in Church Crookham, Hampshire. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to blackmail and is being held in Winchester prison before sentencing. He lists himself as a committed vegan, and has set up a MySpace site to raise donations to help pay for his vegan diet in prison.