I'm on probation for drink-driving. That was my last offence. My first run-in with the law was at the age of 17. I started nicking industrial vans and selling all the tools. Then I started taking drugs and stole to buy speed, ecstasy and cocaine. I was caught within the first 10 months and sent to prison in Chelmsford for four years. They caught me in the act, with my car loaded up with power tools. I actually got off the four years after about 10 months, and the sentence was quashed at the Court of Appeal. I was sent back shortly afterwards, though, for the same thing, and I served the full three years that time. I was terrified when I first went to prison, but I got used to it. It wasn't scary, it wasn't a deterrent, it was just boring. I found more friends inside than I did outside. As soon as I got out I went back to my old ways - it didn't actually bother me whether I was on the inside or the outside. Most of my friends were in prison and it was boring being on the outside. I ended up doing things just to get back inside. Sometimes I actually preferred being in prison. It's just a way of life. You don't have any responsibilities, everything is done for you.  I worked out recently that I've done 13 years in jail. The longest I've been out of prison since I was 17 is about six months at most. But I've come to a point in my life where I want to get help. I was put on this six-month Reasonable and Reasoning programme (R&R) with probation last year. It's all about teaching you how to think before you act, and think of the consequences of your actions. I lost my arm through drugs. My best mate spiked me up with heroin and I was in a coma for three months. That was five years ago. I'm getting into college now and I want to be a counsellor. The R&R and probation have helped, but it only works for certain individuals. You have to be at a point where you want to give things a chance. I was willing to give probation a go and do it to learn rather than just to get out of prison. It works like this: you do the crime, then you have a pre-sentence report where the Probation Service might recommend that you get probation, then you go to court for sentencing. Probation is the last stop before jail. I got 18 months probation to include a six-month R&R programme. A lot of the time doing R&R I wished that I was back in jail because that was a lot easier. I did probation, which involves meeting your probation officer for 15-45 minutes, once a week; then an R&R programme twice a week on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6pm-8.30pm for six months. I'm now back on probation. The rest of my time is spent stewing at home. It's definitely not an easy ride at all.  There are things in the R&R that I would never have dreamed of doing. You have to do role-plays, share intimate details of your life and have a good group of people around you who are willing to listen and help. You get to see how the victim feels, and the chain of people your crime affects. There were 12 people in the group, but some breached their contracts and went to prison, so the group went down to nine.  I've been on probation about three or four times, and had several probation officers over the years - some I haven't really cared for at all. At those times I wasn't ready to listen, it was all a load of rubbish. My probation officer now, Emily, helps me to keep positive, but it's difficult on probation. How much can people understand if they've never been through it before? They're also helping me out with basic skills in English as I haven't been to school since I was 15. There's a teacher who comes from college one day a week and I'm starting a course in March, two days a week, to study counselling and psychology. I'm terrified. It's going to be weird going back to school again after all this time.  Jail terrifies me now. It's all just boredom. It kills you with boredom. I hate it. I've bought myself a little puppy Staffordshire bull terrier. It's like having a child and that's what keeps me out of trouble at the moment. · Paul Rosendale, 34, lives in Basildon, Essex