A man who was at the helm of a "grossly overloaded" pleasure cruiser was found guilty yesterday of the manslaughter of a partygoer on board.The 30-year-old boat had been designed for six or seven passengers but was carrying 16 when it capsized and sank during the Stourport-on-Severn carnival in September 2003. Birmingham crown court was told that the Sweetie Pie cruiser had been seen "see-sawing from port to starboard". Most of those on the vessel were thrown into the water but Jane Turner, a 45-year-old tax worker from Castle Bromwich, drowned after she was trapped in the cabin. Thomas Prescott, of Kidderminster, Worcestershire, was convicted of causing her death by a jury which took more than two days to reach its verdict. The court heard that Janice Ward, 43, Prescott's former partner of Stourport, Worcestershire, and Ruth Pearson, 39, of Kidderminster had thrown a party to celebrate their joint purchase of the boat for £2,700. Both were also charged with manslaughter. The jury cleared Ms Pearson but failed to reach a verdict on Ms Ward, who could now face a retrial. Philip Shears QC had said that the defendants were criminally negligent in allowing the seven-metre (23ft) boat on the river in a seriously overloaded state. He said alcohol might have clouded Prescott's judgment in deciding to steer upstream to give guests a better view of a fireworks display. He added that Ms Ward's 12-year-old son had been given the helm at one point and that those on board had ignored advice from a rescue patrol boat and a public announcement advising them to let people off. Rescuers used a hammer to smash the front window before lifting Ms Turner into a dinghy and on to a pontoon where paramedics tried to resuscitate her. "The defendants owed a duty of care to look after their passengers and we say that they breached that duty," Mr Shears said. He said Sweetie Pie had tilted to starboard as it came into a mooring area in the dark, throwing people into the water. "A man shouted out, 'Get in the cabin.' A number of people did just that. Water poured over the stern and into the cabin and as the boat sunk some were able to escape through the cabin door." When arrested, all three defendants denied responsibility. Prescott denied being reckless and told police: "Four- berth does not mean you can't have 16 people on board. Any one of those people could have said there were too many people there." In her statement, Ms Ward said: "I don't accept responsibility. Prescott was driving, it was Ruth's party and I only invited my sister and her boyfriend." Ms Pearson told police: "I had handed all responsibility to Thomas, who was driving and I didn't feel in charge." Outside court, Detective Chief Inspector Sean Paley of West Mercia police said the verdicts had come at the end of an exhaustive inquiry. "Our thoughts are with Jane's family and friends who have waited for a number of months for this to come to court," he said. "It was a particularly sensitive inquiry because those charged with the manslaughter were part of her circle of friends. "We hope lessons have been learned from this incident to prevent anything like this happening again." Prescott is expected to be sentenced today.