When Bertie Smalls, often described as Britain's first supergrass, departed from the witness box after giving evidence at the Old Bailey against some of his former bank-robbing colleagues, they sang: "We'll meet again, don't know where, don't know when." But more than 30 years after Smalls broke the 11th commandment of the underworld, thou shalt not grass, he has died peacefully at his home in Croydon without his past ever quite catching up with him."There will certainly be a few glasses raised in celebration at the news," said one former bank robber yesterday. "In fact, I might nip out and buy a bottle of champagne myself." There will be few tears shed in the criminal fraternity over a man who helped to jail nearly 30 of his former associates after making a deal with the police and prosecuting authorities that allowed him to escape prison.Smalls, 72, was one of Britain's most active armed robbers when he was arrested in 1973. Despite having been involved in many violent crimes in London and the south-east, he negotiated a deal with the director of public prosecutions, Sir Norman Skelhorn, whereby he would give evidence in trials of his fellow-robbers in exchange for complete immunity. This did not meet with universal approval. As the former judge Sir Frederick Lawton remarked later: "He would only turn Queen's evidence if he was given complete immunity from prosecution, and wanted that in writing, which seemed the quintessence of impertinence."Not that Smalls's assistance to the police came without embarrassment. One man, Jimmy Saunders, who had supposedly confessed to the police, was cleared on appeal once Smalls explained that he could not have taken part in the robbery for which he was convicted.After giving his evidence in a series of trials, Smalls, who was married with two children, went into hiding and was provided with a false identity. He turned down offers of a chance to leave the country and never had plastic surgery. There were sightings of him around his old haunts in Wood Green, north London, and one of the men whom he helped to convict, the late Bobby King, once saw him in Crouch End but decided against revenge. Others were less forgiving; he was once beaten up in a car-park in south London. Although Smalls was generally described as Britain's first supergrass, the former Scotland Yard detective Leonard "Nipper" Read always maintained that Leslie Payne, the adviser to the Kray twins, who gave evidence against them in 1969, should have had the title. However, Smalls certainly set the tone, and many of his former associates soon followed suit once the taboo had been broken. Few of them were given such a favourable deal, most getting five years, as opposed to the 18 or more they would otherwise have received.A short, squat man, described by a former colleague as "like Bob Hoskins but without the charm", he held extreme rightwing views and at the time of his arrest was knocking back a bottle of vodka a day. He was reviled throughout the criminal fraternity. One of the men he helped to convict spent many hours in jail teaching his pet budgie to say "Bertie Smalls is a fucking grass."But from the police's point of view, Smalls was a godsend as he helped to jail many bank robbers who had escaped convictions by paying off corrupt officers during the early 1970s.