Who pulls the semantic strings of political correctness? Why, particularly in the public sphere, does a word or phrase oust another, becoming the official or correct usage? As a literary translator, dealing in novels emerging from the multicultural Parisian banlieu or suburban inner-city, I lately found myself weighing the term "group rape" against its partner phrase, "gang rape".A marker was laid down on this in January 2004, when a Metropolitan police spokesman on rape and serious sexual offences attacked the use of the phrase "gang rape" in a Daily Telegraph report on multiple assailant sexual attacks. It was, he said, "an extremely emotive term". The newspaper in turn objected to what it felt was the implication that it "was being racist in referring to gang rape".The Met prefers the term "group rape" - arguing that "most gangs are not based on ethnicity but on territory: housing estates, football clubs, and an ability to control crime within that area" - and its official line is that it never condoned the use of the term "gang rape". Yet one of its own reports, dated April 2002, makes repeated reference to it. So why the change of tack?One reason is that "gang rape" has become racially charged. According to California-based clinical psychologist Karen Franklin, "... gang rape carries an implicit message about class and race. In popular culture, 'gang' is often a code word for groups of lower class, and especially non-white, youth."Many group rapes, Franklin says, are committed by affluent young men, often members of fraternities and sports teams rather than gangs, and the term "group rape" allows for the inclusion of these more privileged rapists. The Met, she suggests, is right. "Way back ... the word 'gang' didn't have all the racial baggage that is has now."Leon James, a young black writer for Live magazine, a Brixton-based publication by and for "young peeps", had been researching an article on the phenomenon he was loosely dubbing "gang rape" when he was advised by the Met's Sapphire Unit (charged with reforming rape investigation) that the correct non-inflammatory term is "group rape". But as he conducted interviews, James began to detect a difference between the terms: namely, that assailant and victim were more frequently known to each other in "group rape". Still, linguistically, this term troubled James. "I thought that maybe 'group rape' deadened the impact of what it is, or tried to make it seem less violent," he said.Richard Chipping, senior trainer at the charity the London Centre for Personal Safety, and chair of the independent advisory group to Sapphire, was involved in the decision to sanction "group rape" for official police usage. He is cautious about its spread as an umbrella term, and he floats the term "sexualised bullying" as an alternative (because "in many ways it seems to be an extension of other sorts of bullying behaviour which is being committed by young people").Given that his main concern is to prevent people looking in the wrong direction when it comes to self-protection - and that language plays a key role in minimising this risk - he believes that "group rape" is still a generic improvement on the red-herring of "gang rape", especially since data suggests the majority of multiple assailant attacks are carried out by duos.Ruhi Jawad, forensic gynaecologist at The Haven, attached to King's College hospital (one of three London-wide medical units for victims of rape or sexual assault, with six categories of sexual attack on its database) takes issue with the blanket use of "group rape". She says: "I think 'gang rape' should not be replaced by 'group rape' because gang rapes still exist as a form of initiation in certain cultures. I would see them as two different things."So where does all this leave a wary translator, zig-zagging a semantic minefield? The problem, it seems to me, is one of language trying to do too much, serving too many masters. While I recognise the laudable arguments for odourless linguistics, I wonder if they also potentially reduce the perception of crime? "Are you insinuating it [group rape] is a softer term?" a Met spokesperson says. "I don't think it is, because by its definition it's rape." It is hard to argue with that.· Sarah Adams is a writer and translator. She will be contributing an occasional column to Society Guardian on society and language.