The relatives of those killed by Derrick Bird may never receive an adequate explanation of their loved ones died, David Cameron said today.During a two and a quarter hour visit to pay tribute to the emergency services and to meet survivors of the massacre in Cumbria, the prime minister said he had heard tales of "incredible bravery".Cameron told officers at Workington police station: "People here in west Cumbria have suffered the most appalling tragedy and it will have a huge impact on the community. I wanted to come here to show the government wanted to listen, wanted to show how much it cares about what has happened here."People – I have met some of them – are having to come to terms with the most appalling random acts that they will find very difficult to understand, and in some cases there will be no proper explanation."Accompanied by the home secretary, Theresa May, he listened while the chief constable of Cumbria, Craig Mackey, and his senior officers, talked through the sequence of Wednesday's mass killings and gave the police response.Cameron met armed officers who had trailed Bird through the winding roads along the Cumbrian coast and then discovered his body in the wooded foothills of the Lake District.For some survivors, the prime minister said, feelings of disbelief could eventually give way to numbness. "What we don't know yet is all the facts in the case," he said. "There will be some parts of this that we will never understand. There were some random acts of killings, and people who will have lost loved ones will ask why it happened to them and why so random? Why it is so unfair and so cruel what's happened here?"You will hear incredible tales of bravery. I met a woman at the hospital who lost her neighbours, incredibly brave. She wants to go home and start to rebuild her life."There are incredible stories of bravery here, and an amazing community that has been torn by this but will eventually come through this like other communities have. I think we should give them the time to mourn those that they have lost and I think it is very important that the media understand that too."Asked whether there was a need to tighten the gun laws, the prime minister commented: "We do have very tough gun control in this country and I think what we need to do is take the time [to consider the issue]."Tony Cunningham, the MP for Workington, who attended the briefing, insisted that the police had not been overwhelmed by the scale of Bird's murderous rampage. "When you look at where Derrick Bird was finally found, you look at the situation faced by those police officers going into that wooded area," he said. "They didn't know Derrick Bird was dead. They just knew there was a gunman with a telescopic sight. They showed such bravery."Flags outside the divisional police headquarters in Workington were flying at half-mast today. The building still bears the traces of another tragedy: six months ago it was inundated in the floods that swamped the area and drowned a local police constable, Bill Barker.Cameron and May began their visit with a tour of West Cumberland hospital, in Whitehaven, where many of the injured were first taken. They met survivors and one of the recovering victims. Five patients are still being treated at the hospital; two others have been transferred to Newcastle hospital. Several suffered severe facial wounds in Bird's attacks.