A top aide to the mayor of London has been given legal advice in the past week that Boris Johnson has no power to suspend the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, leaked emails yesterday revealed. The emails - written last Friday and Saturday - concern advice from the most senior lawyer for the Metropolitan police authority.They emerged as new allegations surfaced against Blair over £3m worth of police contracts awarded to a friend. On Monday, the MPA announced an investigation into the awarding of the contracts with Blair insisting he had done nothing wrong. Johnson came into office believing that Blair should be removed, but in the last few months the commissioner has tried to build a working relationship with him. The leaked emails involve MPA lawyer David Riddle, and Kit Malthouse, a top aide to Johnson who is also first deputy chair of the MPA.They show the Tories were advised that they could not temporarily remove the commissioner during any investigation.In the first email, Malthouse wrote that it was for the mayor to decide whether to remove Blair and expressed his frustration at "decision-making by committee" on sensitive issues. Malthouse wrote: "There is too much decision-making by committee on stuff like this and it gives individual members far too much sense of power. Essentially it's the mayor's decision to suspend or not. Hence my amends." Malthouse's email to a top MPA official and led to a written response from Riddle. The lawyer warns that the commissioner's lawyers would look for legal flaws in any action against Blair.Riddle's email, written on Saturday, says: "If there is to be action against the commissioner it has got to be lawful ... If the nuclear button is pressed, expect it to be crawled over for legal flaws. We cannot risk proceedings unwinding because of flaws in our process. The mayor has no formal role in this whatsoever ..."I'm not stupid - he has to be kept in the loop ... but he is not a decision-maker and anything that suggests he is involved will come back and bite the MPA and him."Allegations over the contracts awarded by Blair were referred to the professional standards committee, which considers allegations of wrongdoing against the Met's top officers for the MPA.On Monday the authority decided that an independent investigator should be appointed by the home secretary. Blair faces questions over the contract awarded to a company owned by a friend in December 2002. Blair welcomed the inquiry and said he was "open and straightforward" in informing his colleagues of his relationship with Andrew Millar. At the time, Millar was the owner of Impact Plus, a business and technology management consultancy company.The Metropolitan police says that Impact Plus was awarded contracts worth around £3m between 2001 and 2008.