The outrage prompted by the decision to grant a provisional promotion to Commander Cressida Dick, who headed the operation that led to the death of Jean Charles de Menezes, was primarily directed towards those who elevated her to deputy assistant commissioner. But for those who know her, there was clear symbolism in her decision to apply.John Azah, who chairs the Metropolitan police independent lay advisory group, said: "I asked her how she has been able to cope with the pressure and she told me, 'Look, I have continued to do my job as best I can. I did my job to the best of my ability and I am confident that I made the right calls at the right times with the right support'. That is what has held her together."Beverley Thompson, his predecessor, said Cmdr Dick, 45, has integrity. "If she felt she had made a huge mistake she would have said so and she would not have sought to move forward. She must be very confident that she did the best she could in the circumstances."But that does not explain why others continue to show, very publicly and at some political cost, such confidence in her. Though Ms Dick, known as "Cress", could still face disciplinary action, members of the Metropolitan Police Authority resolved to promote her.Lee Jasper, the mayor of London's director on equalities and policing, said: "She is a firefly - small, diminutive and red-hot. She is not into flamboyant gestures but she is an exceptional officer and a tough cookie." Inspector Liz Owsley, national coordinator of the British Association of Women Police, said: "It shows what she is made of, that she has gone for it with all that is going on." Another senior officer said her willingness to undertake tricky tasks for the commissioner marks her out. "She's the one he calls for," he said.The promotion, if ratified, will be the high point in a career she has told friends she sought from an early age. Though the worlds of policing and academia now fit seamlessly together, it seemed an odd choice for the child of two senior professors at Oxford.She attended Oxford high school and in 1979 became one of the first female undergraduates at Balliol. She was assiduous but also sporty; for a while she captained the rowing team.In 2002, she told fellow alumni that Balliol had "prepared her and at times had not prepared her" for her career. She did, however, learn a "few techniques in forensic science".After detours working in a fish and chip shop and for a large accountancy firm she joined the Met in 1983, starting as a beat constable in London's West End. She worked her way up to inspector before being sent on an accelerated promotion course. She transferred to Thames Valley in 1995 as a superintendent, rising to chief superintendent and area commander for Oxford.John Tanner, council leader at the time, said: "She was like a breath of fresh air - progressive, liberal, intelligent, full of new ideas. She was very good at not over-policing protests and demonstrations. But at the same time she worked with us to expand the use of CCTV and to address crime on the estates." Reclaim the Streets accused her of overpolicing their demonstration in 1997 but Mr Tanner said that "we look back to her time with fondness".She returned to Scotland Yard as a commander in 2001, obtaining a masters in criminology from Cambridge University the same year, and was appointed head of the diversity directorate. Her predecessor was John Grieve, former head of the anti-terrorist squad, who launched the racial and violent crimes taskforce after the convulsions caused by the Stephen Lawrence inquiry. He was a deputy assistant commissioner, she a commander, and she could never hope to replicate the stature Mr Grieve brought to the job. But Mr Azah said: "There was a regrouping and a sense of 'let's do the work'. She brought the thing down to earth."In 2003, she moved to the Specialist Crime Directorate to head Operation Trident, the unit addressing gun crime, focusing particularly on criminals within the black community. Lee Jasper, who chaired the Trident lay advisory group, said her approach was measured. "Trident arrested some of the most dangerous criminals in the capital and I can only recall one shot being fired."To most, her promotion was inevitable. She had already spurned one opportunity to seek advancement while heading Trident. But others, like Peter Herbert, a member of the Metropolitan Police Authority and chair of London's Race Hate Forum, see it as a mistake. "It is a blot on her copybook," he said. "It shows lack of judgment."Her judgment was seen as her strong point. Many still trust it. But ultimately her fate rests on whether it remained intact on the day De Menezes was shot dead. "She would have considered everything. She would have wanted to slow people down," said Ms Thompson. "It is a terrible irony that she of all people should be in this position."The CV Born 1960, Oxford; parents were Oxford donsEducation Oxford high school; agriculture and forest sciences, Balliol college, Oxford; masters in criminology, Cambridge, 2001, coming first in classCareer Joined Metropolitan police as beat constable, 1983; worked way up to inspector; attended accelerated promotion course; Thames Valley police, 1995-2000, rising from superintendent to chief superintendent and area commander for Oxford; commander, Met police, 2001-06; head of diversity directorate, then head of Trident gun crime unit; deputy assistant commissioner, Met police, 2006-Quote "I will stand up and be counted for my decisions" - on the Jean Charles de Menezes case