The head of the Bar Council last night asked barristers to work for free on some of Britain's most high-profile trials in an attempt to avert an unprecedented crisis in the criminal justice system.The chairman of the bar, Stephen Irwin QC, made the extraordinary request because a row with the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, over a new fees agreement, threatens to leave defendants in some of the most serious cases without legal representation. Most criminal barristers in England and Wales have joined an unofficial boycott of Lord Falconer's new payment scheme for "very high cost criminal cases", trials of five weeks and costing at least £150,000 per defence team. The dispute threatens to leave defendants without barristers in weighty terrorism, murder, fraud and drug trafficking cases. Barristers have been refusing to sign contracts, introduced on April 1, because they object to the fees paid under the scheme and to rules that require them to consult contract managers if they need to read extra evidence or take any other steps that have not been agreed during the case.Barristers say the boycott could force judges to release defendants on bail because their cases will not be ready for trial within the set time limits. A similar scheme for prosecution fees is to be introduced within months, raising the prospect that prosecuting counsel could join the boycott. Lord Falconer has agreed to review the scheme but has not acceded to the bar's request to suspend it during the review. "We have asked government to suspend the implementation of the scheme pending the review, on more than one occasion," Mr Irwin wrote in a letter to heads of chambers and members of the criminal bar. "So far they have refused. If they insist on this position, there is a possibility of people going unrepresented. "In those circumstances, I would ask barristers who have decided not to sign a contract, nevertheless to consider whether they might not accept instructions on an ad hoc basis and explicitly for the period of the review, if necessary unpaid. "This will ensure that the essential public interest priorities are met during the coming weeks and that defendants do not go unrepresented pending the outcome of the review." Owen Davies QC, a head of chambers who has turned down two cases, said: "The government quite clearly are getting nervous about what's going to happen to terrorists and so forth. "The scenario which is looming is that they won't be able to find prosecuting or defence counsel for cases." Mr Irwin's unprecedented letter went on: "It has become increasingly difficult - in many areas impossible - for solicitors to find counsel willing to undertake contracted cases." He revealed that following discussions with the lord chancellor "in an attempt to resolve the present impasse", a review of the scheme will begin on Monday and conclude on May 28.