1.30am: The Tottenham immigrantsGenadijs Jaronis had a premonition about his death. "I won't make it to midnight," he told one of his drinking buddies. Genadijs, a 42-year-old ex-army captain from Latvia, was one of a group of east Europeans, hard drinkers and casual workers, living in a squat above a pub at 600 Tottenham High Road. The building looked like the scene of a crime long before it became one.To reach it, you go through the Aldi car park, past the car wash and through a hole in a wall. An external staircase leads to a flat, open roof, where the Russian-speaking squatters often congregated. It was a damp night when Genadijs came out here with Adam, Piotr and other friends to share their booze and talk about scams and life back in the place some of them still called home. Genadijs had been drinking for much of the day.On Tottenham High Road a CCTV camera captured a stocky, blond, 22-year-old man tripping up the road. He was drunk, too - Grzegorz Banaczek, a Polish man who often came to the squat for drinking sessions.When he arrived on the roof, Grzegorz claims Genadijs - nicknamed the Captain - called him an offensive name, but no one else heard it. Furious, arms flailing, he attacked the Captain and, according to one of the friends, drew a kitchen knife from his jacket. The others ran down the stairs and hid in the bushes below. When they returned, the Pole was gone, but Genadijs lay bleeding heavily from the face and head.A CCTV camera on the high street picked up Grzegorz at 11.30pm, leaving the area of the squat and heading towards Pizza Gogo. He then went next door to a grocery store where the owner gave him a length of tissue for what appeared to be a gash on his hand.Around 3am, he ran into the drinking friends on the High Road. "You have killed the Captain. He's dead," they said. Grzegorz said he didn't believe them, and minutes later the CCTV camera shows him returning to the squat. He took the knife that was lying beside the dead man's body and threw it into trees in the grounds of nearby Mulberry primary school.By this time, the friends had alerted the police, who began a search for Grzegorz. A police pathologist noted that the victim had been stabbed 30 times. There were no wounds on his hands: it appears he was too drunk to try to defend himself. Several days later, Grzegorz presented himself at Tottenham police station, where he was arrested on suspicion of murdering Genadijs Jaronis. The fellow drinkers picked the Pole out of a line-up and he was later committed for trial at the Old Bailey.His defence was meagre but fiercely applied: a few days before the crime he had been drinking with the Captain at the squat; the Captain gave him four glasses of wine, one of which was spiked. When Grzegorz fell asleep, he alleged, the Captain buggered him. A few nights later, when he returned to the squat, Grzegorz says the Captain grabbed his bottom and called him a "pietuk", a Russian word meaning rent boy or male prostitute.When I met Genadijs' brother in a cafe in Tottenham, I was keen to talk about his childhood and army years. Voldemar Jaronis, a small, tightly packed man with beautiful blue eyes, had the Russian habit of seeing all facts as suspect."My brother was born on April 23rd 1966," he said. "Something like that. In the Soviet Union, my father was commander of a famous division of the Russian army located near the Japanese sea. He suffered in his hopes for promotion. A subordinate had an accident and my father was held responsible." The father's feeling of failure was a crucial event for the whole family and resulted in his brother being pressed into a military career. "My father was good at keeping everyone around him under pressure," Voldemar said. His brother ended up at a military academy in Leningrad, until, in the early 90s, Soviet officers were sent back to their native republics. In the new Latvia, based in Riga, Genadijs became head of a sniper team, a captain. He was married and had a daughter, but the marriage broke up. Voldemar says that central to his brother's adult life was a calamity he never got over: while training as a commando, two of his soldiers died and he was blamed. He was forced to leave the army and his spiral into oblivion began."The truth is, my brother was never as strong as our father," Voldemar said. "When he came to London, his social circle was bringing him down. He had been here two years when he died. He was drinking too much. I tried to give him work - we did decorating for rich people - but I think you could say fate and character were at play in what happened to my brother."The man who killed his brother was found guilty of manslaughter and will be sentenced later this year. Genadijs Jaronis's life ended in the very early hours of 10 July 2008. By the end of the day, five other people in the UK would be stabbed to death.2pm: The boy from PeckhamMelvin Bryan was known to his family as an affectionate guy, a bit of a disappearing act, but loyal in his own way. He would come and go from his mother's flat, sometimes hungry, sometimes tired, vague about his whereabouts and how he was earning a living. His family either didn't know or didn't want to know, but Melvin, 18 years old, was hanging around some of the worst drug dens on the other side of London. He took crack and he stole to feed his habit; that had been the routine of his life. When I spoke to his family, none of them seemed to know that Melvin had a street name and was known on his own patch as Youngblood.On 10 July, there was a lot of traffic at 42 Gloucester Road in Edmonton. For several years, the basement flat had been used as a crack house, busy around the clock with dealers, prostitutes and users. Claudette Stuart, a regular visitor, says she often went there in the middle of the night. She bought crack and heroin from a man called Yankee, who was often at the house with a man called the Runner, two dealers whose real names were Damion Sealey and O'Jay Rogers. In the early hours of 10 July, Claudette was at the house smoking crack when she saw Youngblood come in. He took some crack from the Runner, which he had no money to pay for. Against Claudette's advice, he opened the wrapper and they smoked it. She said Youngblood hadn't slept for two days.Hours later, another guy there that day, Dalston, saw Youngblood drinking with some others in an upstairs flat. Dalston went to the off-licence to buy some White Ace cider; as he returned he heard a kerfuffle in the basement. It sounded like a fight. When he got there, he says, "I saw Youngblood trying to run away. There was blood coming from his neck. He was trying to get away from O'Jay and Yank, and he fell on to the stairs."O'Jay had Youngblood on the floor and was stabbing him repeatedly. Meanwhile, Yankee pulled a strut from the staircase and began beating Youngblood with it as he lay bleeding on the floor. "Let him go! Please don't kill him," Dalston shouted. O'Jay was shouting about his money. Youngblood struggled free and ran up the stairs. He got out of the front door and collapsed between two parked cars.In court, giving evidence, Dalston was asked by the judge, "Have you been drinking today?""Not since yesterday. Not since two days ago."The two defendants, Sealey and Rogers, were sentenced to 20 years and 22 years respectively. They had sat through the case with what appeared to be an air of resignation, as if they were about to get what people get for doing what people like them do.Sharon Bryan, the mother of Melvin - or Youngblood - lives in a small block of flats across from Peckham graveyard, where her son is buried, and where a great many young black men are buried years before their time.When I visited, she was sitting in a small living room filled with leather furniture, a drinks bar, a crucifix and several loved ones who couldn't believe what had happened. A row of sympathy cards hung on a length of string. Melvin's younger brother, Owen, was sitting eating his tea by the window. He nodded when Bernadette, Sharon's younger sister, a bus driver and sometime actor, said there were 300 people at Melvin's funeral."Melvin was seven when I got this flat," said Sharon, who is 38. She opened a can of Red Stripe. "We were trying to live an ordinary life. I'm not a criminal. I had two boys. I ain't got nothing else."Melvin wouldn't listen to her, she told me, but he was always polite, always willing to run errands. When I asked what he was like at school, there was a long silence. "He wouldn't listen," she said again, very quietly. As she described what had happened the day Melvin died, she said nothing about drugs, nothing about Melvin's other life. I got the impression that Bernadette might have known more, but she kept quiet, as if saying too much might sully his memory. "The argument was over £10," Bernadette said. "I was told that.""Did he know them, his killers?" I asked."He knew them," Sharon said. "You can know a lot of people, but they don't have to be your friends... Melvin only told me what he thought I could handle. I saw him the Saturday before he died. He came. He ate. He seemed all right to me. That was the last time I saw Melvin.""The killer should be sent to the chair," said little Owen. "It should be a life for a life."Sharon showed me a CD made by a relative, a tribute to her son. There were two songs on it: R.I.P Brudda and I Will Always Love You. The singer on the first track was in full rap elegy mode: "It made my skin crawl," he sang, "that someone took your life for something that small."Melvin's mother cried. "They all loved him," she said. While Whitney Houston's voice filled the room, she talked about her son. "Melvin always loved me," Sharon said. "He never left me out."5.30pm: The Leyton gangThe day I'm writing about - 10 July 2008 - was one of the most violent in recent British history. As one lay dead from stab wounds, as another lay dying and as several others walked unknowingly towards their deaths, the world turned. It was stage six of the Tour de France. There was cricket at Lord's. Thirty African migrants were rescued off the Spanish coast. Fifteen others died. Jesse Jackson regretted his jibe about Barack Obama talking down to blacks. The BBC was reporting that more than 1,000 members of the armed forces are homeless.By the late afternoon, Adnan Patel, a 21-year-old construction worker from Forest Gate, was in Leyton, north-east London, with his younger brother, Luqman. For reasons not entirely clear - the case has yet to come to trial - around 5.20pm Adnan had an altercation in Stewart Road with the occupants of a white van. Police at first imagined a road rage-style incident had taken place, but it has since been alleged that Adnan was trying to protect his young brother from drug dealers. In any event, the result of the tussle was that Adnan was stabbed in the stomach. He ran back to his Ford Focus, where Luqman was crouched on the back seat, and tried to drive away. In no time he had crashed into a parked car in nearby Downsell Road. He staggered out of his car and collapsed on to the pavement. Two people ran to help him; one of them, an NHS worker called Leaanne Mitchell, brought sheets and towels from a nearby house. He lay on the ground whispering prayers but soon lost consciousness and died.Four men were initially arrested. One of them is too young to be named. It is alleged that he was involved in the stabbing, along with Moneeb Khalid of Manor Park, Mohsin Akram of Beckton, Akeel Shah of Leytonstone and Clint Dustin D'Mello from Stratford; three have pleaded not guilty, two - Shah and the unnamed youth - have not entered a plea. As is often the way now, there has been a great deal of Facebook commentary on the killing, much of it between friends of the victim, his girlfriend and family members. "The saddest thing," says one, "is that he was a Harfiz of the Qur'an [someone who has memorised the holy book] and the people allegedly responsible for the stabbing were Muslim brothers."8.50pm: A social call in WalthamstowYusufu Miiro's ambition was to be a police detective. He was 20 years old, studying sociology and criminology at Middlesex University. He liked athletics and he liked to cook. He lived with his stepfather, Yusef, his stepbrother, Fahad, and two teenage sisters in Maryland Square near Forest Gate, only a street away from Adnan Patel's home.The children had lived in the UK since 2001, when they came as asylum seekers from Uganda. Their mother died of cancer soon after and they were brought up by her new husband, Yusef Nsubuga; his application for asylum was denied but he was allowed to stay as their guardian. He works as a caretaker in Tower Hamlets.The girls sat on the sofa one recent, cold afternoon, watching Hollyoaks. They were in a comfy tangle of red sweatpants and striped tops, while their brother, Fahad, was more sullen, wandering in and out with his hood up. There was a banner behind the TV bearing a Muslim inscription.Yusef is a punctilious man. He had a plastic carrier bag at his feet and several wallets filled with documents, including his wife's death certificate, which he consulted several times.Yusufu preferred running to football, Yusef said. "He liked those criminal programmes on TV, American, where they chase cars. Because of what he was studying, he liked this. He did a lot for the house here. He looked after the children when I was away. Everything. Everything.""Did he have any rough friends?""No way," he said. "No rough friends. I don't know why somebody did it to him."On 10 July, Yusef Nsubuga saw his stepson Yusufu in the morning. "I went to Stratford around nine and I left him in bed. He was on holiday that day. I did some shopping and then went to my friend's in Upton Lane. When I came back, Yusufu was cooking chicken - I went out to get chips to have with the chicken - and then he sat down to watch Crime whatever. I remember changing the channel to watch Al Jazeera."Later, he went to bed and he assumed in the morning that his stepson must have gone out, because he was not in his room. He continued with his day. He still hadn't heard from Yusufu by the evening and started to worry. He went to have a shower and it was then that the policemen came."I thought maybe Yusufu had been using his brother's Oyster card," Yusef said. "This was what was in my mind. I came down in a towel and they asked if I was strong - the news was not good. They said Yusufu was dead. I said, 'What! What!' They said, calm down, have a drink of water, and I sat right there." When I first spoke to the dead boy's family, it was only a few weeks after his death and he was not yet buried.Yusufu had gone to the flat of his girlfriend, Rochelle Sinclair, in Walthamstow, planning to help her fill out an application form for college. There had been talk of a clash between Yusufu and some Jamaican youths, one of whom had made an abusive call to him. Even before the investigation began, there was a suspicion that the dispute centred on Rochelle.Yusufu left his girlfriend's flat around 8.15pm to get some food. A CCTV camera at the bottom of the stairwell caught him returning to the flats. On the way up the stairs, he was jumped by someone wearing a white Scream mask, and was stabbed several times in the head and chest. Yusufu dropped his takeaway and mobile phone. The attacker is believed to have run in the direction of Wood Street station and was described as being "black, late teens or early 20s, 6ft 2in tall, of slim build".Yusufu managed to stagger up to his girlfriend's flat and lay down on the couch. She could see he was in a bad way and at 8.38pm called an ambulance. Before it could get him to hospital, he died.The boy running towards the station, pulling off a white mask, was a 17-year-old called Khyrie Hylton. He was also having a relationship with Rochelle and he later said he had attacked Yusufu because he "was frightened of losing her". As his trial ended, Judge Timothy Pontius remarked that the murder was a direct result of jealousy. Khyrie, it turned out, had been the person who had left the abusive message on Yusufu's phone.Khyrie Hylton is to be detained at Her Majesty's Pleasure, with a recommendation that he serve a minimum of 16 years. By that time, he will be 33. "Maybe this boy will turn into a good man," Yusef said. The killer is the brother of X-Factor finalist Rachel Hylton, a former crack addict who had convictions for assault and burglary. She became famous across Britain last year for her bolshie, big-voiced renditions of soul classics. She said she entered the show in the hope that it would turn her life around.9pm: The lights of LiverpoolThe Blundell family has connections with Crosby, on the outskirts of Liverpool, that go back hundreds of years. You can still see the illustrious connection in the naming of things - Blundellsands was built in 1865 by Nicholas Blundell as "a residential place for the better classes", giving its name to schools and roads; and even today you don't travel far in Lancashire before running into a Blundell Arms. An earlier Nicholas Blundell had kept a famous diary describing the habits and customs of the people of Crosby, and the family has seemingly always been the grandest in the area, living behind a high wall at Little Crosby with heraldic lions at the main entrance.On the day I arrived, John Blundell, a distant cousin, was sitting in his council flat two stairs up in Scape Lane. "We've been here since 1954," his wife Milly said. "It was around the time of the Queen and all that. We had a lovely time in Liverpool then." She was wearing a pink cardigan, the soft, English pink that immediately brings to mind the 50s. They sat on opposite sides of a two-bar fire, several ashtrays between them, while their two granddaughters, Jennifer and Rebecca, tried to keep them to the facts. John is a member of the Royal Navy Association - there's maritime evidence around the room and in the tie around his neck. He would much sooner be talking about his navy days than talking about his poor daughter Joanne, the girls' mother, who lost her life on the night of 10 July.John and Milly were asleep in bed when the phone rang at 10 past 12. Milly answered - Jennifer was screaming, "It's my mother, my mother, I want my mum" and then she hung up."I was at my dad's and had just been told my mother was dead," Jennifer told me. "I thought my grandparents knew, but when I phoned I could tell they didn't know." John then phoned Joanne's house and a female detective answered."They came round here, eventually," John said, "and they just said that Joanne had been murdered by Anthony."Joanne's husband, Anthony, was arrested at the scene and charged next morning. He appeared in court on the Saturday."Me and Rebecca went," Jennifer said. "I said I'd go because I'd rather regret going than regret not. And it was just surreal to see him in court. He looked shocked. He sent a letter [while on remand at Walton Prison] to my granny and grandad, and it didn't explain anything.""It was all him, wasn't it?" Milly said."Like, 'Woe is me'," Jennifer said."He had a better family with us than he had growing up. That's what he said.""And he wrote that he'd lost his best friend and his partner. I was, like, you didn't lose her," Jennifer said. "It's not like this was an accident."Joanne Blundell was born in St Catherine's Street Women's Hospital in Liverpool in 1963. "She was a gem as a kid," Milly said, "the kind of kid who was always looking after somebody else.""All the waifs and strays," her father said.John rhymed off all the schools his daughter went to up until Southport College, where Joanne did hairdressing. "I never understood why she went into hairdressing," Milly said.Joanne married the girls' father when she was 21. She gave up work when she had the girls. "That's right," John said. "She used to push the pram up here every other day.""I remember that," Jennifer said.The relationship between Joanne and the girls' father ended after about 15 years. By that time, she'd met a friend of her husband's, a guy called Anthony, who worked with him in the fire brigade. Things developed between them. "He was never off the phone," Milly said. "He was always in the background then.""He seemed quite nice, if that's the way to describe it," Jennifer said. "Though he was quite controlling.""Yeah, if you'd cleaned the bathroom and hadn't put the towels the right way round, he'd lose it," Rebecca said. "Definitely obsessive over things like that.""He didn't want the girls there," John said. "They were in his way."The girls moved out to go to university and to begin their own lives. When they came back for visits, they got the strong feeling that Anthony was occasionally violent towards their mother, but Joanne seemed keen to brush it aside. She had done a counselling course and was working, first in Southport and then in Bootle, with street drinkers. She ended up the leader of the support team for a charity focusing on family problems.On 9 July, Joanne and Anthony were due to go to a concert by the band Crowded House - Joanne had bought the tickets the month before for Tony's birthday. They met at a pub called Baltic Fleet. Tony came straight from work. He was driving but had parked quite far from the pub and got soaked - it was raining heavily that night. The argument between them can be pieced together from text messages and conversations Joanne had with her friends. "Basically," Jennifer said, "Tony got arsey because he was wet and in a bad mood."He ended up going home and Joanne called her friend Anne. They went to the Echo Arena together. When the concert was over, at 10.30pm or so, Joanne went home. It appears Tony was in a rage and threw one of the cats down the stairs. During the night Joanne twice called the police; the first time they took Tony away and dropped him at a hotel - he made his way back to the house. Joanne went for a walk on the nearby beach. Tony followed her and she called the police again.After work that day, 10 July, knowing Tony was working nights, Joanne returned to their home in Morningside. But Tony wasn't at work - he was home, and had been drinking pretty much steadily since the argument at the pub the night before. Through the afternoon - while Melvin Bryan had been stabbed in Edmonton and Adnan Patel had been knifed in the street in Leyton, and when Yusufu Miiro was making his way to his girlfriend's flat in Walthamstow - Anthony de Asha was working himself up into a murderous rage. At 9pm, a neighbour called the police to report that she had heard screaming coming from the de Asha home. It appears that Anthony chased his wife from room to room and stabbed her 17 times. He then cut her throat in the conservatory. When the police arrived, he sat smoking a cigarette. "I've killed her," he said. "She's out the back."Several months after I spoke to the girls and the Blundells in their Crosby sitting room, Anthony de Asha was given life imprisonment. He lasted only two months in Walton Prison before taking his own life on 24 February 2009.11pm: The end of the day in the West MidlandsFriendship is a very common basis for a sudden killing, more so than enmity. Friends spend more time together than enemies; a former closeness can turn quickly into a fatal proximity. Just before 11pm on 10 July, a 21-year-old West Bromwich man called Christopher Szymanski left his house on the Charlemont Farm Estate to go to a local shop. Accompanying him was his friend Warren Perry. On their way up the hill to the Spar shop, an old schoolfriend of Perry's, Thomas Coombs Duffield, or Duffy, shouted at Christopher: "Chris, I hear you want to bang me out?""No," Christopher replied. "I hear you want to fight me." The two men had been close friends until four days earlier, when their respective girlfriends fell out.Duffy closed in and threw a punch; Christopher responded with a blow to his jaw. The scrap continued, Warren all the while shouting for them to stop, as they pulled, kneed and punched each other. Warren didn't see a knife, yet when the two separated, it was clear that Duffy was losing blood from a wound in his stomach.A passing van driver phoned for an ambulance and Duffy was taken to nearby Sandwell hospital. It emerged that, somehow, during the fight, he had been repeatedly stabbed in the chest and stomach, which caused internal bleeding and a punctured lung. He also had multiple lacerations to the hands and face. He died in the hospital and Christopher Szymanski, who had a wound on his hand, was later arrested for his murder.It was a vivid scene inside Wolverhampton's court number four for the trial of a man journalists were calling the Best Pal Killer. Seven members of the Szymanski family vied for space in the public gallery with 10 members of Thomas Coombs Duffield's family. You could almost breathe the hostility. The accused, Christopher Szymanski, in a smart pinstripe suit, with a string of rosary beads wrapped around his hand, claimed he'd acted in self-defence. The court accepted that the murder weapon, a flick knife, later found beside garages nearby, had belonged to Duffy and was introduced by him during the fight. The judge commented on how quickly Christopher must have disarmed him. There were grounds for self-defence, but what he did, argued the judge, went well beyond reasonable force. Seemingly he had lost control once he got hold of the weapon, stabbing his former friend to death. Christopher accepted this, and agreed to plead guilty to manslaughter. He was sentenced to five and a half years in prison.Duffy's girlfriend was pregnant at the time of his death and gave birth to a son in November. She will always remember 10 July, the shock, the apparently unending nightmare that began on what could have been such an ordinary British day • Andrew O'Hagan's book of selected essays, The Atlantic Ocean, is published by Faber & Faber. The stage adaptation of his novel Be Near Me is touring Britain until the end of May.