Corrine Burton, 18"I've never known anyone with an Asbo and I've never heard anyone bragging about it but I can see it happening. It's about peer pressure and hierarchy. If you go to prison and come back out, people are going to rate you for that. The same with Asbos - how many areas can you get banned from?Asbos are more for elderly people to get young people away from them and not step in their territory. They are more about that than addressing problems with young people. All an Asbo does is tell people not to go here or there. I can't see it being a deterrent. It isn't going to stop someone from committing a crime. My solution for everything is talking. Locking someone up or banning them from somewhere isn't going to help the situation. Communication is the key to everything. Lack of communication causes problems. Young people want to get heard. Most antisocial behaviour is crying out for attention.If someone is locked up in a young offenders' institute, you might as well use the time wisely and help them. It is a good opportunity to give them a chance to talk about things. Bad behaviour could be about boredom or the lack of something to do. Young people want the same things that they have been asking for for years - youth clubs and people to talk to, to relate to, because not many teenagers can talk to their parents."Shola Aleje, 21"The media have a stereotypical view that Asbos are used on young hoodrats who run around the streets, but I heard about a man blasting out U2 who got an Asbo. Anyone can get them. But I can definitely see how an Asbo can be street credible. It's a sense of ownership - now they have something to prove that they are big.An Asbo is a last resort. Usually young people will be cautioned or given a talking to by police. I was cautioned once for not having a proper train ticket and I didn't sleep for days. I was really haunted by that. I thought, 'I've got a caution, I won't be able to get a job.' I think the whole Asbo thing should be reviewed. Rather than getting an Asbo, tougher community service would be better, or even spend three days in jail - that might work.Sometimes the reason for antisocial behaviour doesn't just lie with the kids - they have family life and peer pressure. Their parents might be young and not know how to handle a teenager. Enforcing fines on parents if their children misbehave might work better, like parents can be sent to jail if their children play truant. Maybe there could even be a government-funded course to help parents look after their teenagers."Tony Mitsinga, 20"I used to think it was cool to be bad. It's all about reputation. The badder you are, the more reputation you get. The more reputation you get, the less likely anyone will mess around with you as you walk down the street. I only started being antisocial when I was 16. Now I'm seeing kids as young as 13 being antisocial.I did petty stuff like stealing from shops and joining groups where our friends would steal a Vespa and I would take a ride on it, but we didn't attack anyone or slap people for no reason. We were having a laugh in this building one day and I was arrested for having a screwdriver on me. I ended up going to court for it and it went on for ages. I got off with a slap on the wrist but I stopped hanging out with the other guys and moved on to college. But Asbos are like bullying. It's picking a target."Salma Greenidge-Forsyth, 18"Asbos don't do anything and don't stop anyone. They are just a little warning. It's like if you buy weed, the police just take your address and that's it. The government had to do something at the time and thought Asbos would be a good idea. They probably worked on paper but it's different in reality.If you take an area like an estate, there's a couple of swings and that's it. There could be more youth clubs. They are building a lot of houses but it would be good if they built something that benefited people. There needs to be something to keep the kids entertained.A bunch of people may go out and do one bad thing, like smash up someone's car, but it doesn't mean they are antisocial. Some people enjoy causing havoc but there could be a reason for that - they could be bored, they might not be able to go into school. If you've been expelled, what are you supposed to do? You're just sitting at home, being bored. My friend has ADHD [attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder] and she's just constantly getting sent out of school. She finally got diagnosed in Year 11, which is the end of school. They just thought she was a bit rowdy and uncontrollable but she had a problem. The authorities don't know how to deal with ADHD kids."Monique Wallace, 20"If you tell someone not to do something they are just going to do it more. There are a lot of kids growing up in this area who are really bad, but other things could be done apart from giving them an Asbo. Why are these children out on the streets doing this stuff in the first place? Is there somewhere else they could be or is there something else they could do?When Asbos first came out there was a big moral panic about it but now it's just a common thing. The other day it was hoodies and then there was happy slapping. There is a lot about Asbos on TV and in the newspapers but young people don't really read those things so many don't know what an Asbo is. You don't see someone from the suburbs with an Asbo, it's always someone in the city or from an estate.You've now got the 'lottery lout' [Michael Carroll] hosting a TV show about Asbos. The media are holding him up as a celebrity - people will think they can get an Asbo and get on TV. It's glamourising the whole situation."Jody McIntyre, 16"It is ridiculous to say an Asbo is a badge of honour. I don't know anyone who thinks that but perhaps in certain areas and certain communities they do. I read that an MP said although a teenager might think that, the novelty would wear off if you actually had one. If teenagers think it is cool they might change their mind when they realise they can't go out.Asbos could be a good thing but there are a lot of instances where they have been used the wrong way. Two children were threatened with Asbos because they were playing football outside their house. It seems to be like that with every law - there are always a number of instances where it's not going to work."It should be down to parents to discipline their children. There are a lot of instances where parents aren't doing a very good job and things can get out of hand. The government should provide more help and education for parents. The number one excuse for teenagers behaving badly is that they are bored and don't have anything to do. The government could spend money on providing facilities or fun things to do for teenagers. People often say about the importance of education but teenagers acting antisocially know what they are doing is wrong."