The director of the Serious Fraud Office wants a form of plea bargaining introduced into the British legal system.Robert Wardle told the Guardian in an interview that the SFO is drowning in paper, that anyone swindling less than £1m will probably get away with it, and even those cheating a larger amount have the odds stacked in their favour. The jury system is not working, and overseas investors' confidence in the UK may be shaken, he added. Mr Wardle wants to see fraud suspects offered a low penalty in return for their cooperation, as happens in the US. "We don't want to adopt all [US] practices. But when we work with the US authorities on joint cases, there's much less pressure on their side to produce formal evidence - instead we see a 'rush for the prosecutor' by people seeking immunities." He said the proposal would be opposed by lawyers. "Just look at what happens in America, they will say. But we don't want people to plead if they're not guilty," he said. "We're not talking about vulnerable defendants. These are people with intelligence, experience, and the advice of first-rate professionals." Under the SFO's preferred scheme investigators would not have to begin by assembling and presenting thousands of pages of formal documents and witness statements, often obtained from overseas banks by laborious diplomatic routes. Rather, they could confront suspects as soon as incriminating evidence was found, and offer them a bargain: a judge would offer a fixed low sentence if they agreed to plead guilty. "There are cases where if people were certain of what was going to happen, they would be prepared to plead guilty. But they want to be certain of the sentence," he said. A deal might involve giving back the money, paying compensation and disqualification as a company director. The SFO is criticised for the time cases take to get to court, and the number of wealthy fraudsters and bribers who walk free at the end of the process, often years later. "The problem is the photocopying machine," Mr Wardle said. "In the old days you were just dealing with a couple of ledgers." There are also vast amounts of seized computer information to process and the exploitation of myriad offshore banks and shell companies. "The money trail often has to be followed stage by stage. You can't go on to the next stage until you get, say, bank information back from abroad," he said. "The time gets longer and longer, and you end up with a huge mountain of paper." An average case can have 5,000 separate items of evidence: a big one double that. The SFO also wants to get rid of juries: an even more contentious idea, but Mr Wardle sees no alternative. "The traditional way of trial in front of a jury is virtually impossible. It's too much to expect a jury to deal with ... The time has come to look at the process and make it more effective and even up the odds." He said juries could grasp the issues quite well, but believed they were victims of clumsy attempts to make their job more digestible. "Judges will reduce the number of counts, sever trials [into different parts], and restrict the evidence called. The jury is not seeing the whole picture. It's in the interests of justice that they should," he said. The 2003 Criminal Justice Act provided for jury-less fraud trials, but it is is so controversial it has been agreed not to bring it into force until further debate. As things stand, Mr Wardle admitted, some major possible frauds simply did not get investigated. "Sometimes we say, 'There's no point in taking this case on because we couldn't prosecute in front of a jury.' This happened in a recent suspected £50m fraud involving Czech banks and Russian traders," he said. "We thought: 'It's simply an impossibility.' "This is bad for confidence in the UK as a safe place to put your money." Without major reforms the SFO officials feel they are swimming against the tide. "The chances of it even being investigated are not great, especially if you're overseas. It's not a police priority." Even for cases above the £1m threshold, when the SFO comes in, he is scarcely more optimistic.