From the picturesque Hampshire village of Eversley, seven extremists plotted one of the most successful campaigns in the history of the Animal Liberation Front.It spread from meetings around the log fire in an English country cottage to Surrey, Kent, Sussex, and on to Sweden, Germany, Holland, France, Belgium and the US, stoked by the belief that the work carried out by Huntingdon Life Sciences, the animal research laboratory, had to be stopped at all costs.Over six years the seven extremists — veterans with criminal records as well as fledgling activists — organised a blackmail campaign that targeted thousands of companies withlinks, however small, to HLS. The campaign was funded by donations from the public to stalls in London's Oxford Street and elsewhere, many of which made up to £500 a day.Greg Avery, 41, his former wife Heather Nicholson, 42, and his current wife, Natasha Avery, were leading figures with a history of ALF activity. They brought younger activists on board: 21-year-old Daniel Wadham, who was being groomed to take over from Avery as the campaign's leader, Kim Gerrah Selby, 20, and her former boyfriend Daniel Amos, 20. They used the computer skills of a veteran activist, Gavin Medd-Hall, 45, to plot how they would escape detection.As far as Avery and his team were concerned, anyone was a legitimate target, from individuals who drove delivery vans to the site to scientists at leading drug companies. No one was immune to the threats of violence, slanderous allegations and terrorising attacks that were the trademark of the extremists within Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (Shac)."What was terrifying for victims was the sustained nature of the campaign against them. It went on for years, " said Detective Chief Inspector Andy Robbins, of Kent police, which led the investigation.William Denison, the managing director of F2 chemicals, received a hoax bomb and letters alleging he was a paedophile were sent to 200 neighbours. Fourteen slogans, including "bill the murderer", were painted on a 500-yard stretch of road near his house. It was, Denison said, "living hell".And it proved highly successful. Over the six years HLS had to turn to the government for help when no bank or insurance company would provide services. In 2006 the company was forced, through the targeting of traders and market makers on the London Stock Exchange, to move its listing to New York, and as a result of the blackmail campaign scores of firms severed all links.On the surface, the campaign that was formed in 1999 by Avery claimed everything it was doing was legal. Avery in particular often protested that Shac was only engaged in legal protest against a company that used animals to test drugs for pharmaceutical companies.The government responded to drug company threats to take their business abroad unless something was done by introducing new laws in an attempt to stop the activists. HLS, in turn, went to the courts for protection, successfully taking out a string of injunctions against named individuals to stop them demonstrating outside their property. It was then, around 2001, when the extremists adopted a different, more sinister tactic.From Little Moorcote, a country cottage rented from its unsuspecting owner, the seven activists worked in secret to draw up a list of thousands of companies using Wisdom, a search engine that provides information on linked companies, to help create their hitlist.The seven had all had been brought up on the ALF doctrine uncovered by the FBI during one of its investigations into animal extremism: "Never discuss illegal activity indoors, over the phone, or email... Keep the discussion of illegal activity on a need to know basis only." From within the cottage they did their best to adhere to the ALF rules, but unknown to them every conversation they had was being listened to.After years of inaction, 12 police forces started an unprecedented joint investigation into criminal activity against HLS by animal extremists. Until then there had been little or no liaison, and the numbers of attacks in Kent, Surrey, Sussex, Cambridgeshire and Thames Valley had soared with 346 animal extremist crimes in 2004 in south-east England alone. Senior police officers involved in the undercover operation deny their investigation was promted by pressure from the then prime minister, Tony Blair, but it is known Blair was demanding action.The £3.5m investigation was led by organised crime detectives and the tactics they adopted were similar. "This to us was a criminal network of people and we looked at it as an organised crime group," said Robbins. Using covert audio and video surveillance they targeted Little Moorcote, where Avery and his team organised their "direct actions".The operation, which lasted two years, was helped by close liaison with the FBI, who in 2006 had successfully convicted six US-based members of Shac of waging a campaign of terror against HLS.The officers interviewed hundreds of victims, many of whom had moved house several times or been forced to put up sophisticated security cameras, alarms and panic buttons in their homes.Crucial to their inquiry was the covert surveillance, particularly focusing on Easter Sunday last year when the activists met for a three-month review of their work. Officers deciphered encrypted emails in which the main players incriminated themselves and deciphered spreadsheets found on their computers that outlined the companies being targeted, the actions and the results.One which was sent to BiteBack, the ALF website, read: "Last night a team of ALF volunteers offered their free vehicle servicing to a farm situated in a small Dorset village. A large and fairly new animal transporter used for taking animals to their deaths was given a complete makeover. All tyres slashed, sand poured into the gas tank, locks glued, windscreen wipers glued to windscreen, door mirrors covered in black spray paint, windscreen covered in the word 'scum' and the rest of the lorry left with messages such as 'killers', 'ALF watching you'".The audio surveillance for 8 April last year began at 6.30am when Nicholson arrived for a day-long meeting. The conversations and emails intercepted described three months of the group's work, involving 17 direct actions against companies, and expressed the group's desire to target every company listed on the New York Stock Exchange.In the afternoon on the warm Easter Sunday, Avery lit a bonfire, ostensibly so the group could enjoy a barbecue. But the blaze was used to destroy incriminating evidence, including spreadsheets and the briefing note that had been discussed during the day. Police found the evidence in the embers of the fire when three weeks later they arrested the activists.Officers also found maps in the cottage pinpointing targets in Switzerland and, on a fragments of a computer spreadsheet, details of targets and actions taken against them, including hoax bombs, late-night vandalism and letters accusing the individuals of being paedophiles.Robbins said yesterday the only difference between the animal extremists and the crime barons he usually investigates was the motive. "Most organised crime groups are driven by financial imperative and have a commodity some where along the line," he said. "Most people would find this hard to believe, but with these people there was no financial imperative. It was all about the cause."