The actions of four calculating murderers on the morning of 7th July 2005 brought misery and mayhem for countless ordinary innocent Londoners and their families. However, in spite of their crimes, they can almost singlehandedly take credit for bringing British communities closer to each other. Since this date, enormous changes have touched the lives of the British public, and in particular those of the two million or so Muslims for whom this country is home.A new political era has dawned upon Britain, bringing with it a series of fundamental changes affecting almost everyone on these isles. The anniversary of 7/7 seems to be an appropriate time to pause and take stock of the past five years, especially in relation to community relations and to review its prospects in the years to come.One common intention between the 7/7 bombers, groups such as Islam4UK and arguably the EDL, was to sow the seeds of discord and instil fear as a wedge between Muslim and non-Muslim communities. However what is overwhelmingly evident is that by and large, they failed to do so. Insulting stunts such as those organised against the repatriation of soldiers from Afghanistan or depicting the wishful future of Buckingham Palace as a mega mosque have not only been laughed off collectively by the British public, but for the first time in British history, Islamic extremism has been successfully challenged by moderate elements from within the Muslim communities, resulting in extremists losing face in public. This not only goes to show the diversity and resilience of British communities but also highlights the fact that community cohesion in Britain is much deeper and more integral to the fabric of our society than was previously apparent. Instead there has been a genuine quest across the board to understand the reasons behind these atrocious acts.The 7 July atrocities have also had the unintended consequence of turning up the volume on the more moderate and liberal voices in the Muslim community. Prior to the attacks, the airspace was largely dominated by more hard-line extremist voices, which have since been exposed as totally unrepresentative of the wider Muslim population. Digging deeper, it appears that in reality the concerns of most British Muslims are the same as non-Muslims: job security, raising families, paying mortgages and bills. Religion remains a private matter for many of us for whom loyalty towards crown and country remain paramount.However, we should also remain vigilant. The threat to our communities is still very real. Unfortunately examples still exist of people who are vulnerable and at risk of being seduced by the call of extremists, be that in the form of Islamic extremism or far-right groups. Muslim and non Muslim communities cannot afford to rest on their laurels. We must continue to work hard together to identify and support those vulnerable people as well as rooting out those extremist elements in our midst, in whatever form they may take.Unsurprisingly, comparisons between the proscription of Islam4UK and the banning of similar extremists such as Zakir Naik or the acquittal of Nick Griffin in a hate-speech trial and allowing Geert Wilders into the country to spread his prejudices can be confusing to some audiences, who feel double standards are being applied. Equally, the preaching of hatred and advocacy of self seclusion for Muslims continues to go unhindered by some foreign and local religious leaders. Groups trained according to twisted interpretations of Islamic teachings are as important to address as the activities of far right groups, who are busy exploiting manifestations of economic disparities to sow hatred and discord. Both remain key challenges that will need to be addressed in a more decisive way by community leaders and decisions makers. The most effective and sustainable way to do so is to ensure there is an open and frank debate about the successes and shortcoming of this country's counter-terrorism strategy.Heads must come out of the sand to celebrate and take stock of the last five years in order to prepare for the next fifty. If we do so, this country's tradition of tolerance, respect and vigilance will continue to flourish.