When 19-year-old Jordan arrived at Glen Parva young offender institution (YOI) in Wigston, near Leicester, he had been injecting and smoking heroin on a daily basis. He stole, he says, to feed his habit and, by his own admission, was "in a state". He says: "For two years I hadn't even been able to sleep once without taking drugs."Jordan is typical of prisoners at the YOI. Around 80% have some kind of drug-related history, and around 60% have been taking class A drugs. On arrival, offenders with an addiction problem undertake an immediate detoxification process. Once the most severe side-effects of withdrawal are stabilised, and individually targeted pharmaceutical intervention is complete, the cravings, the anxiety and the insomnia are helped by auricular acupuncture.Some 89 out of the 120 prisons and YOIs in England and Wales now offer this type of acupuncture - which involves inserting needles into five points in each ear - for substance misuse. More are expected to do so."Even after you have been through detox, you still suffer from side-effects," Jordan says. "Sometimes you can't sleep for many weeks at a time. There's a panicky feeling in your chest, as though something's missing, because when you are on heroin it becomes a part of you. You take it all the time."But the acupuncture relaxes you so you don't think about heroin so much, and you feel as though something has come back to fill the hole. I can now get 12 hours of sleep a night, easily."Julie Cawthra, acupuncturist and detox nurse, says most prisoners are far from cynical about alternative medicine, so much so that there is a waiting list. " The ultimate result is to rebalance the body's natural energy resources and vital organs, producing an immediate and lasting calming effect," she explains.According to Cawthra, auricular acupuncture is particularly effective for alcohol and crack cocaine withdrawal, where moods can drop quite severely. There is as yet no pharmaceutical alternative for crack cocaine, so acupuncture may be used earlier than it is for withdrawal from, say, heroin. "It helps to equalise the chemicals dopamine and serotonin that crack cocaine releases into the brain. It balances emotions and focuses their thought processes so they can deal with one problem at a time," she says.Mental health problems such as depression and self-harm can come to the fore once a drug is no longer being used as a form of self-medication, but auricular acupuncture can help prisoners maintain a sense of equilibrium to address some of the deeper issues underlying their addiction, Cawthra adds.Auricular acupuncture for substance misuse has been available within the prison service and the NHS for more than 10 years. In 1999, the government issued national guidance stating that certain complementary therapies - including yoga, meditation, and chiropractice - could be used, as long as they were in the interests of the prisoners' health and they could be paid for from the healthcare budget without affecting the ability to fund conventional treatments. Since April, primary care trusts have assumed responsibility for commissioning health services in the majority of prisons.Ian Stewart, Glen Parva's drug support manager, introduced acupuncture five years ago. He insists that its use is purely clinically driven and only available as part of a drug detox process. "The prisoners say it helps with withdrawal and we notice positive changes in their behaviour that last between each acupuncture session," he says. "We wouldn't spend money on it if it didn't work."Auricular acupuncture is part of Glen Parva's wider approach to drug-related offending that focuses on counselling, assessment, referral, advice and throughcare. Brian Edwards, governor of Glen Parva, says: "We have a clear strategy to get prisoners detoxed safely and engaged in programmes that increase the prospect of a life clean from drugs upon release."Jordan, due for release in January, says: "I have no intention of going back on heroin when I leave here. I have a list of things I'm going to do to try to stay off it on the outside, and acupuncture is one of them."· Smart UK (Substance Misuse Acupuncture Register and Training) offers auricular acupuncture training for substance misuse to healthcare professionals working in prisons, hospitals, community drug and alcohol advice teams. Details at www.smart-uk.com