Ian Huntley "mercilessly" killed Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman when the sexual contact he initiated went wrong, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.The allegation by Richard Latham QC in his closing speech for the prosecution was the first time the crown has spelt out what it believes happened in his home in Soham, Cambridgeshire, on August 4 last year. Mr Huntley, 29, who denies murdering the 10-year-olds, claims that Holly died accidentally in his bath and that he killed Jessica inadvertently as he tried to silence her screams. He has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. "We suggest the whole business in the house was motivated by something sexual, but that whatever he initiated with one or the other or both girls plainly went wrong," Mr Latham told the jury. "Thereafter in this ruthless man's mind, both girls simply had to die. They had to die in his own selfish self-interest. Each was a witness, a potential complaint. And he was quite merciless." He also alleged that Mr Huntley's ex-fiancee Maxine Carr had made a "cold, rational decision" to lie for him to protect her own future. Ms Carr, 26, the girls' former classroom assistant, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two counts of assisting an offender. She claims that she had no idea that Mr Huntley was involved in the girls' disappearance when she gave him a false alibi. The trial, adjourned for two days because of a juror's illness, resumed yesterday for closing speeches from Mr Latham and Stephen Coward QC, for Mr Huntley. "We suggest you are dealing with two equally accomplished liars," Mr Latham said, warning jurors to "[be] careful before believing anything either of them tell you in their own self-interest". He told the jury it might not be able to resolve every issue in the case, but added: "If you conclude [Mr Huntley] has lied to you in his description of what happened in that house, you may safely conclude he murdered both those girls." He said Mr Huntley had "nerves of steel" and his behaviour after the girls died showed his "manipulative and careful and thinking mind". It was followed by "12 days of cynical deception". He added: "He was playing the part, the role of the helpful caretaker, while at the same time arranging an alibi, clean ing up at home, cleaning up the [car]." He said Mr Huntley had initially denied any part in the girls' disappearance, and argued that he had changed his story because scientific evidence showed they were in his house. He reminded the jurors that they had seen Mr Huntley lose his temper under cross-examination, becoming "a very different person". "For some reason, we suggest, that's what happened in that house, and we suggest it was murder - indeed, double murder." Mr Latham then turned to Ms Carr, saying that she was articulate and intelligent, and must have worked out what had happened from Mr Huntley's comments and her own observations. "We do not have to prove she either knew or believed the precise circumstances of how the girls died. We have to prove that she knew or believed that the girls had died and that he had unlawfully killed them." "It was awful to contemplate. She may have refused to confront what she had worked out and, no doubt, would desperately have liked it never to have happened, but that doesn't stop her of... knowing or believing that it has." Mr Latham, who told the jury they should consider the lesser conspiracy charge only if they found Ms Carr not guilty of assisting an offender, said: "This was not some spur of the moment thing... She had days to think about [lying]." He continued: "Nothing could bring [the girls] back by the time she was in Soham and lying through her teeth. "She had the prospects of a marriage, of a baby, a nice home, a new start, and indeed the prospect of new employment as a childminder. Unpleasant as it is, we suggest that was her motive... She preferred to make the best of the position she was in." The case continues today with closing speeches from Maxine Carr's lawyer, Michael Hubbard QC. The judge, Mr Justice Moses, told the jury he would begin summing up today and send them out tomorrow.