Four members of a gang of card-skimmers who could have netted up to £200,000 were jailed yesterday.They were arrested at the Cathedral hotel in Cardiff, south Wales, when staff suspected them of being drug dealers. When police raided their room, they found a complete fake cash machine fascia hidden beneath a towel. The four, living in London, admitted conspiring to steal during last January and February.Lucian Carabgeac, 32, and Vornicu Florin, 26, both from Romania, are illegal immigrants; Rulan Aslan, 20, is a Chechen asylum seeker, and Ivan Grosu, 23, is also an asylum seeker, from Moldova.The prosecutor Nuhu Gobir told Cardiff crown court that computers, cameras, tape recorders, and radio transmitters had also been seized in the raid showing it had been an organised and sophisticated operation to defraud banks."The fascia was found to contain an electronic card reader and memory recording for retaining the details of bank cards," he said.The fascia looked sufficiently realistic to deceive the unwary, but inside had a minute video camera facing the keypad to record cardholders typing in pin numbers; the video was connected to a memory stick for later retrieval.Pin and card details were transmitted, via radio, to a person nearby to download on to a laptop and be copied on to a blank card with a magnetic strip; the cloned card could be used in any cash machine to fraudulently debit the real account holder.At an earlier hearing, Mr Gobir's colleague, Steve Donoghue, said the conspiracy could have netted as much as £200,000: "The prosecution cannot say what role each of them played in the conspiracy, but we say they were all in it together. There is also evidence of other people being involved - because a car was seen speeding away from the hotel."Judge Christopher Llewellyn-Jones told the four: "Your actions are such that every cardholder has become fearful of using cashpoints ... You had the bank details to access 129 accounts with the potential gain of up to £200,000. This offence is so serious, I must give a deterrent sentence." Each was jailed for four years with a recommendation to deport upon release.Detectives said they were still liaising with clearing banks on how much the gang stole. Detective Constable Paul Giess said it was suspected they were part of a wider network operating throughout the country."These men are only the tip of the iceberg," he said. "Cashpoint theft is a big problem across Britain, with the banks losing £100m a year. Two years ago, £500,000 was stolen from cashpoints in the Cardiff area on the weekend of the Carling Cup final."A receptionist at the hotel said: "Usually when people stay for the weekend, they unpack, change and go out for the night."These four men were coming in and then going straight back out - they were polite but it seemed odd. On the day they were arrested, a couple of them were popping in and out of the hotel and acting very suspiciously."According to the Association of Payment Clearing Services, cloning cost £61m last year, 85% up on the previous year, and this year it is expected to exceed £100m.In one case in Whitley Bay, Tyneside, a Nationwide machine was cloned and other machines in the area were deliberately jammed to lead cardholders to the clone.