Anger and fear both give rise to terrible acts, but are treated differently when the act in question is murder. The plea of provocation reduces the charge to manslaughter for many killings done in rage. Said to have evolved to reflect the supposed need of wounded male egos to restore their honour through duelling, the defence can still be deployed in ways reflecting outmoded notions of thwarted pride. In particular, men discovering - even suspecting - unfaithfulness on the part of their partners have used it to get themselves off a murder charge. Fear, by contrast, is hardly relevant except when it comes to immediate self-defence. Battered wives ambushing their tormentors - after years of abuse, and in anticipation of more - can end up convicted of murder.Plans published today will overhaul the law to correct this imbalance. Developments in the courts, such as the recognition of battered person syndrome, have already brought improvement, but changing the law will bring more. The provocation defence will be scrapped and replaced by an allowance for mitigation where words or deeds had seriously wronged the killer. That deals with cases where a victim had shown exceptional spite, but infidelity alone will not meet the test. At the same time, a new defence provides for homicides carried out under the threat of serious violence to be downgraded from murder to manslaughter. Justice minister Maria Eagle has pinned down the details, so the reform should be ready for the next parliamentary session. Labour's deputy leader, Harriet Harman, has long campaigned for such changes and is justifiably proud to announce them during her holiday spell at the helm. Disappointingly, though, other changes to the murder law also signalled today are tame. The rules for apportioning blame in homicides where the killer does not act alone will be simplified. Some suspects will face lesser charges, but overall more gang members and other associates of killers will face full murder convictions. That might be justified, but only if sentencing became more flexible. Instead, there is the prospect of even more life sentences being handed down at a time when the prisons are dangerously packed and probation - which really does last a lifelong for every life prisoner - is seriously overstretched.Today's reforms fall short as they retain the mandatory life sentence. Through a second-degree murder charge - or simply through extra judicial discretion - scrapping it could provide the flexibility needed to deal with the varied circumstances in which human beings kill one another. Even so, the reforms deserve support for achieving even-handedness between the two major motives, anger and fear.