Two police officers who killed a man after mistaking a table leg he was carrying for a sawn-off shotgun will not face criminal charges, the Crown Prosecution Service announced yesterday. The decision angered the family of the victim, Harry Stanley, who have long campaigned that the 46-year-old was shot unlawfully.Chief Inspector Neil Sharman and PC Kevin Fagan shot Mr Stanley, a painter and decorator, outside an east London pub in September 1999 after an anonymous 999 caller claimed to have spotted an Irishman wielding a sawn-off shotgun. Mr Stanley, a Scotsman, had left the pub carrying a plastic bag containing a wooden coffee table leg that his brother had repaired. The officers challenged him and, thinking he was carrying a weapon, shot him twice.Ch Insp Sharman and PC Fagan were, until yesterday, on bail and under investigation by Surrey police on suspicion of murder, gross negligence, manslaughter, perjury, attempting to pervert the course of justice and misconduct in a public office. The CPS's decision has cleared them of these charges and Surrey police will take no further action against them.Mr Stanley's widow, Irene, described the announcement as an "injustice". She said: "I am devastated by it, though I half expected it. I am going to keep fighting."The shooting sparked a six-year legal battle between Scotland Yard, which stood by the officers, and the Stanley family. His death was the focus of two inquests, judicial reviews and two inquiries.In June 2002, the first inquest jury was forbidden from considering findings of unlawful killing or gross negligence manslaughter and returned an open verdict. Last October, a second inquest returned an unlawful killing verdict and the two officers were suspended from duty.They were allowed back after colleagues in Scotland Yard's elite S019 firearms unit staged an unofficial strike. In May, the high court quashed the unlawful killing verdict.The Independent Police Complaints Commission still has to decide whether the two policemen should be disciplined. It will consider the evidence gathered by Surrey police during the investigation.