It is early afternoon in inner-city Liverpool and a solitary young woman in a short skirt, knee-length boots and bare legs touts for business. Her face is pinched from the cold and she occasionally throws a wary glance at passing cars which appear to be slowing down.The street prostitutes have, with the gentrification of the city's central area, gradually been moved out of the centre of Liverpool and on to its residential fringes. Hope Street, with its elegant Georgian terraces, in the shadow of the pink sandstone Anglican cathedral, was the heart of the red light district a decade ago. But now it has award-winning restaurants, cafes, and a boutique hotel. The pimps and prostitutes have moved on. Today, councillors will vote on whether to seek approval from the Home Office to create the UK's first official zone of tolerance for prostitution. An earlier zone, in Edinburgh, which has since closed, was technically illegal. Consultation has been carried out in five non-residential areas in Liverpool which have been identified as possible sites. But some businesses in Jamaica Street, one of the areas, are less than thrilled. Rachel Penny, of the Autowash hand car wash, said: "We don't want prostitutes down here. They should be in a brothel. I think people will be coming down at all times of day and night looking for prostitutes. "We didn't pay our taxes to set up tolerance zones for prostitutes. It will not be safe for women around here." Pauline Murphy, 45, lived for 10 years near the Anglican cathedral, where the street prostitutes used to work. She said: "I think it will cause more trouble if people know where prostitutes are working, and it won't be safe for them." Flo Clucas, a councillor who has been delegated by the local authority to take a lead on prostitution issues, said that people she had spoken to seemed likely to approve the proposal. She does not expect the home secretary, Charles Clarke, to make a decision in the run-up to the election. Regulars at the Inn on the Hill, near where the prostitute was working yesterday, tell horror stories about violent attacks. The prostitutes often use the pub's toilet facilities, to inject heroin or clean up. Two prostitutes who used to work in the area were found murdered, their bodies dumped in binbags. Last year, the then home secretary, David Blunkett, said he had not given approval to red light areas, but had offered local councils discretion to set up zones if they believe they can make them work. Research at John Moores University in Liverpool, based on more than 1,000 replies from residents, businesses and sex workers, showed that 83% were in favour of a managed zone; 91% said it should be away from residential areas; and more than 50% said it should be distant from both daytime and night-time businesses. Mark Bellis, professor of public health at the university, said the idea was based on overseas models, such as in Utrecht, where zones are set up in light industrial areas after the businesses have closed. "These areas are patrolled by police who make sure people obey the regulations and that the girls are protected from violent attacks," he said. While managed zones were not perfect, they were better than residential areas, where people found discarded needles and condoms and prostitutes were beaten up every night. This goes against the view of the English Collective of Prostitutes, which fears that zones will increase violence, but it reflects the policy of the International Union of Sex Workers. The collective says that most women refuse to work in the zones, the police wash their hands of the area, and attacks go up. One prostitute said: "I don't think it is a good idea because it gives police the right to decide who works in these zones. It should be our own choice. "Toleration zones are more dangerous. The most vulnerable girls working on the street are going to be in even more danger."