So the police have been found to be "deliberately and determinedly" deprioritising rape. Commit a car crime in London and you will probably be charged and convicted, because this helps achieve targets. Commit a sexual crime and you will very likely never be charged, let alone convicted.This has been illustrated in the past week by the John Worboys case, the taxi driver who was finally convicted last week of drugging and sexually assaulting women in the back of his cab. Several women complained to police, only to have their complaints dismissed, and police now estimate Worboys may have attacked more than 100 women. So far, since the publicity about his conviction began, 71 women have come forward to say he attacked them as well.The Sapphire teams were set up in London nine years ago to investigate cases of rape and sexual assault, and were intended to be the gold standard of rape investigation. This has not happened. I used the Sapphire unit in 2005 after I was attacked. At first, everything was done by the book. As I sat sobbing in the reception area of my halls of residence, white-suited forensics officers analysed and fingerprinted my room. The next day, I met a wonderful officer named Deborah, who took me to a Haven house for my video statement and to another house to be examined by a police doctor. My initial contact with the Sapphire unit, in the day after the attack, was very positive. It seemed like I was believed and that the case was underway. But after that, I heard nothing. Deborah was replaced by a male officer who had been transferred to Sapphire from the flying squad. He rang me once in the intervening 10 months, to tell me of the trial date. On the day of my case, I met my barrister for the first time. He treated it like just another case, and did not go through my statement with me to highlight areas where the defence might attack me. He wasn't specialist in the area and I think he didn't particularly care. My attacker, as I had known would happen from even before I rang the police, from even when the attack was happening, was found not guilty. My case highlighted for me what I already knew, and what the Worboys case has shown yet again – that we need a whole new strategy to rape. The police have improved in some way in their initial approach to rape, as my first contact with the Sapphire unit showed. But they have not improved enough. What is needed, in every police station and force in the country, is a selection of officers who can take statements when a woman or man complains of rape. These statements should then be forwarded to a specialist rape task force. Scotland Yard has recently announced that control of Sapphire units is being taken away from local boroughs and given to the Homicide and Serious Crime Command. While a slight step in the right direction, this is nowhere near enough. We need a specialist, country-wide rape task force, staffed by highly qualified women and men who are trained in rape myths, serial rapists and drug-induced rape. Any complaint of rape should be aggressively pursued, and each victim given a case officer who contacts them as often as needed with updates on their case. Specialist barristers can also be attached to the unit, who can stay in contact with the victim and prepare them for court. There are many other things that are needed to stop and punish rape. But, as both yesterday's report and the Worboys case shows, the first thing we need to do is to pour pounds into it, not cut funding back. We should set up a specialist task force, establish sexual assault referral centres in every city, start a national high priority campaign targeting both rapists and those who believe in rape myths, and investigate those officers who do not take rape complaints seriously. Is rape so trivial that we cannot fund specialist centres and campaigns to stop it? Sadly, it appears this may be so.