A summary of findings by the Independent Police Complaints Commission due today when it notes "individual and systemic" issues within the Metropolitan police during its inquiry into John Worboys, a black-cab driver who remained at large to drug, rape and sexually assault at least 85 victims despite numerous women reporting attacks over many years.The 21-year-old victim at the centre of the main complaint said last night she had been "lied to and laughed at" by officers when she gave them her account of a suspected assault by Worboys in July 2007. She said: "If something like this had happened in a private business, people would have been sacked."• Officers one and two Uniformed constables who visited "Anna" at her home after she reported the sexual assault in July 2007. Accused of behaving insensitively, not taking her seriously and suggesting her injuries were a result of falling over. They viewed CCTV showing her falling over while walking to her room after attack.Findings One officer has since retired and therefore not subject to inquiry.Complaint against second not proven • Officer three Constable who was trained to deal with sexual offences. Accused of giving her false information by advising that a file had been passed to the CPS and that no drugs had been found in her blood and urine.Findings Officer said she "incorrectly assumed" file passed to CPS, and was told in a verbal update there was no trace of drugs found. The IPCC found no evidence of a "deliberate attempt to mislead victim".Complaint not proven • Officer four Detective sergeant who arrested Worboys on 27 July 2007 and interviewed him. Accused of failing to carry out a proper investigation and failing to keep Anna up to date.Findings Officer failed to challenge Worboys' account. Had not read notes of Anna's interview before speaking to the driver. Decided search of Worboys' property was unnecessary, and missed crucial investigative opportunities.Complaint substantiated, officer to be given words of advice• Officer five Detective constable who was put in charge of the case. Accused of failing to carry out proper investigation.Findings Had formed a mindset that black-cab driver would not commit such an offence. Believed taxi driver rather than victim. Failed to collect CCTV from night- club for months and waited for a month before submitting forensics. Did not check inconsistencies in Worboys' story.Complaint substantiated, officer given written warning• Officer six Detective inspector who supervised case. Accused of failing to carry out thorough investigation, failing to search Worboys' home.Complaint substantiated, officer given words of advice• Officer seven Detective inspector who decided to conclude the inquiry in October 2007.Findings Made no challenges to the officers, did not ask any searching questions to the team, and did not carry out full review of inquiry.Complaint substantiated, officer given written warning• Officer eight Detective constable, who investigated allegation of assault by Worboys in May 2003.Findings Failed to contact key witness. Lost case papers.Complaint substantiated, words of advice given