Manchester City forward Robinho, the most expensive footballer in the history of the British game, yesterday denied allegations of serious sexual assault as he became the latest high profile player to find himself in the headlines for the wrong reasons.Robinho was arrested by detectives by prior arrangement on Monday, a day after he arrived back to the UK from Brazil with his partner and baby son. The alleged attack took place in the VIP section of a Leeds nightclub called Space in the early hours of 14 January, when the club was packed with revellers.Last night the Brazil international played the full 90 minutes of City's match against Newcastle United, setting up his side's first goal. Afterward, manager Mark Hughes said: "He was fully focused and looking ahead to the game. Mentally he was in the right place, he was concentrating on the job in hand, and it was never any real doubt for me that he should play."The 25-year-old Brazilian international, who earns £165,000 a week, gave a routine DNA sample and spoke to officers at length after his arrest, denying wrongdoing.West Yorkshire police said on Tuesday: "We can confirm a man was arrested yesterday on an allegation of serious sexual assault and was bailed pending further inquiries. The incident took place in Space." But the force refused to name the alleged attacker. In a statement on the player's official website later that day, his spokesman said he "strenuously denies any allegation of wrongdoing and is happy to co-operate with police".Police were told that the alleged rape took place after midnight. It is understood that the alleged victim, believed to be a first-year undergraduate, made no complaint when she left the club in the early hours, but police were told of the allegations that afternoon. She underwent medical and forensic tests and was interviewed on video at a suite for rape victims.Detectives later visited the two-room venue, which holds up to 800 people, and carried out forensic checks. They are also believed to have seized CCTV footage.Robinho, full name Robson de Souza, has combined rave reviews for his football talent with newspaper reports of his fondness for nightlife. He shot to prominence in 2002 with Pele's former club Santos. A much-hyped transfer to Real Madrid in 2005 saw him take time to hit his stride, but last year he played an integral part in their championship-winning side.Manchester City said: "The club have been liaising with, and assisting, both the player in question and the authorities in relation to the police investigation. No charges of any nature have been brought against the player and no further statement will be made whilst the investigation is continuing."