Following Eric Allison's report (Barbaric trips endured by pregnant prisoners, February 1), we ask the home secretary to put an immediate stop to transporting pregnant women in the prison vans known to inmates as "sweatboxes". Charles Clarke should also review the use of these vehicles for women and girls and the regulation of privatised prison escort services.The current system of transporting prisoners involves intolerable waits in unsuitable court holding-cells or the vans themselves, and journeys between overcrowded jails lasting many hours, with inadequate or sometimes no toilet breaks. These cellular vans are not fitted with tachographs. Men, women and children are transported together in a metal partitioned framework with metal seats. There are no seatbelts because being shaken around in a cramped space is considered preferable to running the risk of self-harm and suicide attempts. Women are almost always delivered last on the basis that women's prisons are far apart and staff are unlikely to turn prisoners away in light of the journey they may then be subjected to. It is not uncommon for women to arrive after 10 at night; hungry, frightened and having wet themselves or been sick on the way. Vans are sluiced down with hoses between trips. Any costs cut by this exercise are mopped up by governors having to pay overtime for late duties.In the 10 years since the vile practice of shackling women prisoners during childbirth was abolished this indecent, dangerous way of transporting women has been introduced. At the same time, the women's prison population has all but trebled in size. It consists largely of non-violent women - the majority of whom are in urgent need of drug treatment or mental healthcare, or are foreign nationals with no previous convictions. The Treasury spending review commitment to "pilot radical new approaches to meet the specific needs of women offenders, to tackle the causes of crime and reoffending among this group and reduce the need for custody" has not been realised. Meanwhile, numbers continue to rise, and better care is taken to regulate the transport of live farm animals than to ensure that some of our most vulnerable women travel safely and decently to and from prison and the courts. Juliet Lyon Director, Prison Reform Trust Helena Kennedy QC Frances Crook Director, Howard League Cathy Stancer Director, Women in Prison Olga Heaven Director, Hibiscus Deborah Russo Solicitor, Prisoners' Advice Service  Holly Dustin Senior policy officer, Fawcett Society