As in the courts of the former Soviet empire the forms of bourgeois democracy were scrupulously observed at the Special Immigration Appeals Commission's inquiries into the internment of Arabs after 11 September. The location at the heart of legal London seemed right and proper: a smart new court house just behind the Royal Courts of Justice and just off Chancery Lane. Three grave and learned men presided over last week's proceedings. They looked the spit of English judges. Disputatious lawyers consulted their files and bounced to their feet with sharp questions. The casual observer might have been impressed by the attention to correct procedure and assumed everything was as it should be.All that was missing was the presumption of innocence, trial by jury, independent legal representation, the unconstrained cross examination of witnesses, the production of incriminatory evidence, habeas corpus and open justice. The public wasn't told who all but one of the 'defendants' were. The press was, but couldn't say. The hearing showed that the rule of law had been deemed a dispensable luxury.Internment means imprisonment without trial. Defendants aren't defendants because the state offers no formal charges against which they can defend themselves. The threat of a terrorist attack as deadly as the atrocity in Manhattan was used to justify the imposition of the strategies of martial law, but the explanation felt wrong from the start. The abolition of trial by jury for the most serious of crimes was rushed through Parliament after 11 September when only the brave dared to ask hard questions and run the risk of being slandered as the terrorists' friend. Other European countries faced the same threat, but they didn't imitate Britain. If French or German residents are accused of having links to terrorism, the French or German governments have to prove it in court. Why was Britain different? Odd scraps of information added to the uneasy feeling. The basic principles of British justice were being suspended, we were told, for a exceptional group of foreigners. In normal circumstances, David Blunkett would deport them. These special cases were sent to languish in the maximum security Belmarsh Prison and Broadmoor because they might be tortured or executed if they were returned to their native lands. This sounded a commendably humanitarian concession from a Home Office whose Ministers had to deal with threats to the nation beyond the imagination of the complacent. But nothing the Home Office did seemed to back up its assertion that these men were terrorists. Friends of the defendants said that the police and MI5 hadn't tried to break the suspects under interrogation - the primary task of detectives investigating real criminals. They didn't even bother to talk to them. The detail of the emergency legislation added to the lackadaisical impression. It included the strange provision that the prisoners could leave Britain as free men if they thought they could find a country where they could live in safety. A Moroccan duly did. If the internees really were international terrorists who had been captured in brilliant operations by security services, they would then be able to use their inside knowledge to mastermind campaigns against Britain from overseas. If they weren't, then why the suspension of habeas corpus? Because looking tough was a good pose to strike after 11 September? Because MI5 is an intelligence agency, not a police force, and its officers aren't trained to handle cross-examination in open court? Or, because the new elite keeps saying it is the friend of 'the people' but has an authentically aristocratic dislike of the people sitting in jury boxes and returning verdicts which aren't to its liking? Just as the defendants aren't really defendants, so the appeals to Special Immigration Appeals Commission aren't really appeals. The defendants haven't been convicted of a crime, and have nothing to appeal against. In the hearings which will last for much of the summer, the Hon Mr Justice Ouseley and his two assessors can't decide if the convictions are safe and satisfactory when there are no convictions. They can merely decide if the Home Secretary's decision to intern them was 'reasonable'. The first to swear to the reasonableness of David Blunkett was known only as Witness B. He was in the court, but didn't appear before the court. Like Polonious with the arras, the MI5 man hid behind a curtain. He may have had a false moustache and a paper bag over his head. No one could say for sure. 'Make sure the witness can hear you properly,' said a concerned Ouseley as he gazed at the curtain, uncertain if anyone or anything was behind it. 'Can you hear me properly?' an obliging Government lawyer bellowed at the soft furnishings. 'Yes, I can,' came a muffled voice from a secret world where the light can never fall. Darkness also afflicted the internees' defence team. On Friday I popped down to the hearings to see how they were going. MI5 was giving confidential evidence and I and all other journalists were refused admission. There are occasions when closed courts can be justified, although they offend against the principle that justice must be seen to be done. More serious than the exclusion of the press, was the exclusion of the internees' lawyers. They couldn't hear what was being said against their clients or challenge it. In their place the Government, which was justifying the internment of Arabs, had appointed temporary 'special advocates', replacement lawyers who were meant to argue against the internment of Arabs. How vigorously lawyers have been tearing into a government that has positively vetted them and blessed them with the briefs is one more fact about this sinister episode we won't be allowed to know. Ben Emerson, the internees' QC in the public sessions, said he was asking questions without the faintest idea whether he was addressing the MI5 evidence which might keep his clients banged up in the worst prisons in Britain indefinitely. The special advocates were allowed to hear what secret evidence there was against his clients, but the afvocates hadn't met them or heard their side of the story. 'I find it impossible to accept that the special advocates are able to represent the appellants' interests,' he said. He and his fellow defenders had talked to the accused men, but didn't know what they were accused of and he was 'bound to say that we consider ourselves unable to do justice to the task of representing these men'. This wasn't lawyerly hyperbole. What is going on behind the Royal Courts of Justice is an assault on every professional principle lawyers are meant to hold dear. Several honourable barristers have refused to accept Government offers to act as special advocates. If the Bar Council was as steadfast, it would have ordered all barristers to boycott the sham trials. If the judiciary was as bloody-minded as Blunkett and the right-wing press pretends, Mr Justice Ouseley and his colleagues would have followed suit. The one internee we are allowed to name is Abu Qatada. Without doubt he is a repellent bigot who hates the best about this country as well as the worst. Videos of his sermons were found in the Hamburg flat used by three of the 11 September hijackers. In the public hearings the Home Office lawyers said: 'The evidence is clear that Abu Qatada supports the overthrowing by violent means of some current governments of Arab countries and their replacement with Islamic states (an agenda also supported by bin Laden) and that he has links to many of the terrorist groups.' If the evidence is clear then he is in breach of the 2000 Terrorism Act which makes it a criminal offence to seek the violent overthrow of foreign governments. He could and should be tried before judge and jury. Many years ago my colleague Neal Ascherson gave a good reason for worrying about how foreigners are handled by the state. You should always keep an eye on what it did to aliens because it showed what it would like to do to the natives if it got half a chance, he said. As if to prove his point, Blunkett was speaking in the Commons on the day the internment hearings opened. He tried once again to restrict trial by jury. He wanted to give the police the power to go on fishing expeditions to collect samples from innocent people for a mass DNA database. He was also hoping to prejudice fair trials by allowing a defendants' previous convictions to be revealed to juries. If you've done nothing wrong, you've got nothing to worry about, says the Government. Not true. You've got the Government to worry about.