For more than 40 years, Peter Tobin tricked and charmed his way across Britain: attracting three women into violent marriages, abusing the sanctuary of church communities, and luring young women into sex attacks and death.Ever since he was arrested in 2006 for the rape and murder of Angelika Kluk, police across the country have compiled a meticulous profile of his life and travels for Operation Anagram: the evidence of a lifetime of offending, and a disturbing skill in deception.Tobin was born in 1946 at Johnston, near Paisley in Renfrewshire, one of eight children. "A bit wild," said one brother, he was sent to an approved school and at 19 to a young offender institution for burglary, forgery and conspiracy.Margaret Mackintosh alleged yesterday that Tobin raped her after they married in Brighton in 1969. "He raped me three or four times, enjoying my fear. When I put up a fight, I got a knife in my side. He left me to die on the bed." Their marriage collapsed, but Tobin remarried in 1973. That too ended in divorce. His ex-wife recalled his attacks. She told Five News yesterday: "He's just pure evil, absolute evil."In 1989 he married Cathy Wilson, 22 years his junior. They separated after barely a year, leaving Tobin to move to Bathgate. It was there he came across Vicky Hamilton, in 1991. Police suspect she asked for help getting a bus home; he coaxed her back to his house, plied her with drink dosed with the sedative amitriptyline, then raped and killed her.He did the same in 1993 in Havant, near Portsmouth, with girls aged 14 and 15: one was raped, the other sodomised. He stopped short of murder.Tobin arrived at the Jesus Fellowship church in Coventry as Peter Wilson; the order notified police after his photo was on BBC 1's Crimewatch. Sentenced to 14 years, on his release Tobin evaded the sex offender register by using at least one assumed name, Pat McLaughlin.It is believed that he attacked at least one other girl in Paisley. Police issued a warrant in 2005, but he fled and beguiled his way into Catholic communities, including one in Edinburgh run by Mother Teresa's order. He met Angelika Kluk at St Patrick's in Glasgow, when seeking refuge with the homeless group Loaves and Fishes. In 2006, her body was found under the church floorboards.Yesterday, Det Supt David Swindle said Tobin had used 38 different mobile sim cards as he travelled the UK trying to evade justice. Every force in the UK has his "life timeline". Several have unsolved cases that could match his movements.