As police continued the hunt for Raoul Moat today, a picture emerged of a 37-year-old steroid-addicted bodybuilder motivated by long-held anger at his treatment by the police, profound jealousy in his personal life and extremely violent urges.Lana Potts, a pole dancer at Newcastle's Kiss nightclub and friend of the fugitive's, put it most simply: "He hates pigs.""Sum ppl hate blondes sum ppl r racist raoul hates pigs," she wrote on her Facebook page. "Hes lost it man ne point tryin 2 understand."The police were more diplomatic, describing the former nightclub doorman as nursing a "general grievance" against them and revealed that following the shootings they had received a lengthy letter from him detailing those complaints. Either way the message was clear: Moat, suspected of killing one man and critically injuring his former girlfriend and also an apparently random police officer in a spate of shootings over the weekend, was never the type to go quietly.Kelly Stobbart, 27, the half-sister of Samantha Stobbart, Moat's former girlfriend, whom he shot and critically injured in a jealous rage early on Saturday, said Moat would rather "go out in a blaze of glory" than give himself up and suggested he would attempt "suicide by cop", adding: "He's a nutter and he's definitely not going to give himself up."Today armed police from five forces hunted Moat as Samantha Stobbart, recovering from surgery in hospital, issued a direct appeal through police for Moat to give himself up. Moat started his shooting spree after she told him, falsely, that she had left him for a police officer. "If you still love me and our baby you would not be doing this any more," she said. "When you came out of jail I told you I was seeing a police officer. I said this because I was frightened. I have not been seeing a police officer."Kelly Stobbart described Moat, who has a 19-month year old daughter, Chanel, with Samantha, as vain and violent with links to Newcastle's criminal fraternity."Sam thought he was the bee's knees," she said. "Her problem was that she could not see above Raoul's chest. He's all muscles, rippling biceps, six pack," she said. "He thinks he's God's gift but he's the most ugly thing I have seen … He is involved with some very shady people and they will be hiding him out. We are all terrified that he's coming after us."Moat, who worked as a bouncer at the Liquid nightclub in Newcastle's Bigg Market, has a history of making violent threats. He once warned that he would "car boot" Kelly's brother and bury him. "He loves that fact that he thinks people are scared of him," she said, adding that he was addicted to steroids and prone to "unpredictable" outbursts.Samantha's grandmother, Agnes Hornsby, 69, told how Moat arrived at her Gateshead home one night last year armed with a gun and raging because he believed Stobbart was with another man. "He threatened us with a gun when she was here," she said, "all because she'd put on her Facebook that she was going out with a friend. He came here and said 'you've got a man in there' and I said 'there's no men in this house, it's me, Sam and Chanel'. He had a gun then and he was out there for about two hours and she was on the phone to him trying to calm him down."Moat reportedly updated his own Facebook page shortly before the shooting spree: "Just got out of jail, I've lost everything, my business, my property and to top it all off my lass of six years has gone off with the copper that sent me down. I'm not 21 and I can't rebuild my life. Watch and see what happens."The Facebook page, showing more than 80 friends, many of them apparently body-builders or working in the nightclub trade, was shut down this afternoon.Neighbours in Fenham, Newcastle, where he lived in a large, semi-detached house said they knew him as "bully boy" because of his menacing appearance. One said she once found one of his daughters by a bus stop wearing a nightdress in the pouring winter rain. She was crying and wearing a bib upon which were written the words: "I've been cheeky to my Daddy.""It was a nasty incident," the neighbour said. "She must have been only three or four and was absolutely frozen."Moat had been in Durham prison until Thursday after a short sentence for "a low-level assault on a relative". In 2003 his daughter Chantelle, then two, fell 35ft out of an unsecured window at home, but miraculously suffered only bruising.Some claimed Moat was paranoid, particularly about attention he sometimes got from police. A neighbour who lived on a side street looking into his back garden said there were 26 CCTV cameras hidden in the hedges. A former colleague was reported today saying that he erected the cameras because he was "sick of the police", who he felt never left him alone.In 2005, Moat went on trial at Newcastle crown court after being stopped by police driving a borrowed car through Byker, Newcastle.Officers discovered a Samurai sword in the boot and a serrated steel knuckle-duster hidden in a secret compartment beneath the dashboard.Moat was found not guilty after he told the court the sword belonged to him but denied knowing anything about the knuckleduster.