A 12-year-old girl at the centre of police inquiries into an alleged attempt to hang a young boy was rearrested last night after magistrates earlier refused to extend a police warrant for her detention.Detectives took her to Dewsbury police station in West Yorkshire for a third night in custody and questioning about what officers called "horrific" injuries to the five-year-old. The boy, who is recovering at home after treatment in Dewsbury district hospital, was named by police as Anthony Hinchliffe after his parents, who are separated, made it clear that they did not object. The West Yorkshire force also issued a photograph of the child and an appeal from his mother for help in catching his attackers. More arrests are expected as specially trained officers examine footage of short interviews with Anthony and the questioning of three boys and two girls aged 11 and 12. The incident is still being treated as a suspected murder attempt rather than a minor assault or stupid prank. Anthony's mother, Terry Brown, joined an appeal by his father, Mark Hinchliffe, for friends and neighbours in the Dewsbury suburbs of Chickenley and Earlsheaton to help the police. She said: "This has been a very distressing time. "One of my main concerns, now that I have Anthony back with me, is for anyone who has any information that can help the police to come forward and get in touch. If you do know anything at all, please call." Neither the courts nor the police gave a reason for the decision not to renew the girl's warrant, although magistrates tend to be very cautious about the prolonged detention of juveniles without charge. The police also issued a statement warning about speculative reporting of the case in the light of the arrests. Anthony was found dazed and in tears by a cousin, Tracey Jones, 22, on Tuesday evening near woodland at a park in Earlsheaton where the attack had allegedly just taken place. Ms Jones said that he had sobbed to her that "some boys and girls" had put a rope round his neck and tied him to a tree. He is believed to have been taken from the garden of his home, less than quarter of a mile from the woodland, while his mother was washing up. He was treated for severe bruising around his neck and cuts and bruises to his body. Two boys aged 12, who were arrested later and questioned, were released without charge on Wednesday night. A boy and a girl both aged 11, who had been held for questioning since Wednesday, were released last night without charge. Police searched a second area of woodland yesterday in the park, which was busy at the time of the alleged attack. Items found in a copse behind the local medical centre are being examined. Paul Kane, who represents the local Dewsbury East ward on Kirklees council, said that there had been recent problems with teenagers in the area. A number had been served with anti-social behaviour orders. The mood following the incident was "calm, with no sense of people looking for revenge", although there was a general sense of shock. The mother of the toddler James Bulger, who was murdered by two 10-year-old boys on Merseyside in 1993, sent her sympathy yesterday to Ms Brown. Denise Fergus said: "Thank God, despite the trauma suffered by this five-year-old boy, he has been safely reunited with his mother."