The director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, has ordered a review of his decision last year not to prosecute anyone in connection with the death of Ian  TomlinsonWhat is the test for a prosecution?Lawyers for the Crown Prosecution Service must first be satisfied that there is "sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction". In effect, the assessment is based on whether "a jury, properly directed by a court, would be more likely than not" to return a guilty verdict. Fresh evidence is likely to help. Starmer said in July that there was insufficient evidence to prosecute PC Simon Harwood for manslaughter and that complications with the medical evidence led him to believe prosecutors would be unlikely to prove a cause of Tomlinson's death. The CPS statement on 3 May said: "[The review] will take into account all of the evidence now available, including any new evidence that emerged at the inquest, the issues left by the coroner to the jury, and conclusions reached."Any other legal hurdle to overcome?CPS officials must ascertain whether a prosecution is needed in the "public interest". It is a broad test involving "balancing factors for and against prosecution, carefully and fairly". Standard CPS principles note that: "A prosecution will usually take place … unless there are public interest factors tending against prosecution which clearly outweigh those tending in favour."Is this the first time the CPS has reviewed its decision not to prosecute  PC Harwood?No. The latest review ordered by the DPP is the third time the CPS has examined the evidence. Last autumn, in the light of disciplinary proceedings at the General Medical Council against the pathologist Freddy Patel, the CPS conducted a similar exercise. In October, it announced that, at that stage, there was still insufficient evidence for charges to be brought.What is the likelihood of a successful prosecution?According to the campaign group Inquest, there have been 11 occasions since 1990 when unlawful killing verdicts have been returned in cases involving deaths in police custody. At least six have led to charges being brought but all ended up in acquittals or collapsed trials.Could pre-trial publicity of the Tomlinson case prevent a prosecution?Any question of prejudicial coverage would not be a matter for the DPP to consider, the CPS said. Such arguments, however, are likely to be played out in court if a prosecution is launched.