Criminals who fail to pay fines will be forced to work them off at below the minimum wage under a controversial scheme to restore public faith in the court process.The proposal, which has been described as 'smacking of chain gangs' by organisations working with offenders, will be piloted next year as part of plans being drawn up by the Department of Constitutional Affairs to privatise the fine collection system. Last year, 45 per cent of fines went unpaid, rising to 60 per cent in some areas. Ministers believe the new 'fine payments work' system will help reduce the number of offenders sent to prison for non-payment of fines and discourage people from committing further crimes to pay off their fines. The work camps would be run by the voluntary sector and would involve low-level manual work, such as litter collection, graffiti removal and canal and river clearance. The DCA has confirmed that the fines would be paid off at 'a little less than the minimum wage', although the rate has not yet been set. The range of financial penalties presently covered by the fine collection system includes everything from parking fines to court costs and compensation for victims of crime. A secret government review of the fine system commissioned by the DCA and seen by The Observer shows that of the £411 million in fines imposed last year only 56 per cent was collected. The total amount in arrears in December 2002 was £260m. The review, carried out by business advisers PKF, reported 'strong private sector interest' in running the fines service. But it also reported that the private sector had no experience of running such a system and that no conclusions could therefore be drawn about the merits of privatisation. It also revealed that the cost of using outside contractors would be 29p per pound compared with 19p in the public sector and that, although arrest warrants were the most effective way to recover fines, they cost £1.60 for every pound recovered. The new measures will be introduced in government amendments to the Courts Bill currently before the Commons. Harry Fletcher, of the Probation Union Napo, said: 'The idea of working off fines was abandoned by the last Tory administration as impractical and on the grounds that it would be difficult to police. 'Most persistent non-payers are notoriously difficult to trace. The introduction of sub-minimum wage rates for those that are found smacks of modern-day poor law and evokes images of work or chain gangs.' A letter sent to senior managers earlier in the summer by the Court Service's Director of Field Services, Kevin Pogson, which has been obtained by The Observer reveals a high level of sensitivity about the report into the privatisation of fine collection. 'I realise that the release of such a report might be unsettling for your staff working on enforcement issues... I thought, though, that it was better to be informed direct rather than through newspaper reports.' The original plans for privatisation and the work parties were drawn up by Yvette Cooper when she was a Minister in the Lord Chancellor's Department. But the announcement of the reforms was overshadowed by the controversy over the summer reshuffle and the creation of the new Department of Constitutional Affairs. The plans to introduce unpaid work at below the minimum wage were dropped from an announcement by the Prime Minister's official spokesman on 25 June about reform of the fine system in recognition of the controversy that they were likely to cause.