As the two boys responsible for the brutal, sadistic attack on two other boys in Edlington, South Yorkshire, in April last year were being led away from Sheffield crown court to begin their indeterminate sentence, the mother of one of their victims is reported to have shouted at them "you evil little bastards, I hope someone does that to you".Her outburst is perfectly understandable given the ferocity of their attack, which over some 90 minutes had taken a variety of forms including punching, kicking, stamping, choking, beating their victims with sticks, making then strip and then sexually assaulting them – some of which was filmed on a mobile phone. As the judge commented, this was pain being inflicted for their own emotional pleasure, and for which they have subsequently shown no remorse. One expert at court commented that the younger of the two attackers was a psychopath in the making.How are we to understand all of this? What should we do with these boys, and how can we best support the two boys they attacked? Let's return to the outburst of the mother. From information leaked about the family circumstances in which these two boys were being raised – and from which they had been temporarily removed to Edlington into foster care – there is more than enough evidence to suggest that someone had indeed been doing "that" to them both, and that their lives had already been filled with violence, neglect, stampings, beatings and kicks. We now know they watched pornographic videos that were brought into their home and they often witnessed their mother being physically threatened by their father.As for thinking of them as "evil" this might bring some form of temporary comfort to many. Labelling them in this way absolves us from having to acknowledge that no child is born "evil" but any child can quickly become socialised into doing awful things – and seeing such behaviour as "normal" – if the only thing that has characterised their upbringing has been abuse and neglect.Psychopaths do indeed often show difficulties in understanding how their hurtful behaviour and actions can cause suffering and pain in others. One of the challenges of working with psychopaths is to get them to make this connection given that they are essentially selfish and emotionally distant and cold. They look after themselves, view other people in relation to what those people can do for them, and are happy to discard those people should they no longer be needed. Changing this type of behaviour takes time, especially if that behaviour has become ingrained. At HMP Grendon – where the 240 adult prisoners have elevated scores on Hare's Psychopathy Checklist – there is no "treatment effect" for at least 18 months, and many of the prisoners stay much, much longer before being able to live in the community again.So, given the relative youth of these two boys, an indeterminate sentence with at least five years is probably about right, and already we have been advised that – removed from the toxic world they were being brought up in – they are responding well. However, we should not expect any quick fixes, nor pander to any knee-jerk demands that their identity should be revealed, or that they should spend the rest of their lives locked up.And, as Loretta Loach rightly remembers, what about the two boys they attacked? How should we support them in the months and years to come? I presume the support started long ago, given that the attack took place last April, and in the same way that we shouldn't expect quick fixes with the culprits, we should give time to their victims to allow them to describe how best we can support them and heal their wounds.The attacks in Edlington do not stand as some awful symbol of a "broken Britain", or even – and here I differ perhaps in my emphasis from Robert Reiner – of the growing economic chasm that former mining communities now inhabit and where the "have-nots" far exceed the "haves". Rather, these attacks should serve to remind us that children are very precious and what we do to children in the space that we call childhood is one of the greatest responsibilities that all adults share.