The cabinet gathered for its usual weekly meeting at 10am on Thursday. Around the table, along with the Prime Minister, the Chancellor and the Deputy Prime Minister, were Alan Milburn, Secretary of State for Health, and Derry Irvine, the Lord Chancellor. By that evening Milburn and Irvine had resigned and Blair had announced one of the most fundamental changes to the constitution for, some claimed, 1,400 years.'It was a surreal moment,' said one of the people at the Cabinet. 'There we were discussing Iraq and the European Union and there were two people about to lose their jobs and then there was this political change and no one knew anything.' After the 45-minute meeting, Blair asked Irvine, his mentor, the man who gave him his first job as a barrister and the only man allowed to call the Prime Minister 'Young Tony' to stay behind. It was the final farewell; a man who had been one of the Prime Minister's closest allies would be leaving government that afternoon. Ten minutes later it was announced by Downing Street that Milburn had resigned. Across Whitehall there was astonishment. One official paged a friend at No 10: 'Well, well, well.' Milburn had told Blair he was going to leave the Government on Monday evening. Only two days earlier, along with that other key Blairite, Stephen Byers, who resigned from the Cabinet last year, he had been enjoying Blair's hospitality at a party to mark the his 50th birthday in Trimdon, Co Durham. Milburn had not said a word. 'Tony was genuinely shocked,' said one official. Irvine was also a big personal loss. But, under pressure from his own staff in No 10 and David Blunkett at the Home Office, he had finally agreed to the disbanding of the Lord Chancellor's Department. The three great roles of state held by Irvine - head of the judiciary, member of the Government with responsibility for legal affairs, and Speaker of the House of Lords - would go. The great reforming Government would reveal its true colours with sweeping changes to the criminal justice system, a final solution to the problem of Scotland and Wales and a complete shake-out of middle-ranking Ministers. New blood would show the Government had not run out of steam. But the plans crashed and burned on the necessity of rapidity and secrecy. Downing Street was left announcing titles that were later changed and the abolition of jobs that had to be re-created the following day. A 'good news' week turned into chaos. Blair is now looking for a major speech on 'equity and the public services' on Tuesday to settle government nerves. There can be no cock-ups this time. The first serious discussions on how to fashion the fundamental change in the operation of the Government started 10 days ago. After the marathon Cabinet on the issue of the euro on 5 June, Blair and Blunkett met to discuss how to work out an elegant exit for Irvine. Blunkett had long been agitating for a change in the Lord Chancellor's department, seen across Whitehall as an anachronism more bothered with the rights of judges than of the victim. Blunkett, in regular meetings with Blair, suggested that someone with more 'political nous' should run the legal system, someone, he suggested, like Blair's old friend and former flat-mate Charlie Falconer. 'The Lord Chancellor's department was like one of those old departments which looked after the self-interests of those it thought it served,' said one official involved in the negotiations. 'Just like the old Ministry of Agriculture used to look after farmers, the LCD thought it was there to look after judges.' Blunkett had a problem. One option was for a full-blown Ministry of Justice that would take over many of the criminal justice responsibilities of the Home Office. Blunkett, in a number of terse exchanges with the Prime Minister, made it clear that he would have no truck with such a diminution of the Home Secretary's powers. So there was a compromise. They agreed to a new Department for Constitutional Affairs which would bring about a US-style Supreme Court out of the control of the Government and an independent appointments system for judges. It had been Labour Party policy since before 1997, but the Prime Minister had constantly balked at tackling an issue that would mean the demise of Irvine. So he delayed and obfuscated until Irvine could be persuaded that it was time for a graceful exit. Irvine first told Blair earlier in the year that he was now willing to move. 'He could see politically which way it was going,' said one friend of the Prime Minister. 'He knew he would have to go.' But friendship meant that the issue was delicate. How could Blair discuss with his colleagues in government about the need to do away with the Lord Chancellor without it leaking and being seen as a move against Irvine? So the decision-making was kept to a tiny circle around Blair. There was no Cabinet sub-committee to interrogate such a major change in the operation of government. The Cabinet were not told. 'This is a very delicate area,' said one key official. 'How could you discuss it around the Cabinet table when the person whose job you were discussing was sitting right there?' Home Office officials admit that a week ago 'all the boxes were not ticked' on how the policy would work. In the past week Blair has had to deal with the announcement of the euro assessment, Milburn's resignation, a joint press conference with the Chancellor, Prime Minister's Questions and a visit to Paris to see the French President and Prime Minister. When he arrived back on the RAF 146 at Northolt airfield in west London on Thursday morning, there was still plenty to be done. Although the Prime Minister knew that Milburn was going, he had yet to speak to John Reid, the next Health Secretary, about his new job. After Cabinet and the announcement that Milburn had quit, Blair kept a long-standing appointment with senior BBC executives for a lunch in the pillared room. As the guests arrived and news of a Cabinet reshuffle rippled through Westminster, the Prime Minister joked: 'Would any of you like to pick up a job on the way out?' After lunch, at 2.30pm, Blair called Reid into his private study to offer him the job of health. Reid 'visibly gulped' and said 'he would have to think about it'. For 30 minutes Blair thought he might turn it down. But after half an hour in his own office, Reid came back to accept the post. He had been Leader of the Commons for just 70 days since Robin Cook's resignation. Rumours were swirling, unconfirmed and corrosive, suggesting a Government not quite in control. Was Geoff Hoon taking over at the Ministry of Justice? Such a department had already been ruled out. Was Patricia Hewitt moving? No 10 thought about it, but considered the euro issue too important for such a fundamental change at the Department for Trade and Industry. The day before, Blunkett had spent most of his time in Downing Street, thrashing out the finer details of the new constitutional arrangement. When Irvine met the Prime Minister the same day to discuss his much-awaited retirement and the announcement that he was to be the last Lord Chancellor, No 10 officials were desperately redrafting the announcement after it was pointed out that the Government could not unilaterally abolish Irvine's post. It would need legislation. 'The big announcement had to be changed because no one had realised,' said one Whitehall official. 'It was all so rushed and chaotic.' When the announcement came at 5.45pm, it was made clear that the Lord Chancellor's position was to be abolished. Falconer would sit in the Cabinet as the Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs. Tacked on to his brief would be responsibility for Scotland and Wales, downgraded from full Cabinet positions in their own right to also-rans. There was uproar. The Secretary of State for Scotland and the Secretary of State for Wales were being abolished without a scintilla of discussion. That evening Downing Street was desperately briefing that there would still be Secretaries of State for both Scotland and Wales but they would be 'attached', one to Alistair Darling, the Transport Secretary, and one to Peter Hain, the new Leader of the Commons. The new Falconer role was sprung on the Lords and the Opposition. Lord Onslow, the Tory peer, accused the Government of playing 'Pooh sticks' with Britain's constitution. The next day Lords officials had to demand Falconer's attendance at the Lord Chancellor's Procession; otherwise the Lords could not sit. No 10 had not realised that a rule dating back to 1660 meant that Falconer had to attend and sit on the Woolsack. At Falconer's new department there was bafflement. There is no physical room in the new Constitutional Affairs building for the civil servants from the Scottish and Welsh offices meant to be reporting to Falconer. Hain insisted he still had a 'strong influence' over Welsh policy - hedging the question of whether Falconer is his boss or his Cabinet equal - despite being shunted into Leader of the Commons, an odd job for a polished TV performer who does not shine in the debating chamber. Senior civil servants, meanwhile, are privately furious that such constitutional changes could be devised without consulting them. In the hot June days that followed the last general election, Blair invited his 'big four' new public service Ministers to a gathering in the garden of 10 Downing Street. Blunkett, Milburn, Byers and Estelle Morris were left in little doubt that failure would not be tolerated. But the Prime Minister also made clear he hoped to see the quartet still all in their jobs by the next election: impressed by how Blunkett's tenure as Education Secretary between 1997 and 2001 had helped the Government get a grip on schools, he wanted a Cabinet for the long term. How far that plan fell apart is illustrated by the departure of Milburn, claiming conflict with his private life - leaving only one of that quartet, Blunkett, in his original job. Blair is, says one close aide, feeling the loss of his Health Secretary 'very personally', and perhaps unsurprisingly: he has now lost what amounted to his Republican Guard. 'If a bullet was coming in Tony's direction, there used to be three people who would have leapt in its way: Peter Mandelson, Alan Milburn and Steve Byers - and now they're all gone,' said one senior figure close to Blair. 'John Reid wouldn't do it. Charles [Clarke] wouldn't, Patricia [Hewitt] wouldn't. They may be politically sympathetic, but are not going to be in the final phalanx around him.' That is why Milburn's departure is so important and came as such a shock to the Blairites inside No 10. After one final phone call home to his partner, Ruth, at their home in Hexham, surrounded by views of the Tyne Valley, Milburn slipped into Blair's private flat above 11 Downing Street a little after 7.30pm on Monday. In the emotional hour-long discussion that followed, he made clear that his relationship with Ruth was effectively over if he did not retreat from public life. After Ruth, Blair was the first person to know, he emphasised. Only a handful of trusted aides within Downing Street were told: none within the Department of Health. Brown was pointedly left to find out with the rest of the Cabinet and was not consulted over the successor. Friends were this weekend insisting there was no ulterior motive behind the resignation. 'The mistake people always make with Alan is that they think he is massively personally ambitious. He never has been,' says one. 'He's been thinking about this for months.' Another says if his family had lived in London rather than several hours' train ride away in the North East, 'he would probably be sitting tight in Cabinet today'.However, Milburn is a tactile, even flirtatious, man: gossip has always buzzed around Westminster in his wake. Such a sudden departure was bound to raise speculation over his private life. Harder to quell, however, are the less sensational but more persistent Whitehall rumours that Blair was beginning to lose patience with the Department of Health. As Milburn weighed up his public versus his private life, did the increasing tensions of the former help tip the scales in favour of the latter? Milburn is said to have been barely on speaking terms with Nigel Crisp, chief executive of the NHS, frustrated with what he saw as Crisp's failure to get a grip on hospitals. He is understood to have prepared himself to resign if the foundation hospitals bill had been defeated during the parliamentary revolt in May. This weekend Blair can look back at a major chance to relaunch the Government that has gone awry. Officials admit it could have been handled differently, but say the longer game of constitutional reform will eventually make for better government. Blair has two years before the next election to get it right.