Detectives investigating the murder of a mother and her three children at their home in a Manchester suburb said yesterday that a postmortem examination on the eldest child had revealed that he died of massive head injuries.The results of postmortems on other members of the family are expected to made known today.The bodies of Uzma Rahan, 32, her sons Adam, 11, and Abbas, eight, and daughter Henne, six, were found at their end terrace home in Cheadle Hulme, Greater Manchester, on Sunday evening.Police smashed their way into the house after neighbours complained of flies buzzing round the letterbox and of a "stomach-churning" smell. It is thought the bodies had lain in the house for at least a month, probably since the start of the school holiday.Detectives want to interview taxi driver Rahan Arshad, 36, Mrs Rahan's husband and father of the three children.Yesterday police said they had found Mr Arshad's silver BMW 320 sport car in a car park at terminal three at London's Heathrow airport. "The car appears to have been parked at the airport for several weeks," said a police spokeswoman. "Police are currently making inquiries with the airport and airlines to establish if Rahan has travelled from the airport recently."It is thought Mr Arshad, who is believed to have worked for a taxi firm in the Manchester suburb of Didsbury, may be in Pakistan, where he has relatives.Yesterday a yellow and white tent and a mobile incident room remained outside the family home and neighbours and friends had laid flowers by a side wall. The four bodies were removed late on Monday and postmortems began yesterday.Detective Superintendent Martin Bottomley, who is leading the inquiry, said the family had lived in the house for about 18 months. It is thought that Mrs Rahan, who was born in Pakistan, and her British-born husband had married in Manchester in 1993. Mr Bottomley said officers were in contact with members of both families, but had not yet spoken directly to relatives in Pakistan. Mr Arshad's brother lives in Heald Green, less than a mile from the murder scene, but declined to speak to reporters yesterday.Jill Lowe, head of Bradshaw Hall primary school, said she had been "shocked and saddened" to hear of the deaths of the three children, who had joined her school only in June.She spoke in a bright classroom next to the staff room as workmen laid a carpet in preparation for the new term. She wept as she said: "When I heard the news about the family, I was devastated. As soon as you hear something on the news you think is that going to be children in my catchment area? It's tragic when you think of three young children who have their whole lives ahead of them."She added: "Henne was a lovely, bubbly, lively six-year-old as you would want any six-year-old to be. Abbas loved sport. He loved his football and when he was [in school] he was straight out into the playground. He made lots of friends."I remember chatting to Adam because he was looking forward to starting at Cheadle Hulme high school and had been for a visit in the last part of the [summer] term."She said the school would stage a memorial service for the children and details would be discussed with staff next week.There would also be talks with the school's educational psychologist.