If a police service cannot count its own officers properly, how reliable can its criminal statistics be? Two gaffes by the metropolitan police - double counting the number of officers lost because of its shrinking boundaries and including "Irish white" officers within its ethnic minority count - yesterday demonstrated the fragility of police statistics. They have always undercounted crime, because half of all crime was not reported and half of that which was reported was not recorded. Both proportions have begun to creep up, though not by large amounts. A far more accurate picture was provided by the biennial British crime survey in October, which recorded 15m offences, compared to 5m in yesterday's official recorded figures.But it is yesterday's statistics - the last for six months - which will provide the battleground on which the expected May election will be fought. Do not expect enlightenment. Both sides will be indulging in deliberate distortions, ignoring complex causes and seeking simplistic sound bite solutions. Politics will be demeaned and the public insulted. There is a good news story about criminal trends, which began under the Conservatives and has continued under Labour. Domestic burglaries have fallen for seven consecutive years - down by one-third to 417,000. Car thefts are down by a similar proportion over 12 years, falling to 1m. (The drop under Labour has been 28% for burglary and 20% for car crime.) But there is a dark side too. Violent crime, which represents 14% of all crime, has risen for nine out of the last 10 years. There is an even more worrying rise in robberies: up by 45% in a decade and by 25% since Labour came to power. Mobile phones, affluence and drink have driven these trends. Concern is rising, but that is hardly surprising, given the drums which the Tories and police service have been beating. A weekend poll found that for the first time in 20 years more people (50%) were dissatisfied with the way their area was policed than were satisfied (43%). This is irrational, given the fall in overall crime and the fact that the risk of assault is mostly restricted to young people. New, more inclusive statistics will only make comparisons more dangerous. Labour has the best record. It has made the police more effective. Even more important, it is tackling the social conditions that generate crime. To that extent, it is being tough, as it promised, on the causes, as well as on crime.