The long-running mystery surrounding the fate of a British naval hero who vanished while spying on the Soviets took another twist worthy of a thriller yesterday when a Russian frogman surfaced to claim that he had killed the Briton, who was allegedly fixing a bomb to a Soviet warship.Commander Lionel "Buster" Crabb, who is thought to have inspired Ian Fleming's fictional superspy James Bond, went missing during a dive off Portsmouth in 1956 as the ship that had brought a high-level Soviet delegation for talks to the UK lay at anchor in the harbour.Since then there has been a swirl of claim and counterclaim both about what happened to Crabb and exactly what he was doing in the water that day. A coroner later ruled that a headless body found in June 1957 was Crabb's but some of his relatives have always believed he was captured and whisked away to Russia.On Thursday, Russian television carried the claims of retired sailor Eduard Koltsov, who said he had killed Crabb and felt the need to clear his conscience before he died. Koltsov, 23 at the time, told Ren-TV's Secret History programme he had been ordered to investigate suspicious activity around the ship, the Ordzhonikidze, when he spotted Crabb fixing a mine to the hull. "I saw the silhouette of the diver. He was fiddling around with something near the right side of the ship and the storage bay where we kept our ammunition. I swam closer. I saw he was attaching a mine." Showing the knife he claimed to have used, Koltsov said he lunged at Crabb and killed him - an act that earned him a Red Star medal.British experts on the case dismissed Koltsov's claims as outlandish. It is generally accepted that Crabb was examining the Soviet frigate's hull and its propellers, not trying to blow up the ship.In 1994, Nicholas Elliott, the officer responsible for planning the mission, wrote in his memoirs that Crabb "almost certainly died from respiratory trouble, being a heavy smoker and not in the best of health, or conceivably because some fault had developed in his equipment".He added: "Crabb did not die as a result of any incompetence ... Nor did he lose his life as a result of any action by the Russians."Still, the timing of Koltsov's revelation is intriguing, coming days before a book on the Crabb mystery is published by the British campaigning writer and journalist Don Hale. His book, The Final Dive, claims that Crabb was a decoy for naval intelligence frogmen who were placing listening devices on the ship. He believes Crabb - and one member of the naval intelligence team - were killed.Hale said Koltsov may have been put up by the Russians partly to deflect attention from revelations in his book about how their spies operated. "There's a lot of this stuff coming out of Russia to make Britain and the Americans look like the bad guys."