A teenager who killed eight people, including the headteacher, when he opened fire at a school in southern Finland today before turning the gun on himself, has died in hospital.The gunman, named by police as Pekka-Eric Auvinen, 18, shot himself in the head and was taken to hospital with serious injuries, which have since proved to be fatal."Five boys, two girls and one adult woman were killed," police chief Matti Tohkanen told a news conference, Reuters reported. The officer identified the woman as the headteacher.Police said the gunman shot the victims with a .22-calibre pistol at Jokela high school near Tuusula, about 60 km (40 miles) north of the capital Helsinki. About a dozen other people were injured as they tried to escape what is believed to be the first fatal shooting in a Finnish school.Kim Kiuru, a teacher at the school, said the headteacher announced over the public address system just before noon that all students should remain in their classrooms."I stayed in the corridor to listen to more instructions, having locked my classroom door," Mr Kiuru told the YLE radio station. "After that, I saw the gunman running with what appeared to be a small calibre handgun in his hand through the doors toward me after which I escaped to the corridor downstairs and ran in the opposite direction."Mr Kiuru, who said the gunman was a pupil at the school, said he saw a woman's body as he fled the building."Then my pupils shouted at me out of the windows to ask what they should do and I told them to jump out of the windows ... and all my pupils were saved," Mr Kiuru said.Police evacuated students from the building, which houses a middle and high school with more than 400 students.The shooting came just hours after a video was posted on the YouTube website predicting a school massacre.The video, which has now been removed from YouTube, showed a photograph of a school that appears to be Jokela high school. The photo then fragments to reveal a red-tinted picture of a man pointing a gun at the camera.The clip, entitled "Jokela High School Massacre - 11/7/2007", was posted by a user called Sturmgeist89, believed to be Auvinen. Sturmgeist means storm spirit in German.An accompanying profile stated he was an "antisocial social Darwinist". He went on: "I am prepared to fight and die for my cause. I, as a natural selector, will eliminate all who I see unfit, disgraces of human race and failures of natural selection."He also wrote how he hoped "my actions will inspire all the intelligent people of the world and start some sort of revolution against the current systems".The writer listed his occupation as "unemployed philosopher" and said misanthropy was among his hobbies. Police chief Matti Tohkanen said he was from "an ordinary family".The shooting will inevitably raise comparisons with Cho Seung-Hui, the gunman who killed 33 people, including himself, when he went on a rampage on the Virginia Tech campus in the US in April. He sent a videotaped message to NBC news in which he attempted to justify the murders.The Finnish prime minister, Matti Vanhanen, described the situation as "extremely tragic" and said the government would hold an emergency meeting. Despite having the third largest per capita ratio of handgun ownership in the world, violent incidents are rare at Finnish schools.According to Finnish media, there have been four stabbings at schools since 1999 but none of these were fatal. The last major attack in the country came in 2002 when a young man killed himself and six others in a bomb blast at a shopping mall in Helsinki.