The father of a convicted sex offender was bringing the prisoner's child into jail for a family visit. Only the minor was not the prisoner's son but a child brought in simply for the prisoner to molest during visits.This real-life case highlights an ongoing problem in the treatment of sex offenders; many prisoners are using their time inside to "groom" future victims. Now a project, jointly organised by the child protection charity, the NSPCC, and Wandsworth prison, has been hailed as a way forward in stopping sex offenders using their time in prison to plan future crimes."There have been a relatively small number of children abused while visiting prisoners," said Stephen Landy, NSPCC manager of the project at Wandsworth prison. "But prisons are not the most child-friendly environments, and it is important that the children who are there are who they are supposed to be and are safe."The only minors allowed into prison to visit "schedule one" prisoners - that is those convicted of a crime against a child - are the prisoners' own children. But how are prison staff supposed to know if children brought in as visitors are who they claim to be?At Wandsworth, the project has set up a system of checks so a visiting child is identified correctly. The children are also digitally photographed, so that, on future visits, prison officers can check it is the same child. "But we try to do all this in a way that will not upset the child," said Mr Landy.Sex offenders find ways to continue their trade behind bars, from building relationships with single mothers through lonely hearts adverts in magazines, to linking up with other jailed sex offenders to form paedophile rings. This is information prison officers could pick up in their day-to-day work with the prisoners, but would be hard in many cases for child protection social workers in the community to pick up on.Traditionally prison officers have not had much part to play in the risk assessment of prisoners. Mr Landy believes this is a waste of a valuable resource. The project has introduced a post of designated child protection officer inside the prison walls - a rarity in British prisons. The post has been filled by a prison officer."I don't think you should underestimate the potential worth of prison officers in child protection," said Mr Landy. "One of the really exciting things about this project has been tapping into the enthusiasm and creativity that prison officers have been able to put into this work."A recent example of the project's work was the case of a father who was convicted of assaulting two of his children. While still in prison, the man had begun putting pressure on his third child. "Part of our job is helping prison officers identify the subtle stuff," said Mr Landy. "It's the kind of 'daddy will buy you a bike if you are good' coercion that prison officers sometimes miss."Prison officer Paul Wright, principal officer of the project in Wandsworth, said stereotypical images of prison officers have meant they are rarely consulted on the assessment of offenders. "We've got so much knowledge and that's been overlooked," he said. When the scheme started nearly two years ago, some in social services were, said Mr Wright, "sceptical of our involvement. Now they realise prison officers have a part to play in child protection." There are more than 200 men convicted of sex offences against children in Wandsworth prison. "When you've got that number of sex offenders in one place, there is an awful lot of information sloshing around," said Mr Landy. Part of the job of the project is helping prison officers pick up and recognise that information and, just as importantly, pass it on to the relevant child protection agencies."Our main achievement is that we have encouraged prison officers to communicate with social services departments," said Mr Landy. "Prison officers have become part of the child protection system." Earlier this month, the project won the Lord Woolf award from the Butler Trust, which recognises creative work undertaken in the prison service.Mr Landy praised the governor of Wandsworth for recognising the potential of the project but is campaigning for the same practices to get taken up in institutions around the country. "Prison governors are required to protect children," he said. "Unfortunately, how it's done across the prison system is very piecemeal. There are other prison establishments where it just isn't happening."