The moment a man knifed open the canvas hood of a convertible Porsche in broad daylight before going on to damage another car has been captured on CCTV. The unidentified man is shown approaching the parked sports car in London’s West End, peering inside, before slitting open the roof, in the footage released by detectives.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A still from CCTV of the Porsche being sliced open. Photograph: Metropolitan policeHe then climbs into the red vehicle, which was parked in Mayfair, London, setting off the car’s alarm.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The man climbs inside the car. Photograph: Metropolitan policeWhen the man is unable to get the engine of the Porsche started, he climbs back out through the cut in the roof of the car – listed at more than £90,000 for a new model – and jumps off the spoiler at the back of the vehicle.During his time inside the car, passersby walk past, and in the middle of the footage a yellow caution slip hazard sign appears in the road.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The alarm going off, the perpetrator exits via the spoiler. Photograph: Metropolitan policePolice were called to the scene at around 7.45am on 29 September in Mill Street. Twenty minutes later officers were called to reports of a grey Porsche Cayenne scratched and its door lock damaged while parked in nearby Carlos Place.“A man matching the description of the man who broke into the red Porsche was seen to take out a lock knife with a five-inch blade and try to gain entry into the vehicle,” a Metropolitan police statement said.Later the same day, at 10.53am, police were called to a robbery at JD Sports in Oxford Street. A man, believed to be the same suspect, was seen trying to leave the shop with stolen trainers, a sports top and tracksuit bottoms. When staff challenged the man he threatened them with a lock knife.A Scotland Yard spokesman said: “Detectives investigating a robbery and criminal damage to two cars in Westminster have issued CCTV footage in an attempt to identify the suspect. Police are appealing for anyone who recognises this man, or who has any information that could assist the investigation, to come forward.”The suspect was described as a black man in his 20s, 6ft with black hair and a dark beard. He was wearing a blue puffer jacket, white jeans and a grey beanie hat. Anyone with information can call 101.