Police moved to reassure Bristol residents they were doing all they could to find the killer of Joanna Yeates and to keep the public safe.Uniformed officers continued to patrol the streets around Yeates's home in Clifton after her landlord, Chris Jefferies, was released on police bail late yesterday. A community contact vehicle staffed by police officers was parked close by to offer comfort to any concerned local people. Police asked the public to report anyone spotted acting suspiciously in the area.Yeates's body was found on Christmas morning, clothed and covered in snow, on a roadside verge at Failand, north Somerset, three miles from the flat she shared with her boyfriend, Greg Reardon.Jefferies, 65, who lives in the same building as Yeates did, was arrested on Thursday on suspicion of murdering the 25-year-old landscape architect. He is not believed to have returned to his flat since his release and his whereabouts remains unclear.Detective Chief Inspector Phil Jones, who is leading the inquiry, said: "I would like to reassure the public that this investigation is very much ongoing. We have a team of over 70 police officers and staff working tirelessly to bring the person responsible for Joanna's death to justice."The incident room has been inundated with thousands of calls from members of the public who have provided us with information. This information is being scrutinised and followed up by specially trained officers who are exhausting every lead and avenue that we are provided with."He renewed his appeal for anyone with information to come forward. "You may think your information is insignificant but please let us decide."Jones said he was particularly keen to speak to anyone who used Longwood Lane, where Yeates's body was found, between Friday 17 December, when she was last seen, and Christmas morning."Did you see anyone or any vehicle acting suspiciously in the area?" he asked. "We also know that there were large Christmas functions taking place at Long Ashton golf club, Bristol and Clifton golf club and Redwood Lodge. I would again urge taxi drivers and those who drove to functions to call us. They may have information that could prove vital."A force spokesperson added: "A high police presence remains in the Clifton area and residents are urged to call police should they see anyone acting suspiciously."Police and Yeates's boyfriend have expressed concern at some of the reporting of the case, particularly of the way Jefferies has been portrayed in mainstream media and on social networks.In a statement released by police yesterday, Reardon said: "Jo's life was cut short tragically but the finger-pointing and character assassination by social and news media of as yet innocent men has been shameful. It has made me lose a lot of faith in the morality of the British press and those that spend their time fixed to the internet in this modern age."I hope in the future they will show a more sensitive and impartial view to those involved in such heartbreaking events and especially in the lead-up to potentially high-profile court cases."Reardon's statement focused for the main part on Yeates, whom he described as "a beautiful woman, beautiful in mind, body and soul". He said he would always love her.Yeates's family said in a statement released at the same time that they were certain her killer would be caught.Congregations at churches in Bristol and in Hampshire, where Yeates's parents live, said prayers today for Yeates and those she left behind.Associate vicar Dan Clark, who led a service at Christ church, in Clifton, said: "Many of you will know this has been quite a difficult few weeks for the local community following the sad news about Joanna Yeates. I would like us to pause and bring our own quiet prayers for Joanna's family."As the congregation bowed its heads, he added: "As well as praying quietly for Joanna's family, friends and colleagues, let's also pray quietly for the police working hard to solve this case and the press working hard to publicise this case and jog people's memories."