Attempts to build treatment hostels for 100 high-risk paedophiles in England and Wales could be countered by years of protests, the government was warned yesterday.The Home Office has begun identifying sites for up to five residential units for the most dangerous child sex offenders in the community, it was announced yesterday. Ray Wyre, an expert who works with sex offenders, said it would be incredibly difficult for the centres to be built. "Intellectually they [government officials] will try and persuade a community of the benefits, but emotionally they will have big problems. I think there will be huge opposition, long running judicial reviews and it will be very difficult." Two years ago the only residential treatment centre in the country, Wolvercote in Epsom, Surrey, closed after a vigorous campaign. An attempt to open a similar one at Silverlands near Chertsey, Surrey, was defeated after £2.4m had been spent on the project. In a bid to avoid confrontations it is understood that the government is planning to build the first of the units, which will treat up to 25 paedophiles, in the grounds of Rampton high security hospital, Nottinghamshire. The strategy is the result of years of debate and planning after the outcry in the late 1990s at the release of notorious paedophiles such as Sidney Cook, and concern at the numbers of sex offenders in probation hostels. Sex offenders are estimated to account for 40% of the 2,500 people in the 101 hostels in England and Wales. Paul Goggins, the prisons minister, promised that the government would work with local communities and be open about the location of units. "We face a dilemma," he said. "We know that local communities are afraid ... but we know that we can reduce reconviction rates and therefore make our society a safer place." Childline, the charity which works with victims of child abuse, welcomed the plans. "Work at Wolvercote clinic showed that treatment of convicted sex offenders is effective in significantly reducing the risk that offenders pose," said Natasha Finlayson, its director of policy and communications. "Sensitive siting of any new treatment centre is vital and every measure must be put in place to ensure that the safety of children is paramount." But Phoenix Survivors, a group which offers counselling, support and advice for child victims and their families, called for the government to put as much effort and money into treatment centres for victims of child sex abuse. The group has been refused funding by the Home Office for a specialist centre and is struggling to continue its work. "We should be opening five treatment centres for victims and five for perpetrators," said Shy Keenan, who runs Phoenix Survivors. Mr Wyre backed her view. He said the government had to convince the victims of the benefits of its plans. It would be astute to fund a model treatment centre for survivors of abuse alongside the plans for units for offenders. A spokesman for the Home Office said the government was putting money into schemes for victims. Last April it announced that £4m from recovered proceeds of crime, would be directed towards community-based groups supporting victims of sex crimes. "We have to do both things: stop reoffending, so there are fewer victims, and support those people who are victims."