The collapse of the case against Kieren Fallon and five others is a humiliating result for the racing authorities, the City of London police and the Crown Prosecution Service.The prosecution admitted its case depended partly on circumstantial evidence but from early on it began to fall apart under close cross-examination. Most damaging were the assaults on the testimony of Ray Murrihy, the Australian expert who was supposed to give evidence about the suspicious nature of the races. In his ruling, Mr Justice Forbes said he had little or nothing to add to the prosecution case. Earlier in the trial Murrihy had admitted: "I have not said I was an expert in respect of UK racing, yes, that is a fair statement."When he gave evidence Murrihy had made little secret of the fact that his racing expertise related primarily to his own jurisdiction in Australia. This, the judge said yesterday, was "tantamount to Mr Murrihy disqualifying himself from giving expert evidence in relation to the suspicious races [in the UK]".There were five other strands to the case apart from Murrihy's expert evidence, including evidence of association, of betting patterns and telephone traffic between the accused. Without Murrihy, however, the judge made clear that the remaining evidence showed little more than normal social contact and discussion of horses' chances.The police investigation that led to the charges of conspiracy to defraud was headed, for the most part, by acting detective inspector Mark Manning, who told the jury early in his evidence he had little or no understanding of either racing or betting. This hole in his knowledge was thoroughly exposed when it became clear that throughout the investigation, he had been labouring under a fundamental misunderstanding as to the sums that had been risked, won and lost. Manning believed that Miles Rodgers, said to be the leader of the conspiracy, had made a profit of £2m. In fact, his record on the 27 races in question showed a six-figure loss.This was another fundamental problem with the case. If conspiracy it was, then it owed more to Ealing comedy than Frederick Forsyth, not least because six of the 27 races at the heart of the conspiracy were won by jockeys who were allegedly trying to lose.Five of these involved Fallon, whose normal strike rate across the course of a season is about one winner in every five rides - 20%. During the 17 races that he was accused of trying to lose, as his counsel John Kelsey-Fry QC frequently pointed out, Fallon's strike-rate was nearly 30%. In Kelsey-Fry's words: "The jury is being asked to believe that in races he was allegedly trying to lose, the strike rate of one of the world's best jockeys was actually 50% higher than normal."The jury also heard about the opinions of Jim McGrath, one of Britain's most respected race readers, on the merits of several of the rides involved. In an interview with the police, McGrath suggested that several of the riders' performances were not simply adequate, but actually "good" rides.Embarrassingly, the details of his interview were not disclosed to the defence until the trial was about to begin.Earlier in the proceedings Paul Scotney, head of security at the British Horseracing Authority, was forced to deny that he had drunkenly boasted that he would "get Kieren Fallon" if it was the last thing he did.In his direction to the jury, the judge also drew attention to the fact that none of the stewards' inquiries after any of the suspect races had involved Jockey Club rule 157, which involves deliberate attempts to stop or delay a horse. There was, he said, therefore no prima facie evidence of any breach.The determination to go ahead with the trial may have been a reflection of long-standing, generalised suspicions that where so much money is traded, there is always the danger of race-fixing. The evidence that emerged of jockeys texting tips to friends, acquaintances and gamblers may not entirely dispel lingering distrust about the sport.Defending the Crown Prosecution Service's action, Asker Husain, of the special crime division, said: "It was right to prosecute this case. This was a serious allegation of fraud in connection with horse racing, with the potential to undermine the integrity of a historic sport enjoyed by millions."Commander Patrick Rice, of the City of London police, said: "I am confident that the officers involved conducted a thorough investigation. We followed the intelligence we obtained and went to where the evidence led us."We are disappointed by the judge's decision but we appreciate the reasons for it. We believe we presented some compelling evidence and it is a pity that the jury did not have the opportunity to consider all the evidence we had gathered."The witnessRay Murrihy, chief steward of New South Wales and a central figure in the Fallon trial, has been in charge of the regulation of racing in Sydney for 12 years. Murrihy, 60, has a reputation as a stern disciplinarian unafraid to take on the biggest names in the sport. In 2002, he was instrumental in an inquiry which saw Robbie Waterhouse, bookmaker husband of trainer Gai Waterhouse, banned for two years. During the hearing, Murrihy was reported to have referred to Waterhouse as "Mr Guilty".In autumn 2006, he was accused in a TV documentary of making secret tape recordings of conversations with trainers and jockeys.The co-defendants· Fergal Lynch, 29. Aged just 18 when he recorded his first major win in Britain, on Clerkenwell in the Ebor Handicap at York in August 1996. He ended the year as champion apprentice. His career total of 586 victories in Britain includes successes for the Aga Khan, Michael Tabor and John Magnier. His first winner was in July 1995. He has twice been suspended for offences under the "non-trier" rules· Darren Williams, 29. Had the lowest profile of the three jockeys standing trial at the Old Bailey. The most significant success of his career came as long ago as August 2000, with a short-head victory aboard Repertory in a handicap at Epsom. He rode his first winner in Britain in June 1997, when Kirov Protege, a 33-1 chance, took a handicap at Warwick. His career total in Britain is 224 wins· Miles Rodgers, 38. Described in court as a professional gambler with business interests in Yorkshire. He was in charge of the Platinum Racing Club, which owned a number of horses until April 2004. He was then warned off by the racing authorities in April 2004 for taking bets on the club's horses to lose. His ban expired in April 2006· Philip Sherkle, 42. Describes himself as a barman and also formerly employed in a furniture shop in Dublin. Lives in Tamworth with his wife and children. Told police he met Fallon through a pub owner in Newmarket. Exchanged regular calls and texts with Fallon and Rodgers· Shaun Lynch. The older brother of Fergal Lynch, he was alleged to be the initial point of contact between the conspirators and Fallon. Described as a driver by profession, he has worked for several bookmakers, and previously shared a house with his brother in North Yorkshire. Exchanged regular calls and text messages with Fallon and Rodgers