The battle between the government and "unduly lenient" judges intensified last night when the home secretary, John Reid, demanded a review of the sentence passed on a convicted paedophile within hours of it being handed down.Craig Sweeney, 24, was jailed for life at Cardiff crown court for the kidnapping and sexual assault of a three-year-old girl, but was told he could be considered for parole after five years and 108 days.The attack happened two days after the licence on which Sweeney had been released from prison had expired. He had served 18 months of a three-year sentence for the indecent assault on a six-year-old.Sweeney, who was known to his victim's family, snatched the girl from her Cardiff home at bedtime on January 2 this year while her mother was on the phone. He drove her to his Newport flat where he sexually assaulted her three times.His victim's family voiced their anger at the fact that he could be considered for parole after only five years, describing the sentence as "an insult" and complaining that such grave failings in the criminal justice system needed urgently addressing.Mr Reid responded within hours by writing to the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, voicing his concern that the five-year tariff did not reflect the seriousness of the crime and urging him to refer the case to the court of appeal.Figures released last week by the attorney general detailed 339 cases in the past three years - involving one in 10 of all judges - who have had their sentences referred to the court of appeal for being unduly lenient.Lord Goldsmith's office said last night he would make a decision whether to refer the case within the next 28 days. It was clear, however, that he was irritated by the political pressure exerted by Mr Reid's swift response.The victim's family cautiously welcomed news of intervention. Anne Tyson, their solicitor, said: "While the family welcomes the action by the Home Office to review today's sentence, we need to see a firm commitment by the government and judiciary that this type of heinous crime is properly punished."The tariff in Sweeney's case was set yesterday by Judge John Griffith Williams. He said Sweeney was a "thoroughly devious man" who had kidnapped the little girl for his own sexual gratification: "You subjected her to an extremely painful ordeal. It beggars belief. Her mother has said it will be worse than a death in the family. She will never get over it."The judge told Sweeney he would have to serve a minimum of five years and 108 days before being considered for parole but it was "unlikely" he would get early release. It is understood that in calculating the sentence the judge would have had an 18-year minimum tariff starting point for conviction on charges of kidnapping and three counts of sexually assaulting a child under 13. Sweeney would have got a discount of one third for his early guilty pleas bringing the tariff for the life sentence down to 12 years.As prisoners only serve 50% of "determinate" sentences before they are considered for parole this would be reduced in the calculation to six years. The five years and 108 days tariff passed by the judge reflects the time that Sweeney has already served on remand.Sweeney's counsel, John Rees QC, said in mitigation that he had pleaded guilty "without reservation" and had expressed remorse about something which had been done on the "spur of the moment".