A study of racial crime in London has found that one fifth of incidents involve neighbours, the Guardian can reveal.Reviewing more than 9,000 race related crimes that took place last year, researchers for the Metropolitan police study also discovered that more than 30% of all incidents ended with violence rather than threats, abuse or harassment. Rows involving youths and schoolchildren may be responsible for 20% of allegations. Overall figures show there were 18,253 reported racist incidents in the capital in 2000-01, down more than 2,000 from the previous year. The total, though, is still double the number reported before Sir William Macpherson's inquiry into the Stephen Lawrence murder investigation, which was published three years ago on Sunday. It is also quadruple the figure recorded in 1997-98. As a result of the Macpherson inquiry, every London borough has a community safety unit that records and investigates allegations of racism and other hate crime. Under the Macpherson definition, a racist incident is "any ... which is perceived to be racist by the victim or any other person". The Met has also established an Understanding and Responding to Hate Crime project which analyses and reviews data to give the force a clearer understanding of the issue.The latest research shows that 20% of suspects of racial crime are under the age of 16, and nearly 40% of suspects are under the age of 21. But victims of racial crime tend to be much older. According to the study, more than half of the victims of racist incidents are aged between 21 and 40. Afro-Caribbean and Indian and Pakistani victims were targeted in equal proportion. Police believe the increase in the number of reported incidents in the last three years is a reflection of victims' greater willingness to come forward, rather than an explosion in racial crime. They expect the numbers will level off over the next two to three years. The Met has made a huge effort to repair its image with ethnic minority groups since 1999. The force said yesterday it had implemented 26 of the 39 recommendations made by Macpherson, and that progress was being made on the remainder.