Is a Scarman syndrome re-emerging in British policing? One chief constable interviewed by the Guardian during the Lawrence inquiry, expressed regret at the failure of the police service to persevere with the Scarman inquiry's reforms as the 1981 Brixton riots faded. Now, almost four years after the Lawrence inquiry exposed institutional racism in the Metropolitan police, bad old ways are re-emerging. In the aftermath of the Lawrence report, the use of stop and search, one of the crudest and least effective police tactics, was systematically cut back by a third. But now it has started to rise again and worse still in a more discriminating manner. At the time of the inquiry, black people were five times more likely to be stopped than white people. Now they are eight times more likely. The rise in stops in the Metropolitan area is particular startling: up 30% more for black people and 40% more for Asians, who are now three times more likely to be stopped than white people. Black police officers, who have increased by a third since 1999, rightly expressed concern yesterday.Stop and search rose ninefold between 1986 and 1998, but the proportion leading to arrests dropped dramatically from 17% to 10%. Police concede the procedure is fraught with potential damage to community relations. Some 900,000 of the 1m people stopped in 1998 were found to be breaking no laws. The main crimes of the other 100,000 were carrying small amounts of cannabis, an offensive weapon, or stolen goods. Pilot programmes after Lawrence showed that with smaller numbers of better targeted stops, they could be more effective. But with the recent rise in street crime, these pilots were overtaken by heavy police sweeps for muggers, even though stop and searches have never been an effective tool against such crimes.John Denham, the police minister, announced a new unit to examine the statistics yesterday. The causes are more complicated than just racial discrimination. But clearly racism is playing a part and that should not wait for the unit's analysis. What is needed is more rigorous management of the non-discriminatory policing that forces are meant to be pursuing. The key is much better supervision at local level. The key players are the supervising officers, inspectors and desk sergeants. They will already know who the discriminating officers are. It is time they rooted them out.