Britain's position as one of the world's leading financial centres is being undermined by the "quite disgraceful" underfunding of fraud investigations, a senior detective will tell a conference today.Detective Superintendent Ken Farrow, head of the Association of Chief Police Officers' working group on fraud, will say that the number of detectives involved in such inquiries has dropped to "its lowest level ever" in the past 12 months, despite estimates that this type of crime costs the UK more than £15bn a year. With only 500 detectives assigned to fraud cases in forces across England, Scotland and Wales, and the serious fraud office overwhelmed with work, police are having to concentrate on the biggest and most obvious cases, he said yesterday. "We are sending out the wrong signals to the business community," said Mr Farrow. "As an offshore financial centre that no longer has a manufacturing base, we are totally dependent on the work and credibility of the financial sector. It is absolutely crucial that we are seen to be accountable for what goes on, yet we don't have anything like the resources we need to investigate fraud." Mr Farrow, an officer in the City of London force, said financial crimes that were not being given proper attention included fraud by doctors who swindled the NHS by claiming call-out fees for non-existent patients. "Doctors are making up patients, generating false accounts and exploiting the rules that govern their activities." Mr Farrow said the situation was so dire that even if extra officers were recruited tomorrow, it would take years before they had any impact on fraud. "It takes time to train officers for a specialism such as this. It cannot be done overnight. We have lost a lot of experienced officers in recent years and they cannot be replaced just like that. Many of our most experienced people are being snapped up by businesses that offer extremely high salaries. We cannot compete with them." The problems will be the major discussion points of a three day conference organised by Acpo. Speakers will include the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, director of the serious fraud office, Rosalind Wright, and Northern Ireland minister, Jane Kennedy. Police had hoped the government would fund a national fraud squad, but the idea has not found favour with ministers. Instead, the Home Office is considering increased funding for fraud squads within the major forces. A decision is expected before Christmas, but Mr Farrow warned that only a substantial increase in funding would make any difference. "We wanted a national fraud squad of 1,200 officers, and that would have required £85m from the Treasury. The plan seems to have been vetoed, so we are waiting to see what the Home Office will come up with. "Ten years ago there were 900 officers working on fraud cases. On a good day at the moment, we might have 500 working on investigations. The extra officers that are being recruited by forces are being used to tackle street crime. Resources have been further stretched by the need to combat terrorism. Many fraud squad detectives have been assigned to other duties over the last year."