Police today swooped on a dozen mobile phone shops across London to arrest staff who had allegedly encouraged people to falsely report their mobiles as having been stolen.Eleven people were arrested at shops in central London and Croydon on suspicion of informing customers who had lost phones that they should report them as stolen to make insurance claims easier.The Metropolitan police and British transport police (BTP) began a joint undercover operation last month after officers found that a significant percentage of those reporting mobile phone theft were lying. BTP had received reports of mobiles being stolen on the tube on days when it was closed because of strike action, and were told that mobiles had been taken on the Central line at times when it was closed for repair.On one occasion, a man claiming to be a victim of theft went to a police station to report it, only for his phone to begin ringing in his pocket as he was doing so. BTP estimates that false reporting is in the region of 18%, and senior officers say that, if it were all stopped, overall crime recorded in London would drop by 2.5%.Earlier this year the Met said that mobiles were involved in 48% of street robberies in the capital, being the only items stolen in 28% of cases. In January this year, there were 1,518 street crimes in London in which only a mobile was stolen, and a further 1,213 in which a phone was among the items taken.However, when detectives from the robbery squad at Marylebone police station began investigating street crime in their area in August, they found a number of reports of theft to be false. Officers discovered that, during April this year, nine out of 58 reports of stolen phones - or 15.5% of reports - were false. They also discovered that some mobile phone shop staff were encouraging customers to make false theft reports for insurance purposes. "Falsely reporting your mobile stolen is a crime, as is encouraging another person to do it," said assistant commissioner Tim Godwin. "Sadly, false reports appear to be rife. Not only does this hugely inflate our crime figures, but it also distorts the public's view of how safe the streets of London actually are."He said that changes in the mobile phone industry did reduce the incidence of false reporting. "The Link, for example, has made massive inroads in this area since changing insurance to include loss. Their reported thefts have decreased by tens of thousands per week," he said.