A town in Northamptonshire is gearing up to become the first in the country to use child curfew orders to tackle juvenile nuisance, banning children under the age of 15 from the streets between 9pm and 6am.The curfews would give police in Corby the power to take children off the streets and return them to their parents who would have to explain why they were out. If nobody was at home the child would be taken into police protection and then passed on to social services. Northamptonshire police yesterday stressed that the curfews were still a proposal and that nothing had been finalised. "We need to undertake further, more detailed consultation with the public and other agencies in order to ensure that this scheme is both appropriate and effective in respect of the particular needs of this area of Corby," said Chief Superintendent Ian McNeill. However, it is understood police last week met Home Office officials, who would need to approve any order, to discuss in detail how they might proceed. Privately, the borough council is strongly in favour of the scheme, which it hopes to have in place within three months. The government changed legislation in August last year, raising the age up to which police and local authorities have the power to implement curfews on children from 10 to 15. The curfews are initially allowed to run for 90 days but can be extended. Yesterday a Home Office spokeswoman said several police forces and local authorities had expressed an interest in using the orders, but so far there had been no official applications. If the curfew orders are implemented in Corby, the ban would centre around a small area of Oakley Road, where a Safeways superstore was burned down in an arson attack and police and fire services have regularly come under attack from gangs of stone-throwing youths. Muggings and robberies by young offenders in the area have also been on the increase. The plan is the brainchild of Inspector Garry Forsyth, who raised the idea at a meeting of local residents last week, where it received a positive response. "Corby is no different from any other town in terms of anti-social behaviour," he said. "There are certain times and certain areas where it occurs. I first started thinking about curfews when they became available in August. The more I've looked into it the more I am attracted by the prospect." Outside the superstore, where since the fire shoppers have had to buy their groceries from a temporary marquee in the car park, it was difficult yesterday to find anyone who would argue against Inspector Forsyth's views. "It's the par ents who need the smack not the children," said Eileen, who moved to Corby from Watford 10 years ago. "It used to be a nice place but now you need a curfew at day and at night. I suppose if parents are being forced to take some responsibility, it might make a difference." But some in the local community will need convincing that the scheme will really work. Yesterday morning the local glazing contractor was repairing one of the thousands of broken windows that litter the Kingswood estate. "It's like Beirut round here," he said. "But I don't see what good a curfew will do. Have you seen this place? The police will never catch anyone in here." Lynn Johnstone, who runs the Danes Holmes communi care centre, also had her doubts. "Something needs to be done to try and tackle the problem, but very often it is only about a couple of dozen kids who are causing trouble. I'm worried the good kids are going to get tarred with the same brush as the bad. We run courses here that don't finish until 9pm: what is going to happen to the kids who are walking home?"