It's Christmas, the tinsel-trimmed time of the year when we traditionally give one another presents we don't need and endure the gloomy seasonal drink-drive advice on the telly.This year's campaign has been accompanied with calls for a total ban on drinking before getting behind the wheel. Indeed, Scotland's doctors, that well-known group of teetotallers, have even gone to Holyrood to ask for the legal limit of alcohol in the blood to be halved.Oddly, for a generally libertarian, party-loving sort of an individual, I find I'm in complete agreement. In fact, I'm prepared to go further and say we should immediately ban half the people currently driving stone cold sober, but doing so at completely irresponsible speeds.Across England and Wales last year, 540 people were killed in accidents caused by drink-driving - in Scotland the number was more than 50. A terrible, needless loss of life we should all be ashamed of - and we are.There was a time when weaving your way home after a few pints was commonplace behaviour. These days, driving home drunk is like saying the N-word on Channel 4 or naming a cuddly toy after a well known prophet. It just isn't done.Your pals in the pub are more likely to put you in a taxi than let you loose with your Vauxhall Vectra because the drink-drive message has sunk in. But a far greater threat on our roads, that continues to be tolerated and even defended, is the fact that most of us break the 30mph speed limit most of the time.Those 50 people killed in Scotland last year because of drink driving represent less than one-sixth of the total 314 lives lost on our roads, including 61 pedestrians and 25 children.We are all blissfully ignoring speed, despite the gruesome TV ad campaign that tried to ram home the fatal sequence: hit at 30mph, 80 per cent of pedestrians survive; at 35mph it's just 50 per cent; and at 40mph it's 10 per cent. Yet no one is paying attention. At least, not on the roads I regularly drive down, where 30mph is not so much a limit, more of a starting point.I'm guilty of this carelessness myself. A few months ago I received a letter from Northumberland police telling me I'd been caught by a speed camera doing 37mph in a 30mph zone, in a town I couldn't even remember passing through. I grunted at the injustice of it, then noticed that instead of a £60 fine and three points on my licence they were offering me a place on a speed-awareness scheme at a cost of £67 - but no points.I took the place to protect my licence, giving up a day's work to drive to Northumberland to take part in a three-hour workshop. I was prepared for a cynical attempt to make me feel that every child on the road had been killed because of me - the way the TV ad works. But instead we were guided through a series of computer-based tests by an instructor, who also tested our knowledge of the highway code and debunked the myths that have grown up around speed cameras. None of us had been clocked doing 100mph on a motorway, we'd all been booked for doing less than 40 in an urban area. But although our offences were 'mild', they were potentially lethal.The course left a lasting impression on me, and I now drive completely differently from the way I used to.A number of telling facts emerged. For one, only eight out of 20 of us knew what the national speed limits were - in other words, more than half the class were driving without even knowing what speed they ought to be doing on what road.We were also all in denial. When questioned, no one said they ever knowingly went above the speed limit, and the vast majority of us claimed to be 'above average' drivers. Who were we kidding?Almost everyone wanted to blame the cameras, rather than the fact they were going too fast. Cameras are seen as money-making machines, a way to torment 'the ordinary, hard-done-by motorist' even further. But we were told that in the whole of Northumberland only 12 cameras are live at any one time. Not exactly a cash cow, then, and I doubt if the live-camera-per-mile ratio is any different in Scotland. Camera locations are not random either; they are carefully limited to the sites of past serious accidents.Perhaps the most telling moment of the afternoon was when one woman heatedly insisted she'd never speeded before, ever - although surely the reality was that she'd never before been caught.As a Scot, she further complained that she should have been able to do the workshop nearer her home, north of the border. But, alas, Scotland - in common with about half the constabularies of England and Wales - doesn't bother to run a speed-awareness scheme. Although highly effective at getting the safe-speed message across, these workshops are considered voluntary. Perhaps their absence here is because no Scots ever speed.Denial isn't just a personal issue, you see, even governments fall victim to it.· Ruaridh Nicoll is away