A murder inquiry was launched yesterday after the body of a teenager who went missing after a night out on Friday was discovered just five minutes' drive from her home.Police investigating the disappearance of Hannah Foster, 17, had expressed fears that she had been abducted as she walked the short distance home from a bus stop in Portswood, Southampton. A passerby out walking found her fully clothed body in the undergrowth of a country lane, near a railway line, yesterday afternoon. A search began when Hannah's parents raised the alarm after she failed to return from a night out at a pub with girlfriends. The A-level student was last seen by her best friend at 10.50pm as she turned into Shaftesbury Avenue, a few minutes'walk from her home. The girls had been socialising in the Bevois Valley area of the city, but had stuck mostly to non-alcoholic drinks and remained sober, the police confirmed. Detective Inspector Tony Adams said the body had been found in Allington Lane . Last night a police spokeswoman said: "We can now confirm that because of the description of the body and the clothing the deceased was wearing we are satisfied as we can be pending formal identification that it is Hannah Foster." It was not revealed whether the teenager had been killed elsewhere and dumped. One line of inquiry being pursued is that she may have been abducted in Shaftesbury Avenue by a passing motorist. "A postmortem examination will be conducted as soon as possible by a Home Office pathologist. We have interviewed the four friends she was out with on Friday," Det Insp Adams said. "Our hearts go out to Hannah's family and friends and they can rest assured that no stone will be left unturned in our investigation. The discovery has had a devastating impact on the inquiry team, but we are determined to exhaust all possible lines of inquiry and ensure that justice is done." Her parents, Hilary and Trevor, were at home with her younger sister yesterday. The police described Hannah, who was studying for A-levels at Barton Peveril college in Eastleigh, Hampshire, as a model daughter who had no problems at home and did not have a boyfriend. She recently attained five A grades in her mock exams and had secured a place to study medicine at Bristol University. More officers were drafted in to help the 60-strong team last night as extensive house-to-house inquiries got under way. The case was transferred to the Hampshire major crime team and control had passed to Detective Chief Inspector Dave Williams, Det Insp Adams said. He added: "We are appealing for witnesses who may have seen Hannah at any time since the last sighting. We are also appealing to any friends who we have not yet spoken to and to taxi drivers who may have given her a lift, or to anyone who may have seen a girl matching her description." Hannah, 168cm (5ft 6in) tall with short brown hair, was wearing a brown cord coat with a fake fur collar and cuffs, a light brown polo neck jumper with elbow patches, a short tweed skirt and brown knee-length boots. She was carrying a green canvas satchel-style bag. Hampshire police said: "We would advise lone females walking in this area not to go out alone at night and to stick to brightly lit public roads until we determined exactly what has happened to Hannah."