The media coverage of the missing McCann child has largely escaped censure. This is because it concerns an ongoing tragedy and because the grief of those directly involved is so real. Neither justifies freedom from comment. The coverage has been absurdly over the top and cannot have served the interests of the family, or the eventual cause of justice.I was astonished to see the BBC news department sending its star presenter, Huw Edwards, to southern Portugal to handle what was essentially a single thread story with at least two other onscreen reporters in place. The corporation must be stiff with under-employed staff. Presumably as a result of this decision, the McCanns regularly led the 6 o'clock news, ahead of Gordon Brown's leadership bid - even when there was nothing new to report from the Algarve.In this voracious feeding frenzy the media presence in Portimao was reduced to extremes of invention to justify the prominence the story was getting back home. We learned of false sightings, car chases, child traffickers, barren women, beach paedophiles and dark dungeons. A "suspect" was enveloped in private detective work way beyond any consideration for natural justice. The sympathy a reader or viewer was bound to feel for the McCanns was overwhelmed in an exploitative swarm. Star footballers were signed up, as were Hell's Angels, MPs wearing yellow ribbons and ministers meeting deputations. It was as if a missing child were this year's Make Poverty History campaign.Madeleine has become Maddy, an angel face in the clutches of a monster. The reasonable attempts of the McCanns to avoid publicity and be seen to cooperate with the much-battered Portuguese police were as broken sticks in a tornado of coverage. No aspect of the case was left intact by invading armies of counsellors, paediatricians, psychologists, criminologists and trauma consultants. "Every parent's nightmare" became the nation's nightmare. Families closed their doors to the world, hugged their children close and cursed Portugal.To suggest that this might not be a good way of finding a missing child is clearly spitting in the wind. It is possible that publicity in the McCann case might have induced witnesses to come forward in the immediate aftermath of the girl's disappearance. It is equally possible that media hysteria could drive a cornered criminal to desperate measures to cover his or her tracks. Is it worth the risk?There were 798 child abductions in Britain in the last period for which figures are available (2003-4), of which most were intra-family but 68 were "by strangers". Of these, a majority were quickly and quietly resolved, by information being available and acted on before the captor realised. Twenty-five of them took longer, in addition to dozens from preceding years. Since the disappearance of Madeleine on May 3, another 450 young people have gone missing in Britain. While many are teenagers, none has received anything like the attention given to the McCanns.So what made this case so special as to merit the trans-shipment of Fleet Street's finest and the BBC's chief news-reader? The answer is that a "big news story" is not a systematic concept. It does not emerge onto the page according to some calculus of merit, as satirically suggested by Michael Frayn in his novel, Towards the End of Morning. It does not claim its place on the front page via a table stipulating five dead Englishmen (or one Londoner), 50 dead Europeans and 1,000 dead Chinese.To acquire front page status a story must compete with dozens of similar human interest stories on a particular day, boosted by happenings over the light news period such as a bank holiday. Hence the phenomenon that alsatians only attack children at Easter and there is a "road carnage horror" every Christmas, though statistics on both are constant through the year. The story should relate the ordinary lives of readers, as did the Soham murders, but not the deaths of the Morecambe Bay Chinese cockle pickers. It must contain tears, suspense and mystery.Such features are not cynical or strange. A newspaper story strives to attain the quality of a novel, if only because it knows that readers like novels, as television viewers like soap operas. The human imagination is attuned to narratives that have beginnings, middles and ends, preferably ends that carry some moral message. Under this pressure what is extraordinary is not that newspapers sometimes make things up (and get them wrong) but that they make so little up.The McCann story ticked all these boxes. It was not another runaway teenager or the death abroad of another "promising gap-year student". It was a heartbreaking and open-ended mystery. Any parent could relate to it. Any reader could, by expressing sympathy and showing vigilance, participate in relieving pain and possibly solving the case. This might involve intrusion into private grief and blatant xenophobia, but that is hardly a media novelty. Britons travelling abroad seem to feel entitled to the same consideration by the authorities as they would get at home, and journalists feed that unreasonable expectation.I have found the coverage of the McCann story prurient and tedious beyond belief. That the BBC should regard it as more important than Brown's ascension to national leadership crumbles my faith in that great organisation. Tabloid values have come to British public service broadcasting with a vengeance and without even the commercial pressure of the private sector. It is like the daily attention given to the kidnapping of the BBC's brave Gaza correspondent, Alan Johnston, when dozens of other kidnappings, including of journalists, go unreported.In this spirit I must constantly remind myself that the British media does not do responsibility. It does stories. And stories tell better when they are about individuals, not collectives. The media is unconcerned with what people like me find decorous or important. It kicks down doors and exposes the hidden corners of the human condition. It fights competition, plays dirty and disobeys the rules. There is nothing it finds too vulgar or too prurient for its wandering, penetrating lens.Journalists may have cooked the McCann story to a burnt crisp. But they cook many other stories that way and I say, thank goodness. There are plenty in power who feel too much was written and said on the Royal Navy hostages, on cash-for-honours, on BAE sleaze and on David Kelly. Tough luck on them.Damilola Taylor was just one among many youngsters whose lives are ruined or lost on Britain's sink housing estates, conditions highlighted by the extraordinary publicity attached to his case. Many brave people are killed for trying to impose order on Britain's streets, but it was the teacher, Philip Lawrence, who captured the public's imagination. Sometimes there is no better way to alert the nation to street violence, racism or even the dangers faced by families abroad than through the tragedy visited on an individual victim.The British press plays hard cop to the soft cop of the British constitution. It goes where politics dares not tread, certainly the present pusillanimous parliament that still cannot find a way of holding the government to account for Iraq, as congress is finally doing in America. The press does not operate with any sense of proportion, judgment or self-restraint because it is selling stories, not running the country. The unshackled and irresponsible press sometimes gets it wrong. But I still prefer it, warts and all, to a shackled and responsible one.simon.jenkins@theguardian.com