A man and a 16-year-old boy have been found guilty of murdering a father of five who was kicked and stamped to death yards from his front door.Michael Eccles, 43, died on 26 January, a day after being attacked by the pair as he went to the shops near his home in Lichfield, Staffordshire.A jury at Birmingham crown court took four hours to convict Carl Keatley, 20, and Jordan Carroll, both of Lichfield.Carroll's father, Edward, who tried to help his son cover up the crime by putting his blood-stained clothes in the washing machine and cleaning blood from his head, was found guilty of perverting the course of justice.During the two-week trial, jurors heard that Eccles was walking home from a Costcutter store when he was set upon by Keatley and Carroll, who was 15 at the time. The pair, who had spent the day drinking vodka in a park, chased Eccles and knocked him to the ground after a "verbal exchange" outside the shop.Gareth Evans QC, prosecuting, told the court that Eccles, a factory worker, was "punched and kicked and stamped upon" by the defendants, who left him lying in the street with a burst eye socket, 10 broken ribs, several broken bones in his neck and severe facial injuries.His head was "literally kicked in" after blows rained down on the front, back and both sides of his skull, Evans said.The prosecutor said a passing motorist saw Keatley and Carroll "pushing, barging, and intimidating" Eccles. He saw Carroll run back to the victim immediately after the attack and "deliver a football-like kick to the head of Mr Eccles".When paramedics arrived at the scene, in the Dimbles area of the cathedral city, Eccles had no pulse. He was resuscitated but later suffered a heart attack and loss of blood to his brain caused irreversible brain damage.Eccles was pronounced dead in hospital the next day, leaving behind a partner of 23 years and five children.Both Keatley and the teenager denied murder. Keatley claimed he could not have kicked or stamped on Eccles because he has a prosthetic leg.He told jurors the false limb, fitted above the knee of his right leg in January 2007, prevented him from being able to exert any force with his feet. He said: "I am not able to use my feet in a violent way."Carroll argued that he was not guilty of murder because he was too drunk to form the requisite intent."I accept that I played a part in the attack, from the evidence. I can't recall it," he said. "I wasn't in the right state of mind to know what I was doing."In a statement delivered on the court steps after the verdicts, Eccles's brother-in-law, John Bayliss, said the family was pleased with the verdicts and hoped the killers would receive sentences of at least 15 years ."We will never forgive this evil pair," he said. "They showed no mercy to a defenceless man as he lay dying on the floor. Ecky was a great man, a loving father, son, and partner. He had a heart of gold and lived life with a smile and enthusiasm that is seldom seen."Through their vicious attack, they may only have stopped one heart, but they have broken many more and left lots of lives shattered. We look forward to justice being served. God bless you, Ecky."The judge, Robert Juckes QC, described the case as "difficult and troubling". He adjourned sentencing until Friday 11 September. All three men were remanded in custody.