The mother of Shannon Matthews broke down in tears yesterday after accusing her "violent and abusive" partner and his family of trying to frame her for the kidnap of her own daughter.Karen Matthews' trial was adjourned to allow her to recover after an hour of gulping and choking back sobs, as she claimed she was told to take the blame for the failed plot - to claim a £50,000 reward for finding the schoolgirl - because she was a woman without convictions who "would get off lightly".More than 50 times in two hours she denied involvement in the kidnap, after walking the few yards to the witness box from the dock at Leeds crown court where she has sat silently for a fortnight. She repeatedly answered "I did not" and "no" as barristers asked her about alleged bullying, threats and lies surrounding the nine-year-old's disappearance from her home in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, for 24 days in February and March.Matthews said she was scared, upset and disgusted to be linked to the scam, which saw her daughter drugged with travel sickness pills and kept in a flat, with a leash as a restraint when she was left alone. Shannon was finally found by police in a drawer under a bed. The flat's owner, Michael Donovan, the 40-year-old uncle of Matthews' partner, Craig Meehan, was also hiding in the drawer.Matthews, 33, and Donovan deny kidnap, false imprisonment and perverting the course of justice by triggering a £3.2m police search and standing silently by when they knew where the child was. The jury of seven women and five men has been told that the scam was designed to end once the reward topped £50,000, with Donovan releasing Shannon and then "finding" her in Dewsbury market.Between sobs and pauses, Matthews turned on Donovan, who sat next to a security officer in the dock staring at the floor. She said she hardly knew him, had never visited his flat in Batley, less than two miles from her own home, and had no idea that Shannon was hidden there. "I'm just disgusted because I haven't had nothing to do with it," she told her QC, Frances Oldham, who took her through a series of claims and different stories given to West Yorkshire police. Frequently asked to speak up, and offered tissues by Mr Justice McCombe, she blamed Meehan for getting her arrested."I was scared of him. He was violent," she said. "Seven days before Shannon disappeared, he punched my arm and hit me in the face - slapped me. He told me if I left him he would tell people I was an unfit mother and have my children taken away from me." Oldham asked if Meehan had said anything about what Matthews should say or do after Shannon had been found. After a pause, Matthews said, only just audibly: "For me to take the blame for Shannon." Oldham asked: "Did he say why?" Matthews replied: "I had no convictions and I was female and I'd get off lightly." She said Meehan had hatched the "hush hush" plot with his sister Amanda Hyett, who lived next door to the family, and Donovan."I have thought about what has happened and I believe the three of them hatched the plan to keep me in the dark," she said. Shortly afterwards she broke down completely and the jury was sent out for 10 minutes.Before Matthews took the stand, Oldham accused the police and media of jumping to conclusions about the case and warned jurors not to do the same. She told them: "Karen Matthews has been demonised in the media and you could be forgiven for expecting the worst from her. "It would be easy to approach her evidence on the basis she's a liar. But you have only heard half of the case so far. You 12 have the opportunity of considering, not just smear, not just injustice, not just prejudice, but the evidence here." Matthews began her long list of denials by dismissing suggestions from Donovan, who gave evidence earlier this week, that she had threatened to have him killed or his car torched by "lads" she knew, if he refused to hide Shannon in his flat. Cross-examined by Alan Conrad QC, for Donovan, she denied she was a "hard, manipulative woman who saw Donovan as someone to take advantage of and bully". The court was played part of Matthews' 999 call to police, four hours after Shannon failed to return home from a school swimming trip. Her tearful TV appeal the next day, saying "Shannon, please come home, we love to you to bits" was also shown.Conrad accused her of accomplished lying, both in the film and the dock. "You're putting on a staged performance for the jury today, are you not? Just as it was a staged performance during the three and a half weeks your daughter was missing. You can play for the cameras and play for the court, can't you?" Matthews replied "no" and denied that she had practised both her answers and her tears beforehand. "I love my children. I never, ever knew where my daughter was and I've said that all along because it's true," she said. "I've always said that I didn't have nothing to do with it."She told Oldham that her different stories at different times during the police inquiry had been prompted by fears that all four of her children, aged between 12 and three, would "be tooken off me". Since her arrest in March, all four have been looked after in care.Conrad asked her: "Isn't it the position that when you're in a difficulty you'll just accuse anybody else?" Matthews denied that: "I was overwhelmed when Shannon was found safe and well. I was just happy that she was found."The trial continues.Transcript: 'I never knew where she was'Frances Oldham QC, representing Karen Matthews: Did you plan the kidnap of your daughter?Karen Matthews: I did not. Oldham: Did you threaten to have Michael Donovan beaten or killed, or his car burned out?Matthews: I did not.Oldham: Did you know Shannon was at Lidgate Gardens with Michael Donovan? Matthews: I did not. Oldham: Did you plan Shannon's kidnap so the media would offer £50,000? Matthews: I did not.Alan Conrad QC, for Donovan, cross-examining Matthews: You saw him as someone to take advantage of and bully.Matthews: No.Conrad: You're putting on, for the jury today, a staged performance. Just as it was a staged performance during the three and a half weeks your daughter was missing. You can play for the cameras and play for the court, can't you?Matthews: No.Conrad: "If you're right, you've been the victim of a terrible injustice, haven't you? You're just a loving mother who's done nothing wrong?Matthews: I love my children. I never, ever knew where my daughter was and I've said that all along because it's true. I've always said that I didn't have nothing to do with it.Conrad: During the time Shannon was missing, and after that for some considerable time, you were living a lie, weren't you? And you are, to use the prosecution's phrase, an accomplished liar, aren't you?Matthews: No.