When the phone call came through one day in October it was hard, at first, for the helpline operator at the Freedom Charity to hear because the woman was speaking in a whisper. The caller explained that she had been held captive for 30 years and needed to escape."We were completely horrified," says Aneeta Prem, who founded the charity three years ago, "but we said 'absolutely, of course we'll help you.'"Vineeta Thornhill, who is chief executive of the charity (and Prem's sister), became the main point of contact for the caller, who said she was one of three women being held captive by a 67-year-old couple at a house in south London. They would later be identified by police as a 69-year-old Malaysian woman, a 57-year-old Irish woman and a 30-year-old British woman who may have been born at the house."Arranging times when calls could be made was crucially important," says Prem. "They had managed to get a mobile, and the people who held them didn't know they had that so there were only limited amounts of time where they could speak on the phone. It would be at a certain time in the early evening."Prem spoke to the Irish woman in one of the early calls. "She told me she was Irish and I said 'you haven't got an Irish accent'. That was a bit surprising. [She was] incredibly quietly spoken so I was always struggling to hear. I was very clear in what we needed to do, and that leaving them in the house was not going to be an option for us – that they had picked up the phone and we had a duty of care to make sure that we would look after them from that moment."We meet outside a television studio in central London where Prem has been doing interviews, our conversation snatched between travelling back to her hotel, then to radio interviews, then – when I leave her – to a press briefing at New Scotland Yard. She is accompanied by a friend fielding phone calls from the world's media, but Prem remains unflappable, even though she has not eaten since the previous day.The women escaped on 25 October after a week of phone calls to the charity. Over six or seven secret phone calls, lasting up to 18 minutes as the women's confidence grew, the charity made arrangements to meet them. Prem says the two younger woman did not tell the older woman their plan. "They were very scared that if she did find out that she may not leave, or may tell the people who were holding them."As the meeting time got nearer, "you could hear there was excitement in their voice". Prem says the younger woman told her that this was the first phone call she had ever made.Had they tried to leave before? "They said they hadn't. They felt, when they spoke to me, that they could trust me because they had seen my face on TV a number of times." The news had been the only programme they were allowed to watch, and Prem had appeared several times over the course of a couple of days thanks to the charity's campaign to raise awareness of forced marriages.Prem met the women shortly after they left the house. "It was massively emotional. I was really nervous because I didn't know what they were expecting from me. The first thing they did was all throw their arms around me and they started crying and saying 'you've saved our lives, you've given us freedom'. It was completely overwhelming. They were holding on to me and wouldn't let go of me."She says she cannot talk about what their life was like, other than to say the couple "wouldn't have presented as anything extraordinary" and she believes the neighbours did not know. "If you'd been in a village maybe this wouldn't have happened because people would have noticed something, but I think in the centre of London you don't notice."There had been food for them, she says, and their accommodation had been basic. But it was more the control they were under, "and not having any of the basic human rights of being allowed to do anything they wanted to, even in the house. Their movements were controlled while they were in the house. They had to perform various duties within the house and they weren't given options not to do those things."They were allowed out on rare occasions, "not even on a monthly basis, and for a very limited period of time, with a chaperone. They wouldn't have the freedom to talk to anyone they wanted to, and nor would they have had the confidence to do so."The three women have spent the past few weeks being seen by medics and psychologists, again hidden from the world until the story broke on Thursday. They are aware of the media attention, says Prem, adding that reporters are trying to find out where they are staying.Because they had been allowed to watch the news, they are aware of current events and the outside world, but they are not prepared for life in lots of other ways. "Not in terms of modern technology," says Prem. "I was showing them an iPad the other day and they were quite surprised by that. They're just learning to do everyday things. It's taken at a very slow pace. Being allowed to watch what they want on TV, that real basic ability to do anything they want to do."A case on this scale is nothing like anything Prem has dealt with before. Born in London to Indian parents, she grew up with a strong sense of equality, particularly for women – her father had set up a college for girls in India. At 17, she was running karate clubs in London (she is a black belt) and was horrified by the disappearance of one of her students, another 17-year-old girl she later found out had been forced into marriage. "I didn't even know what a forced marriage was, and I think part of me has been haunted because I didn't do anything to help her."Prem, who is a magistrate, set up her charity to educate young people about issues such as forced marriage, "honour" violence and other child abuse.She has spent a lot of time with the women – it's "still very emotional" when she sees them – and speaks to them most days. Despite having been told they had had almost no contact with anybody outside the house for 30 years, all three have good social skills, although they are "incredibly wary" of new people.What can it be like to build a life from nothing? The 30-year-old woman has had no formal education, although Prem said she can read and write well, "and is very intelligent". But she has grown up with no real interests or expectations of what her life could be like. "I've been talking to them about what the future can hold, almost making a wishlist of things they would like to do."In the short term, their needs are being met by the charity – itself stretched financially – and others, but Prem is worried about the future. How will they support themselves? They are incredibly close, but will they want to live together or separately? How will they cope with media interest? "We've not had a case like this in the UK and we've not been offered any [resources]," she says.She knows the coming months and years will be unimaginably difficult. When I ask what she hopes they can achieve she smiles and says: "That there is some way they can find happiness and are able to start to rebuild their lives and make decisions about what they want to do. And experience the world, and realise it can be a fantastic place. It has been humbling to have met these women who have gone through all of that, and are so amazing."To make a donation to Freedom Charity, visit www.freedomcharity.org.uk 