The maverick police commander under investigation for allegedly smoking cannabis has hinted that he is considering an unprecedented civil action against the Metropolitan police for failing to protect him against homophobia in the force.If an inquiry into the claims of drug-taking - which began to take evidence yesterday - fails to exonerate him, Brian Paddick, 43, may use the Human Rights Act to show that the Met made no effort to curb a campaign of discrimination that was being waged against him. It is thought that Mr Paddick has been investigated on more occasions than any other senior officer in the Met - mostly following anonymous calls to Crimestoppers - but has been cleared every time. Mr Paddick, the highest ranking openly gay officer in Britain, has told friends that an internal inquiry by the Met uncovered evidence that another senior Met officer was behind two previous potentially damaging allegations against him. But this officer has not been formally investigated, even though the force found there was no substance to either of those claims. Though he was frustrated by the Met's inaction and had complained that the force was still "a mile behind" in its attitudes to homophobia compared with the efforts made to tackle racism, according to friends, Mr Paddick was prepared not to kick up a fuss while he was borough commander for Lambeth. However, Mr Paddick was removed from the post three weeks ago following allegations in a Sunday tabloid, which paid his former boyfriend James Renolleau £100,000 for a "kiss and tell" exposé of their life together. A former male model, Mr Renolleau claimed that he and Mr Paddick shared more than 100 cannabis joints during their five-year relationship. The allegations were particularly embarrassing because Mr Paddick is the officer who inspired a controversial cannabis pilot project that allows police to caution rather than arrest people caught in possession of the drug. Mr Paddick has denied ever smoking the drug but admitted cannabis was stored at their flat. He also admitted that he did not tell senior offi cers that Mr Renolleau was on bail for an offence at the time they started seeing each other - a breach of police codes. The police complaints authority has launched an investigation that is being led by Humberside's deputy chief constable, Gordon Clark. His report should be completed within four months and will then be passed to the Metropolitan police authority.The Lesbian and Gay Police Association said yesterday that Mr Paddick was focusing on "clearing his name and getting his job back", but a plan B is also being considered in case his career is left in ruins. One option is to test the scope of the Human Rights Act and the extent to which it offers protection for discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. At the moment, this is a legal grey area. Any challenge to the Met would be high profile and potentially hugely embarrassing. Since his removal, Mr Paddick has won considerable sympathy for the way he has been hounded by some tabloids. The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, said he had been the victim of a "profoundly intrusive homophobic press campaign". Mr Paddick was unavailable for comment yesterday. However, he is a contributor to the radical urban75 website, where his last message said: "I must now defend myself through the investigation process and not through these boards or through the media. I am still here and I will not be driven away but I have to keep quiet for a while."