A teenager is facing jail for attacking a Malaysian student in an "exceptional" act of violence during last summer's riots in London.Ashraf Rossli, 20, had been in Britain for just a month when he was set upon as looting swept the country in August.The accountancy student had been cycling to help a scared female friend when his jaw was broken in two places when he was punched in the face.Beau Isagba, 17, whose identity was revealed for the first time on Thursday, was found guilty of grievous bodily harm at Wood Green crown court.Lifting an order which banned publication of Isagba's name, Judge Witold Pawlak said: "I agree that this is a case in which there is a legitimate public interest in knowing the outcome of the proceedings and the identity of the defendant... This was an exceptional case."Pawlak said Isagba's crimes merited a lengthy jail term and revoked his bail. "He is facing a long prison sentence," he told the court. "There's no reason I can see that he should remain on bail."Rossli was cycling along a flyover in Barking, east London, when he and a friend, Sheikh Azher, were attacked.Jurors were told he managed to manoeuvre through one group of troublemakers who lunged at his bike and rucksack, but he was then attacked by an individual in a second group.Recalling the moment, Rossli said he felt a hand reach into his jacket pocket to take his mobile. As he turned round to look, he was punched in the face."I turned left to see who took it and felt an impact from the right side," he said. "The impact was hard. I don't know how it happened. I fell to the ground. Blood was coming out of my mouth."After punching the victim, Isagba was seen riding off on the bike.One witness, Weng Tsang, watched events unfold as his girlfriend Diana Frutos Perez recorded the scene on her mobile phone."Weng Tsang clearly heard the youth shout 'Give me the bike' as he delivered the punch, and he also heard this male and his companions laughing," Christopher Hehir, prosecuting, told the court.Rossli, who now has two metal plates in his jaw, was eventually helped by members of the public and treated in hospital. His friend escaped uninjured and managed to cycle home.Pawlak said: "Mr Tsang and his girlfriend were extremely public-spirited in coming forward to help the police in their inquiries and therefore I would like that to be acknowledged in due course by way of a commendation and perhaps some financial reward."The defendant was arrested four weeks after the attack on 8 August 2011. At the time, he told police: "I can swear on my mother's life, everyone's life and my family, I never touched him."The incident, which was captured on camera, drew widespread publicity last year. It preceded a second crime in which items were taken from Rossli's rucksack, allegedly by individuals posing as good Samaritans.Two men will stand trial in connection with this offence at a later date. Isagba was not accused of involvement.In court, Isagba denied causing grievous bodily harm with intent, an alternative charge of inflicting GBH and robbery. He confessed to stealing the bike, claiming he did so because he was tired after committing a string of crimes – he admitted to violent disorder and burglary at a betting shop and a food and wine store before the attack.The judge ordered him to return for sentencing on 9 March - a day after he is due to turn 18.