A Labour party conference fringe meeting about gangs and knife crime was held at the local Comedy Store in Manchester. Not funny, I know. Less funny was the meagre turnout: only a dozen or so adults in attendance, most from the youth work field, plus me, your lone reporter. The remainder were teenagers, beneficiaries of a scheme called Kids Count, which operates across London and the south-east of England. Among the panellists was the MP Vernon Coaker from a Labour Home Office that has brought you Asbos, databases about children that do more harm than good and enough vapid "tough" talk to keep you in spit for a hundred years. It didn't look promising.So, we all make mistakes. The first to speak from the platform was the children's commissioner Sir Al Aynsley-Green who had his suitcase (literally) packed for Geneva where he'll hear the UN ask our government to account for its poor adherence to the rights of children. On the radio yesterday morning, I heard Martin Narey of Barnados reveal evidence of our enthusiasm for locking up 12-year-olds when everyone who knows anything about most 12-year-olds like those knows there are better ways to set them straight. Sir Al closed by producing his mobile and pressing a button. "Hands up who could hear that?" Only the teenagers could. He'd demonstrated the "mosquito" deterrent, a device for making groups of kids gathered on street corners so uncomfortable that they move on. Three and a half thousand have been installed in Britain, he said, including some by private householders. This is what it's come to, he explained. Meanwhile, teens wander Darlington and Devon wishing grown-ups would show more interest in them.Then came some grown-ups who do precisely that. The son of Ann Oakes-Odgers was knifed to death next to a cash machine in an unprovoked attack. She has since devoted herself to educating youngsters in schools across Essex where she lives not to do the same to someone else. Jennifer Blake runs a project in Peckham, south London. A former street tearaway herself, she moves among gang members in her neighbourhood, mediating, persuading, demanding that they chose not to intimidate and kill. These people are not "soft". They know that law enforcement is part of the remedy. They know also that the stuff that really counts is the educating, the diverting, the broadening of horizons among kids who rarely travel, physically or psychologically, beyond the boundaries of their home postcodes. Next up, a young woman called Pariss. A Kids Count success story, she told her own tale of a desperate family life and adolescence from which she was helped to escape. She was nervous. She was outstanding. She was, too, living vindication of the rescue work inspired and committed youth work can do. Why can't there be more – much more – of this? Coaker was the last to speak and I'm still a little worried that I was too impressed by what he said. We in the government haven't "got a grip" on what kinds of organisations get results; we're researching that now and when we've figured it out we need to back these people "for the long term and leave them alone"; we need to accept that this may mean that sometimes things will go wrong, but we should stick to the policy anyway. He recalled his father, a policeman, telling him that it was easy to bring an audience to its feet by calling for "tough" measures on youth crime that don't work, but if you suggested doing something useful instead, you might get booed. "We need to be braver," Coaker said. I felt a powerful urge to stand up and cheer. I wish the minister's bosses had moved me more often in that way these past few years.