Four teenagers will appear in court today charged with the murder of Damilola Taylor, the 10-year-old schoolboy who bled to death in a council estate stairwell from a stab wound to his leg.The youths were arrested yesterday in early morning raids at addresses in south London, taken to separate police stations and charged in the afternoon. Scotland Yard went ahead with the operation after seeking advice from the crown prosecution service (CPS) over whether there was a "realistic prospect" of convicting the people detectives believe killed Damilola. The murder squad, led by Detective Chief Inspector Trevor Shepheard, compiled a report detailing evidence gathered since his death in Peckham on November 27 last year, which was submitted for scrutiny at the end of May. It was reviewed by Treasury counsel - a senior CPS lawyer - who advised that the case was strong enough to put before a court. The teenagers cannot be named for legal reasons. It is known that one is 14, two are 15. The fourth suspect is 16. They will appear before magistrates at West London youth court. Before yesterday's developments, the murder squad had arrested 14 youths in connection with the death of Damilola, and a 39-year-old woman. Nobody was charged. Repeated appeals for information by senior officers and the schoolboy's relatives helped police build a picture of what happened to Damilola, who was found in a stairwell leading to the North Hordle Promenade of the North Peckham estate in Southwark. He had been stabbed once in the left leg, probably with a knife, as he walked along nearby Blake's Road. The wound had cut his femoral artery, causing uncontrollable bleeding. He was pronounced dead on arrival at King's College hospital in London. Damilola had only moved from Nigeria to London last autumn because his sister needed treatment at a London hospital. He was making his way home from an after-school computer class when he was attacked. The police investigation, which involved more than 70 officers, uncovered evidence that Damilola may have been the victim of a stabbing act called "jucking", which teenage gangs use to intimidate or bully victims. Police found that many people in the community were too afraid to speak because of fear that they would be targeted next. Speaking outside New Scotland Yard yesterday, Det Ch Insp Shepheard said there was still "much work to be done" and urged potential witnesses to come forward. He added: "I would like to express my thanks to members of the local community, our team of independent advisers and the media, all of whom have helped bring us to this point." Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria, were said to be pleased about the progress in the inquiry. Their solicitor, Neil O'May, said: "Mr and Mrs Taylor and their children, Tunde and Bemi, are relieved to learn of the developments in the investigation into the death of their dear son, Damilola. "The last six months have been an extremely anxious time for them. "They trust the courts now to ensure that justice is done. The Taylor family continue to ask that anyone who has information about the death of their son, who has not already come forward, to do so now."