"Whatever damage we have done to al-Qaida, they continue to operate ... Whatever damage they are able to inflict, they will do so. We cannot be sure where or when they will strike. But we can be certain they will try." David Blunkett, home secretary, November 2002This country's enormous apparatus of law enforcement has no greater single goal than the obstruction of mass murder by Islamist terrorists. It has a higher priority than the old war against drugs or the new one against human trafficking, and is far bigger than the effort against paedophilia or fraud. From the outside, looking in towards the screen of secrecy that conceals most of what is happening, it appears to be successful. More than two years after the massacre in the United States, there has been a frenzy of effort, there have been arrests and internments and expulsions, and the fact is that no such crime has been committed in the United Kingdom. And yet the voices of those within this apparatus tell a different story. Listen, for example, to the senior Special Branch detective who has been running part of this operation: "If you imagine a giant set of scales and on one side you put all the weight of our political inertia, and then on the other side, I reckon you can put 3,000 dead bodies which will finally tip the scales. That's roughly how many people are going to have to die in a terrorist incident in this country before we sort ourselves out ... " Or listen to the senior legal source with a special responsibility for organised crime: "There is no overarching strategy on terrorism ... We are not operating at full capacity." Or to the senior police source who says simply that the whole attack on all forms of organised crime relies on an incoherent muddle of agencies without the leadership or the understanding to unite them. If this criticism were coming from outside the security apparatus, it would be easy to dismiss as the cynicism of the ignorant. But the Guardian has spoken to people at every agency involved in this country's fight against serious and organised crime including terrorism and they repeatedly warn of defects in the defences. Speaking either off the record or on condition of anonymity, they say that: 路 There are too many different agencies with too many different priorities cutting across each other; 路 These agencies still too often treat each other as enemies, bickering and withholding intelligence from each other; 路 A powerful call from the HM inspector of constabulary for radical repair work "as a matter of urgency [for] the security of the nation" has been largely unheeded; 路 There is a damaging lack of leadership and strategy from the government. The prime minister himself has recognised that there is a problem. In July, he ordered an urgent review of the structure of agencies dealing with serious crime, but insiders suggest that the Cabinet Office is struggling to deal with the issues and that some agencies are trying to use the review as a stepping stone for power over the others. At the heart of the problem lies what one source called "the structure from hell", a bizarre amalgam of overlapping agencies that have grown up over 100 years - MI5, MI6, GCHQ, the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS), the National Crime Squad, Customs and Excise, 55 local Special Branches scattered across the UK, the Anti-Terrorist Branch, sundry civil servants including specialist investigators in the Immigration Department and the Inland Revenue, as well as the international links of Interpol, Europol, Eurojust, Cepol, Olaf and others.According to one central source: "Nobody is in charge, nobody is dictating terms. Nobody would ever choose to have a structure like this if they were actually planning it." Every one of these agencies has a different set of targets, some unique to themselves, some shared with others (see diagram, below). Some have sole ownership of a target, such as Customs with fiscal fraud or the Immigration Department with illegal migrants, and then the problem is whether they will pass on information which is of no interest to them but crucial to other agencies. Some of them share targets - several have an interest in drugs, for example - and then the problem is which agency has "primacy" and whether the others accept that and cooperate, or resent it and become obstructive. In any case, too often, according to those we have spoken to, these agencies fail to work together. We were told, for example, that in the case of the 58 Chinese migrants who suffocated in the back of a tomato truck as they were smuggled from the Netherlands to Dover in June 2000, MI5 had been looking at the traffickers, because they had links to Turkish heroin gangs and Kurdish nationalists; separately, Customs had been looking at their truck movements because they were suspected of drug smuggling; the National Crime Squad was looking at another trafficker who was involved on the periphery of the gang, and the Dutch authorities were also aware of them. "But they never put the bits together. So: 58 dead people." This kind of data-inertia is particularly alarming in the case of counter-terrorism, which is a target for very few of these agencies. The National Crime Squad, for example, with its 1,300 detectives and its cutting-edge surveillance technology, targets "serious and organised crime which crosses national and international borders" - unless it is terrorism. The National Criminal Intelligence Service, with its vast database, gathers information from every police agency in the country on "threats to the UK from serious and organised crime" - but not terrorism. Customs and Excise runs the biggest law enforcement agency in the country with a network of intelligence officers abroad and a special responsibility for guarding the borders - but not against terrorists. And this makes a real difference if these agencies fail to see it as their business when they happen to come across evidence of terrorism. We were told, for example, about the Customs officers who intercepted a lorry with three tonnes of smuggled hand-rolling tobacco; who knew that the Real IRA had been raising funds by smuggling tobacco and diesel oil; who knew that the local Special Branch had asked to be informed if any such load was spotted, and who nevertheless seized the tobacco, released the driver and handed over the lorry to its owner without saying a word to the Special Branch. Both the driver and the owner proved to be involved with the Real IRA but, by the time that Special Branch found out about them, both men were long gone and there was no chance of prosecuting them for smuggling or even simply using them as an intelligence lead. Customs' justification is simple: they don't do terrorism. As Terry Byrne, the head of Customs' law enforcement division, told the Northern Ireland select committee last year: "Customs has responsibility for tackling fiscal fraud, not for taking on paramilitaries. So we do not look for paramilitaries, we look for fraudsters." One Special Branch officer told us he had come across Customs officers seizing Uzi sub-machine guns and simply releasing all those involved without telling the police, because they were of no further interest from the fiscal point of view. This particular problem has become so bad that police have raised it with ministers. Senior Customs managers insist they have dealt with it. Their counterparts in Special Branch say "the problem has been acknowledged but definitely not solved". Some senior figures in the security apparatus have been arguing passionately behind closed doors that the structural problem here is not merely the complexity of this muddle of agencies but the fault line which separates "straight" crime from terrorism. Just as the Real IRA use the smuggling of tobacco and diesel, so too the Basque separatist group Eta uses bank robbery, the Provisional IRA used extortion and other serious crime, al-Qaida has been using credit-card fraud, and numerous terrorist groups have moved drugs. Some say this split is simply a matter of history and inertia: different agencies have grown up with different jobs, and none is willing to promote change for fear of losing out. Others say the split is itself a reflection of a basic failure of intelligence gathering: "We know very well that there are links between terrorism and organised crime. We know enough to know it is a plausible link but what is really shocking is that we don't even know how much of it is going on. We just don't research it. So we can't structure law en forcement or fund it or set targets. We don't know what we are up against." There is a vigorous debate within the security apparatus about whether these structural faults should be ironed out with a radical overhaul of the whole set-up, or whether they can be dealt with more effectively by having better management and systems. While those opinions are divided, there is virtual consensus that the structural faults are being aggravated by operational failures - that, despite years of effort to get these agencies to work together, they still fail to adequately share information. Each agency stores its own intelligence and, even though each of them has staff with the highest possible security clearance, even though all of them claim to be willing to work together, all of them try to keep their intelligence concealed from each other. The two biggest databases of intelligence for domestic security belong to NCIS and MI5: NCIS say they won't let MI5 look at theirs and that MI5 won't let them look at most of theirs either. The borders are protected by three agencies: Customs, Immigration and Special Branch. Customs won't let anybody else trawl their database, while Special Branch and Immigration allow each other only limited access. The 55 local Special Branches do not even pool their intelligence on a national database but instead use MI5 as a clearing house. Thousands of reports do flow between the different agencies, but this relies on good will and efficiency in identifying and sharing the right intelligence. Who knows what fragments are lying unconnected? In the case of terrorism, it is open to Special Branch and MI5 routinely to tell NCIS of suspects they are targeting and of informers they are using, so that they can be warned if any other agency has an interest in them - but they won't do it. Even though NCIS data-handlers have access to highly sensitive police information on informants and current operations, Special Branch and MI5 insist on treating them as untrustworthy, thus increasing the chance that two related fragments of data will remain separated. Beyond that, there are no systems in place for any of the secret intelligence agencies to market their intelligence needs to other agencies. HM Inspectorate of Constabulary last year found that, in some parts of the country, Special Branch was not even seeking intelligence effectively from colleagues in the same force. These blockages are not simply the result of the structure. They are clearly being aggravated in some cases by genuine silliness of a kind that is supposed to be a thing of the past. It is an eye-watering experience to listen to some of the most senior figures in law enforcement rehearse a short and well-worn speech on their new willingness to work with each other, before lapsing into traditional off-the-record back-stabbing. Listen to the the chief constable who one minute insists on the importance of joined-up working between agencies and the next minute denounces Customs law-enforcement as a total waste of time; listen to the provincial detective who is supposed to provide reports for NCIS complaining bitterly that NCIS has its own agenda and routinely obstructs law enforcement, or to the senior figure in national policing who is supposed to be working with Customs, who asks: "Why have Customs moved into organised crime? They are not very good at it"; or to the senior Customs officers muttering bitterly that the intelligence agencies do not have to put up with the kind of performance targets which they work with. The two biggest law-enforcement agencies, the National Crime Squad and Customs, insist they now get on well together. Yet they squabble: Customs claims to be the lead agency on drugs and also the primary law enforcement agency for the UK; privately, crime squad officers dispute the first and deride the second. The two agencies cannot even agree whether to tackle drugs by prosecuting key offenders (the crime squad strategy) or by seizing consignments anywhere in the world without prosecuting (the Customs choice). In the past, they have had furious clashes. Now, they have an agreed protocol to tell NCIS of all their work, so that NCIS can warn them if they are both chasing the same target, in which case one agency can then take charge. Yet, a senior Customs officer told us plainly that his officers engage in "tactical delays": "There is an obligation to inform NCIS but it is not clear how quickly we need to do so. If we are worried about the crime squad clashing with us, it might happen that we don't tell NCIS too quickly what we are doing. And if they are worried about us, they might, er, experience a similar delay."