Judges have been muttering it in private for years. They spelled it out six years ago in a confidential paper to Lord Irvine, the then lord chancellor. They even say it in court when the press benches are empty. The Legal Services Commission (LSC), the body responsible for legal aid, "is a remarkable body," said Lord Justice Simon Brown, a senior appeal court judge, in an asylum case last April. "It funds the most absurd and hopeless applications."Last week, England's top judge, the lord chief justice, railed at the cost of a case in which the damages, had the case succeeded, would have dwarfed the costs of the case to public funds. His judgment makes clear the court's view that the prospects of success were never high. A couple of asylum seekers from Lithuania, Ala Anufrijeva and her husband, Vladirmiras, accused the London borough of Southwark of breaching their right to respect for their private and family life by not providing them with accommodation suitable for the wife's mother, Matriona Kuzjeva, who was ill with cancer and has since died. The family of six, who arrived in Britain in 1998, were unhappy with their temporary home, a council maisonette with steep stairs to the kitchen and living room, which Mrs Kuzjeva had difficulty in negotiating. They rejected another home, a four-bedroom flat on one floor, because the bathroom was said to be too small for a carer to help Mrs Kuzjeva. The family claimed damages under the Human Rights Act for Southwark's failure to provide them with a suitable home. Lord Woolf demanded to know how much the case had cost up to the end of its high court hearing. The answer was £112,000 - £52,000 in legal aid for the family and £60,000 for the council - not counting the appeal, which will have cost thousands more. The case law outlined by Lord Woolf shows that in the court's opinion the family's chances of winning damages in the first place were not great. And even if the case had succeeded, its costs would have been many times the value of the compensation. In the only comparable case in which the high court has awarded damages - a much more extreme case - the claimants won £10,000. But Lord Woolf was even more damning of the decision to grant an appeal, which he said had "no prospects of success". Southwark had "undoubtedly made reasonable efforts to accommodate the family" and it was "notoriously difficult" in the appeal court to overturn the findings of a high court judge who had heard oral evidence from witnesses. The appeal was heard along with two others by asylum seekers seeking damages for delays in dealing with their cases. The appeal court ruled against both, but in both cases any possible damages they might have won would have been much less than the cost of the cases to legal aid and the home office - £30,000 in one case and £50,000 in another, not counting appeal costs. "When the total costs of both sides are looked at, including the appeal, the figures are truly horrendous," said Lord Woolf. "The situation is made even more worrying by the fact that all the parties are funded out of public funds." To be fair, the Human Rights Act is only three years old and the law is still developing. Lord Woolf acknowledged that a senior appeal court judge had given permission for the appeal to go ahead, to give the higher court its first chance to deliver a definitive ruling on the issues. The LSC points out that the case was allowed to go ahead as a test case on the duty of local councils to ensure that people needing housing are given appropriate accommodation. Although the legal aid funding code requires a cost-benefit analysis, cases that do not meet this test may be funded because of the wider public interest. The fact that the family were asylum seekers was irrelevant: their case was brought under a law that affects everybody. And, as with all legal aid cases, says the commission, the costs were carefully monitored. There was a cap of £80,000. But should so much have been spent on a case where the damages, if awarded at all, were never going to exceed £10,000, when the legal aid system is in crisis? A growing number of solicitors are deserting the scheme for better-paid private work, citing unprofitable pay rates and the hours of unpaid work needed to satisfy the demands of a highly bureaucratic audit system. Nearly a quarter of the solicitors' offices that were doing legal aid family work in January 2000 had dropped out by June 2003, leaving what the recently retired chief executive of the LSC, Steve Orchard, admitted were "worrying gaps" in the service. The rising (and uncappable) costs of criminal legal aid - described by Lord Irvine as a "greedy Leviathan" - and the soaring expenditure on asylum cases, up from £35m in 1997-98 to £174.2m in 2002-3, are squeezing the ability of the system to deliver justice to the rest of the poor and vulnerable. US-style group cases, or "class actions", a phenomenon of the past 15 years, are hugely expensive. They range from the case launched by 1,000 families over alleged links between MMR, autism and bowel disorder to Britain's own "McDonald's hot drinks" litigation. In the late 80s and early 90s, 13,000 people were granted legal aid to sue the makers of sleeping pills and tranquillisers for failing to warn that the drugs were addictive. The litigation collapsed when legal aid was withdrawn in 1994. More than £30m had been spent and the case was still years from reaching court. Lessons were said to have been learned and the procedures for group actions overhauled. Yet history seemed to be repeating itself last month when funding for the MMR litigation was pulled after running up a £15m bill. A substantial part of the £15m was spent on funding research to see if it backed the claimants' case - the first time legal aid has paid for scientific research. In the US courts, studies carried out for the purpose of litigation are seen as suspect and unreliable. Should the commission be funding cases when the scientific evidence to support them wasn't there in the first place? Couldn't the £15m have been better spent boosting the limited government no-fault scheme for vaccine-damaged children? The commission has accepted that the exercise was not a sensible use of taxpayers' money. "In retrospect, it was not effective or appropriate for the LSC to fund research," it conceded. "The courts are not the place to prove new medical truths." Six years ago, in a confidential report seen by the Guardian, 15 senior judges headed by Sir Richard Scott (now Lord Scott, the law lord) told the lord chancellor: "We are concerned that the system as presently operated is wasteful in that funds, sometimes substantial, continue to be made available to and spent on pursuing claims and defences which have no reasonable prospect of success." Since then, however, legal aid has had a huge shake-up. Accident victims no longer get legal aid; solicitors handle their claims under no-win, no-fee deals. Only solicitors with contracts, subject to quality controls, can do legal aid work. Barristers' fees have been cut. Legal aid applications are now more closely scrutinised to see if the likely benefit justifies the expenditure. But still the media continue to highlight "undeserving" cases supported by legal aid. Such as that of James McNamara, the murderer serving a life sentence who is trying to force his ex-wife, whom he regularly beat up, to bring their five-year-old son to see him in prison. The commission points out that he has only limited aid, granted before he was convicted, which is currently being reviewed. "There's a wider issue here," says Colin Stutt of the LSC. "You get cases like Anufrijeva and MMR and that becomes the way the legal aid scheme is perceived. But more than a million people were helped last year and more than £800m spent on civil cases. The great majority are getting useful advice which is very helpful to them."