So, the Conservative party are up in arms at the news that prisoners have access to books about crime, including some actually written by criminals. Now there's a surprise – who would have imagined that some of those incarcerated for breaking the law might want to read about the doings of other miscreants?(You really might imagine that political parties would have something better to attack about our failing prison system: what about complaining of the appalling illiteracy rates of those inside for a start; with about two thirds of the prison population having either no useful literacy skills at all, or a reading age below that of the average eight-year-old, and therefore unable to read any books, criminal-themed or otherwise. Might the Tories stop to think that this inability to read and write may have some bearing on why they are in jail in the first place?)Of course prisoners will read books about crime; jails, in many respects, reflect society at large and crime novels and autobiographies are always high on booksellers' lists. Prison inmates also read books on philosophy, religion, travel and Uncle Tom Cobley and all. Some books in the first two categories make for pretty strong reading likely, in some cases, to alter the way people think – which is, presumably what the Conservatives are worried about here? Should they be banned from prison libraries?Personally speaking, I'm delighted that prisoners are still taking advantage of their access to literature; ever since the introduction of in-cell television (paid for by the inmates, by the way, out of meagre earnings, before anyone starts ranting about "holiday camp" prisons) I have feared that the wonder of the written word would be trampled down by trash TV.I will be eternally grateful for the opportunity that prison gave me to read and discover works and authors that I had barely heard of, let alone read. I well remember devouring Dickens and his like for the first time and asking those esteemed authors where they had been all my life?And I am far from alone in this; I have heard discussions on the wings and landings of jails that would have not been out of place at a highbrow literary luncheon. In some instances, access to learning and literature has changed the lives of my former fellow travellers and they, like me, have taken a different path. Others, I know, have carried on a life a crime; albeit as better-read, informed and, hopefully, more thoughtful criminals. In life, as in literature, you win some and you lose some.Shadow justice minister Dominic Grieve thinks it "beggars belief" that books glorifying crime and violence are freely available to prisoners. Get a life Mr Grieve and please don't encourage Jack Straw to curtail any more of the few "freedoms" prisoners still enjoy. The pair of you should remember that the loss of liberty is the punishment. You'll be telling prisoners what they can and cannot think next.