Charities have warned that the government's plans to 'track' the children of offenders may make them more likely to commit crimes.The Home Office minister, Hazel Blears, earlier said around 65% of the 125,000 children with a father in prison would end up in there themselves. She told The Independent newspaper that tracking and targeting these children with extra support would make them less likely to offend later in life.But Pam Hibbert, principal policy officer at Barnardo's, said the kind of policies suggested by Ms Blears would actually have the opposite effect. "There is evidence that indicates that attempting to pre-determine outcomes can actually lead to stigmatisation and labelling of children, resulting in more, rather than less children entering the criminal justice system," she said."There is a grave risk that identifying a child as coming from a 'criminal' family, will alter the way that child is responded to and dealt with in a myriad of situations, from school to health care," she said.Ms Hibbert also said the fact that a child's parents are offenders is only one element of their lives that will affect their future behaviour.Policy officer for children's charity NCH, George McNamara, said: "NCH does not agree that you can accurately pinpoint 'young offenders in the making' at an early age. Early intervention to support children considered to be at risk of offending is important. But there is a danger that this proposal could actually increase the risk of children offending by stigmatising and labelling them as potential criminals."John Coughlan, co-chairman of the Association of Directors of Social Services (ADSS) children and families committee, said new initiatives to support families were always welcome, but this plan sounded too "crude" and "simplistic". "It needs to be more carefully thought through," he said. "Does this mean that as soon as a parent goes into prison their child is labelled as a potential prisoner themselves?"He said the ADSS wanted a broad integrated approach to all vulnerable children, but "it is impossible to have an integrated children's agenda if there is a separate group of children. We need to develop totally integrated preventive services." "Should we say the child of any parent who has mental health problems must be the target of our attentions?" He was also concerned that resources could be diverted to this particular group of vulnerable children at the expense of others. 