A music teacher who provided the pistol with which his father shot himself dead in a busy hospital ward was today jailed for three years.The court heard that Guy Button, 30, an only child who doted on his parents, had delivered the bag to nurses on the ward in the days before the successful suicide attempt. He then left again with the bag but returned with it shortly before his father, of Parklands, Northampton, killed himself. Today Button, a talented tuba player, of Princes Risborough, Buckinghamshire, was jailed at Leicester crown court. He earlier admitted two charges of possessing an illegal firearm and two charges of passing an illegal firearm to his father.Judge Charles Wide QC told him: "It's important that members of the public should understand clearly what I am not sentencing you for. Some might assume you were knowingly assisting your father's suicide. However, I must make it clear that the decision was made not to prosecute you for that, and it has no part in my sentencing you for this case."However, there's a high degree of culpability, especially having regard to the fact it was a public ward in a hospital and with regard to the patients and staff and the distress this will have caused."You have the burden of the responsibility for what your father did and the circumstances in which he did it. It was put that you were in an impossible position, which I do not accept, but it was a very difficult one. This case is unique in the experience of those involved."It should be understood though, how serious it is. This was a working automatic handgun with live ammunition introduced into a hospital, into a public ward, and in fact it was used in a public ward. The sentence I pass is three years."The court heard that Ian Button was suffering from terminal lung disease, while his 63-year-old wife, Christine, was in a care home with Alzheimer's.He hoped to join her in the home but was unable to sell their house, the proceeds of which were going to fund their long-term care.Ian Button, a car leasing manager, had become more depressed before deciding to take his own life, the judge heard.On the morning he killed himself, he took the second world war gun, which bore the stamp of a senior German officer, from the leather bag, drew the curtain around his bed on the six-bay Benham ward and shot himself through the right temple.He was discovered, still breathing, by a ward sister but medical staff did not try to resuscitate him as he had asked not to receive CPR should he have a heart attack caused by his illness.Under current sentencing guidelines, Button faced a "mandatory" minimum sentence of five years in prison unless his barrister could prove "exceptional circumstances". The sentence carries a maximum 10-year prison term.The court heard that Guy Button initially told police his father had asked him to bring the gun in to the hospital because there was someone interested in antique firearms. But this was dismissed by the judge as a "whopper" of a lie after Button admitted he had not told detectives the whole truth.The judge also questioned the decision by prosecutors not to pursue a charge of assisting a suicide against Button. The charge carries a maximum prison term of 14 years. He said: "Isn't there abundant evidence that the defendant took the gun in to the hospital so his father could kill himself?"Graham Reeds QC, prosecuting, replied: "The basis of the plea was that, with the available evidence, considered by a senior prosecutor, that there was insufficient evidence to make a conviction probable."The barrister added that the Crown Prosecution Service was prepared to accept Button's claim that he was not thinking clearly so did not realise the gun was active and could be used by his father.Earlier, the court heard that Ian Button had left a suicide note appearing to substantiate his son's insistence that he was not involved in the suicide.In the note addressed to police, he wrote: "The gun was given to me in the 1980s. When my son was clearing our loft recently he found it in a box."I thought I would hand it in to you [the police] as soon as possible, along with the ammunition. I brought the gun in with me when I came back in [to hospital] last week to take care of it so it was not found by the surveyor. I do not see any quality of life and I cannot get any answers. I love my family and I am sorry for what I have done."• This article was amended on 21 October 2009 to clarify the circumstances in which Guy Button delivered the gun to his father.