The three young men – Michael Alleyne, 18, Juress Kika, 19, and Jade Braithwaite, 20 – sentenced to life in prison today for murdering Ben Kinsella, the 16-year-old brother of the former East­Enders actor Brooke Kinsella, might not have been convicted if witnesses had not come forward despite being intimidated by the killers.A girl called Kellie provided police with a letter written to her by Michael admitting to having killed Kinsella. In response to this, Michael wrote her another intimidatory letter.Excerpts of letter from Michael Alleyne"To Slag aka snitch, You are a let down ... How are you gonna give my letters to the Boyden [police] and be snitching on me? You are not real at all. When will I see you? Your mum's still on road [living in the community], so be careful how you move. You don't know how I move on road. I'm a boss. People in North no who I am. Fuck that. When the shit hits the fan, you snitch."I don't need to tell you anything before you tell Boyden [police], you snitch …"I'm a real nigga and you ask your dad about me, he's seen things."You all best hope I don't bust case because people will be in trouble and you will never snitch on anyone again, I promise you that."You see, snitches get touched. You see blood [brother or fellow gang member], Tottenham ride [flee] or die ... if I get found guilty it's down to you."Also key to the evidence was a conversation between the three killers recorded in a police van after their arrest:Kika: "Someone needs to deal with these snitches in the hood, blood [term of comradeship], serious, blood."Alleyne: "No one knows who's snitching though, man."Kika: "Huh?"Alleyne: "That's the hardest thing about snitching, blood."Alleyne (describing the murder): "See when it happened, yeah, like boom, it was kinda like a quick thing like boom, went down the road, come back up, boom boom, finished, boom, ghost, you get what I'm saying?"Braithwaite (on fixing an alibi): "You know me from the endz, that's it. If you mans say you look, you weren't with me and shit man, bless."Basically Todd and OZ said I was with them, you get me? Cause if them mans say that, innit, and you mans say look, I weren't nowhere near, you get me? Then it's bless, you know what I'm saying?"Kika: "If they find that we, if like it gets a bit sticky yeah, and then man has to say a little story, it's gonna have to be what you say, you weren't with us."That's how you gotta keep it, no one was with no one."