The Newcastle United footballer Joey Barton was jailed for six months today after admitting assault and affray in Liverpool at the end of last year.The 25-year-old midfielder became involved in a confrontation outside a McDonald's restaurant while on a night out with friends and family on December 27.Barton – who has a history of controversial behaviour on and off the pitch – admitted the charges last month. Reporting restrictions were only lifted today at Liverpool crown court, where he was sentenced.Judge Henry Globe QC told the footballer his offence had been a "violent and cowardly act".Jailing him for six months for assault occasioning actual bodily harm and for four months, concurrently, for affray, he said: "You acted in an extremely violent and aggressive manner."It also happened at a time when you were on bail for two other matters. If ever there was a time when you should be on your best behaviour, it was then."You have a high profile as a footballer and you know that draws attention to you, yet you drank to excess and behaved in an aggressive, disgraceful manner." The court heard the midfielder was remorseful about the incident and had admitted to an alcohol problem. His 19-year-old brother, Andrew, was also charged with assault occasioning actual bodily harm, while his cousin, Nadine Wilson, 27 was charged with common assault and affray. They both pleaded guilty.On the night of the assaults, it is understood Barton had consumed a large quantity of lager. Ian Harris, prosecuting, said that at about 5am on December 27, Barton, his brother, his cousin and other friends went into a McDonald's restaurant for food and Wilson, who had drunk two or three bottles of wine, gestured toward a group of juveniles.CCTV footage shows Barton confronting a group of people on Church Street, knocking an unidentified man to the ground before straddling him and punching him up to five times while his cousin threw food.The court heard that when a member of restaurant staff tried to intervene, Barton said to the group: "You've no right. You are a twat. Wait outside, I'll be with you."As Wilson then intervened, Barton said to her: "I'm not a fighter, I'm a lover."Barton is then understood to have punched the man up to 15 more times. Harris described it as a "vicious and cowardly attack'' during which Barton used such force that "he literally came off his feet"."One witness described how she was left shaken and sick by what she had witnessed,'' Harris said.Barton also attacked and punched a 16-year-old, leaving him with broken teeth. He has been ordered to pay £2,500 so the damaged teeth can be repaired.The court heard there was a suggestion that the Barton brothers had been goaded by remarks about their stepbrother, Michael, who is serving a life sentence for the racist murder of Anthony Walker in Huyton, Merseyside, in 2005. Stuart Driver QC, mitigating, said Barton had been provoked into the violence by what was said to him."Provocation can be by actions or word or both. What was being said was an awful lot and none of it of a very nice flavour. Joey Barton is very well aware that he attracts attention wherever he will go and CCTV shows how people would stop and stare, or talk or shout to him."The judge said he had no doubt the three had been provoked by a comment which was made inside the restaurant but none of the provocation justified Barton's actions.The Newcastle United manager, Kevin Keegan, gave a character reference on behalf of Barton, part of which was read to the court. He said he first knew Barton when he was the Manchester City manager. "Had I been asked to give character evidence for him then, I probably wouldn't have been able to do so." But Keegan then said there had been a "massive change" in Barton. "He had taken stock of his life; he is more thoughtful in his actions and character; he is a far more responsible individual". Barton's club said in a statement: "Newcastle United notes the sentence passed to Joey Barton at Liverpool crown court today. The club is considering the verdict and will be making no further comment at this moment."As he left the court, Barton shook his brother's hand and kissed his cousin's cheek before handing over pieces of jewellery to a man in the public gallery.He is awaiting trial for two other offences - the alleged criminal damage of a taxi and the alleged assault of his former Manchester City teammate Ousmane Dabo.