With today's local elections so imminent, it was predictable that yesterday's Commons exchanges about the Home Office deportations debacle would generate rather more partisan heat than explanatory light. All the parties were preoccupied by the same immediate political priority yesterday; they needed to get their version of these embarrassing events at the top of the news headlines as voters prepared to go to the polls today. That explains why Labour spent the day depicting itself as the party with a radical legislative plan for dealing with future deportation cases (and trying, as ever, to paint the opposition parties as roadblocks to its reforms). And it explains why the Conservatives - seizing on the tragic, but in this context absolutely irrelevant, case of the failure to deport a Somali suspected of the Bradford police killing - were more indiscriminate than before (and hence less successful) in their efforts to sustain the assault on the Home Secretary's failures. Only the Liberal Democrats, to their credit, stuck to the core issue: how could the Home Office manage to lose a thousand or more foreign offenders who should have been deported from this country months ago?That serious question still remains unanswered. And, if the government manages to shift the debate on to the pros and cons of the legislative plans set out by Charles Clarke yesterday, that is the way it is likely to stay. Yet as the Lib Dems' Nick Clegg told the minister in the Commons, this failure to deal with the thousand deportees was not caused by any lack of laws or rules of the kind which the government offered yesterday, but by a serious operational failure for which Mr Clarke is both responsible and accountable. Mr Clarke could not bring himself to admit it, but his statement made clear that, nine days after he went public and four weeks after he himself learned about it, the majority of the most serious vanishing deportees are still out there in the community when they should not be.The charge against the Home Office remains. That charge is that politically-driven pressures from Downing Street have disrupted the Home Office's ability to manage the penal and immigration systems efficiently. In the case of deportations, that ability was already under pressure after a court ruling that deportation decisions should not be made until near the end of a prison sentence. But it has been compounded by the near-doubling of the foreign prisoner population since 2000. The specific fear is that the pressure to reach ambitious and arbitrary reduction targets on asylum numbers in 2004 severely compromised the department's ability to respond properly and with sufficient priority to matters like the deportation crisis. The problems: too many prisoners; too little time to process them; and too much ministerial focus on Downing Street's targets. The result: failure to spot the scale and implications of the neglect of deportations until it was too late.The danger now is that deportees are the new asylum seekers. The Home Office is once again on a siege footing. But politics and headlines must not be allowed to drive an inadequately thought-out or balanced response to this genuine failure of government. At first sight, nevertheless, Mr Clarke's plan to create a presumption in favour of deportation looks workable. It is better that courts make decisions on the merits of the individual case in the light of that presumption than that the Home Secretary be given carte blanche to deport by executive powers. But Iain Duncan Smith is right to warn that Mr Clarke's plans are also a smokescreen; behind this new proposal is an aim to curtail the opportunities for potential deportees to appeal before their removal is carried out. The truth is that deportation is always a tangled web. By raising expectations that he can resolve the inescapable problems at a stroke, Mr Clarke is storing up future problems for himself or, more likely, for his successor.