The police officer who was shot in the face by Raoul Moat said today that he bears no malice towards the dead gunman, even though his sight has probably been damaged irreversibly.PC David Rathband, 42, also expressed his sympathy to the family of the man whom Moat shot dead.Rathband, a married father of two children, is waiting to discover whether he will lose his sight in both eyes after being shot through the window of his patrol car minutes after Moat declared war on Northumbria police nine days ago.Moat, 37, had been on the run for 24 hours after shooting and injuring his former girlfriend Samantha Stobbart and killing her new partner, Chris Brown, in Birtley, Gateshead, on 3 July. He shot and injured Rathband, who was sitting in his patrol car in East Denton, Newcastle, early the next day. Despite his injuries, the policeman was able to radio his colleagues for assistance and give them detailed information about the gunman.Moat shot himself following a six-hour stand-off in the village of Rothbury in Northumberland on Saturday morning. Until that point, he had evaded hundreds of officers who had been searching for him for more than a week.Rathband, who has undergone facial reconstructive surgery at a hospital in Newcastle, said he was determined to continue his career and serve the public. "I bear no malice towards the man who shot me, but now wish to move on with my life. My injuries are life-changing. It will require significant adjustments in the future in all aspects of my life. Although I face long-term treatment, I am determined to return to duty as a police officer."Thanking his colleagues and medical staff, he said: "I am grateful to all those officers from many forces who have helped me and my family during the last week and to my own shift of officers who have given me their full support. I am acutely aware of the impact events have had on many people and my thoughts are with them all, particularly the family of Chris Brown."Minutes before Rathband was shot, Moat made a threatening phone call to the force, in which he said they were "going to pay for what they've done to me and Sam". He made a second call 50 minutes after the shooting on a mobile phone that was later recovered by detectives.Police were today searching the river Coquet in Rothbury for a second weapon believed to have been carried by Moat.Brown's mother, Sally, and his sister, Beckie Njie, said they were upset that Moat was being portrayed as what Njie termed "some hero".Brown said: "I saw a clip of his brother saying it was a public execution. What did he do to my boy, if he didn't publicly execute him?"