A 23-year-old man yesterday admitted murdering a fellow clubgoer with a samurai sword after a petty row between two groups of men.Bradley Moran stabbed Matt Stiling in the chest, piercing his heart, as the victim tried to make peace between the two groups. Mr Stiling, the captain of a local football team in the Devon resort of Sidmouth, died before he reached hospital, Exeter crown court was toldThe case is one of those being used by campaigners to argue for a clampdown on samurai swords. The Home Office minister Hazel Blears has said the government is looking into a ban on the swords.Mr Stiling, 33, was enjoying a night out in July when members of the group he was with had an argument with a gang which included Moran and his father, Eamon, 43. Both groups left the club in the early hours. Bradley Moran went home and grabbed two samurai swords from his collection of three.He returned to Sidmouth High Street where the groups were waiting, left one sword on the roadside and unsheathed the second - a £700 weapon with a razor sharp 45cm (18in) blade which he waved around his head in a figure of eight.Speaking outside the court, Det Insp Ken Lamont, the senior investigating officer, said: "Matt Stiling went over in a peacekeeping capacity and was trying to calm things down. He had his arms out in a gesture of pacifying when he was murdered. He was killed by a single stab wound which went through his body cavity, completely severing a rib, and pierced his heart. He was dead before he got to hospital."These swords are designed for one purpose and one purpose only, which is to kill or inflict serious injury. The way they are held and the size of them and their cutting edges mean they are very dangerous weapons. To have a weapon of that nature in a public place is a recipe for disaster."Bradley Moran, of Newtown, Sidmouth, pleaded guilty to murder and his father, Eamon, from Dagenham, Essex, admitted aiding and abetting another in the commission of a murder and impeding the arrest of another. They will be sentenced later.After the hearing Mr Stiling's uncle, Dave Badcock, said: "He was a likeable, hardworking and decent lad who always gave 100%. He was part of a group who all used to go out together. There wasn't a bad word to say about him. He enjoyed life without going over the top and he was well liked. He had no aggression at all."His cousin, Craig Badcock, added: "He was the sort of person you couldn't get angry with because he always had a smile on his face. I've never heard him say anything bad about anyone. It's a great loss and a tragic shame. It's heartbreaking for that to happen to one of the good ones."The youngest of three brothers, Mr Stiling worked as an electrician and had lived in Sidmouth all his life.At the time of his death, his mother, Gabby, placed a card around some of the 120 bunches of flowers left at the spot where he was murdered.She wrote: "To my baby boy. I love you dearly. You were always a lovely son and I will always cherish good memories."Last month Alison Seabeck, Labour MP for Plymouth Devonport, highlighted the number of crimes involving knives and samurai swords in Plymouth. She told the Commons there had been 1,000 knife crimes in the city in the last three years. Between April and August there was on average one incident involving a samurai sword a week. Ms Blears replied that she was looking seriously at adding samurai swords to the list of offensive weapons.