A ransom was paid to free Sahil Saeed, the British five-year-old kidnapped in Pakistan, it was confirmed today as police in Paris and northern Spain arrested five people in connection with the abduction.As Sahil prepared to fly back to be reunited with his family, details of the elaborate operation to secure his release, involving police forces in Spain, France and Britain, began to emerge.Two Pakistani brothers and a Romanian woman are due to appear in court tomorrow after being arrested near Tarragona, north-east Spain, according to an official with the superior court of Catalonia.The ransom money was handed over in a Paris street, according to Spain's Europa Press news agency. The two people who had picked it up then drove south, tailed by French police. Spanish police took over the tail at the frontier and followed them via Barcelona to Constanti. There they recovered £105,000, €3,565 and a computer bought with part of the money.Their arrest followed the payment of the ransom in Paris, according to police in Madrid. "Two of them picked up the ransom in Paris and returned to Spain by car. They were arrested once the release was confirmed," police said. "Two more people have been arrested in the French capital and the operation is still open."Pakistan's interior minister, Rehman Malik, said rescuers had had the option "to catch [the kidnappers] and have the boy killed", but it was "decided that life was more important".Sahil, from Shaw, Greater Manchester, was held for 13 days after being snatched by an armed gang from his grandmother's home in Jhelum, Punjab, on 3 March. He was found wandering in a field at Kharian, 25 miles away, yesterday, alone but unharmed. His hair had been cropped and his shoes were missing.He had been on a two-week holiday with his father, Raja Naqqash Saeed, 28, when the kidnappers struck as they were leaving to fly back to Britain. The gang is said to have tied up and beaten family members before taking the boy.Sahil's father left Pakistan five days after the kidnapping, against Pakistani police advice. Greater Manchester police said he had been helping to secure his son's release. His whereabouts since have not been divulged by family members.It is understood a substantial sum was raised by the family. Friends said they sold jewellery and cashed in savings to raise the money. The kidnappers demanded £110,000, according to Spanish police.Kidnapping specialists with Spain's national police had been warned through Interpol that the first ransom demands had been made by telephone from Spain. "The investigators managed to narrow them down to a place near Salou, in Tarragona province," police said. Constantí, where the arrests were made, is a short distance from Salou.Footage released by Spanish police showed armed officers storming the apartment and making the arrests.Investigators had originally believed the ransom would be paid in Manchester and had contacted police there along with Britain's Serious Organised Crime Agency. Then the payment was set up in Paris, and the French police's organised crime unit became involved. Telephone calls were made in Urdu, with the first call telling the family to prepare to hand over the money in Manchester within three days. The family received 15 calls altogether, police said.Sahil was taken back to Jhelum today for a brief hearing before a magistrates court, a legal procedure necessary in kidnapping cases. He told the court that he was kept in a village and looked after by a woman throughout, according to sources. He said the kidnappers had taken him horse-riding and for rides on a donkey cart. He was also given a cycle to play on, and a toy gun. He was accompanied to the court by British officials and his uncle Rizwan for the 11-minute hearing.Sahil's mother, Akila Naqqash, 31, a supermarket worker, spoke to him by telephone after his release. She said he sounded normal and was excitedly telling her about his new toys.