Lord Carlile - a Liberal Democrat peer - was appointed by Tony Blair's government in 2005 to act as an independent reviewer of anti-terror legislation. How effective has he been?He has surprised many civil liberties groups by his vocal support for the continued use of control orders on people suspected of involvement in terrorism. Control orders severely restrict who a person can meet and where they can go. They can potentially last indefinitely. The person does not have to be accused of any crime, does not have to be told why he is under suspicion and so is hardly in any position to refute any suspicions against him. The campaigning human rights group, Liberty, have understandably said that they are "disappointed" with Carlile's stance.And in recent weeks, Carlile has also made clear that he supports the government's attempts to increase the pre-charge detention period that a suspect can be held from its current 28-day limit. Critics, including the opposition parties, have pointed out that the government has failed to provide any evidence of any case in which the police have actually needed more than 28 days to question a suspect before bringing charges.In an article for the December web edition of Prospect, Carlile seeks to take up this challenge and comes up with a rather extraordinary example of a case where the police may, he believes, have needed just such powers."Kafeel Ahmed, an aeronautical technologist, was injured fatally while allegedly involved in the Glasgow airport incident in late June. He survived more than 28 days after the attack, but was never fit to be interviewed. Although not formally arrested, he might have been. Is it right that the entirely foreseeable event of a terrorist being injured in an incident or at the time of arrest should lead to his escaping questioning by the police?"You will recall that Ahmed, from Bangalore, India, was involved in the terrorist attack on Glasgow airport last summer and received 90% burns before dying in hospital on August 2, some 33 days later.But Carlile's reasoning here is rather curious. After all, the current 28-day limit only starts to apply after a suspect has been arrested. As Ahmed had received very serious injuries and was in no position to say anything to the police, it made very little sense for the police to arrest him and set the clock ticking against themselves.Besides, presumably there were some people around who were sufficiently alert on the day to notice a burning man emerging from the van at Glasgow airport to help the police bring some charges within the 28-day limit once they had decided to make an arrest.Far from being an independent reviewer who should be looking to protect the interests of the public from ever-encroaching legislation, it appears that Carlile sees himself instead as an enthusiastic advocate for the government.Still, Carlile is by no means alone in losing control of his normal critical faculties when dealing with the terror threat. Writing in the Sunday Telegraph last month, Alasdair Palmer called for:"The strict standards of proof appropriate in ordinary criminal trials ... [to] be relaxed to help increase the chances that those involved in terrorism would be convicted of it."