Bedfordshire is the worst performing police force in England and Wales, government figures released yesterday reveal. Lancashire and Surrey are the best performing, but police chiefs warned that further improvements were under threat because forces would not get as much government money as they wanted.The 43 forces were assessed by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary on seven categories: tackling crime; serious crime and public protection; protecting vulnerable people; satisfaction and fairness; implementation of neighbourhood policing; local priorities; and resources and efficiency.Overall HMIC awarded more "excellent" or "good" grades to forces than last year and fewer poor ones.Greater Manchester, Humberside, Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, and Thames Valley were the worst performing big forces after Bedfordshire, which was assessed as poor in protecting vulnerable people, and on neighbourhood policing and meeting local priorities.The chief inspector of constabulary, Sir Ronnie Flanagan, said: "Bedfordshire has issues. We will be working with the force to see improvement brought about. I have no difficulty in predicting pretty rapid improvement." A spokesperson for Bedfordshire said: "Much of the data is already historic. The force has made huge strides to boost performance. The report comes in a year [when] Bedfordshire police received £4.27m less government funding than it was entitled to ... and had to find £400,000 to police London Luton airport." The force's chief constable, Gillian Parker, added: "I am disappointed with this report and puzzled by some of the headline results that in no way reflect the hard work that has been done."Sir Ronnie acknowledged improvements nationally and said: "It is not going to be a perfect picture across the board."Greater Manchester police were assessed by HMIC as good in tackling serious crime and public protection but poor on satisfaction and fairness.Tightening public finances have left police chiefs braced for getting less money than they want. The police minister, Tony McNulty, said it was up to police chiefs to "ensure [that] the performance the public demands" is met despite the "tighter financial climate".But Bob Jones, chair of the Association of Police Authorities, warned that frontline police numbers could be cut, a potential embarrassment for ministers. "There is likely to be a shortfall. Some people may be forced to chose options that involve fewer staff," he said.The report showed that the amount of time officers spent on the "frontline" - tackling, deterring and detecting crime - rose by barely half a percentage point in the past year, with the national average at 64.2% of officer time on duty. The message from ministers was that the police service was improving. But the survey found that only 51% of people rated the performance of the police as good or excellent.Scorecard1 point Bedfordshire7 points Greater Manchester, Humberside, Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, Thames Valley8 points Derbyshire, Gwent, South Wales, Wiltshire9 points Devon and Cornwall10 points Avon and Somerset, Cambridgeshire, Cheshire, Cleveland, Durham, Nottinghamshire, Warwickshire11 points Essex, Gloucestershire, Kent12 points City of London, Dorset, Merseyside, North Wales, Sussex13 points Metropolitan, North Yorkshire, Staffordshire, West Midlands14 points Norfolk, South Yorkshire, West Yorkshire15 points Dyfed Powys, Hampshire, Hertfordshire, Leicestershire, Suffolk, West Mercia16 points Cumbria, Northumbria18 points Lancashire, SurreyThe Government's Police Performance Assessments rate the 43 forces in seven categories: tackling crime; resources and efficiency; serious crime and public protection; protecting vulnerable people; satisfaction and fairness; implementation of neighbourhood policing; and local priorities. Each "excellent" rating is worth three points. "Good" is worth two, "fair" one, and "poor" carries a minus one rating. Achieving maximum points in each of the seven categories would allow a maximum score of 21 points. Source: Press Association, using Home Office figures.