British police investigating the murder of Roberto Calvi made their first arrest yesterday, 21 years after the man dubbed "God's banker" was found hanging from Blackfriars Bridge.A 42-year-old woman from west London, understood to be named Odette Morris, was held on suspicion of conspiring to pervert the course of justice and perjury. Calvi was the chairman of Banco Ambrosiano, a banking empire he had created with close links to the Vatican, but which was on the verge of collapse with debts of £800m when he died. An inquest shortly after he was found under the bridge in London in June 1982 recorded a verdict of suicide. But this was discredited and a second inquest recorded an open verdict. His family insists he was lured to London to be killed by the mafia. It is understood Ms Morris was questioned about allegations that during an inquest testimonial she provided a false alibi to Flavio Carboni, thought to be a relative of hers, that he was with her at the time of Calvi's death. Mr Carboni, a wealthy Sardinian businessman and confidant of Calvi, accompanied the financier to London after he fled Italy while his bank was being investigated.In October this year, prosecutors in Rome asked for Mr Carboni and three others, including an imprisoned mafia boss, to be put on trial for the banker's murder. Prosecutors believe he was killed as punishment for not returning a £175m deposit the Mafia had asked him to launder. Calvi was also claimed to have links with a clandestine Freemasons-style group known as P2. City of London police would not confirm the name of the arrested woman but said she had been released on bail until February. British police, criticised by Calvi's family for their initial investigation, reopened the case as a murder inquiry in September. In October officers began re-examining the scaffolding poles from which Calvi was found hanging, a pair of spectacles, and the £15,000 cash that was found in his pockets along with bricks. Detective Superintendent Trevor Smith, who recently returned from Italy, said yesterday: "We have been applying 21st century forensic and investigative techniques to a 21-year-old crime, and we have been working closely with our Italian counterparts. As a result, we have today arrested a woman, and have questioned her in relation to events surrounding Mr Calvi's murder" In another development, an Italian news agency, Ansa, claimed British police had discovered a boat suspected of being used to take Calvi to the bridge. Earlier this year a leaked report by Italian prosecutors revealed they believed Calvi had been alive when his killers hanged him. Calvi's family believes he was strangled nearby before being hanged. Ansa also claimed yesterday that British and Italian police had signed a deal that any British citizens charged as a result of the inquiry would be tried before British courts. The collapse of Banco Ambrosiano was Italy's biggest postwar banking scandal. The Vatican's bank, which had a stake, agreed to pay more than £150m to its creditors, but denied any wrongdoing.