The sustained drop in the crime rate in England and Wales over the past six years appears to be over, with a 2% rise in the annual police recorded figures published today, including the first increases in burglaries and thefts for 10 years.The simultaneous publication of the results of the more reliable British Crime Survey, which estimates crime to have fallen by 2%, led the Home Office to report that "crime appears to have been stable over the last year, following a period of consistent decline". The crime rate fell by more than 33% over the past six years.The British Crime Survey, based on interviews with 33,000 people, estimates that there were 13m crimes in 2001-02. The total number of crimes recorded by the police was 5.5m. The official police figures confirm the 27% increase in robbery in the year to March 2002 which triggered the high-profile government anti-street robbery campaign. They show that half of all robberies take place in 20 local council areas - 14 of them inner London boroughs - with the worst figures in the most deprived areas and the more affluent areas that border them. The recorded crime figures also show that police detection rates remain at an all-time low of 24%. The detection rate has fallen from 35% in 1988. This year's publication of the crime statistics has included two big changes. For the first time the British Crime Survey and the official police figures have been published on the same day and a major reform of the way the police record crime has been launched. Chief constables and the Home Office yesterday said the change in recording practices had reduced the overall "headline" figure of a rise of 7% in the police figures to 2%. Among the detail of the figures "real increases" of around 5% in thefts and burglaries in the 12 months to March 2002 will alarm ministers. They are the first increases in these type of crimes for 10 years and were the big success stories of the 1990s crime reduction drive. The government has a target to reduce domestic burglary by 25% over the six years 1998 to 2004. These figures show that after three years it has fallen by 14% and may now be starting to rise. The British Crime Survey shows that burglars are now stealing fewer video recorders, televisions and hi-fis than they did in the 1990s. Instead, computers have become an increasingly popular target. The Home Office says there is a link between the fall in burglaries in recent years and the fall in unemployment among young men. Government statisticians also point to a similar link between car crime and falling general unemployment rates. They also say there is an accelerating increase in the numbers of young men, aged 15 to 24, but so far this trend "does not appear to have been associated with a rise in crime before 2001-02." The British Crime Survey says the risk of being a victim of violent crime is about one in 25, with young men aged 16 to 24 most at risk. For this age group one in seven is a victim of violent crime of some sort each year. It also shows that fear of crime has fallen in the past four years but that two-thirds of people still mistakenly believe that crime has been rising during this period. The home secretary, David Blunkett, welcomed the figures showing that overall crime levels remained stable. He said the joint publication of the British Crime Survey and the police recorded crime figures would "bring clarity to what is sometimes a confusing picture of crime statistics". He said the crimes that most affected people - burglary and vehicle crime - remained at the lower levels seen after the significant reductions in recent years. He said he remained concerned about the significant rise in robbery. But the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, criticised the way this year's statistics had been presented: "No amount of statistical manipulation can conceal what everyone on the estates in our inner cities already knows - that it is the gangs and drug dealers rather than the forces of law and order that are in charge."