Frances Glessner Lee, the giant astride the world of miniature crime scenes, died nearly 50 years ago. Lee built a collection of what she called "nutshell studies", each a tiny, high-precision recreation of a room in which a murder had been committed.Each featured a little victim, in or on whom the wee murder weapon was embedded or enwrapped. The many lavishly grim elements of each diorama were, mostly, copped and composited from stories of real crimes.Lee and her nutshell studies have a context. She endowed an entire, entirely new programme at Harvard Medical School: the department of legal medicine. The concocted crime scenes served as its mesmerising centre of activity.The authorities know that Lee manufactured her evidence from whole cloth, sliced wallpaper, glass, wood, paint, and other materials. They know that she bankrolled the entire operation. They know that she enlisted the aid of a carpenter, a pricey interior decorating firm, and a company that makes dolls' houses. They know that she conspired with a large number of police officers, whom she plied with lavish meals and strong drink. No one has entirely figured out her motive.Lee, the heiress of a wealthy Chicago farming-equipment manufacturing family, chose the department's first (and only) leader – a dashing male doctor, her brother's Harvard classmate, whom she had kept very much in mind during the decades that preceded her inheritance.Several times a year, she would invite and fund police officers and medical examiners from across the US, 30 or 40 at a time, to travel to her Harvard seminar in homicide investigation. Everyone would examine and discuss the miniature rooms, then go and dine together in splendour at one of Boston's finest hotels. Lee even bought the hotel a costly set of china for use exclusively at these dinners.Author-photographer Corinne May Botz crafted a book called The Nutshell Studies of Unexplained Death. Published in 2004, it shows appropriately disturbing close-up photos of the artificial crime scenes.Botz also reproduces the short descriptive texts that each visiting law-enforcement official was expected to read in connection with his (they were, apparently, all men) visit to Lee and her educational programme.The US National Library of Medicine has put several of Botz's photos online. A documentary film, Of Dolls and Murder, is scheduled to come out this summer, with creepy John Waters narrating.Lee-style fantastically detailed miniature crime-scene recreations never became a standard tool for crime-scene investigators. But their spirit lives on. There is now something of a police vogue for crime incident diagramming software, polyflex forensic mannequins, and mini tubular dowel crime-scene reconstruction kits.The Harvard department of legal medicine did not long survive the passing of its founder and funder. Its crown jewels, the little rooms, went south and now reside at the Maryland Medical Examiner's Office in Baltimore.(Thanks to the Meusey/Baguley family for bringing this to my attention.)• Marc Abrahams is editor of the bimonthly Annals of Improbable Research and organiser of the Ig Nobel prize