When Magalie Bamu's sister Kelly gave evidence at the Old Bailey about her brother's death, she aimed all of her vitriol at her sister: "She doesn't realise what she did. Kristy asked for forgiveness, again and again and again. Magalie did nothing at all [to help], she didn't lift a finger."Born in the Democratic Republic of Congo on 21 February 1983, Magalie Bamu was brought up by an aunt and uncle until she was five. She moved to France in 1988 and holds French nationality. But as the family moved around, she was often left behind to finish her studies and, when the family returned to Congo so that her carpenter father could start a new business in 1996, she was sent, aged 13, to live with her mother's niece, Bebe and her husband, Ferdinand, in Dagenham, east London.She told the court she was forced to cook, clean and look after the children and was not allowed to go to school. Later, she signed up for courses in literacy, numeracy and retail at a sixth form college in Stratford, east London, working as a domestic cleaner to pay her bus fare. She found work as a receptionist and later a dental nurse before meeting Bikubi through a mutual friend. She told the court he was "nice, very protective" at first but became "very controlling" – not allowing her to wear makeup, have friends or go out. "I am stupid and weak to him," she told the court. "When you are told this so many times from when you are young, you start to listen and think that, yes, maybe it's true."She insisted that, having grown up in the UK, she was "very westernised" and did not believe in witchcraft. "Eric sometimes went off. He would talk about witchcraft, talk, talk, talk, then stop," she told the court."I would be listening because that's the best thing to do when he's going on about something. When he gets it out of his system, you carry on with life. I don't have any views because I don't believe in it. To me it does not exist."The court heard that the couple separated for a second time in 2009. Bamu said she had moved into a women's refuge for three months after Bikubi gave her a black eye for refusing his orders to eat off the floor. But they reunited after Bikubi said they should become engaged, and were redecorating a new flat in Manor House, north London, when Kristy was killed.At the trial, Bamu broke down in tears several times – when she heard her sister describe how Kristy had floor tiles smashed over his head, when she had to say his name aloud in court. When her barrister, Philippa McAtasney QC, asked if she intended to kill her brother, she said: "Never. No, never. He's my brother and I loved him. What I did was because I was forced to. What happened I could not stop."But the prosecution insisted she took part in the torture, hitting Kristy and encouraging Bikubi. Kelly Bamu, at least, did not want to hear her excuses: "I am sure she still believes, even to this day, that we are witches." She added: "She didn't give a damn." 