A former QE2 steward accused of murdering five women today told a court about his broken marriages, gambling debts and use of prostitutes for nearly 25 years.Steve Wright, 49, of Ipswich, Suffolk, told the jury he was born in Norfolk and he was the son of a military policeman. His parents had divorced "many years ago".Wright said he was brought up by a "mixture" of his father, mother, and grandparents. His mother moved to the USA, where she still lived. He had very little contact with his mother after she left home when he was young.Wright said he had brothers and sisters and a half-brother and a half-sister. He said one brother lived in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, and a sister in Nacton, Suffolk.His father was an RAF policeman and was based abroad. Wright said he went to school in Malta and Singapore as well as in England.The court heard that Wright left school at 16 with no qualifications and started work in a hotel in Aldeburgh, Suffolk. He joined the merchant navy as a teenager and worked as a "pot washer" on ferries out of Felixstowe.During this time he met a woman from Milford Haven who became his first wife. They were together for seven or eight years before the marriage broke up and she then had a relationship with another person, he said.At the time he was working on the QE2, first as a steward, then in the restaurant. It was while working aboard the liner that he began to use prostitutes, something he said was "quite normal" for the "young crew" to do while the ship was in port.After being made redundant by the merchant navy, Wright took out a mortgage on a bungalow in Halstead, Essex.He started work in the pub trade, initially managing pubs around East Anglia while the landlords were on holiday. He married a woman he had met while working on the QE2, but this relationship also failed.He ran the Ferry Boat in Norwich for a time in 1988 before working at establishments in south-east London and Essex. While in the capital, he started going to massage parlous and again paying for sex, Wright told the court.After leaving London, Wright moved to a pub in Haverhill, Suffolk, before working as a labourer in Felixstowe, Suffolk, during the mid-1990s.He said he worked as a barman in Felixstowe and moved in with his father, who lived in the town.Jurors were told Wright got into financial difficulties during this period."I just got myself into so much debt ... I was gambling on horses," Wright told the jury.Around this time, he went to Thailand for about 10 weeks, where he again paid for sex.Wright told jurors he used the women for "normal sexual intercourse" and "very rarely" for oral sex.He came back in further financial trouble and worked in a hotel in Felixstowe "for a few months" in 2000 and 2001, declaring himself bankrupt shortly after.The court heard that in 2001 Wright registered with the Gateway recruitment agency, which was then based in Levington and moved to Nacton shortly after.Wright said he was employed in various "odd jobs" in Suffolk during his time with the agency.The court heard that Wright was convicted of theft in 2003 when he admitted stealing £80 from a bar where he was working.Prosecutor Simon Spence said that as a consequence of that conviction, a sample of Wright's DNA was on a police database.On December 17 2006, samples collected from sites where the bodies of some of the murdered prostitutes were discovered was found to match Wright's DNA, the court heard.Wright said he mainly worked as a labourer for the Gateway recruitment agency, but had also driven a bus transporting the firm's employees.He was forced to give up this job after losing his driving licence for six months in May 2005 for speeding offences.The court heard that Wright met his current partner, Pam Wright, while working in a bingo hall in Felixstowe in 2000. Ms Wright worked nights at a call centre and was unaware he "used the services of prostitutes".If she found out, she would probably have left me," Wright told jurors. "I didn't feel good about myself, obviously. It's a situation I got myself in."The jury was told the couple moved into a flat in Ipswich's red light zone in September 2006, about a month before Tania Nicol, one of Wright's five alleged victims, disappeared.