There's been a quiet revolution in the House of Lords. Peers have been debating the policing and crime bill. Their deliberations mean that the government will take a historic step: instead of controlling prostitution by punishing women, it will penalise the purchasers – the men.Law and public policy will be unambiguous: buying sex (usually from vulnerable or coerced women) will be treated as a wrong. Legislation will support women to stop selling sex, and encourage men to stop buying it by penalising them: the purchasers risk being fined by the magistrates courts.The key term will be purchasing sex from a person who is coerced. And the key message will be: if in doubt, don't. Purchasers' liability means giving them the burden of knowledge – not knowing whether a woman is being coerced will be no excuse.Wide consultation and intense lobbying preceded the thoroughly intelligent debate. The Guardian's own Nick Davies was "mentioned in dispatches" by peers opposing the government's resolve to attack the demand rather than the supply side.His story, Prostitution and trafficking – the anatomy of a moral panic, claimed that sex trafficking was the subject of misinformation (a hypothesis based in part on the low level of prosecutions). He was troubled, too, by men being punished despite "genuinely" not knowing. Lady Howarth, a former social worker, cautioned that conviction rates were no guide to the extent of trafficking or forced prostitution.Everyone knows that rape convictions are no guide to the prevalence of rape. Typically, crimes of personal dominion – sexual abuse and violence – often don't engage the criminal justice system. Howarth reported that the average age for entry into prostitution was 14, and three-quarters of prostitutes are estimated to have begun before they reach 18. "That is child abuse," she insisted. In any case it was time to "get away from the idea that men are entitled to sex whenever they want it".Ultimately it was the politics of prostitution that was decisive: neither side endorsed the view proclaimed by the pro-prostitution lobby that a woman selling sex is just selling labour like any other commodity. The disagreement turned on whether penalising purchasers would work for or against the women.On Thursday the Labour peers Joyce Gould and Anita Gale challenged the government's loss of confidence in controlling lapdancing clubs. They secured the support of Lady Sue Miller, the Liberal Democrat Home Office spokesperson, who had led the opposition to the government's proposals on prostitution earlier in the week. The government has promised to reconsider.All of this is indicative of something new: positive use of the law to create a new consensus and a new culture. By focusing on the purchaser, the bill will undoubtedly provoke outrage – but it will actually offer a more optimistic scenario than fatalistic representations of women as dogs and men as, well … dogs.