Emma Smith, the wife of a beerhouse keeper at Ridgewell, and Samuel Stammers, a carpenter, of Sible Hedingham, were charged with causing the death of a man, called Dummey, under the following peculiar circumstances: – Dummey was deaf and dumb, about 80 years old, and lived in a small mud hut near Sible Hedingham. He was known in the neighbourhood for twenty years but was generally supposed to be a Frenchman. He gained his livelihood by telling fortunes, and was consulted by the young locals as to their love affairs.The old man met the prisoner, Smith, at her husband's beerhouse, and it seems that on one occasion he wanted to sleep at her house. On her refusal, he stroked his walking-stick and used threatening signs signifying his displeasure. Soon after, Smith was reduced to a low, nervous condition. She remained convinced that old Dummey had bewitched her, and that she would never recover till he removed the spoil from her; and made several applications to him for that purpose, without effect.At last, under great distress, she went to Sible Hedingham on the evening of the 3rd of August, and met Dummey at the Swan public-home.She endeavoured to persuade him to sleep in her house, offering him three sovereigns to do so. Dummey refused and drew his fingers across his throat, implying that he was afraid of having his throat cut. As soon as it became known that old Dummy had bewitched a woman, villagers flocked to see her. The Swan became a scene of riot, and the old man was danced about, falling violently to the ground. Smith urged Dummey to go to her home, repeating that she was bewitched.When the Swan closed, the parties adjourned outside. Smith attacked Dummey, dragging him down to a little brook, and was proved to have said, "You old devil, you served me out, and now I'll serve you out."Smith then shoved him into the brook. He got out several times, but Smith and the other prisoner, Stammers, pushed him back in until Stammers pulled him out. Dummey lay exhausted on the grass for some time, and was ultimately led home to his hut, where he lay in wet clothes, all night. The next morning he was seen in his hut, still in wet clothes, and trembling violently. He was taken to the Union House, at Halsted, where he died on the 4th of September. The house surgeon gave it as his opinion that he died from disease of the kidneys, produced by immersion in water and sleeping in wet clothes.[The prisoners were sentenced to six months' hard labour.]