The Director of Public Prosecutions, Sir David Calvert-Smith, QC, today announced the findings of his review on the Crown Prosecution Service's handling of the Damilola Taylor case to the Attorney General, Lord Goldsmith, QC. Resources. The prosecution team was involved early and remained in place throughout. The legal team of CPS lawyer and two counsel were very experienced and had sufficient time to give proper attention to the case. Although there were times when new evidence was passed to the team and its disclosure to the defence led to increased pressure, these pressures were managed so that the trial was not disrupted unnecessarily. The team was an efficient one in which each member knew what their role was and the case did not suffer from a lack of resource or overall control.Bromley. The review concentrated on the CPS role when asked to advise in relation to Bromley and upon possibilities for improvement in co-operation between the police, CPS and others, so that everything relevant to a witness's potential credibility is known in advance and, if he or she is to appear in the trial, to ensure they can give their best evidence. On 8th January 2001 the lawyer was asked to advise on preliminary matters and did so. On 23rd January the police again contacted the lawyer for advice. They were concerned about Bromley.· The interviews contained little relevant evidence. · The investigating officers were concerned that the interviewing officer who was 'memorandum-trained' was unable through lack of knowledge of the investigation to ask the right questions. · One result of this was that Bromley had told a number of lies on topics unconnected with the investigation which had not been probed. There were also suspicions that Bromley may know more than she had so far said. She had not, for example, said that she had been present at the scene.The lawyer advised as follows: · The memorandum interviews could not be used as her evidence in any trial. · If there was to be a trial she would have to give live evidence, if a 'non memorandum-trained' officer were to conduct further interviews. · To the question whether Bromley was 'damaged' irreparably, he advised that the officers should press on, there being at that stage no other real leads and therefore nothing to lose by doing so.Following further interviews on 27th, 29th, 31st January and February 1st and 2nd 2001, on 6th February the lawyer was asked to advise on whether it might be desirable for Bromley to be seen by a psychologist and whether it would be possible to call such a person to give expert evidence to explain how a child like Bromley could tell lies but still be a credible witness. He rightly advised that that would not be possible as the Crown may not call evidence to bolster the credibility of its own witnesses. On 7th February he was supplied with and watched video tapes of Bromley's interviews. Edited transcripts were provided. He found Bromley an unimpressive witness and said that without some independent support for her evidence a prosecution would be impossible.On 24th May the officer then in charge of the strategic direction of the investigation - who left the case about this time - sent an excellent summary of the case so far. On 29th May there was a case conference. This was a preliminary conference since neither counsel nor lawyer by then had not had time to read, let alone digest, all the evidence and come to any conclusions. The media were informed of this conference. While no doubt prompted by an understandable desire to keep the public properly informed, it resulted in real concerns that potential defendants might flee the jurisdiction if they thought arrests were imminent and therefore in hindsight it might have been better to be more discreet.On 24th June counsel advised that in his view the Code tests had been passed. The Advice dealt in great detail with Bromley. It concluded that she was 'capable of belief' and that there were a number of features of her evidence and of the independent evidence which suggested that her 'core account' was true and should be put before a jury. The review could not fault the detailed analysis set out in that Advice.On 27th June counsel produced his second Advice. This was a major document which itemised well over 200 actions. Thirty or so of these actions were directly relevant to Bromley.Although it was a long and comprehensive advice without prioritisation of particular requests, its issue demonstrates that by the time of charge - (this was the date of the first appearance at the Youth Court) - the investigation was far from complete. Following its receipt there should have been more effort devoted by both police and CPS to planning this as a project with priorities, milestones etc. Although ultimately decisions on investigation are in the hands of the investigators the CPS must be proactive in helping investigators to focus upon matters which will be of most evidential significance at trial.In October 2001 Bromley's school records were produced. On 21st December 2001, after hearing argument, the judge ruled the evidence of Bromley admissible. On 7th January 2002 the legal team were shown the Family Liaison Notes for the first time. Although these revealed the scale of the contact and a description of what happened between Bromley and her handler(s), well described, it did not contain information about the degree of Bromley's spending which emerged at trial.After further legal argument the trial began on 30th January. The conduct of the trial itself by others is not directly relevant to my review but in the opinion of the legal team - which as events have been reported to us seems a fair one - there was an irony in the criticism at trial of the interviewing officer's treatment of Bromley in interview and in her treatment at the hands of some of those critics in the witness box.As is well known, having again ruled that her evidence should be heard by the jury, the judge later directed them in terms that her evidence could not be relied upon to establish the presence of any defendant at the scene of the killing.In relation to the mobile phone evidence, Damilola Taylor was fatally injured at about 4.40 pm. From an early stage in the investigation there was evidence available to show that the defendants had arrived at a children's home not far away at about 5.30-5.35 pm. In order to establish evidentially the fact that it would have been possible to get from Blakes Road to the children's home in that time an officer walked a route from one to the other and made a statement which was served on the CPS and by the CPS on the defence.By late September the prosecution team had been informed orally of the existence of non-evidential information suggesting that mobile telephones attributable to or connected with one or more defendants had been used within the "footprint" in which the children's home sits. On 24th September 2001, in an Advice, Counsel asked for a cell-site map to be produced together with evidence of such calls as had been made and their significance. The team wanted to discover if there was anything which might be used to further destroy the alibis put up by defendants concerning their presence at the children's home. It is clear that the investigators felt themselves in some difficulty. There was no admissible evidence to prove ownership let alone possession of the phones by any defendant at the material time. The production and use of telephone records for evidential purposes is subject to an agreement between the Association of Chief Police Officers and the telephone companies. It seeks to strike a balance between the legitimate commercial interests of the companies and the needs of the police to gather evidence in the investigation of crime. One of the key criteria triggering the provision of evidence is proof of possession of a particular phone by a particular person.The map and a schedule of apparent use of mobile phones and their suspected users was produced on 18th October. Two telephones had been used within the children's home footprint a few minutes after the killing. Intelligence suggested that they 'belonged' to two of the defendants. Although the prosecution could not establish ownership or possession, if the defence wanted to claim either or both the prosecution could not disprove it. Following the information discovered in the cell-site schedule two defendants served Defence Case Statements in which they claimed ownership and possession of the phones and maintained that they had not been at the scene of the crime.However, the prosecution had never had any direct evidence as to how the perpetrators had got away from the scene whether on foot, by bicycle, car or motorbike etc, or by public transport. Prosecuting Counsel's opening to the jury left the various possibilities open. By the time of the trial some evidence had emerged to suggest that the perpetrators had left the scene in a car. The admissibility of that evidence was challenged and the judge refused after argument to allow it to be given.The mobile phone first used after the killing apparently belonged to a defendant who had put up two alibis which distanced him from the relevant cell-site, and who had vehemently denied in police interviews ever visiting the children's home that day. Suddenly he now had a third possible alibi which put him there very soon after the murder. Similar considerations apply to the other defendant whose mobile phone was used in the same 'footprint' nearly four minutes later. In fact a fit young man could run the shortest route - not the one travelled by the police officer referred to earlier - in seven minutes or less. Equally, it could be done by bicycle, car etc in that time.It turned out, after all the evidence had been given and counsel were making final speeches, that an officer had actually run the distance but had not made a statement, or even informed his superiors.In the event, the Crown were compelled to make an admission that the earliest call had been made from a defendant's phone, and the judge directed the jury, based upon calculations he made, that they should not indulge in "impermissible speculation" about the time it might take to run, cycle or drive the distance.In view of the judge's direction in his summing up, it would have been desirable to have evidence before the court as to the various possibilities so that that direction may not have been given. Of course, such evidence, even if it had been available, would have required a degree of speculation on the part of the jury who had no evidence before them as to how the perpetrators had left the scene.More importantly for the future conduct of cases, it may be that the agreement referred to earlier would benefit from further scrutiny of the consequences of some of its terms. In particular, both prosecution and defence may be prejudiced if information about mobile phone usage in a particular place at a particular time is not routinely revealed and available to be used in evidence. The report upheld the use of confession evidence from a number of witnesses including prison staff, a social worker, and fellow inmates of the defendants. There were a large number of these. Most were attributed to one or other or both of two of the defendants. A few were attributed to a third defendant and one to the fourth. The Crown did not call or seek to call, or read the evidence of witnesses: who subsequently refused to co-operate; whose evidence hardly advanced the case; or who had gone missing before trial.This still left a substantial number. The judge excluded the evidence of one witness (see earlier) and part of the evidence of another (the social worker). One witness' evidence was read to the jury pursuant to Section 23 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988. Bundles were prepared for disclosure, in respect of each witness, containing relevant details of the witnesses which might undermine their credibility in respect of the particular admissions and generally. There was so much of this evidence, (18 witnesses), and some of it from prison staff or similar, that the Prosecution team felt justified in putting what they could before the jury. Once again it is hard to criticise this decision. It was for the judge to rule - as he did - whether to admit the evidence and for the jury, assisted by proper directions, to act on it as they thought fit. There were two aspects of this evidence which were potentially very important: (i) One witness alleged that that the 'confessor' had said that the bottle used to cut the victim had been twisted while in the leg. The pathology supported this. Fortunately, although this fact was leaked to the press and printed in advance of trial, the publication post-dated the statement of the witness. (ii) More importantly, however, another witness alleged that the confessor had told him that one of the group of which he was a member had put a marble in the victim's mouth. This was true. Once again the fact was leaked and appeared in the press. Although the witness swore that he had not read or been told of the newspaper report before making his statement the possibility remained, and what could have been an important, even crucial, piece of probative evidence was unnecessarily weakened.Leaks of this kind must be avoided. Those minded to do it should realise that their actions may seriously jeopardise the chances of a fair trial and a true verdict. The decision to prosecute. The original analysis by counsel was compelling. By the start of the trial, the judge had ruled that Bromley's evidence was admissible and the Crown had evidence of confessions, some of them apparently very significant, and proof of false alibis. All this required the case to be put before a jury. The trial process exists so that evidence can be tested in court before a judge and jury. As has been described earlier the evidence in this case weakened significantly during the trial and two accused were discharged before the jury retired to consider their verdicts. However the judge ruled that there was still sufficient evidence in respect of the two remaining defendants to leave the case to the jury who spent three days or so in retirement before acquitting the defendants.