"You're well, then, are you?" "Yeah," says Lionel, "I'm all right now." "Squaddy said you'd been sulking.""I always sulk when I'm ill. I've just been lying there sweating. Had to change the mattress, it was soaked. Anyway, I don't care about all that, I got an unconditional offer from Ucas.""Unconditional? You sure that's what it says?"I get the big smile, all teeth and moustache, the little modest shake of the head. "Yeah, they really want me. Just next to where I live, it is.""That's not right, is it?" says Squaddy. "I've got exams to pass. Why are they just letting him in?""Quality, my son," says Lionel."Is your wife pleased?" I ask."Yeah, she's well chuffed, mate. She really looks after me. She gets on the phone to everybody telling them what a blinder I am. When I was ill just now, Squaddy's wife phoned her to tell her and she was on to the prison straight away worrying about my health. She gets on the phone to the universities. Does everything.""She sounds terrific. What's she doing married to a tosser like you?""I don't know, mate. I don't, really I don't." He has to turn away, head down, looking sheepish. As sheepish as a giant can look. "Squaddy's missus, she's the same.""Every time she sees me now," says Squaddy, "every visit, I get a telling off about looking after myself. You can't imagine the trouble I'm in at the moment.""What trouble?" I have a moment of panic, fearing the worst; you never know in prison."She's worrying that I've lost weight." He gives a huge biceps a quick flex, checks himself out."Well, I think you might have," I say, deciding not to flex anything back at him."I gave up my gym so I could come to English classes.""Yeah," says Lionel, "you're starting to look a bit, what do you call it, a bit elfin.""Carry on like this, Squaddy," I tell him, "and you could be cast as the first black Peter Pan." I get a bad look from under the dreads."Could be, could well be. I do some acting, you know."Yes, I know.""For the youth project.""You said.""I'm the lead, I am.""You have mentioned it," I say."Once or twice," says Lionel."Brilliant I am. We do it for school kids. We do the play and then there's question and answer. There was this girl, she'd be about 15, black and red hair, piercings; like something from Lord Of The Flies, she was. Robert told her he'd never had a McDonald's, that he'd been in jail from before McDonald's arrived. It really hit her, had her in tears, made her realise. Bit on the weird side, really. Anyway, we try to put them off crime and all this," waving his hand at the prison."And you're good, are you?""Brilliant," he says and laughs. "First few times on stage, though, my arse went completely. I'll tell you what, nine years ago, when I'd just been sentenced, I could never have dreamed that things would have turned out like this. I just sat there in the cell, head in my hands; that's it, I thought, my life's over."A couple of weeks after this, the prison grants Squaddy a day's licence so that he can visit the university that has made him an offer. Someone from probation drives him. "Total sensory overload," he says. "We had to drive dead slow; I couldn't cope with it at first. We stopped and had breakfast. I had toast.""You had what?' says Lionel. "Everything to pick from and you had toast?""I've missed toast. Can't get toast in prison. Not real toast. Lunchtime I had shrimps. Not had shrimps for donkey's years. I didn't know if I could make sense when people started speaking to me. It was OK, though. The people in the philosophy department were really enthusiastic. Told me not to worry, they'd had ex-prisoners before, no problem. Even offered me a place in a hall of residence.""Are you sure? Nobody ever gets offered that.""Course I'm sure. They weren't bothered at all."Some universities are. Typically, it's the academics who want to offer places to people from prison and then it's the administrators who foresee problems. A couple of years ago, a university was so spooked by what its academics had done that they asked if one man, Bernard, would consider doing the course under an assumed name. What if it got into the papers, they were wondering. What if, what if?"Yeah, OK," Bernard said, "put me down as Bernard bin Laden."