The detective leading the hunt for a man who abducted a six-year-old girl from her bath made a direct appeal to him today to surrender to the police."We have had an excellent response to our appeals for information and are following up a number of lines of inquiry as a result of those appeals," Detective Chief Inspector Jim Napier of Northumbria police said. "All of this information is bringing us ever closer to finding the man who did this. I would therefore say to that individual 'Come forward now and get this off your chest before we find you'. "I would also say to this man, 'I have a team of highly-trained, experienced detectives who are working with the sole aim of finding you'." The appeal came as detectives questioned known paedophiles and others on the sexual offenders register in the Tyneside area in their search for the attacker, whom Det Ch Insp Napier described yesterday as "extremely dangerous". Police believe the child was taken from her home in North Shields, Tyneside, by a stranger on Tuesday evening and subjected to a sexual assault in a car before leaving her naked in a snowy alley around 15 minutes later."We are determined to bring this investigation to a swift, satisfactory conclusion. The little girl is home, she's safe and well with her family and is continuing to make excellent progress in getting over this traumatic experience," Det Ch Insp Napier said.He also thanked the public for the help they have provided, as well as for sending their good wishes to the victim, who cannot be identified for legal reasons. The victim's grandmother, who lives in County Durham, told newspapers that the six-year-old had told them she had been taken by a "nasty man", and after interviewing the girl and carrying out medical checks on her injuries, police are convinced her story is genuine."She seems to be coping well, though you never know what is going on underneath. She has been talking about the nasty man who took her away from the house and the nice man who found her crying. "We have all been crying and crying but we all know it could have been even worse. We could have lost her, she was out there stark naked." The man who found the girl, Geoff Brown, of Willington Quay, North Tyneside, recounted how he found her screaming in the road, an experience he told BBC News had left him and his wife devastated. "How anybody can put a child through this is absolutely horrific," he said. "You read about these attacks in the paper and you see it on the news, and when it happens on your doorstep it just brings home how terrible it is."Police are appealing for anyone who saw a man acting suspiciously in the area of Gladstone Street or Armstrong Road, Willington Quay, on Tuesday evening to come forward. The incident room number is 0191 214 6555 ex 63806.Police are focusing on reports of a middle-aged man who was apparently not known by witnesses but was seen acting suspiciously in the area shortly before the girl was snatched at about 7pm.Yesterday Det Ch Insp Napier said that the man was wearing a dark coat and dark gloves. It is hoped that more information about the abductor's description may be provided by children who were playing in an alley around the time of the incident.The man is thought to have got into the house by an unlocked back door. Neighbours said that the area had traditionally been open and friendly but there had been thefts and assaults in recent years.