Inspector Steven Groves was in charge of scene-of-the-crime operations that night.Lawson I understand, is this correct, that you have no surviving notes? Groves No, sir, I have not.  Lawson There was reference to you having a clipboard at the scene?  Groves I still have the clipboard. I don't have any notes.  Lawson Had you been given an inkling as to what had happened to Stephen Lawrence, apart from the fact that you had been told he had been assaulted with an iron bar and had serious head injuries?  Groves No sir.  Lawson Had you asked anybody at the scene if they could assist with what had happened?  Groves Yes.  Lawson What were you told?  Groves I did not have any information. Michael Mansfield, counsel for the Lawrence family I suggest there is a very strong possibility that there were never any notes. Do you follow, Mr Groves? Groves Yes, I do.  Mansfield How many sheets were involved, roughly speaking?  Groves I don't know, sir. I could not answer that.  Mansfield And the notes have never come to light, have they?  Groves No, they haven't.  Mansfield You talk about photocopying. Now what happened to the photocopies?  Groves I keep copies of most documents I think I might need. I certainly think I would have kept copies of this.  Mansfield So where are they?  Groves This is five years ago. I have not got my copies any more. I have not got them. It would help not only me but it would help the inquiry if I could find the copies. I have not got them. I cannot say more than that. I have not got them.  Mansfield Have you destroyed them?  Groves Very probably, yes.  Mansfield Let us get utterly clear what you thought about this when you first got to the scene. What did you think about it?  Groves I thought that what we were dealing with here was possibly a fight.  Mansfield Now, may I use these words, which I suggest are your words. When you first got to the scene, it was just an assault and that is all.  Groves It was a serious assault. We had to act on the information that we had.  Mansfield I am going to put to you, Mr Groves, that I suggest to you very clearly this is one of your assumptions because it is a black victim, was it not?  Groves No, sir. You are accusing me of being a racist now, and that is not true. I would like it noted that I do not think that is fair, either. You have no evidence that I am racist.  Mansfield If I ask you if you are a racist what will you say?  Groves Of course I am not. I could not do my job if I was racist. It would not be possible, it is not compatible.  Mansfield You agree you described the assault as a fight and you say that was based on information?  Groves I think what I said was that is what I thought I was dealing with, an assault, a fight. That is right.  Mansfield You were asked specifically questions about the race issue, were you not, by Kent?  Groves Yes.  Mansfield What is the word you use most regularly to describe non-white people?  Groves Black people.  Mansfield Do you?  Groves Coloured people. 