In their piece today about the coverage of the Joanna Yeates killing having left the Contempt of Court Act in disarray, Josh Halliday and Steven Morris touch on an aspect that is clearly exercising editors on regional and local newspapers.They write: "Local newspapers are bemused as the principle of innocent until proven guilty is stretched to breaking point."And they quote Peter Barron, the experienced and eminently sensible editor of the Darlington-based Northern Echo, who says he is "genuinely confused" about where the excesses of the national media leave the "more accountable" local press.Barron told them: "How's a local editor meant to know where to draw the line when they see the nationals being so excessive?... there's such a difference between the locals and nationals."If the nationals are going to come on to your patch and push the boundaries there will also be a temptation [for the local papers] to push them, because you'll think, 'If I don't do this then the Sun will'. You don't want to be left behind."I had several emails and calls from concerned local journalists following the nationals' disgraceful reporting of the man initially arrested by Avon and Somerset police, Christopher Jefferies.A local newspaper reporter, who thought Mr Jefferies had been "demonised" by the national media, wrote to say: "If the contempt of court act is considered redundant by both national editors and the attorney general then why not just ditch it altogether?"Like Barron, he was concerned that the regional and local press were, in general, obeying a law that the nationals were breaching.National editors - and their lawyers - may well respond that they are pushing the boundaries because they are asserting the right to press freedom. They may also argue that maximum publicity is generally good because it can lead to witnesses coming forward.But this public interest justification is a mask that allows papers (and broadcasters) to indulge in the character assassination of individuals. That is surely a misuse of freedom and is of no practical merit.The attorney general, Dominic Grieve, won't do anything, of course. His statement isn't even on the attorney general's office website. In issuing his "reminder" to newspapers about their responsibilities under the act, he was merely going through an old routine. Previous holders of the office have said the same without taking any action. In truth, the nationals are getting away with breaches of the law because they are acting collectively, and no government wants to take on the whole national press (while individual regional and local papers can, however, be more easily intimidated).This collective irresponsibility was noticeable during my skirmish with The Sun's managing editor Graham Dudman on BBC's Radio Five Live last week.When I accused his paper of having been guilty of scurrilous coverage by publishing deeply offensive and highly slanted material about Jefferies he replied that all other papers had done the same.In other words, The Sun abdicates all ethical responsibility for its actions by employing the argument of the playground: sorry, sir, but I only did it cos everyone else did. There is a presumed safety in numbers.After that broadcast, an emailer wrote: "At one point he [Dudman] utterly conceded that his paper was ethically redundant." Exactly. (Incidentally, the central argument was over The Sun's offer of a reward. I plan to come back to the subject of Sun rewards later this week).Finally, if you want to see a very different portrayal of Jefferies, go to Timothy Moore's blog posting The Lost Honour of Chris Jefferies. And I especially urge you not to miss the comment by Leigh Glanville.