Forty people were arrested in a series of dawn raids on a Ukrainian gangmaster operation yesterday as police launched a crackdown on the trade in illegal workers.Detectives took into custody three people suspected of being the main organisers of the illegal ring, including a Ukrainian man from King's Lynn, Norfolk, a Ukrainian woman from London, and an English man from Ely, Cambridgeshire. Officers found forged documents, large quantities of cash and firearms. Six people are being held on suspicion of facilitating the entry of illegal immigrants into Britain and of money laundering. Detective Inspector Paul Cunningham, leading the investigation, said: "Our aim was to stop immigrants, some legal, some illegal from being abused. These people are slaves, working 15 hours days, living in overcrowded conditions and paid a pittance whilst their gangmasters live in luxury and launder the profits." The arrests followed coordinated raids just after dawn on four minibuses taking workers to a major fish processing plant in Aberdeen and a house in which they were living. Ten men and 28 women, most of whom are thought to be Ukrainian, are now being questioned at Berwick police station by immigration officials and face deportation. The drivers of the minibuses are suspected of being lieutenants of the King's Lynn gangmaster, who came to England as an asylum seeker about four years ago. A large team of officers led by Norfolk police went to the man's £250,000 house and took him for questioning. The house was searched as officers looked for evidence of illegal activity involving foreign workers. In the drive were several new vehicles, including a Mercedes car, a Mercedes people carrier and three vans. The Englishman arrested is a director of one of the many employment companies the suspected Ukrainian gangmaster has set up. The investigation, code-named Operation Absent, has been funded by the economic crime unit of the Home Office's Operation Reflex, set up to deal with organised immigration crime. Sources said that officers from Norfolk constabulary's drugs and serious crimes unit had been gathering intelligence on the suspects since July 2003. Police were expecting to release the six on bail while they investigate the evidence seized. Hundreds of immigrants are known to be employed in fish processing plants in Scotland. Operation Shark in December 2002, led by the Department for Work and Pensions, conducted a series of raids on all the main fish processors supplying the leading supermarkets in Scotland and found that 50% of the workforce was illegally employed. Once the fish season finishes in Scotland, migrants are often bussed elsewhere to bring in the daffodil harvest. Stepan Shakhno, who has recently interviewed Ukrainian workers in East Anglia and elsewhere for the TUC, said the arrests highlighted both the exploitation of migrant workers and the scale of need. "The British government needs to take the courage to admit that Britain needs these people," he said. "If they had the right to work here legally, there would not be the incentive for criminal activity."