On Tuesday the secretary of state for justice announced what amounts to a return to the status quo when he left the Home Office in 2001. He cancelled the solely commissioning role that was assumed by the National Offender Management Service (Noms) when it abandoned its responsibility for reducing reoffending. Instead, he appointed a chief executive of a new Noms, whose role is identical to that of the commissioner of corrections, a post that existed from 2001 until the introduction of Noms in 2004 - namely the director of the prison and probation services. If only his successors as home secretary had bothered to consult with and listen to those who had genuine concerns and suggestions to offer about how an effective national offender management system might be developed, the hideous amount of time and money, wasted on unnecessary additional bureaucracy could have been spent on protecting the public by improving what was done with and for offenders.Today, Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, mounted a blistering attack on the government's responsibility for the crisis that the prison system is now in, saying that it was "predicted and predictable, fuelled by legislation and policies which ignored consequences, cost or effectiveness, together with an absence of strategic direction". She drew attention to the recent announcement of the building of three monster "Titan" prisons, each holding 2,500 prisoners. Acceptance of their concept, without discussion or consultation, showed that the government was more interested in building more prisons than in what was done with and for prisoners. In particular she mentioned that a women's wing as part of a Titan was totally contrary to the needs of women in prison.Today I am tabling a debate in the House of Lords on the need for a women's justice board, following the publication, last month, of the government's response to the Baroness Corston report, "a review of women with particular vulnerabilities in the criminal justice system," published in March last year. One of her 43 recommendations was that a commission for women, led at director level, should be established immediately, "with a remit of care and support for women who offend or are at risk of offending".The government, however, only accepted this recommendation in principle, saying that they would be establishing a new cross-departmental criminal justice women's unit, headed by a senior civil servant, to drive work forward on behalf of a ministerial "champion" in the Ministry of Justice. Ministers change frequently, have many other responsibilities and so cannot champion anything. What is needed is a full-time, independent champion, responsible and accountable to a minister for implementing policy. Without such a person, as events have proved, nothing happens, and that is what I fear will be the result of this weak response, whether or not there is an inter-departmental ministerial group to agree policy or not.Just consider the history of the past 10 years on this issue. In 1997, as HM chief inspector of prisons, I published a thematic review entitled Women in Prison in which I recommended the immediate establishment of a director of women's prisons, so that there would be someone accountable and responsible for what happened to all women wherever they were held. This was accepted by the government, but remains unactioned.In 2000 the Prison Reform Trust published a report, Justice for Women: the Need for Reform, in which the author, Professor Dorothy Wedderburn, called for the establishment of a women's justice board, on the lines of the recently introduced Youth Justice Board, charged with the development and implementation of policy for all women offenders. This too was accepted by government, but remains unactioned.In 2001 I published a follow-on to my 1997 report, in which I repeated my recommendation for a director of women's prisons, complementary to the women's justice board, whose introduction I strongly supported. Again: acceptance without action.In 2004 the Fawcett Society published a report (pdf) of its Commission on Women and the Criminal Justice System, in which it called for someone to be made responsible and accountable for implementing policy. In the same year the former home office minister, Lord Rooker, said in the House of Lords that he had supported the idea of a women's justice board from the dispatch box, admitting that, although it had widespread support, it had still not been put into operation. And so to Corston in 2007.Admittedly she is not in favour of the title "Women's Justice Board", but the commission she proposes has exactly the same functions as the board proposed by Wedderburn. She feels that commissions are more "in" with government phraseology than boards. The title does not matter. What matters is that a full-time "doing" body is put in place, or nothing will continue to happen, and the treatment of and conditions for women will continue to be the disgrace described, all too often, by Anne Owers.I just hope that, for once, the Ministry of Justice will listen to the objective voice of proven experience and fact, voiced over the years from outside, rather than the unproven theories of inexperienced whiz-kids inside. Neither Jack Straw's embarrassing U-turn on the nonsense that was Noms, nor Anne Owers's annual repetition of an avoidable and unworthy situation in our prisons, would be needed if it, and the Home Office before it, had done so over the years. If ever there is a chance for it to prove that it really has turned over a new leaf, it is over the treatment of women in prison, at present woefully disregarded, but, thanks to Corston and others, with a clear blueprint for a better future, provided someone is made responsible for making it happen. The title does not matter, the outcome does.