Michael Stone was convicted of the hammer murders of Lin Russell and her daughter Megan on the evidence of a career criminal who hid the fact he was a heroin addict, the court of appeal was told today.Edward Fitzgerald QC, representing Stone, was launching a second appeal which centres on claims that Damien Daley, the convicted criminal who said he heard Stone confess to the killings while in prison, was an "unreliable witness". Stone, 44, was found guilty at two separate trials of killing Dr Russell, 45, and Megan, six, as well as the attempted murder of Megan's sister, Josie, in 1996. The three were attacked with a hammer while walking home from a swimming gala in Chillenden, Kent. Josie, who was nine at the time of the murders, survived horrific head injuries.Mr Fitzgerald said there was no scientific or separate witness evidence linking Stone to the murders, only circumstantial evidence. But there were "two fundamental problems" with Mr Daley's story: "He was a career criminal who admitted to lying to get by in life. Secondly, evidence of the self-confession category is recognised by the courts to be inherently unreliable."Mr Daley told the jury at Stone's trials that he heard a voice coming through the pipework at Canterbury prison confessing to the killings. He claimed the voice belonged to Stone, but Stone's legal team argues there is no evidence to support the claims.Mr Fitzgerald said the type of evidence given by Mr Daley was "easily concocted and difficult to disprove", adding: "The defendant is at a disadvantage in obtaining evidence to discredit witnesses of this sort, because of the bad character of prison informants, and certainly this one, and their readiness to lie in their own interests". Stone was found guilty of the murders and attempted murder in 1998, but the convictions were quashed in February 2001 by the court of appeal and a retrial was ordered. In October of that year, he was then convicted for a second time after a trial at Nottingham Crown Court and his three life sentences were reimposed. But in March last year, Stone's lawyers, claiming that he did not receive a fair trial, won the right to a second appeal. They had since successfully applied at a court of appeal hearing last year for disclosure of prison and probation documents concerning Mr Daley. Mr Fitzgerald claimed at last year's hearing that Mr Daley's evidence should have been excluded, or that the jury at the second trial should have been given a firmer warning about the possible unreliability of his testimony.He argued that the judge had failed to warn the jury of the dangers relating to Mr Daley's evidence, or to tell them to be very careful because of his bad character and possible motives to lie. He said the judge's summing up lacked both a warning and a critical analysis of Mr Daley's evidence and only referred to the need to "examine the evidence with care, which was no warning at all". Of great significance was new evidence that Mr Daley admitted in interviews with his probation officer in 2003 "that he was heavily abusing heroin both in and out of prison since 1996". GP notes showed that Mr Daley had been referred to at least one psychiatrist. At Stone's first trial Mr Daley claimed he had never used heroin, and at his second trial that he had only used it once. At the second trial he perjured himself when he gave "the ridiculous explanation" that painkillers he had been taking showed up as heroin in mandatory tests."It is perhaps extraordinary there was this very full police inquiry in 1999, but it did not uncover the fact this man was a heroin addict," Mr Fitzgerald said. "We would submit there were a number of matters - some which were not discernible at the time, some which were but not disclosed - which would have afforded powerful material for cross examination if it had been available." At the 2001 trial, Mr Daley, who said his previous crimes included violence, robberies, thefts and burglaries, admitted lying at the original trial but not in relation to the detail of what Stone told him. Mr Fitzgerald said that, as a matter of fairness, Stone's conviction could not stand as there was no dispute that Mr Daley's evidence had been crucial. "Everything depended on Damien Daley's credibility and reliability."He also said there was new evidence from another prisoner, Paul Gilheaney, that Mr Daley had admitted in a conversation with other prisoners that he was lying over the Stone case and his evidence was "lies and bullshit". The lawyer admitted there were problems over Mr Gilheaney's evidence, not least the fact that the conversation could not have taken place when Mr Gilheaney said it did, but argued that "he has stuck by the core of the allegation" which was "capable of belief".The case, before Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Moses and Mr Justice Walker, continues.