We have learned a number of things during recent days from the manoeuvrings over the classification of mephedrone. The home secretary, Alan Johnson, has proved that he can browbeat the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) into giving him the answer he was looking for. The uncharacteristic outburst by my old friend Les Iversen, the ACMD's interim chair – describing me as out of touch on the BBC and repeatedly claiming that mephedrone was already illegal – shows just how much pressure he has been under in recent days. There is now an even larger question mark over the capacity for the ACMD to operate independently and free from political interference. This cannot be in the public interest.The events of recent days have also demonstrated why the Independent Scientific Committee on Drugs (ISCD), which I established in January, is so vital. I and its other members will be avowedly free from the kind of political interference that is now dogging the ACMD.We have also learned that the niceties of legal process and proper procedure on drug classification are as nothing beside the media-driven political demand that something must be done, and done now.When the home secretary said on the morning of the ACMD meeting that he was going to ban mephedrone as soon as he received their report, it was clear the decision had already been made. This is a travesty of proper, scientific opinion making.The dubious legality of the ACMD's guidance and the home secretary's decision may yet be subject to a challenge in the courts. The first mephedrone-related prosecution will surely result in the defence arguing that the ban is not lawful. It is quite possible that an incoming government will have to start all over again.Yet what is at stake now, beyond the details of mephedrone classification, is the very relationship between science and politics; between the cause of evidence-based policymaking and the imperatives of headline driven politics. The home secretary got his way on mephedrone. The ACMD buckled under pressure. Yet with some honourable exceptions, key figures in all the political parties have acquiesced in the trashing of evidence-based drugs policy. This is a dangerous and worrying development.One properly scientific response to this is to get back to doing research and evidence gathering. The focus of the ISCD is the science, not the politics, of drugs. In the coming months I and my colleagues will be producing reports on mephedrone, ketamine and cognition enhancers, to name but three. These will be placed in the public domain via our website.We will give the public the kind of high-quality evidence on drug harms our current crop of politicians apparently do not feel they need before making far reaching decisions around drugs classification.We will also develop new models for understanding the different factors that might go into quantifying drug harms, through processes such as multicriteria decision-making. Drugs policy should seek to reduce the risk of harm to individual users, of course. Should it also seek to address drug wars in Mexico, or drug-related gangsterism in the UK? Multicriteria decision-making is a powerful and proven technique for balancing these often competing, mutually valid, concerns.Finally, there is the issue that most properly sits in the borderlands where science and politics meet: the question of the proper regulation of drugs. No serious person thinks that it makes sense for potentially harmful drugs such as mephedrone to be only a mouse click away from a teenager. But is criminalisation the answer?The debate I sought to lead in recent weeks was never about whether drugs should be legalised or criminalised. It was about what the appropriate regulatory framework should be to ensure that harm is minimised. Some potentially harmful drugs – medicines – are legal but strictly regulated. Others, such as alcohol and tobacco, are legal but regulated through licensing and other laws. Others still, so called recreational drugs, are regulated through the criminal process.The future of the drugs policy debate is about appropriate regulatory regimes. This is a debate to which the ISCD can contribute. But it is properly one that a range of individuals and organisations, across science and politics, need to engage in.