The uncle of a pregnant schoolgirl found murdered in a churchyard told yesterday how she had left a family Boxing Day party hours before her death.The body of 14-year-old Amy Williams was found naked except for a pair of pink socks in the grounds of a church in Telford, Shropshire. Police were hunting yesterday for a pink tracksuit and white T-shirt she was believed to have been wearing. Adam Neale said his niece, who was six months pregnant, had been enjoying herself at the party. "She was getting on well with everyone. Amy seemed like she didn't have a care in the world." She left the party midway through the evening, he added. Amy is believed to have been strangled. Police will not say whether she had been sexually assaulted. Mr Neale said: "I can't believe what's happened. The person who did this is a monster. Amy's relationship with her boyfriend, James Love, had ended, Mr Neale said.. The last sighting of Amy was between 9pm and 10pm on Boxing Day in the Sutton Hill area of Telford. She was discovered at nine the next morning. Detective Chief Inspector Dave Morgan of West Mercia police, who is leading the murder hunt, said: "Amy was a young, vulnerable girl with her whole life ahead of her. For her to be killed in this manner was a shocking, despicable act. "We are determined to trace whoever is responsible as soon as possible and we are appealing for the public's help. "Her family are understandably devastated by what has happened and we are giving all the support we can to them." The Rev Henry Morris of St Michael's church said Amy's body was found 100 metres from the nearest public road, by a pensioner visiting his wife's grave. The churchyard is between two large estates. Mr Morris said: "People are very sad, especially for the family concerned.We are shocked that a young girl has died, particularly in these circumstances." Flowers were left by the gates of St Michael's. One card addressed to "Amy and Baby" read: "Forever in our thoughts and always in our hearts."