At the age of two Rebecca Abbott had already featured in the local Barnsley paper as a problem child. By 2002, when she was seven, her mother Tracy was convinced 'she was a child that wasn't going to be tamed'. Rebecca was screaming until 3am and ripping plaster off walls. 'Her Dad had left. She saw a lot of things that she shouldn't have,' said Tracy.When she was told about parenting classes, Tracy felt they would have little effect on such a disturbed child. She and Rebecca were beyond help. She was so negative that she went into the course determined 'to prove it's not going to work'.Instead she found the lessons turned her family around. 'It gave me confidence. I wasn't on my own.'Now, two years on, she is evangelical about 'parenting'. She helps others in Barnsley with their problem children and believes that every parent should be offered lessons.Tracy is one of the success stories of a nationwide drive to teach the parents of children with serious behavioural problems how to do a better job of raising their offspring.By and large 'parenting orders' are issued by the courts to the parents of out-of-control teenagers but the Home Office, following advice from experts in the field, now believes that early intervention is the key and that action has to begin before children commit crimes. Otherwise it may already be too late.But it's a controversial area. Unprecedented new powers coming into force this week will allow courts and local authorities to intervene in families judged as dysfunctional. The powers will build on the existing model of 'parenting orders' handed out by the courts to address young people's minor criminal behaviour that their families have failed to control. New mandatory residential parenting orders will send families off for bonding weekends; local education authorities will be given the power to apply directly for parenting orders for 'difficult' families; and, most radically, this could apply to the parents of children judged to be a problem but who have been convicted of no crime.Barnsley has suffered all the classic depressive symptoms of a northern industrial town: unemployment, drug abuse and crime at some of the highest levels in the country. Until the Eighties one in five of all Barnsley men worked in the mines. Now the figure is zero. Anne Lewis of the Child and Ado lescent Mental Health Service said the closure of the mines had a devastating effect on the town's youth. 'Barnsley became an area of huge deprivation.'Some 42 per cent of Barnsley's children now live in poverty. Youth workers blame rowdy behaviour on the poverty, the teenagers blame the town itself, and the town blames the teenagers. In the latest council survey over a third of residents thought teenagers hanging around the streets was a 'very big problem'.Now Barnsley is pioneering Britain's drive to create better parents. It was the first place in the country to pilot Iowa State University's Strengthening Families Programme for 10- to 14-year-olds, which the World Health Organisation has endorsed as one of the few that actually works. In the 12-week programme, parents and children on parenting orders meet in separate groups for an hour a week, then rejoin each other for a second hour to discuss what they have learnt. A complementary programme has been introduced for parents of three- to 10-year-olds. Colin Barnes, who leads the Barnsley Youth Offending Team, said he was deeply impressed by the courses: 'Over the last 12 months I don't think there's any one who's started a programme who hasn't finished it. All the parents who have completed the courses have rated them.'Research carried out on the work shows that although only just over a half of all parenting orders are completed, offending behaviour is reduced by a third as a result.New Labour criminal justice policy has been driven by an obsession with youths on street corners and problem families. 'Feral children', 'families from hell', 'teenage bail bandits' have all been targeted by New Labour crime legislation.In March 1997 Jack Straw, then shadow Home Secretary, travelled to the Balderton Estate in Newark, where a gang of children had been terrorising residents, to launch Labour's crusade against juvenile crime. He said children as young as 10 should be considered criminally responsible and announced that Labour would drop a fourteenth century law of 'doli incapax' (literally: incapable of wrongdoing) which said that children had to be 15 before they could be convicted of a crime. It was a watershed for criminal justice policy.Parenting Orders were introduced in 1998 as part of a package of criminal justice legislation to attack so-called anti-social behaviour: low-level property crime, vandalism and noise pollution that was devastating the lives of ordinary people. The first schemes began in June 1999. Parents of young offenders were sent to classes, often with other problem families, to help build their self-esteem and repair their often dysfunctional relationships.The techniques were simple: parents were encouraged to make eye-contact and take 'time out' to control their tempers, and family members were encouraged to touch. All this was designed to avoid the cycle of aggressive and potentially violent behaviour that reinforced criminal behaviour.The order itself had two elements. Apart from the obligation to attend classes, parents were also given specific conditions about the behaviour of their children, stating that they must accompany them to school, for example, or impose a curfew on them. The sanctions for parents who failed to comply were designed to be a tough deterrent: a fine of up to £1,000 or a prison sentence of up to six months.The initiative was largely written off: from the right as an expression of New Labour's 'nanny state' tendency and from the left as just another gimmick to avoid tackling the root causes of crime such as poverty and social deprivation.The latest figures show there have now been around 4,000 parenting orders issued around the country. To give some idea of their popularity with the courts, this means they are proving far more popular than Anti-Social Behaviour Orders, of which there have only been 1,600 nationwide, but they have failed to take off in the same way as Drug Treatment and Testing Orders which have been handed out 18,000 times.The take-up of parenting orders around the country has been patchy, and much depends on the enthusiasm of local magistrates. Much as he might like to, Home Secretary David Blunkett cannot force the courts to impose the orders. In Barnsley the local courts have made dozens of the orders but in Blunkett's home city of Sheffield next door they are not used at all.Those working on the parenting schemes in Barnsley told The Observer they were not convinced by the idea of forcing people on to residential courses, which they thought would be hard to justify because of the expense. For the workshops they already run they need between four and six workers - two for the adults and at least three for the children. But the Home Office is already piloting residential parenting orders in the London borough of Southwark and in the Wessex Youth Offending Team, which covers Winchester, Portsmouth and Southampton.The first residential parenting weekend was held last November at Fairthorne Manor near Botley in Hampshire, a rambling country house owned by the Hampton Trust, a charity with a long history of working with children in the criminal justice system. Nine families who have already been meeting as part of a parenting group were taken away on an activity weekend in the hope that bonding exercises and competitive games would bring them closer together. The weekend course centred on outdoor activities such as abseiling, which forced the family members to help each other and make much-needed physical contact.Jo Pennington, a trained counsellor from the Youth Offending Team, who worked on the course, said: 'In a way it is a bizarre idea to teach someone how to be a good parent. But we have to do something when kids have such serious lack of respect. Many of the parents said they just wish something could have been done sooner.'She emphasised that the scheme was voluntary and was unsure that a compulsory order would work. The experience of Wessex Youth Offending Team was that Parenting Orders had a higher rate of success when the parents had agreed to attend classes than when they were forced to do so.Others working in the field believe that obligatory orders rarely succeed. 'The experience of probation is that forcing people through these orders is a disaster,' said Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the probation union Napo. 'These orders are a fine idea in principle but only for people who are already prepared to address their problems.'One parent, who didn't wish to be named, said the course had forced her to confront the behaviour of her 17-year-old son, which had deteriorated after he developed a serious cannabis habit. He had stopped all communication with his father and lost his temper at the slightest provocation. The family was given the option of parenting classes when the teenager received a final warning from the police after getting involved in a fight in the centre of his home town of Chandler's Ford. 'We had been looking for solutions for a long time. If anything, the weekend highlighted the rifts between us and him. But it brought things to a head,' said the parent.Ros Cassy, chief executive of the Hampton Trust, said many staff who had been working on parenting orders since they were introduced five years ago had overcome their scepticism. 'There is evidence that parents find them useful even when they are initially resistant. Families that have been written off do change and make important shifts in their lives.'Beyond the rhetoric, the real test for the Government will come when the public judges whether their youth justice policy has done anything to reduce crime. When Labour came to power the Audit Commission had just estimated that juvenile crime was costing the country £1 billion a year. Earlier this year the same body said the figure had since risen to £10bn. It would appear that Labour was right to identify a serious problem. But, despite a series of high profile initiatives and a plethora of new court orders, they are a long way from finding a solution. · Additional reporting by Robert Colvile