She stood on the pavement, cheeks pinched, lips pursed in private grief. As she read the myriad handwritten tributes to Anthony Walker fluttering on the railings next to where he fell, an axe buried in his head, Agnes Gregg was close to tears.Two years ago Agnes's sister, Peggy, was stabbed to death in her Liverpool home. Her killer got eight years and is appealing against the length of his sentence. 'It brings it all back; it's all so senseless. What kind of society do we live in?' Agnes asks. Judging by the tributes to Anthony, 18, a popular teenager who was studying for his A-levels and wanted to become a lawyer, the question elicits either anguish or anger from many in Liverpool. His violent death is forcing the city to confront some ugly issues involving race, violence and the way society integrates its youth. Whatever happens, one thing appears certain: Anthony's death, unlike Peggy's, will not be simply another murder lost in a sea of crime statistics. Two words crop up repeatedly on the notes and letters placed among the flowers and candles that line the murder scene. 'Scum', screams one, referring to his murderers. 'Shame', reads the other, articulating the local community's anguish that one of their own might be responsible for his death. Amid the competing emotions coursing through Anthony's local community of Tarbock, a collection of 1960s housing estates located in the suburb of Huyton, 15 minutes' bus ride from the city centre, some have adopted a siege mentality. 'Fuck off. You're not welcome; it's time for you to go,' the landlord of the Huyton Park pub snarled last week when a stranger walked through its front door next to which was posted a sign: 'As a mark of respect we will be closed on Friday evening from seven to eight.' The landlord's venom is perhaps understandable. It was outside his pub, a brutal, loveless construction of peeling paint and concrete, where Friday night fights are routine, according to locals, that Anthony's fate was decided. The people of Tarbock are shocked by the murder, but they are not mawkish - the sentiment that Liverpudlians are regularly accused of exhibiting when the city grieves in public. Instead they want to share their stories of Anthony and tell of their pride in him. He stood out, they say, not because he was one of the few black faces in an overwhelmingly white community, but because he and his family were so well liked, respected. 'He would visit this elderly couple every day. He'd just knock on their door and check they were OK; that's the kind of person he was,' said one neighbour. 'He was very special,' recalled Di Stacey, a pastor at Grace Family Church where Anthony and his family prayed. 'I know everyone always says this kind of thing at the time but he was different.' The tributes have given succour to Anthony's parents, Gee and Steve, but they will never fully come to terms with the death of their son. Gee Walker told the Daily Mail yesterday how she became hysterical and had to be escorted out of his hospital room after she went to visit her son in his final hours. 'Anthony's eyes were closed. I don't know whether he could hear anything. They had taken the axe out and his head was bandaged. I was saying: "Look at all these years I've brought him up. Who gave you permission to do this to him? Why did you want to harm my lovely lad?"' Steve tries to blot out the gruesome images that come to mind when he thinks of his son's last minutes. 'Otherwise I'm afraid I might explode.' In Tarbock everyone knows everyone and the murder of one of its own has given rise to an edgy, threatening atmosphere on the local estates. Police vans with cameras now scour the area, filming anything that moves. Police officers guard the homes of those accused of his killing. There is a latent fear of mob justice, that the community will exact its own revenge on the families of those it believes were responsible for Anthony's death. Amid the revulsion that has followed the killing, racist groups have used Anthony's death to promulgate their own arguments and attack a multicultural society. White supremacy bulletin boards carry comparisons between media coverage of Anthony's death and that of Richard Whelan, the white man knifed to death by a black man on a London bus. 'The nigger killing made news worldwide. Yet the poor white chap who was murdered by a nigger beast last week didn't even make the front page,' runs a typical entry. The tense situation in Huyton is exacerbated by a palpable sense of outrage on the part of community groups who warned racist hate crime was on the rise a week before Anthony died. Campaigners say they have received reports of 25 attacks on ethnic minorities during the past two months. So far this year Merseyside police have recorded 58 racially motivated attacks in Knowsley, the borough in which Huyton sits, compared with 59 for the whole of 2004. Certainly racism was never far from the Walker family. As recently as May Anthony was attacked with a baseball bat by a gang of white youths who called him a nigger. Gee Walker told the Mail even the young would hurl abuse. 'Babies would be calling us niggers and they didn't even understand what they were saying.' This is no surprise to Anthony Clarke, who helps run the L8 Law Centre in the city, which works on behalf of members of ethnic minority communities. Clarke told the Liverpool Daily Post racism was rife in the city. 'Racism is alive in every sphere of life in Liverpool,' Clarke said. 'There were concerns of racial tension in Huyton and reports that the number of events there had increased,' Clarke added. As it attempts to understand the murder, it is clear Liverpool will not forget, nor be allowed to forget Anthony Walker. The inevitable message, scrawled across a football shirt left as a tribute at the murder scene, confirms as much: 'To Anthony, You'll Never Walk Alone.' · On Friday, Paul Taylor, 20, and 17-year-old Michael Barton were charged with Anthony's murder and conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm.