Britain and the United Arab Emirates will sign a treaty this week which it is hoped will make significant advances in the government's crackdown on VAT "carousel" fraud, which is draining billions of pounds from the UK's public finances.John Reid, the home secretary, and the UAE's justice minister, Mohammed Nukhaira al-Dhaheri, will sign the mutual legal assistance and extradition treaty on Wednesday as the chancellor, Gordon Brown, discloses in his pre-budget report the official estimate of losses from the fraud for the last fiscal year.The move will enable greater sharing of information between the two countries. It is seen as essential in tackling a problem that has exploded over the past year and which the government fears is fuelling wider crime.Carousel fraud occurs when a criminal imports high-value items such as mobile phones or computer chips, sells them on through a chain of traders and re-exports them. The VAT is not handed over when importing them and is reclaimed when exported. The same consignment of goods can be used dozens of times and fraudsters have become so sophisticated that computer programs are used to create phantom shipments of goods.Dubai is known to be a major hub for this fraudulent activity. In 2005 there was a rise in fraud to third countries such as Dubai, after tougher measures in the European Union caused fraudsters to redirect their trading towards non-EU countries where they believed they could avoid regulation. Experts say 90% of the money defrauded from the British government winds up being laundered through Dubai banks.Last year, in an effort to stem this fraud, a memorandum of understanding was signed with Dubai's customs department to enhance cooperation.Since then Revenue & Customs has nearly tripled the number of investigators it has working on the problem to 1,400, allowing it to carry out much more thorough checks at the point of export and has also strengthened mutual agreements with the main destination countries. The volume of goods passing through participating third countries has consequently started to drop.The latest estimates by the Office for National Statistics show that carousel fraud activity, rather than actual VAT losses, dropped to £1bn in September, the third monthly fall and the lowest for about 12 months. During spring and summer this year, the attempted fraud levels had surged up to £4bn a month.Along with increased action by Revenue & Customs, the closure in September by Dutch police of the First Curaçao International Bank, which was providing banking facilities to all Britain's estimated 2,500 carousel fraudsters, helped curb the losses through the fraud.However, analysts still say the fraud is far from under control. Even if the final quarter of 2006 sees a substantial drop in the scale of the fraud, they believe the losses from this scam have soared from the previous year.The latest figures published by the Treasury showed huge losses of between £1.1bn and £1.9bn in 2004-05. But experts looking at more recent ONS trade data now estimate that the government was being fleeced of at least £5bn from carousel fraud.BackstoryCarousel fraud first appeared in the rag trade in the 1970s but gained momentum about six years ago in the Midlands. The recent surge in activity caused the government to suffer its first annual fall in VAT revenues in March since the tax was imposed in 1973. Last year's losses would have been more than enough to build and equip a dozen big hospitals or 300 secondary schools. John Deuss, a multi-millionaire Dutch oil tycoon, was recently arrested and charged in connection with international carousel fraud. He is to face trial in the Netherlands.