On thin black shelves high up on the wall, a line of ghostly faces stares blankly down on the exhibits of the Crime Museum at Scotland Yard in central London. They are, literally, the faces of death.Most of the people whose heads are preserved here - 33 men and two women - were hanged for murder at Newgate prison in the City of London during the early part of the 19th century. Their heads were cast in plaster of Paris after they were cut down from the noose, and preserved in the name of science. All but a handful have their eyes closed.For the past six months, Gerhard Lang, a German artist, has been engaged in an unusual relationship with these relics of our scientific past. Granted rare permission to use them in his work, he is bringing them to life for modern eyes."When I first saw the busts seven years ago, I can't really explain it," he says. "Intuitively, I thought this collection brings up so many interesting and important questions that I would like to do a work on these busts. It was just a feeling."Lang obtained a grant from the Wellcome Trust to research the "scientific" theory phrenology. Developed in the 19th century it said that character, personality and criminality could be determined by the shape of a person's head.He began by interviewing academics and experts from all over the world in the fields of neurology, philosophy, anatomy, neuroscience and the history of art and medicine before getting permission from the Crime Museum to depict the heads in his art five years ago.His approach is painstaking and intimate. Each head is brought down from its vantage point in the museum and taken to his studio across the hall - a store room covered in peeling institutional paint. Lang places each bust on a specially built easel and as a strong light beams from the other side of the room he traces the outline of its shadow both in profile and with the head facing the paper. He then uses a scalpel to cut around it, producing a "shadow" of the head in black paper. It is this shadow he is interested in."When you see the bust, it is a direct cast of a person, but you instantly know it is only a copy," he explains. "With the shadow, it shows the shadow of the bust but at the same time it has this ambiguous side that also could be the shadow of the person. So although we are at even more of a distance from the person than the bust, it's actually the opposite: I lead you much closer to the person."The casts include Franz Muller, a German man who committed the UK's first murder on a train, and Frederick Deeming, a serial killer who murdered his two wives and four children. Others are unknown.At the time the casts were made, phrenology was at its peak and taking casts was common practice in prisons. Phrenologists believed that the brain had different "brain organs" which represented a person's personality traits. These were thought to be proportional to a person's propensities, which would be reflected by "bumps" in the skull bone. A person with a propensity to kill, for example, would have a "bump" in that part of the brain.The approach was later taken up by early criminologists such as the Italian surgeon Cesare Lombroso, who studied prison inmates to support his theory that the "born criminal" could be identified by physical defects. Scientific advances and, finally, the horrors of the Holocaust put paid to a theory that had become widely used to justify racist beliefs.Alan McCormick, curator of the Crime Museum, says the casts were donated in 1902 when Newgate prison was demolished to make way for the Old Bailey and now form one of the best collections of phrenological criminal casts in the country. For him, the ghostly faces have become part of daily life. "I clean them every morning," he says. "I have to examine them every day to check there is no deterioration. They are almost like old friends to me now."They also play an important role in the museum, which is used in the training of police officers. "Those who visit like to know why it was done and I explain it to them," he says. "It helps them appreciate the science that led to forensics."Lang says the stories behind the casts are not important to his work and will not appear in an exhibition of his work he hopes will be held in London. "The crucial thing is they were sentenced to death because they were believed to be murderers," he says. "We don't know whether they were victims of miscarriages of justice."He is also adamant that his work is not a comment on the death penalty. Instead, he is interested in the idea of "encountering" - the relationship between the work and the viewer. "Art gives us freedom to open another window," he says."Wherever killing happens, encountering hasn't happened. You haven't recognised the humanity of the other. With this work, the viewer is put in the position of encountering the murderer in the way that neither the murderer did to the victims or the state did to the murderer. This is what makes an artwork. It brings something new."· Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"