31 March 2001: Lubbock, 31, of Harlow, Essex, is found dead at Barrymore's home in nearby Roydon following a party. The entertainer is questioned by police.October: Barrymore accepts an official caution for drugs offences and allowing his home to be used for smoking cannabis. No further charges are brought.September 2002: An inquest in Epping, Essex, records an open verdict. Experts tell the hearing Lubbock had suffered severe internal injuries, suggesting he may have been the victim of a serious sexual assault. Alcohol, cocaine and ecstasy were also found in his system.Barrymore gives evidence but refuses to answer questions over claims he gave Lubbock cocaine just hours before his body was found.21 September: ITV announces that it has "no plans" to commission any further shows from the star, who had been one of television's highest-paid entertainers and reportedly on a £2m contract with the channel.30 September: Barrymore tells GMTV he is "sad and sorry" over the death and offers to meet Lubbock's family.September 2003: Barrymore abandons a comeback attempt after the first three nights of his one-man show in London receive bad reviews.December: Amid reports that he has received a £1.4m tax bill, he leaves the UK to live in New Zealand with his long-term partner Shaun Davis.May 2004: Barrymore files for voluntary bankruptcy in the UK because of the "unexpected" tax demand.April 2005: Barrymore's former wife, Cheryl, dies from cancer.January 2006: Barrymore returns to screens in the UK as a Celebrity Big Brother housemate. He remains in the house for three weeks and is runner-up in the final poll, leading to speculation that his showbusiness career will be revived. After emerging from the house, Barrymore holds a tearful two-hour meeting with Lubbock's father, Terry, in a London hotel.Terry Lubbock reportedly tells the entertainer he does not hold him "responsible" for what happened. Barrymore is said to have responded: "It haunts me every day."February: Lubbock's family is blocked from launching a private prosecution against the celebrity. A district judge in Southend, Essex, rules there is insufficient evidence for a hearing on six offences – four related to the misuse of drugs, one alleging drunk and disorderly behaviour and one alleging assault.19 April: Police announce they are reviewing Lubbock's death as part of ­"routine" procedure.December: Essex police begin a new inquiry into the death. Detectives said their decision to reinvestigate followed a review of the initial inquiry.March 2007: Police issue a new appeal for information on the sixth anniversary of Lubbock's death.March 2008: The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) launches an inquiry into the original police investigation surrounding Lubbock's death.June: Barrymore and two other men arrested and questioned on suspicion of seriously sexually assaulting and murdering Lubbock. They are later released without charge.July: Terry Lubbock publishes book about the death of his son.February 2009: The IPCC publishes the findings of a review of the police investigation into Lubbock's death.