Villagers in Emneth Hungate, the home of farmer Tony Martin, yesterday spoke of a steady rise in crime and complained of a lack of police interest in dealing with it.Carol Mayfield, who lives with her husband Stewart on a farm 400 yards from Martin's home, said crime was "rampant". David Barnard, a parish councillor in neighbouring Upwell village, added: "As far as the police are concerned, it is like a demilitarised zone down here. They just don't seem interested." But claims that Wisbech, the nearest market town to the village, had one of the highest per capita crime rates in the country were dismissed yesterday by local police. Drawing on the evidence of a recent study, Supt Walter Hadow of Cambridgeshire police, said a farmer's perception of rural crime was very different from reality. "The people in the fenlands are more fearful of crime than in other areas of the county, but their fears are not reflected in our crime figures. "Their quality of life is being affected by fear, but they are still much less likely to be burgled than people who live in more built-up areas where crime rates are much higher. "The fear of crime is probably psychological. Many of these farmers live in isolated rural areas and they think they are sitting targets," Supt Hadow said. The closure of many police sub-stations in recent years may have contributed to perceptions that police are ineffective in tackling rural crime. Wisbech police station now operates on a part-time basis, closing in the evenings when many residents feel most vulnerable. Although rural crime is thought to have cost farmers across the UK £93.1m last year, the overall trend is downwards. In the Anglia region, which includes Norfolk, thieves took an estimated £15.6m worth of property in raids on farms last year - an increase of 16.4% on 1997, but still less than the figures for 1996. In Wisbech, 302 crimes were committed in July, down from 379 in April. Detection rates for burglary are 30.8% and rising. "For some reason there is an historic perception that Wisbech is a centre of criminal activity, but it is not borne out by crime figures," said Supt Hadow. In neighbouring Norfolk in 1997, the number of burglaries per 100,000 of the population was 1,407 - well below top of the table Humberside at 4,079 per 100,000. "Norfolk and Cambridgeshire are about half-way up the league tables for burglary," said a home office spokesman. "There is nothing remarkable in the figures." The National Farmers Union believes it can account in part for the discrepancy between farmers' fear of crime and the figures which belie them. "Many farmers will not bother to report thefts or damage to their property, especially if the things that have been taken are tools or fuel. "There cannot be any doubting that rural crime is a significant problem and that many thieves go to farms because they are relatively easy targets. "Most farmers simply cannot afford to secure all their buildings and their land, and thieves know it."