A mother was jailed for eight years yesterday for a "horrific" campaign of cruelty against her infant son, who endured broken limbs and 17 fractured ribs before he died in London at the age of two months.In a case with disturbing echoes of the tragedy of Baby P, Inner London crown court heard how the child's mother, 27-year-old Claire Biggs, bamboozled health workers into believing he was not in danger. They knew her as a former crack addict, who had already had an "at risk" child taken into care.The verdict came as the government prepared to publish a report tomorrow by Lord Laming, who investigated the safeguarding of children across England after public concern over the death of Baby P.Laming is expected to conclude that there is little wrong with the policies requiring social workers, NHS staff and police to share information on vulnerable children - rules introduced after the death in 2000 of eight-year-old Victoria Climbié. But the report will look into how far the policies fail in practice.In the latest case, the court heard how Biggs repeatedly crushed the chest of her infant son, Rhys, fracturing his ribs. She broke his right wrist twice and his shoulder. Medical experts told the court that "severe" force would need to have been used each time, causing "extreme pain". After Rhys died in 2005, blood-spattered clothes of his were found throughout the one-bedroom flat that Biggs shared with her lover, Paul Husband, 33, who is to be sentenced at a later date for doing nothing to stop her or help the baby.Rhys had been under the care of two London councils, Newham and Camden. Apart from the authorities' mistakes, Biggs dodged arranged appointments. But at one meeting a health visitor noted Rhys was "active and alert", while a senior paediatric physiotherapist, who checked his club foot, saw no "abnormal marks".As the cause of Rhys' death could not be established, the pair, of Greengate Street, Newham, east London, were charged with the lesser offence of child cruelty.The NSPCC said Biggs' "horrific campaign of cruelty" and the "catalogue of horrific injuries" she caused, highlighted a "loophole allowing carers who cause, or allow, deliberate or serious injury of a child, to evade justice". The charity urged Laming to advise closing the loophole when he presents his report on child protection to the government tomorrow.In the year Rhys died, Camden was judged by Ofsted to be providing "four-star" children's services. Newham children's services were rated as three-stars "good" by Ofsted in 2006.The serious case review into the tragedy, published last month, concluded that there was no evidence that Rhys's death could "reasonably have been anticipated" by the agencies. But it criticised Camden's decision not to put him on the child protection register. It said officials had failed to check on Husband, who had a conviction for child sex abuse, and information sharing between the agencies deteriorated.