Two police constables have been thrown out of the Metropolitan force after being found guilty of racially aggravated criminal offences.The Guardian has learned that one was required to resign and the other dismissed. The offences were committed while both were off duty but the Met took a hard line. David Davies, 29, who was based with the territorial support group, was required to resign after an incident at Piccadilly Circus tube station in June 2003. A court heard that he barged into the operations room just after midnight and demanded station staff call the police. On being challenged, the officer, who had been drinking, kicked, punched and racially abused the black station supervisor,. The officer was found guilty at Guildhall magistrates court last July of racially aggravated assault and intending to damage or destroy property. He received a one-year conditional discharge and was ordered to pay £750 compensation. Following the criminal conviction he was brought before an internal disciplinary board in March and "required to resign". The second officer, PC Stuart Inglis, was dismissed from the Met last month after being found guilty at Lancaster magistrates court last December of racially aggravated public order. He was fined £250 and ordered to pay £50 compensation to the victim. The court was told that the officer, who was based in Hammersmith, west London, was one of two men involved in a racist incident outside a Lancaster nightclub in November 2003. Both men tried to enter the nightclub and were told they had to queue. Instead they racially abused the black man minding the door of the venue. As they walked off, the racist comments continued. Police were called and arrested them a short distance away from the club. An appeal by Inglis against his conviction was dismissed last month. Len Duvall, chairman of the Metropolitan police authority said: "We take these matters seriously and this demonstrates that. We are constantly trying to make sure that we do the right thing to show our commitment to anti-racism. Post [the Stephen] Lawrence [case] the Met has done a lot and we are continuing down that path."The record of police forces in tackling discriminatory attitudes was thrown into focus by the BBC documentary The Secret Policeman, which showed trainees in Manchester making offensive and racist remarks to an undercover reporter. An investigation by the Commission for Racial Equality found forces blighted internally by an "atmosphere of overwhelming fear of reporting racist incidents". Sir David Calvert-Smith, who led the inquiry, said there was still "ice in the heart of the police service" as regards race issues. But the Met will also be confronted with wider questions about its disciplinary procedures. The Guardian has learned of deep disquiet within the Metropolitan police authority about the way the force deals with officers found guilty of drink driving. Members on the authority's professional standards sub committee received an analysis of 28 cases that resulted in internal disciplinary proceedings, 12 of which resulted in an appeal to an assistant commissioner. In five of the 12 cases, the sanction was toned down. Jenny Jones, the road safety adviser to the mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, and a member of the MPA said: "They are using mitigating circumstances in relation to the people concerned rather than the circumstances. If an officer has a few drinks and then jumps into a car to catch a burglar or an attacker, that can be seen as extraordinary. But they seem to be letting people off because the people involved are 'good cops' or because it is a first offence. They are more afraid of losing valuable officers than they are of setting an example. "Drink driving should mean automatic dismissal in all but the most exceptional cases. We expect the police to set the highest standards." In one case an officer was required to resign after a drink drive conviction but saw the punishment commuted on appeal to the loss of six days' salary. It was decided that the initial hearing gave too little weight to the plea of mitigation. In another case a sacked officer appealed and merely lost five days' pay. Another officer caught driving friends from a pub had his dismissal reduced to a reprimand.