Scotland Yard was on a collision course with conservation groups and the mayor of London yesterday over plans to scale back its pioneering wildlife crime unit. Senior officers have warned that staffing in the world-renowned unit will be reduced in September unless an outside organisation agrees to supplement its budget.Although it is only four-strong, the team has an enviable record in tracing smugglers and the sellers of goods involving endangered species. It has seized more than 30,000 endangered species products over the last decade, including items made from tigers, rhinos, bears, elephants, reptiles, and musk deer. But under the proposals, the Yard wants to axe two civilian staff if "outside" money cannot be found.Officers acknowledge the link between the more serious forms of wildlife crime and organised crime. But the Yard says its budget must reflect the amount it spends on costly priorities such as anti-terrorism and neighbourhood policing.The proposals are already meeting stiff resistance. Yesterday two possible contributors, the World Wide Fund for Nature and the International Fund for Animal Welfare - both of which work closely with the unit - said they will not provide the necessary finance because they consider the fight against wildlife crime should be taxpayer-funded.London's mayor, Ken Livingstone, said alternative sources of funding were being sought, but he would not countenance the unit closing or even being allowed to "wind down". The mayor said he plans to discuss the issue at his next meeting with Metropolitan police commissioner Sir Ian Blair. "We're talking about £40,000 out of a budget of millions," he said.Jenny Jones, a member of the Metropolitan police authority, said the proposal damaged London's reputation. "We might consider ourselves a nation of animal lovers, but London is also the capital of the global trade in illegal wildlife products. The trade does us and the world's environment no end of harm."The wildlife unit does a valuable job and is very popular. In fact it is too small to do all the work needed - we need more wildlife police, not fewer."Heather Sohl, wildlife trade officer for WWF, said: "This is a centre of excellence which has been seen as the model for other wildlife units in places such as India and Tibet. But it seems as if cutting wildlife crime is an easy option."Raul Matamoros, a campaigns officer for IFAW, said the Met's thinking was flawed. "As taxpayers we are paying for these services. It is not up to NGOs to pick up the bill. What is being suggested is serious."He said the unit was known worldwide: "London is a major hub for the illegal trade and the message this would send out would be very damaging."Official figures show that more than 1m illegal items arising from wildlife crime were seized by Customs & Excise between 1996 and 2000. Experts say this level of illegal activity is pushing some species towards extinction. Interpol calculates that wildlife crime is worth more than £5bn a year. Only the drug trade raises more. In a memo, officers explain that it is "not the intention ... to close the WCU for the financial year 2007-08". But they confirm that "in the absence of alternative funding it may have to be reduced in size". They say the service has been enhanced through alignment with the new Met Intelligence Bureau and the National Wildlife Crime Unit, based in Scotland.The pressure on police budgets and the search for sponsors willing to fund police activity has caused continuing controversy. Last month the Guardian disclosed that officers sought funding for the arts and antiques squad when its £300,000 budget was halved but failed to secure a penny from insurers or auction houses.Questions are also being asked about the extent to which the financial burden for traffic policing is being transferred away from the Met and on to Transport for London, which funds the transport operational command unit to fight crime on buses and along bus routes.Animal trade· The thrust of the Met's drive against wildlife crime is Operation Charm, a collaboration launched in 1996 and involving the Greater London authority, the Active Conservation Awareness Programme, the International Fund for Animal Welfare, WWF-UK and the David Shepherd Wildlife Foundation.In December a 53-year-old man from south-east London was fined £5,400 for offering for sale products with ingredients such as bear, seahorse, saiga antelope, musk deer and rare species of orchid and tree fern.· Last November the Wildlife Crime Unit and Camden police seized fur coats believed to have been made from tiger fur, leopard, snow leopard and other cat species, all of which are subject to controls under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species. A month earlier, a company specialising in the sale of gentlemen's grooming accessories was fined £10,000 after 24 ivory items - shaving brushes - were discovered on sale. The brushes were stamped "real ivory" and sold for £1,100 each.