The scale of the cruelty to which Baby P had been subjected became apparent at the postmortem examination. The pathologist who examined his bruised body found eight fractured ribs, a spine broken with such force that it looked like a car crash injury, and a tooth that must have been swallowed after a violent blow to the face.He also noted two missing fingernails, a missing toenail, a tear to the baby's ear as well as marks — possibly from a dog's teeth — in his scalp.The brief life of the boy, known in court only as Baby P for legal reasons,began on March 1 2006 when he was born in north London to a 25-year-old mother and a man she had met when she was 16 and he was 33. Within three months of his birth, his father had left the family home and his mother had begun a relationship with a man she met in a pub.Following the death of the boy on August 3 last year, three people werecharged with murder – the boy's mother and her boyfriend, neither of whom can be named for legal reasons, and a second man, Jason Owen, who was a lodger in the house. At the start of the trial in September, the mother admitted causing or allowing the boy's death; last week the judge ordered the jury to clear the mother and Owen of murder. Today a jury found the 32-year-old boyfriend and Owen, 37, guilty of causing or allowing the boy's death.The first clear signs of abuse began to appear on the child's body inDecember 2006, a month after the boyfriend moved in with the mother. On December 11, she took the child to her GP, who noticed that the baby had bruises on his forehead, nose, chest and right shoulder. When the mother failed to provide a reasonable explanation, the GP sent her to the Whittington hospital in Archway, north London.The baby was examined by a consultant paediatrician, Dr Heather Mackinnon, who concluded the bruises were probably not accidental. Although Baby P's mother said he had fallen off the sofa, Dr Mackinnon wrote in her notes: "Not to be allowed home. Police protection order if necessary."Four days later, Baby P was discharged and placed, informally, in the care of a family friend while police and social workers investigated. The social workers who visited the council flat in Haringey that housed the family and three dogs found it was dirty, untidy, and smelt of urine.On December 19, Baby P's mother and grandmother were arrested forassaulting him. On December 22, Baby P was placed on the Haringey child protection register under the categories of neglect and physical abuse.A brief respiteThe period the child spent in the care of the family friend must have been one of the happiest of his life. For the month he was with her, he was described as a quiet and placid little boy who was no trouble at all. More significantly, he did not develop any new bruises.By the time Baby P was returned to his mother on January 26 2007, she had been moved into a house in Tottenham, north London. What the social services did not know was that the boyfriend had also moved with her.The mother had promised to cooperate with the allocated social worker,Maria Ward, and the health visitor, Paulette Thomas, to get Baby P's name off the child protection register.A friend of the mother who visited her at home in early April recalledseeing a withdrawn and bruised Baby P sitting in the garden eating dirt.The mother told her that he had grown fond of the woman who had looked after him for a month. "She said he wanted picking up and cuddles all the time," said the friend.Two days later, Baby P was taken to the North Middlesex hospital withswelling and bruising on the left side of his head. His mother claimed hehad been pushed over by an 18-month-old child and had hit his head on a marble fireplace.Medical staff who examined the child became concerned about the mother's explanation, and Baby P was admitted to hospital and social services were informed. However, once Baby P had been given the all-clear for meningitis, he was allowed home. Social services provided the family with a fireguard.Losing contactIt became obvious that something more substantial would be needed toprotect Baby P on Friday June 1 last year. Ward made an unannounced visit just before lunchtime that day and found him lying on the sofa under a blanket. His face was red and she saw bruises under his chin. Four days later, the mother was arrested for a second time.Although senior officers felt Baby P should not be returned home, the decision was taken on a "multi-agency basis" to allow Baby P back into his mother's care — albeit under the supervision of the family friend who had looked after him before. By the end of June, Owen and his 15-year-old girlfriend had moved into the house and contact between the mother and Ward and Thomas had become erratic.The last time Ward saw Baby P was on July 30. He was sitting in his buggy in the hall, his face, hands and clothes smeared with chocolate. Even though he was restless and fidgety he managed to smile at her. Owen later told police that the mother and her lover had rubbed chocolate over Baby P to hide his injuries.On August 1, the mother took Baby P to the child development centre at St Anne's hospital in Tottenham. There he was examined by a consultant paediatrician, Dr Sabah al-Zayyat, who noted that Baby P appeared "cranky" and "miserable" but did not find any indication that he had fractured ribs or a broken back. However, two medical experts told the court that they believed those injuries would already have been evident.During the trial, the doctor told the court: "I did examine him. He didn'tlook any different from a child of his age with a common cold. He wassitting without support. There was no reason to suspect anything else."The next day, his mother was told that she would face no further actionover the assault. But at 11.35am the day after that, on August 3 2007, an ambulance was called to the house. Its crew found Baby P already stiff and blue in his cot. He was taken to North Middlesex hospital where he was pronounced dead at 12.20pm.His mother was arrested that afternoon, while police caught up with herboyfriend and Owen at a campsite in Epping Forest 11 days later.Lessons learnt?Dr al-Zayyat is being investigated by the general medical council and has been made the subject of an interim order that requires her to be supervised by a named consultant.The police concede that things could have been done better during the December investigation, but say the biggest factor in the tragedy was the boyfriend's hidden presence.Officers say some lessons have been learnt from Baby P's death; they say they are now more confident about challenging the recommendations made by other agencies and about sharing information."We know that the child was killed unlawfully and that he suffered horrible, horrible injuries," said one detective. "[But] these three adults killed that child. Nobody else. We had a mother who was purporting to cooperate and who again and again was taking her kid to various doctors and support agencies. But it's now clear that she constantly conspired to keep from us what was going on."If only we'd known what these adults were like."In a recorded interview with Baby P's mother following her second arrest in June 2007, another detective noted: "Either he's the unluckiest kid in the world or it's something more than this."