Whitemoor high security prison is facing legal actions alleging acts of racial discrimination and abuse by guards against inmates, the Guardian has learned.A team of lawyers has joined forces to pursue at least 13 cases. The actions will claim abuse at the jail is frequent and systematic.The development has come to light on the same day inspectors outline racial difficulties at Whitemoor and criticise the jail for deficiencies in "key areas", including a failure to get to grips with bullying and to maintain high-quality relationships between staff and prisoners.Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, found a less severe situation than that alleged by those taking legal action but she said there were "poor perceptions and some differential outcomes among black and minority ethnic prisoners", adding: "They reported subtle discrimination, due to a lack of cultural and racial understanding by almost entirely white staff."A police investigation into allegations of racist attacks and abuse at Whitemoor - first revealed by the Guardian in January - is being conducted by detectives in Cambridgeshire. Yesterday they disclosed that they are ready to send an initial report to the Crown Prosecution Service to see whether charges will result.One former prisoner pursuing a case against the prison said: "You can tell that prison officers in places like Whitemoor don't mix with black people. They think of us as a threat and stereotype us. The only black people they come into contact with are convicted criminals."I was put in a strip cell at Whitemoor and one officer whispered through the gap in the door 'fucking nigger'. Then they called my mum a black bitch. I felt frightened that they could kill me at any time but there was nothing I could do."At the time of the official inspection, black prisoners comprised 30% of the jail's population.Although Ms Owers said prisoners "experience equality of opportunity", she noted that the race relations liaison officer was unable to spend enough time talking to black and minority ethnic prisoners because he was so busy dealing with the "volume of racist incident reports"."The ethnic make-up of the local area contributed to the low number of black and minority ethnic staff (less than 3%)," she said. "In our survey, black and minority ethnic prisoners had significantly poorer perceptions of the prison than white prisoners on a range of indicators. Only 67% of black and minority ethnic respondents said they were treated with respect by most staff, compared with 81% of white respondents, and 54% claimed to have been insulted or assaulted by a member of staff compared with 29% of white prisoners."She said black and minority ethnic prisoners spoke of "disrespectful and ... racist language and treatment including allegations that staff provoked them".Phil Wheatley, director general of the Prison Service, said that the governor at Whitemoor was enhancing staff training. "Getting staff-prisoner relationships right in conditions of high security is always challenging."