The Metropolitan Police has agreed to pay £320,000 compensation to the parents of Stephen Lawrence for its failures during and after the investigation into the teenager's racist murder, the Guardian can reveal.A deal was reached last Friday following protracted talks between lawyers for the parents and the Metropolitan Police Authority. It ends the gruelling seven-year battle Doreen and Neville Lawrence have fought with the Met. Under the terms of the "full and final" settlement, the service has not admitted it was negligent in its handling of the inquiry or in the way its officers treated Stephen's parents. Police hope that the case will not set a legal precedent allowing others to sue for alleged negligence. Scotland Yard, however, said the ex-gratia sum was recognition of the "unique circumstances" of the case, and the "strength and determination" of the Lawrences, who have campaigned tirelessly since their 18-year-old son was stabbed in Eltham, south London, by a group of white youths on April 22 1993. A police statement added: "Public apologies have been made to Mr and Mrs Lawrence for the failings of the Metropolitan Police Service." The £320,000 figure was agreed after the Lawrences refused an offer of £250,000 in the autumn, and follows pressure from Ken Livingstone, the mayor of London, who urged a swift resolution to the claim. The Lawrences decided to launch a civil action against the Met after Sir William Macpherson's report into the the investigation, published in February 1999, which concluded that it had been mishandled by the force. They issued writs against 41 officers, including the then commissioner Sir Paul Condon, using the race relations act as the backbone of the claim. They demanded more than £500,000 compensation for "alleged negligence, and or conspiracy, and or misfeasance in public office and or breach of statutory duties". In statements to the high court, they claimed for psychological damage, the cost of their son's funeral in Jamaica, and the cost of the campaign to achieve justice for Stephen. Mrs Lawrence, 47, also asked for money to pay for trips she took to America and South Africa to try to get over the murder and the cost of taxi fares to take her son Stuart to his part-time job. The Met remains hopeful that the killers will be caught. A team of detectives under Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, head of the racial and violent crimes task force, is still working on the case.