A former SAS soldier who suffocated his terminally ill son with a pillow was cleared of murder and allowed to walk free from court yesterday.At the end of a protracted case exploring the question of mercy killing, Andrew Wragg was given a suspended sentence for manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility after the judge accepted his wife had been "complicit" in the boy's death.The trial at Lewes crown court highlighted the plight of children afflicted with Hunter syndrome, a rare genetic disorder, and the pressures imposed on parents caring for them. The condition progressively denies victims their hearing and speech and renders them incontinent before they enter a vegetative state. Sufferers such as 10-year-old Jacob Wragg, who had a severe form, are normally dead by their mid-teens.But the retrial exposed the strains and disputes between Wragg, 38, who had worked as a private security guard in Iraq, and his wife Mary, 42, as their marriage disintegrated. The first trial had been abandoned after the jury failed to reach a verdict.Sentencing Wragg, the judge, Mrs Justice Anne Rafferty, described the case as "exceptional". She said: "This was not a mercy killing but a deed done by a man suffering from diminished responsibility, the sentence is two years imprisonment suspended for two years."Of Mrs Wragg, the judge said: "I have no doubt she was complicit. Had I concluded otherwise I should have formed a harsher view. I accept that you [Andrew Wragg] would not have taken Jacob's life had you, for a moment, thought that she disagreed with what you were to do."All who listened must have wondered at the remorseless strain Mary bore lovingly and bravely during the 10 years she dedicated to Jacob - as you concede you did not so consistently do."Wragg smothered Jacob at the family home in Worthing, West Sussex, on July 24 last year. The court heard that Mrs Wragg believed her husband had wanted an evening of sex when he telephoned her and insisted she take the couple's youngest son George, then six, out of the house to her mother's home for the night.Commenting on the sequence of events, Judge Rafferty said: "Your then wife, late that night, removed your younger son from his bed and drove via a late-opening shop to a lay-by where she stopped the car."Only after you had telephoned her with the news that Jacob was dead did she drive on to her mother's flat ... one would have to be quite remarkably naive to accept that this dedicated and experienced mother behaved in that way solely as to enjoy an evening of prolonged intimacy with you."During the trial, however, Mrs Wragg denied participating in a plan. "I would never have left him to face that alone," she told the court. Jacob had not been close to death, she stressed, but "happy and jolly" on the day he was killed.The judge told Wragg she had given him credit for confessing to the killing. Without that admission, she said, a verdict of death by natural causes would have been recorded. "Killings range from the actions of the sadist to those of a man who, as a mercy, kills a loved one in response to a plea for release from a terminal illness."Although Jacob was unable to make such a plea to you, I accept that your genuinely held belief was that what you did would bring to an early end a life afflicted and drawing inexorably to its close without intervention."But, Judge Rafferty added, "no matter your motive, the end of Jacob's life was not in your gift".Wragg pleaded that the pressure of looking after Jacob, his failing marriage and the horrors he witnessed in Iraq led him to a state of mind in which he believed his son had "come to the end of the road".During the trial it emerged that the couple had decided to abort a baby boy at eight months after they realised he was also carrying the crippling Hunter syndrome. Girls may carry the genetic condition and remain unaffected; about three boys are diagnosed with the condition in the UK every year. Wragg claimed later the abortion had a lasting effect on his mental wellbeing.Wragg left the court without comment yesterday.Mrs Wragg said afterwards: "This case was never about Jacob's quality of life. He wasn't aware he was different or less able in any way. Jacob was a happy loving child living in a sometimes difficult body."Jacob's condition has been used as an excuse for this crime and I find it appalling anyone would try to portray him as being less deserving of his life or less entitled to enjoy every precious moment his condition allowed. I am shocked by the sentence and the message it sends to others."The 999 call made by Andrew Wragg on the night of the killing:Wragg I've just murdered my son. Operator And your name is? Wragg (spelling) W-R-A-G-G. Operator When you say murdered, what do you mean? Wragg I've killed him. Operator How? Wragg With a pillow over the face. Operator How old was he? Wragg He is 10. Operator Why have you done this? Wragg I don't want to comment any more. That's all you need to know. Operator Is there anyone else there with you? Wragg My wife is there, yeah. Operator Are there any children in the house? Wragg No. Operator Where is your wife? Wragg She's in the house. She's safe. She's all right. Operator If you'd like to wait there I'll get someone to come round Wragg Super. Thank you.