Nadine Milroy-Sloan, the woman who falsely accused Neil and Christine Hamilton of rape, has been found guilty of two charges of perverting the course of justice.Milroy-Sloan, 29, had told police in May 2001 that the former Conservative minister and his wife had sexually assaulted her in a flat in Ilford, Essex. She claimed she had been lured there by 62-year-old Barry Lehaney, who she said had told her he was the Hamiltons' chauffeur.During the trial it emerged that two days before the alleged attack, the mother of four had been to see the publicist Max Clifford with a story about the Hamiltons being involved in a vice ring and tax scam. He told her she could earn £100,000 if she could prove this.The jury of 10 men and two women agreed with the prosecution that Milroy-Sloan, of Grimsby, was a "cunning" fantasist who had come up with the scheme to find fame and fortune. Milroy-Sloan first met Mr Lehaney in an internet chat room where women exchanged sexual fantasies. He had pretended to be Lady Joan Hamilton and had sent Milroy-Sloan a picture of a naked model, claiming she was Lady Joan, wife of Sir James Hamilton. They exchanged explicit messages and Milroy-Sloan later visited his flat in Ilford for a night. The next day he woke up to find police knocking at his door. The former financial adviser said Milroy-Sloan had wanted to meet Lady Joan when he took her home. He told her: "She is not here, she does not exist." Sloan said her friend had told her that Lady Joan was Christine Hamilton. He continued: "I said 'Don't be stupid, look at the photos', but she wanted it to be. "Neil did not come into it much. It was mainly Christine, she wanted to get Christine. In her conversation, her operation was to make a few quid out of it."Milroy-Sloan later admitted in court that she might have been mistaken about the Hamiltons' identities.The Hamiltons were able to produce firm alibis for the night on which they were accused of rape and were never charged.Following today's verdict, Mrs Hamilton told Sky News: "As I understand it, there was an internal investigation at Scotland Yard as to why we were arrested when there was no evidence against us but, of course, we do not know what the outcome of that is. "There are a very large number of questions that still need to be answered ... we have not got to the bottom of exactly what went on. It is just one chapter now closed because she has been found guilty." Mr Hamilton added: "I am pleased that this sorry saga has now come to an end and that justice has been done. It's been a dreadful time for Christine and me. It's an absolutely appalling thing to do and for a woman to accuse another woman of such horrible crimes, I think it is quite appalling." Mrs Hamilton said being held in a police station following their arrest was the lowest point and described the case as "one of the most frightening experiences of my entire life". Judge Simon Smith granted Milroy-Sloan conditional bail to appear at Middlesex Guildhall Crown Court on June 13. He told her that the granting of bail was "no indication that I am thinking of any sentence other than a substantial period of custody". Her bail conditions include not contacting any media organisations or prosecution witnesses.