The inquest into the death of Jessie James, the 15-year-old shot dead in a park in Moss Side, Manchester, was dramatically adjourned on its third day yesterday so detectives could arrest two "very significant" murder suspects with gangland links.The breakthrough in a case which appeared to be going nowhere because of witnesses' fears of reprisals comes a month before the anniversary of the death of Jessie early on September 9 last year.Detectives said they were acting on information given by a witness who had approached a religious leader in the community as the inquest began on Monday.It is thought the witness came forward following publicity leading up to the hearings and comments by the Manchester coroner, Nigel Meadows, who said he wanted to break down "the wall of silence" surrounding the killing.The inquest had been switched from his usual venue to Manchester crown court so measures could be taken to ensure the anonymity of witnesses. This week, identified only by letters of the alphabet, witnesses gave evidence by video link from a remote location, their voices distorted to the extent of concealing their gender.One witness, referred to as A, told of hearing gunshots in Broadfield Park, Moss Side, seeing flashes and watching a person fall to the ground.Detective Inspector Shaun Donnellan, the senior officer investigating the murder, said the key witness who made contact on Monday had told the minister: "I was a little unsure. Now I am very confident that these measures can protect me. I want to be interviewed. I will give a statement."Mr Donnellan said the arrests were "imminent", adding that the suspects were linked to Manchester gangs.After hearing of yesterday's arrests, Jessie's mother, Barbara Reid, said: "We are anxiously awaiting developments. I'm pleased. All I want is justice for Jessie at the end of the day."In a moving tribute at the inquest on Tuesday, Ms Reid said her son had been killed because he had refused to join a Moss Side gang, and she regretted that the people of Moss Side would not stand up to "denounce this evil in our community".Michael Simpson, a pastor whose Seventh Day Adventist church is attended by Ms Reid, said: "The family would like to register that today's adjournment is a significant step in the case and we are genuinely pleased with that breakthrough."Mr Donnellan said the new witness had made contact because of the special measures introduced by the coroner. "A witness has been so confident of the measure that this person has come forward and given witness testimony which outlined sufficient evidence for me to cause the arrests of two people on suspicion of murdering Jessie James."It is the first time since the murder that I have seen witness testimony in any form which causes me to believe it may assist in the prosecution."There have been a number of arrests in the past but these people have been quickly eliminated from our inquiries."He hoped the message was getting through that the people of Moss Side could trust the police, and he appealed for more help. "I would ask them to do the right thing and ask everybody out there to look again at their situation. If you want this to stop, follow the witness and do the right thing. Contact me, we will protect you. Just think about this 15-year-old boy and his family."His appeal echoed one from Mr Meadows as he adjourned the inquest. "I would like to say, for the benefit of the people of Manchester, that huge efforts have been [made] to conduct this inquest in an appropriate way to give confidence to witnesses to come forward. Very recently we have had a further witness come forward. As a result of that, further inquiries will be made. I would therefore hope and encourage anyone who has any information to reflect on their position."Hopefully this may prick their consciences and [make them] feel they can come forward in confidence and provide police with assistance in their inquiries. Just because one witness has come forward there could be others. Please come forward. This is your opportunity to give Ms Reid some justice."The first indication of the day's developments came when Pete Weatherby, counsel for Jessie's family, rose to tell Mr Meadows: "At the beginning of the inquest on Monday I think I alerted the court to the fact that there might be a significant development. That development was essentially a new witness who had come forward through a religious leader." The evidence the witness provided was in a form admissible in court.The hearing was adjourned while Jessie's family discussed the breakthrough with detectives for 90 minutes. After Mr Meadows spoke to police it became clear that the inquest would have to be adjourned so the arrests could go ahead.The coroner will announce today whether the hearing will continue on Friday, when court number one at Manchester crown court remains available.As he closed yesterday's session, Mr Meadows, anticipating a possible criminal trial for Jessie's murder, said: "In the nicest possible way, I would hope not to resume the inquest."Young victims of urban violence in 2007 January 25 Jevon Henry, 18, stabbed to death in St John's Wood, north London February 3 James Andre Smartt-Ford, 16, died after being shot at Streatham ice rink, south London February 6 Michael Dosunmu, 15, thought to be victim of mistaken identity, shot dead in bed at his Peckham home, south London. Two men charged with murderFebruary 14 Billy Cox, 15, shot dead in his Clapham bedroom, south London March 5 Odwayne Anthony Barnes, 16, stabbed in Birmingham. Three charged with murder March 6 Jason Spencer, 17, stabbed in Nottingham. A 17-year-old boy charged with murder March 14 Kodjo Yenga, 16, stabbed in Hammersmith, west London. Seven youths charged with murder March 17 Adam Regis, 15, stabbed to death in Plaistow, east London March 24 Michael Metcalfe, 19, stabbed to death at party in Garston, near Liverpool April 6 Paul Erhahon, 14, stabbed in Leytonstone, east London. Seven teenage boys charged with murder May 1 Kamilah Peniston, 12, shot in her home in Gorton, Manchester. Boy, 16, charged with murder May 13 Marlon Moran, 21, fatally stabbed, also in Garston May 18 Dwain Douglas, 18, stabbed to death in Thornton Heath, south London May 21 Sam Brown, 16, stabbed to death in Blackpool. Youth, 15, charged with murder June 9 Goran Barzan Fariq, 20, stabbed to death near Petersfield, Hampshire. Man charged with murder June 19 Sian Simpson, 18, stabbed to death in Croydon, south London. Woman, 18, charged with murder June 23 Annaka Keniesha Pinto, 17, shot dead in Tottenham, north London June 23 Ben Hitchcock, 16, fatally stabbed in Beckenham, south London June 26 Martin Dinnegan, 14, stabbed in Islington, north London. Three males charged with murder July 26 Abukar Mahamed, 16, shot dead in Stockwell, south London August 3 Nathan Foster, 18, died in shooting in Brixton, south London