A homeowner arrested on suspicion of murder after the fatal stabbing of an alleged burglar at his house has been released on police bail.Vincent Cooke, 39, was arrested after the incident at his home in Bramhall, Stockport, on Saturday night, during which Raymond Jacob, 37, was stabbed, apparently with his own knife. Cooke was questioned by detectives and released on Sunday evening. He was bailed until 17 October pending further inquiries.Moments after the stabbing, Cooke's wife and 12-year-old son arrived. They fled as they realised what was happening. Cooke had dialled 999 but paramedics were unable to save Jacob. Two knives were recovered from the property.Cooke was at home at around 7.50pm on Saturday when the two men knocked at his door. When he opened it, the raiders are understood to have pulled out at least one knife, threatened him and tried to force their way into the house.The second intruder is believed to have driven away in a white van. A 33-year-old man was arrested by Greater Manchester police on suspicion of aggravated burglary and remains in custody.Chief Superintendent Tim Forber of Greater Manchester police said: "We believe the dead man was one of two men who were attempting to carry out a burglary at the house." He would not comment on whether the other raider was injured during the burglary.It is the third time in six months that intruders have been stabbed to death in Greater Manchester. In June this year, Peter Flanagan, 59, was not charged after being arrested on suspicion of murder when an intruder was stabbed to death in his house in Salford.In July, Cecil Coley, 72, was freed without charge after he fatally stabbed an armed raider when a gang smashed their way into his florist's shop in Old Trafford, Manchester.Chief Superintendent Rebekah Sutcliffe, of Greater Manchester Police, said: "This is clearly a distressing incident for all concerned – Raymond's family, the occupants of the house and the wider community in Bramhall. We understand that people will have strong opinions on this subject and this remains a matter of national debate. However, I want to stress that my officers have to operate within the law and our primary aim is to establish exactly what happened that night."I also understand that residents in Bramhall will be concerned about their safety. I can reassure them now that we have a mobile police station in the area and will have extra dedicated patrols on the streets to provide an obvious presence."I want to stress that tackling burglary is a priority for police in Stockport and offences have fallen consistently over the last three years. This year so far there have been 55 fewer victims of domestic burglary in Stockport and 17 fewer in Stockport West, which incorporates Bramhall."As part of our wider investigation we are now considering any similar incidents in recent weeks or months. Greater Manchester Police also has a duty to the family of the deceased, the occupants of the house and the coroner to fully investigate what happened to Raymond Jacobs."