Detectives investigating the disappearance of Tia Sharp have arrested two more people – a 46-year-old woman, believed to be the schoolgirl's grandmother, on suspicion of murder and a 39-year-old man on suspicion of assisting an offender, Scotland Yard has said.Stuart Hazell, 37, who lived with Tia's grandmother Christine Sharp, was arrested in Merton, south-west London, on Friday after the discovery of a body at Sharp's house in New Addington. He is being held on suspicion of murder after being arrested at 8.25pm when a member of the public called police.As Hazell was being arrested, a senior Metropolitan police officer acknowledged there would be many questions asked about why the body, which is believed to be Tia's, was not found until the fourth search of Sharp's house.No identification has taken place yet but there is little doubt that it is that of the schoolgirl who was on holiday from Raynes Park high school when she went missing on Friday 3 August."A number of searches took place at the address," said Commander Neil Basu. "When Tia was first reported missing, officers searched her bedroom as is normal practice … A further search of the house took place in the early hours of Sunday morning by a specialist team. This was followed by another search of the house by specialist dogs on Wednesday lunchtime."But it was only on Friday afternoon, after a full search of the house was carried out, that the body was found. It is understood it was found in the confines of the house, not outside or in any outbuilding.Tia's mother, Natalie, was informed of the discovery on Friday afternoon.Police were also following up two sightings of Tia which suggested that she might have left the house.Examining hundreds of hours of CCTV footage earlier in the investigation, police failed to find any trace of Tia in the town, and their focus returned to the house in New Addington.By Friday, a decision was made to search the house again more thoroughly and Sharp was asked to leave the property. When asked where Hazell was, she said: "I don't know where Stuart is; he is out doing his own thing. He has had it hard, he knows the finger is being pointed at him."Police interviewed Hazell as a witness on Wednesday but released him without further action.Basu said the family had been kept up to date with developments: "Our priority is to support the family of Tia at this distressing time and identify the body."Friends on the estate had been walking the streets all week, carrying posters of Tia and asking the public for help in finding her. Within minutes of the discovery of the body, members of the community arrived to express their sadness and shock. But there was some anger directed against the family and the police.Ginny Oteng, 46, a mother of three children, said: "I have kids of my own the same age as Tia, and I was worried because I thought there was a child snatcher out there."Eileen Minogue, 40, said: "I feel disgusted. It is heartbreaking. I feel for the genuine family, her mum Natalie, the cousins and aunts who have been in that house who have had sleepless nights waiting for Tia to come home. All the while her body was there."One man shouted abuse at the police and asked: "Weren't you watching him?"Gavin Barwell, MP for Croydon Central, wrote on his blog: "The police and forensic teams now have a serious job to do and I ask that we all please allow them to get on with trying to close a case which has, in such a short period of time, affected so many of us in Croydon and around the country."Despite the sad end to an emotional week, I want to praise the community in New Addington for their relentless dedication to trying to help their neighbour's family. So often in times of tragedy come inspirational displays of community."