The father of Joanna Yeates said today that her family was focusing on her funeral after a neighbour of the 25-year-old landscape architect was charged with her murder.David Yeates said he did not know if he and his wife, Theresa, would attend Bristol magistrates court tomorrow when Vincent Tabak will appear, accused of their daughter's murder. But he said they did want to see the Dutch architectural engineer in the flesh soon.Police charged Tabak, 32, with Yeates's murder on Saturday evening. Announcing the development, Detective Chief Inspector Phil Jones, who is leading the inquiry, praised Yeates's family and her boyfriend, Greg Reardon."I would like to pay tribute to Jo's family and Greg for their assistance and dignity in the most difficult of circumstances. Their support to us has been invaluable," he said.Jones, of Avon and Somerset police, also expressed gratitude to the public and the residents of Canynge Road in Clifton, where Yeates and Tabak lived."I would also like to thank the general public for their help and the information they continue to provide to the investigation and the residents of Canynge Road for their co-operation and patience," he said.Speaking at the family's home in Hampshire, Mr Yeates, an IT worker, said: "We have full confidence in the thoroughness of the police investigation. We feel a lot of relief to reach this stage."We don't yet know if we will go to magistrates court, but we do want to see Vincent Tabak some time," said Mr Yeates. "I believe he will probably be sent to crown court next week and we will go to that hearing."In a sense, we have been dealing with Jo throughout this period and the police have been dealing with the killer. When it comes to it, there is no question in our minds which is more important – it is always Jo."Nothing will ever bring Jo back – we will always have this massive loss in our lives. I know time is supposed to heal some things, but I cannot believe anything will ever change our feeling of loss."The most important thing now to us is Jo's funeral. We have a date in mind and all the paperwork is being done for her to come back here – she is going through the official process."Her funeral will also be closure on a certain part of the process we find ourselves in and it is something we have to go through. It will be the worst day of our lives."He added: "We have not been party to the information the police have [in the] course of their investigation, but we have read the papers and followed the case."We have just been trying to understand what happened from the time Jo left home that day to the time she was found at the side of the road. We have been desperately trying to put a story together in our own minds from the information we have had – we have spent many, many hours doing this."Hopefully, we will eventually get those answers.."Mr Yeates said his daughter's boyfriend was still "shellshocked". He said: "We spoke to Greg very briefly on the phone on Saturday night after we heard about the charge. I think he is still shellshocked – I think he still cannot believe Jo is dead."Mr Yeates thanked the public for their response to the televised appeals the family had made. He said: "We would like to thank the public from the bottom of our hearts for the tremendous support they have given both us and the police. As far as we are concerned, it has been absolutely invaluable."Ms Yeates's mother, Theresa, said: "We have always had confidence in the police investigation and have been confident they would get to the bottom of this."Ms Yeates was last seen alive on 17 December. She left the Ram pub near Bristol city centre, where she had been drinking with colleagues, and walked home, stopping at three shops. Her body was found on a roadside verge three miles away on Christmas morning. A postmortem revealed that she had been strangled.Her landlord, Chris Jefferies, was arrested on 30 December in connection with the murder but released on bail.