The new mother had shared a bottle of wine with friends in central London to discuss arrangements for her wedding. It was her first night out since having her daughter five months before, and by 11pm she was ready to go home.When her girlfriend hailed a cab near London Bridge she asked the cabbie to look after her. "She's had a bit to drink. Please will you make sure she gets home safely," she said.On any other night in any other black cab, the driver would have listened. But on this occasion the man at the wheel was thinking only of how he could exploit his passenger's vulnerability.It was a journey that should have taken 52 minutes, yet it was hours before the 34-year-old woman reached home. Her next clear memory after pulling the cab door shut near London Bridge was of being violently ill in her own bathroom, and hearing her fiance banging on the door. It was 3.20am."I remember being on the toilet floor," she said. "My arms and legs were very heavy and I couldn't move my legs at all. I physically couldn't move."She slept in the hall, covered in a duvet and by the time her cleaner arrived the next day was sweating, vomiting repeatedly and shaking. The overwhelming scent on her body was Issey Miyake aftershave. At first she tried to shrug off any concerns, but when the cleaner pressed her she broke down in her arms and blurted out: "I think I have been raped."This victim, like all the others, was a professional woman, a lawyer whose job depended on a sharp mind and focused memory. But as she tried to explain what had happened the night before she was confused and unsure.She recalled being offered and accepting a glass of champagne from the cab driver to celebrate a £33,000 gambling win with the cabbie. In flashbacks she saw herself on a journey down streets she did not recognise and the taxi driver stopping the car and getting into the back seat clutching a bottle of wine.He said his name was Peter or Paul and repeatedly told her she was lovely, the woman recalled. As they reached her home, he reversed the taxi sharply and said: "We're going for another drink.""It flung me back in to my seat," the woman said later. "I was feeling very confused and very powerless. All I could do was question where he was going and what he was doing. Physically and mentally I had lost my strength."After hearing her account the cleaner said she had to tell the police. She did so that afternoon, with her fiance at her side. It was 6 February 2008, and when she told her story someone in the Metropolitan police finally began to make connections.The victim was examined and a doctor found abrasions to her neck, the top of her back and her right thigh. Tests revealed lubricant used in 60% of condoms in her underwear. As she described her experience the woman had no idea that her ordeal was part of a horrific jigsaw which the police had failed to piece together, despite numerous reports over six years.The first reports came in 2002 and involved women telling police that they had either been assaulted or had had a strange experience in a black cab. By 2006 the stories began to be remarkably similar as John Worboys finessed his method of attack. In October 2006 a 25-year-old woman from west London reported to police that she had been picked up by a cabbie after a night out in the Kings Road. The driver was chatty and when she complained of a headache he offered her aspirin he said he had in the cab. He later pulled over and offered her champagne to celebrate a win with him. She described that she felt "major brain struggles" and came to with the driver next to her in the back seat with his hand up her skirt, rubbing her leg and trying to reach her underwear. She handed over her clothes to officers, but a month later she did not feel able to go ahead with her complaint and the forensic evidence was eventually destroyed.Nine months later police were again alerted to an attack by a black cab driver when a 19-year-old student told officers in Plumstead, south-east London, that she believed she had been sexually assaulted on her way home from a night out in Covent Garden. The student described to officers how the cabbie was chatty and told her he was celebrating because he had won a lot of money. Pulling a wad of cash from a bag, he said he had won £3,000. He passed back a glass of champagne. When she refused to drink it, he insisted, saying: "Come on, celebrate with me." The teenager agreed to take a sip, but after the taxi jolted she dropped the glass and it smashed on the floor. Passing her a cup filled with more drink, the driver insisted she take some more, becoming aggressive when she refused.At some point the cabbie showed her three pills and she remembered him forcing one into her mouth. Her next memory was of waking in her bed at 2pm the next day. Her tampon had been removed. Police examined CCTV footage outside the teenager's hall of residence, and identified Worboys' black cab. He was arrested on 27 July 2007 but he denied the woman's allegations, saying instead that she had been drunk and incoherent in his cab and kissed him as he helped her out. His story was confirmed by a CCTV image of the girl kissing him outside the cab. Traces of an antihistamine and a sedative were found in the woman's blood sample but the officers involved believed Worboys's protestations that he was an honest London cabbie and had done nothing. His DNA was taken but no match was found on the student.The Crown Prosecution Service were not informed of the case and the cabbie was released on bail until a few months later the case was dropped. In the next seven months he went on to attack another 29 women.In December 2007 five months after Worboys was arrested and released a 26-year-old woman made a complaint about a cabbie who had picked her up after a night out in Soho. After agreeing to celebrate a win with the cabbie, the woman, who had taken illicit drugs in the past, agreed to take a pill offered by him. From that point on she only remembered snapshots - the cabbie on top of her, her trousers and underwear down by her knees, and her shouting no and feeling him penetrate her. Two days later she went to police and handed her clothes over for examination. Semen was found on the waistband of her trousers. Although Worboys's DNA was by now on the database no matches appear to have been made and no one made connections with earlier assaults.Two weeks later in January 2008 a 29-year-old insurance broker from Essex who was on her first day back at work after new year made a similar report to her local police. This time Worboys had used one of his aliases, Tony or Paul, and asked the woman if she would have sex for money. She described how she had been so terrified of what he was going to do to her, she crouched on the floor of the cab so he would not see her pouring the champagne he offered to her away.Worboys had sat next to her in the back of the taxi, holding the door handle to prevent her escaping as he sexually assaulted her. Screaming and crying in fear she tried to push him away, and wet herself in her terror. Eventually he let her climb out of the cab, shouting as he drove away: "You can't go and say that you've been raped because I always use Durex." There were other women who were assaulted but did not go to the police. One was a 34-year-old advertising executive who was targeted five days before the new mother.She too remembers little of what happened, except being violently sick when she arrived home, and waking late the following day unsure of what had happened. She was due on a business trip that day and decided to put the event behind her and get on with her life. When Worboys was eventually arrested her DNA was found on a sex toy at his home.When the report was made to police on 6 February last year the story was so similar to the attacks in December and January that all three investigations were handed to a team within the Met's homicide and serious crimes directorate. Within six days the officers were convinced a serial rapist was on the loose. They decided to make a public appeal to see if other women had experienced similar assaults in an attempt to identify the rapist. As the officers met to discuss the best way forward a call came through from a member of staff at one of the sexual referral units in London that provide rape victims with specialist care.The individual told officers they remembered a black cab driver being arrested the summer before when the victim was a young student, a connection which led the detectives straight to Worboys' flat in east London on February 15 last year.As the police arrived Worboys leaned out of his upstairs window. "What's it all about?" he shouted. During a search of his flat and Fiat Punto outside, officers found the kit he used to incapacitate and assault so many women: miniature bottles of champagne, clear plastic gloves, a torch, vibrators, condoms, sleeping tablets and a heavy ashtray in which he crushed the powerful drugs to incapacitate his victims.Detective Inspector David Reid, who led the successful investigation, said it was likely there were other victims who had not come forward. "I want to praise the courage of those women who have come forward. I hope that their confidence in the police has been enhanced by the quality of the investigation," he said. The number women are invited to call is: 0800 121 4441