A prisoner who murdered his Asian cellmate after he spoke in Urdu had been classed by prison staff as safe enough to share a cell despite assaulting a previous cellmate two months earlier, the Guardian has learned.Peter McCann, 25, was yesterday sentenced to life imprisonment for slitting the throat of Shahid Aziz, 30, in Leeds jail in April, and then subjecting him to a frenzied beating.On at least two previous occasions McCann had attacked prisoners, and in the weeks before the murder he had twice been caught with a knife or sharp bladed object. The case has echoes of the murder of Zahid Mubarek, an Asian teenager who was put in a cell with a known violent racist in Feltham young offenders institute in 2000. An inquiry by the Commission for Racial Equality condemned the Prison Service and prompted promises of improvement. An official inquiry into the Aziz murder will consider whether the risk assessment carried out by the Prison Service on McCann was flawed. He was deemed "low risk" despite previous attacks. After the murder McCann said he had been angered by Aziz speaking in Urdu to another Asian inmate, and said that white and Asian inmates should not share cells. McCann denied being a racist. The official inquiry is investigating whether officials might have deliberately placed Aziz in a cell with McCann. Aziz had led other inmates in complaining about racism, and a month before his death had alleged he was assaulted by a prison officer. The day before his death he gave a witness statement in support of another inmate who alleged he had been attacked by a prison officer. Aziz said prison officers had taunted him by saying he would never leave the jail alive, his family claims. He was murdered on April 2 this year. He was in prison for criminal damage and was awaiting trial on drugs charges. Forensic evidence suggests he was attacked from behind, his throat was slashed, he was strangled with a TV flex, kicked hard enough to break his jaw, and hit repeatedly with a chair leg as he lay dying on the floor. McCann claimed he had been attacked first, but he did not suffer a single scratch or bruise. The police and prosecutors say there was no racial motive to the murder, a view at odds with admissions McCann made in an interview with an investigator for the Prison Ombudsman, who is conducting an official inquiry. According to the interview, McCann explained what led to the murder: "Because he started speaking in Asian and I don't know, I said why don't you speak English, I said why don't you speak English, why don't you speak English, talk to me properly." Aziz's brother, Mohammed Farooq, said the murder was racially motivated and he attacked the Crown Prosecution Service's handling of the case. In a statement the Prison Service said: "Shahid Aziz's death in Leeds prison was a tragedy. Our sympathies are with his family and friends."