On the pavement where Yemurai Kanyangarara had been killed, people were laying flowers. On the shutters, they had hung school ties and fixed black balloons with the letters RIP. The 16-year-old had died the day before, a week ago last Friday, on this ordinary if rundown high street in Welling, south-east London.I had come to take pictures of the scene as part of a year-long project I have been working on, The Landscape of Murder, for which I am photographing the scene of every murder in London this year. For the past seven months, I had been at one remove from London's gang violence and knife crime. Then, twice in the space of 36 hours, I was confronted with the reality. And the first time was in Welling.I arrived at the place where Kanyangarara had been killed the day after it happened. Some people hugged while others stood and stared. All of it seemed peaceful at first. Suddenly, like the other scenes I have photographed this year of gang violence – accounting for about 15% of the 60 murders that have occurred in London this year – an undercurrent of deep anger and aggression emerged. Watching some of the young men, I could tell they were all charged up.I listened to one pair talking about revenge and saying that they knew who did it. Another attempted to intimidate me as I worked. The violence, when it came, was sudden, caused by the arrival of a pair of young men with flowers. They were members, I would learn, of a gang who were rivals to the majority of the boys gathered there. The sudden scuffle caught me off guard. It was over almost as soon as it began.But before then, and despite the presence of police, two of the boys who had been there first pulled out knives and flashed them threateningly. It was shocking given what had happened at this location only the day before. Reflecting on it later, one of the things that struck me most was that here were people prepared to walk into a crowd of people who hated them. They weren't concerned about the consequences.The second incident happened a day-and-a-half later. This time I wasn't even working. Instead, I had gone with my family for a picnic in a park in Stoke Newington, in north London, where a Turkish festival was being held. I was aware of a boy not far from where we were sitting. I thought he had fallen off his bike.Walking over to see if I could give him any help, I saw that he had been stabbed in the abdomen. As happened in Welling, a group of boys turned up, even as the police treated the boy on the ground. They watched with a visible smugness. I sensed they knew more of what had happened than the rest of us.In the seven months that I have been photographing these sites, I have learned about the different kinds of murder that take place – mostly unseen – in London. Most people are killed by their partners or friends or other people they know. Killings relating to criminal activity have followed their own form. Rarest of all are the random attacks by a stranger.The nine murders related to teenage gangs, often involving a knifing, are different. While many of the scenes of murder I have documented have been acts that have been silent and discreet, these are crimes that have taken place in plain view. The killing in Welling took place in broad daylight. Like the stabbing in the park in Stoke Newington, it showed a disturbing lack of concern over the prospect of getting caught. Indeed, most of the murders are usually declared "solved" in a handful of days – even if many have yet to come to court.I have been struck by the correlation between London's most economically deprived areas – its east and south – and the murder trail that I have followed. Struck, too, by how many of the dead young men caught up in gang violence have been of Afro-Caribbean origin.Most depressing of all is the knowledge that most of these young men are part of what I fear is a growing underclass, failed both by education and their parents, part of a lost youth whose lives and deaths are largely invisible. Although perhaps fewer than one in 100 becomes involved in gangs and violence, without opportunities they have become part of a defeated generation.And I know that by the time the year ends, another 60 people could have lost their lives through murder. Among them could be nine more young victims of gang violence.