The two soldiers murdered in Northern Ireland on Saturday night were named today as Sapper Mark Quinsey, 23, from Birmingham, and Sapper Patrick Azimkar, 21, from Wood Green, north London.They were both from 38 Engineer Regiment and had been due to leave for Afghanistan this week.Azimkar was described by colleagues as a "jovial, courteous and fun-loving soldier" who was looking forward to his first operational tour in Afghanistan. Lieutenant Colonel Roger Lewis, the regiment's commanding officer, said it was "shocked and stunned by the death of this very promising young soldier".Quinsey, a soldier for four years, was described as a "mature, reliable and hugely capable young soldier" with a bright future ahead of him. Lewis said: "Sapper Quinsey was an outwardly calm, resolute and motivated young soldier. A social livewire and hugely popular across the regiment, he was rarely away from the centre of the action."He added: "We were expecting him to play a vital role maintaining the living and working conditions of British soldiers serving in southern Afghanistan. Tragically, he has been denied this opportunity."Gordon Brown arrived in Northern Ireland today to visit Massereene army base in Co Antrim where the soldiers were killed, and to meet politicians to discuss the fallout from the double murder. He was joined there by Northern Ireland's chief constable, Sir Hugh Orde.Two other servicemen and two pizza delivery men — one named as 19-year-old local Anthony Watson, the other a 32-year-old Polish man — were also seriously injured in the shooting, during which the attackers fired more than 60 shots. The Polish man is understood to be in a critical condition in hospital.Brigadier George Norton, the army commander in Northern Ireland, paid tribute today to the "magnificent" soldiers killed in a "callous and clinical attack". He confirmed that both men had been off duty and were unarmed at the time of the ambush.The prime minister this morning met some of the soldiers who found themselves involved in the shooting, and praised the bravery of those who had rushed to help the injured."I met one of the soldiers who himself had almost been caught in the incident, shot at," he said. "I saw people who were shocked by what happened to their friends but were absolutely resilient that they wanted to continue to serve the country and send out a message that they too wanted to see peace in Northern Ireland."Brown also met Northern Ireland political leaders at Stormont, declaring afterwards that they were united in their opposition to terrorism. "They want to send out the message to the world, as I do, that the political process will not and can never be shaken," he said. "In fact, the political process is now unshakable."In a statement, the Real IRA said it made no apology for shooting the delivery men, accusing them of "collaborating" with the British army by delivering food to the base.The so-called South Antrim brigade of the Real IRA said it had murdered the two soldiers. But security sources in Northern Ireland said the focus of the police investigation was on a nucleus of dissident republicans in the nearby south Derry area – which has a strong Real IRA presence – rather than Antrim.Army technical officers were today continuing to examine a Vauxhall Cavalier believed to have been abandoned by the gunmen, amid fears it could be booby-trapped. The vehicle was dumped in nearby Randalstown late on Saturday night, and police want to hear from anyone who saw it or a second car in the area.Detectives also revealed that one of the first motorists to come across the bloody scene at the barracks was an off-duty nurse who administered life-saving treatment to some of the injured.Detective Chief Superintendent Derek Williamson said that although the attack had been caught on CCTV, officers still needed the public's help in finding the killers. He said: "It is very much early days in the investigation, but again I have to reiterate: we need public support and we need people with information – particularly people who clearly will know who exactly was involved here to take a courageous step and come forward to provide us with the information that they know. We will do everything in our power to investigate that and protect those people who come forward."Politicians and communities from across the political divide united yesterday in condemnation of the attack. In a historic moment for Northern Ireland, Sinn Féin's Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness backed the police manhunt and denounced the attackers.McGuinness, the deputy first minister, said: "I was a member of the IRA, but that war is over now. The people responsible for last night's incident are clearly signalling that they want to resume or restart that war. Well, I deny their right to do that."He said: "I will stand for all democrats against their attempts to plunge us back into conflict, to see soldiers on the streets, to see more checkpoints, to see houses being raided and to see people being dragged back to interrogation centres. Those days are over. They can never come back again."Adams said: "Sinn Féin has a responsibility to be consistent. The logic of this is that we support the police in the apprehension of those involved in last night's attack."However, he strongly condemned Orde's decision to deploy undercover soldiers from the Special Reconnaissance Regiment to monitor the activities of dissident republicans."The chief constable made a huge mistake bringing in undercover British army units," he told BBC Radio 4 today. "You don't understand the history if you don't appreciate that the involvement of these units in the past ‑ totally unaccountable ‑ has led to the same type of suffering as that that has unfortunately been endured at this time by the families of the two British soldiers who were killed."But Adams insisted there was no popular support for the dissidents who carried out the attacks. "Whoever was involved, they have no support and no strategy and no popular will to back up their actions," he said.The security minister, Lord West, said there would be a reassessment of the resources devoted to counter-terrorism in Northern Ireland in the light of the shootings. At the moment, MI5 allocates 15% of its counter-terrorism budget to Northern Ireland. "Inevitably, when anything like this happens, you look at it again," West told reporters in London.He said that they had been aware for some time of the growing threat from dissident groups in Northern Ireland. "It was a dreadful atrocity. These splinter groups we knew were forming," he said. "They don't reflect the vast majority of the population in Northern Ireland. They are prehistoric in their outlook, really. The fact that they are trying to return us to where we were in the Troubles 15 years ago is a dreadful thing. I just hope we get hold of them very quickly."Last night, a reporter working for the Sunday Tribune in Belfast received a call with a recognised code word said to be from the Real IRA and claiming responsibility for the attack.The same organisation claimed responsibility for the Omagh bombing, which killed 29 people in 1998. Orde confirmed last week that the level of threat from the Real IRA and other groups was at a critical level, the highest since he took charge, seven years ago.As ministers made a concerted effort to dismiss the murders as the product of a small, self-obsessed group of thugs with no political support in Northern Ireland, trade unions in Northern Ireland said they would stage a protest against the attacks.The Irish Congress of Trade Unions has called on unions to attend a rally in central Belfast this Wednesday. Several unions, including Unite, have urged their members to turn up and support the demonstration, which starts at lunchtime.The Catholic Bishops' Conference also condemned what it termed a "direct and heinous attack on the sanctity of human life and on efforts to build an agreed political way forward in Northern Ireland" and urged anyone with information to contact the police.