The mother of an 11-year-old girl who was raped in the toilet of a busy supermarket has appealed for help in catching her daughter's attacker. The woman, who cannot be identified to protect her child's anonymity, said the incident would scar her daughter for life and described the attacker as "sick in the head".The girl was shopping with her mother when she was attacked in a Sainsbury's store in Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, last Thursday evening. She had left her mother to go to the toilet when she was pushed back into a cubicle and raped.Speaking yesterday, the mother said her daughter had returned "shaking and distraught" 15 minutes later, telling her: "A nasty man has done some horrible things to me in the toilet."The woman said that her daughter, a "very independent little girl", was now too scared to go to the toilet."She won't talk about it. She won't go to the toilet on her own. She won't go into a room on her own," the mother said."This man ... needs to be caught ... I think he is sick in the head." She added: "She is never going to forget it. It will scar her for life. It will be with her forever."She returned to school today because you have to lead a normal life. You lose your trust in everyone you don't know. It is going to be very difficult. Normally she is happy to go off with her friends to school but someone took her this morning and will pick her up. We will have counselling over this. "The attacker is described as a teenager or young white man in his early 20s, 5ft 6in or 5ft 7in tall, with brown eyes, heavy acne and long hair, which was tucked into the hood of a new-looking black anorak. The front of the coat is described as red with distinctive reflective silver stripes. The attacker also smelled strongly of cigarettes.Warwickshire police say the girl saw the attacker loitering in the foyer of the toilet area and that he looked at her before she entered.After entering the toilet she went into the middle cubicle and the attacker then entered and hid in another cubicle.Detective Chief Inspector Adrian Pearson said: "When she unlocked the door and left he forced her back in the cubicle and locked the door behind him and raped her." Police say the ordeal lasted between seven and 10 minutes, during which time another woman entered the toilets and used a neighbouring cubicle. The attacker apparently told his victim he would leave once this woman had locked herself in.DCI Pearson added: "He threatened her not to tell the police and not to tell her mum." Detectives who are studying CCTV footage from the supermarket are keen to talk to the woman who was using the adjacent cubicle and to a second woman who held the door open for the victim before the attack. She has blonde or brown hair and was wearing a long dark coat and long boots.