Britain's prison system is a "shambles" with suicides, widespread drug-taking and half of inmates re-offending on release, the Liberal Democrats claimed today.Their home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, said the problems of prisons had to be addressed if Britain was to get crime under control. And he called for major investment in the training and education of prisoners as well as a "complete rethink" of the kind of people sent to jail. "I think the current prison system is in a shambles," he said. "You have a reoffending rate of over half of prisoners, you have suicides taking place in our prisons, drugs widely available and an appalling lack of education and training." Mr Oaten told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Something must be done because if we are going to tackle crime in this country, what better way than actually stopping people who are already in prison actually coming out and committing more crimes? "That means major investment in education and training and a complete rethink about the kind of people we send to prison in the first place." The governor of Wormwood Scrubs prison, Luke Serjeant, said every effort was made to tackle reoffending. But he said prisoners came from backgrounds that meant they were predisposed to commit crime. He said the prison system must focus on rehabilitation as well as punishment. "All of these guys here are all expected to go back out into the community at some point and I think I would be failing in my responsibility as a governor if I did not, during the time I have got responsibility for them, do things to actually address the reasons why they are here in the first place," he said. He told the programme: "So I think it is really important that while they are here we don't just see it as a punishment and as something they are going to be scared and frightened of, but as something where we actually start to look at what can we actually do to make sure that when they go out they are going out as a safer person." Mr Serjeant said his prison was "absolutely full" with 1,239 inmates. The prison's director of operations, Michael Spurr, told the programme that 40,000 prisoners from across the system went into a job straight from leaving jail last year and 60,000 inmates gained qualifications in basic skills. Former Home Office minister Ann Widdecombe said rehabilitation was not an "optional extra". The Tory MP said the current system merely paid "lip service" to rehabilitation. "We have to accept that rehabilitation is not some soft optional extra, it never has been," she told the BBC. "What it is, is a crucial tool of public protection. Because if the people who leave prison are just as likely to reoffend as they were when they entered prison or - God forbid, but it does happen - more likely to reoffend, then we create more victims. So we let the public down and we let the taxpayer down." Miss Widdecombe said there was a "huge" rate of recidivism because rehabilitation was not taken seriously. She said every prisoner should get into the habit of a routine working day rather than facing long periods of being locked up. She called for a system of self-financing prison workshops. Responding to Mr Oaten's comments, prisons minister Lady Scotland conceded that the rate of reoffending was a "big problem" that needed addressing. She said: "People are in prison to be punished for what they have done but also to be rehabilitated. "The number of probation officers has increased, there is increasing involvement in the community, we are launching community programmes ... looking at how we can use community service more creatively, asking the public what they want offenders to do to pay back the community." She said prisoners needed to be educated better inside and provided with skills so they could find jobs and accommodation once out of prison, reducing their risk of reoffending. She added that prisons were "certainly within capacity" and said the government would create 700 more places by June next year to reach 80,000 places by the end of 2007. "The prisons are becoming more full but it is within the capacity we have," she said. "We are absolutely clear that there will be enough places for people who have to be sent to prison."