While police continue their inquiries into the death of a suspected burglar in Stockport, a judge in the north east is pondering a tricky sentence.It involves grandfather Nicholas Smith, 53, who was convicted at the end of last week of trying to make a napalm-type bomb from internet details, and threatening neighbours on Facebook.The offence of making an explosive device with intent to endanger life if obviously serious, but Teesside Crown court heard a lot of background before a jury returned a 10-2 majority verdict after five hours' debate.Smith and his family claimed that they had been targeted by yobs since moving to Horden, 12 miles south of Sunderland, from Worksop in Nottinghamshire. Thefts allegedly started within their first week and the family made nine calls to police within nine months.Speaking after the case, which saw her husband remanded in custody, Dorothy Smith, 63, said that the former school caretaker had been the victim of malicious rumours and a hate campaign. She said:Nick was pushed to the limit. Neighbours were making our life hell and it just got too much for him. We had kids kicking balls at the window and throwing rubbish at our house. It was terrible, I was frightened to go to the front door.I locked my doors 24/7 and I couldn't walk down the street because theywould be shouting or throwing abuse. Kids were knocking on the door and saying, 'Are you going to sponsor kiddy fiddling?'.They were dropping their trousers outside the window. Everybody else got a break because they were picking on us.The parents didn't so anything to stop them. They just laughed. There are kids all over the country running wild - no one has any morals any more and they are terrorising neighbourhoods.Smith had never fully recovered from the death of his daughter in Nottinghamshire more than 30 years ago, when she was hit by a school bus. He has a second daughter, Amanda, who was in court with his wife when the verdict was given. She said afterwards:The only thing my dad is guilty of is trying to protect his family. I'm absolutely gutted, I can't believe they've branded my dad a bomb-maker. We are going to appeal straight away.My dad is struggling - we went to see him and all he said was that he couldn't take it any more.Judge Tony Briggs will pass sentence next month. He did not give any indication in court of what this was likely to be. The case required the permission of the Attorney General to proceed.