With councils up and down the country being forced to claw back on services through cuts imposed by the government, one of the areas that will be squeezed dry is youth services. This has troubled the Unite union so much that this weekend it held a Rally for Youth Services.Inner-city youth groups are a lifeline for many urban communities. They save kids from having to create their own "fun" on grim concrete estates, where boredom and frustration quickly turn to trouble. On the Moss Side estate in Manchester where I spent my teen years we had an old field and a pit. This pit usually contained a burnt-out car that had been "borrowed" for a joyride, along with used syringes and anything else you care to imagine. However, in the past decade Moss Side has started to change thanks to a range of youth services, such as the Powerhouse Library. They have worked hard to overturn the decades of despondency that once blighted the area and which featured regularly in both national and regional press. It has meant a real result – the steady decline of crime.In fact, the more affluent suburban area of Didsbury and Withington came top of the recent figures for the city, with almost twice as many recorded crimes as Moss Side. The news is a sign that this culturally rich area is returning to better days. Once known as "Little Harlem" in honour of its Caribbean population who were invited to work there following the second world war, Moss Side was also home to Irish and Asian communities. The various groups got along and there was a strong sense of community. In the 70s, however, with higher levels of unemployment, drug-dealing gained a stronghold and its effects were soon felt.Fuelled by the sustained levels of poverty and lack of opportunities, riots erupted in 1981. I was living in a neighbouring area at the time, and the anger of these years, which followed on from riots in Liverpool, Birmingham, London, Leeds and Bristol, felt palpable even to my eight-year-old self.In the early 90s gun crime soared; gangs such as the Gooch and the Doddington became engaged in drug and turf wars, and the police were accused of provoking anger through their response. Moss Side gained the title of "Baby Beirut" and Manchester was soon dubbed "Gunchester" by the mainstream media. There was national shock in 1993 when a family friend, 14-year-old Benji Stanley, was shot through the window of a takeaway shop on Great Western street. Benji's murder, thought to be a case of mistaken identity, brought the spotlight back on to youth disaffection and crime in the area.By the mid-90s, by which time I had moved away, pessimistic conditions gave way to hard resignation. The police came under increased pressure, aided by sensationalist media coverage – and cruising police vans became a common sight.Spurts of violence continue. In 2006, 15-year-old Jessie James was tragically shot dead – ironically, close to the Powerhouse Library, the youth group that has worked towards helping to bring down the incidence of crime and anti-social behaviour, now also lower than that of the city as a whole. Jessie's murder is another reminder of the work still to be done in the area. But what has been achieved so far should be applauded; it stands against the Tories' cry of "Broken Britain" which helped them win votes in the last election. On a tour of the area in 2009, the then shadow home secretary, Chris Grayling, likened Moss Side to the hit US series The Wire, which is set in Baltimore. The comparison justifiably angered many of the area's residents whose real experience had started to tell a different story.The only way that youth groups will be saved is if competent volunteers step in. But the big society feels like too big an "if". This morning David Cameron delivered a speech to the "Big Society Network", in which he restated his controversial mission. He would do better to ensure that the good work taking place in Moss Side, and other inner-city areas, continues, so that they're not dragged back to 1981.