A police officer today described how he was kicked and stamped on by a mob of Glasgow Rangers fans during the riots that marred Wednesday's Uefa Cup final.PC Mick Regan, 47, was tripped up by one hooligan and then attacked while he was on the ground by more than 20 people as he attempted to control crowds in Manchester's city centre.In dramatic scenes captured on police CCTV cameras, the former Territorial Army corporal was kicked and punched after being surrounded by the gang.The officer was lucky to escape with only bruised ribs and a puncture wound to his arm after an off-duty army medic stepped in and dragged him away."From the outset we were bombarded with bottles and cans as we tried to contain and disperse the crowd," said PC Regan. "The crowd was extremely hostile and made up of men and women of all ages. It seemed the vast majority were drunk and they just wanted to cause trouble. "Then a lad with a bottle threw it at me from a distance of about three or four feet and it hit me on the left elbow. I remember moving backwards to try and avoid being hit again but next thing I was on the floor. "My initial reaction was 'we're in trouble here' and I saw that the other officers had been pushed back towards Oldham Road by the crowd and I was on my own. "I could feel the crowd kicking me in the side but my body armour was protecting me. I could see their feet in front of me even though my head was on the floor. I wanted to curl up but I remember saying to myself 'I have got to get up'." PC Regan, from Offerton, Stockport, told how the violence was the worst he had witnessed in his 23-year career. Trouble first flared after a technical fault meant up to 20,000 fans gathered at Piccadilly Gardens to watch Rangers take on Zenit St Petersburg on a giant screen were left with no picture. Following the match the violent clashes continued along Market Street, Oldham Street and Newton Street with riot squads sent in to try to control the crowds.  "I was on duty for the public order side of the game and from what I could I hear from my radio on the way into town it was going mad," said PC Regan."Me and my colleagues were told to go to Wetherspoons at Piccadilly Gardens. It was frightening, on a different scale from any other match I have worked in my 23-year career." As the violence grew worse, PC Regan and his colleagues found themselves being pushed down Newton Street by a "solid mass" of angry fans hurling missiles. "At first I thought we could hold them," he said. "Then we made a tactical withdraw and they overran us." At that point PC Regan was tripped up and set upon."I managed to get up but I'd lost my baton and had nothing to defend myself with. I started to try and run - I'm a fit lad and I do marathons but I think I must have been winded because I couldn't run properly even though I knew I was being followed by the mob."In a twist of fate, PC Regan was saved from serious injury by a fan he thought was going to attack him. "I saw two lads coming from my right; I thought they were going to have a go," he said. "But one of them shouted at me saying 'I'm British Army, I'm a medic. He grabbed me by the collar and he propelled me up the street. "Then one of our vans came round the corner, he threw me in the back of it and off he went. Thank God. If they had not come along at that point I'd have been in big trouble. I'd have been seriously injured."The officer was later taken to Longsight police station where he was seen by a police doctor. He then went to hospital the following morning to have the wound dressed again. "Never in my career have I been in a situation like that. Whoever that army lad was he wants a medal," he said.