Ian Huntley claims the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were the victims of a freak accident in his bathroom, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.School caretaker Mr Huntley maintains Holly died after he inadvertently knocked her backwards into a full bath as he tried to help her stem a nosebleed. Mr Huntley claims he put his hand or hands over Jessica's mouth as she screamed: "You pushed her." He cannot say how long he stayed in that position but she fell to the bathroom floor lifeless. When Mr Huntley turned to see what had happened to Holly he discovered she lay motionless in 18ins of water, apparently dead. The revelation of Mr Huntley's case came at the very end of a day in which the jury had heard grim details of how the girls' bodies were found and how the Home Office pathologist, Nat Carey, thought they may have died. During cross-examination, counsel for Mr Huntley, who denies murdering the 10-year-old girls, questioned Dr Carey over how quickly a person could drown or die of strangulation. To a hushed courtroom Stephen Coward QC then spelled out for the first time Mr Huntley's version of events on the evening of the girls' disappearance, August 4 last year. Mr Coward said Mr Huntley's case was that Holly had suffered a nose bleed. It would not stop and she, Jessica and Huntley, 29, went up to the bathroom of 5, College Close, Soham. Mr Coward said: "Holly sat on the edge of the bath, at the tap end, the end furthest from the door and next to the bath was a washbasin. "Jessica sat on the other end of the bath nearer to the door. Mr Huntley was getting pieces of tissue or toilet paper, putting them under the cold tap to cool them and handing them to Holly, and on one of his turns from getting the wet tissue he slipped and it seems that he may well have banged into her as she was sitting on the edge of the bath, and she went backwards. "He has no recollection of a bang, but he does remember a splash. When Holly went in the bath, which had roughly 18 inches of water in it because Mr Huntley was going to wash his dog, Jessica stood up and started screaming: 'You pushed her, you pushed her'. "And he then turned towards Jessica and either with one hand or two, he's not sure, put his hands out towards Jessica, his memory is over her mouth, to stop her screaming. "For how long he was in that position he can't say. But he was then conscious that Jessica was no longer supporting herself on her feet. He let go and she went to the ground. "He then turned round to the bath and Holly was lying in the bath, apparently dead. He lifted Holly out of the bath, put her on the floor, looked for signs of breathing and found none. "He turned his attention to Jessica, he looked for signs of breathing and found none." In his opening speech, the counsel for the prosecution, Richard Latham QC, had told the jury that they might be asked to examine whether the girls' deaths was "some ghastly accident". Mr Latham added: "If you are, we simply pose the question: 'Two of them?'" Mr Latham also told the jury that the bath had been cracked. "You may well need to consider just how this bath did get damaged," he said. The prosecution has suggested that the most likely explanation for the girls' deaths is that they were smothered, though their bodies were so badly decomposed when they were found in a ditch 13 days after they vanished that it was impossible to reach a firm conclusion about how they died. Before the revelation of Mr Huntley's claims, Dr Carey had given details of how the girls' bodies were found and of his postmortems. Dr Carey said the girls were lying "side by side" in the ditch at Lakenheath, Suffolk, as if they had been "laid out". One of the arms of the body later identified using DNA tests as Holly's was lying under her friend's corpse. A photograph showed the ditch with the bodies in situ. They were shielded by a fallen branch but an area of blackened foliage showed where they were. The prosecution has suggested Huntley returned to the ditch three days after dumping the bodies and tried to set fire to them. In his postmortems, Dr Carey could find no damage to the neck, head or bones. He said he was unable to confirm or refute the possibility that either of the girls had been sexually assaulted. The pathologist revealed that he found damage to Holly's skull, including a small fracture. He believed this was caused by fire rather than an impact but Dr Carey told the jury he could not exclude the "theoretical possibility" that the damage occurred in life. Mr Latham asked Dr Carey's opinion of how the girls died. He replied: "I have come to the conclusion that although it is not possible to give any cause of death, that death must have involved the actions of one or more third parties. In simple terms, 10-year-old girls simply do not die suddenly together." Dr Carey said possible methods of death involved "interference with the mechanics of breathing". He said strangling and smothering were possibilities. Mr Latham began to ask him about a sedative, but Mr Huntley's lawyer, Mr Coward, objected to the question. The judge, Mr Justice Moses, asked whether the prosecution was about to mention GHB, best known as a date rape drug. He then halted the line of questioning. When Mr Huntley's counsel questioned Dr Carey, he said that the pathologist had not mentioned drowning as a possible cause of death. Mr Coward asked how long it would take for someone to drown. The pathologist said there was no agreed period but it could be quite quick. Mr Coward asked how long it took to strangle someone to death. Again Dr Carey said it could be quite quick. Before Dr Carey's evidence, the court heard graphic accounts of how the bodies were discovered. Three friends, including gamekeeper Keith Pryer, Adrian Lawrence and his partner Helen Sawyer, had gone to investigate an "horrendous smell" in the ditch. In a statement read out in court Mr Pryer said: "I heard Adrian say, 'Do not come any further Helen, go back to the van.' He shouted to me to go over and verify what he had seen." Mr Pryer said: "I was not prepared for what I saw. There was, or appeared to be, two very badly decomposing bodies lying side by side. I immediately thought of the two missing girls from Soham and Adrian rang the police on his mobile phone." Following the reading of Mr Pryer's statement, Mr Coward told the court Mr Huntley was not feeling well and asked if he could leave the dock. Five formal "admissions" were also put before the jury yesterday. The court had previously heard only that Huntley was "unlikely to deny" that the girls had died in his house while he was alone with them or that he disposed of their bodies. The admissions included that the girls went into 5 College Close shortly after 6.30pm on August 4; that Jessica's mobile phone "detached" from the network [in other words was switched off] at 6.46pm; that Holly and Jessica died in 5 College Close on August 4; that the only other person in the house was Mr Huntley; that Mr Huntley took the bodies in his car to the ditch where they were found. Huntley's ex girlfriend Maxine Carr, 26, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The trial continues today. The five admissionsFive "admissions" made on Huntley's behalf were read out by prosecutor Karim Khalil.· Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman went into 5 College Close [the caretaker's house at Soham Village College where Huntley and Carr lived] shortly after 6.30pm on Sunday, August 4 2002. · Jessica's mobile phone explicitly detached from the mobile network at 6.46pm. · Holly and Jessica died in 5 College Close that Sunday. · Huntley was the only other person present at the time. · He transported their bodies in the Ford Fiesta to where they were later found [Lakenheath, Suffolk].