A hunt supporter trying to stop a pilot from taking off in a gyrocopter had his head sliced open by the machine's tail rotor blade, a court heard today.Trevor Morse, 48, was flung aside by the force of the blow, which ripped out part of his brain, killing him instantly, a jury at Birmingham crown court was told.At the opening of a manslaughter trial, Gareth Evans QC, prosecuting, said the tragedy had been the fault of the light aircraft's pilot, Bryan Griffiths, 55. Evans told the court Griffiths had deliberately driven the gyrocopter at Morse with its tail rotor spinning at over 200mph."Doing this was reckless in the extreme because the manoeuvre carried with it a very, very real risk that Mr Morse would come into contact with the revolving, unguarded rear propeller blades," he said. "The prosecution say that this man, the defendant, is criminally liable for this death through his own gross negligence."The court heard Griffiths, of Bedworth, Warwickshire, had landed to refuel at Long Marston airfield, near Stratford-on-Avon, while using his flimsy machine to monitor a meeting of the Warwickshire hunt in March last year during the pack's last outing of the season.Evans said Griffiths was not a known anti-hunt activist but had previously followed the riders from the air, with a passenger filming them.Morse was acting on the day as a "road monitor", to avoid problems with the hunt and traffic, when he saw the gyrocopter land at the small airstrip. He first drove his Land Rover on to the runway and then got out and stood in front of the aircraft as Griffiths prepared to take off.Evans took the jury through an edited video of the tragedy, filmed by a local man, Peter Bunce, who had brought fuel to the airfield for the gyrocopter, which belonged to Griffiths. The film made it clear that Griffiths had been set on leaving, and Morse was equally determined to prevent him doing so, when the situation went out of control.The court heard a voice on the film's soundtrack say: "You are obstructing him taking off. You have no right to do that. You have no right to do that." Morse then appeared to ask a woman to help his blockade, the gyrocopter's engine revved, and there was a bang. The film then cut to a point where Morse was shown lying lifeless on the ground."Oh dear, the twat didn't stand clear of it," said a voice on the soundtrack before the film ended.Evans told the jury there was no dispute about Morse's determination to keep the gyrocopter on the ground. He said: "There is no doubt about it: his intention was stopping that gyrocopter from taking off. At one stage, he moved the Land Rover closer to the gyrocopter to stop it getting away in an attempt to block its getaway. He was not standing there for the good of his health. He made it plain that he was obstructing that gyrocopter's takeoff, and when asked to get out of the way, he refused to do so."But he accused Griffiths of having reacted without any regard for the danger of the situation, saying that he had failed to handle the aircraft gently during the confrontation. Describing the way the gyrocopter approached Morse in the moments before the tragedy, he said: "This was not a general nudging movement. It was carried out, we say, at speed. This was no inching movement."The court heard Morse had had no chance of avoiding the rotors as the aircraft closed in on him. Evans said: "The blade of the rear propeller cleaved Mr Morse's head from top to bottom. Unfortunately, it also dramatically removed a portion of his brain and threw it away from him. Mercifully, death was instantaneous."Morse, from Alderminster, Warwickshire, was a long-standing follower of the hounds, and an ornithologist. He reared birds and helped to look after an eagle owl the hunt bought after the 2004 Hunting Act. He was known for never missing an event.The Warwickshire hunt had complained 10 days earlier to the Civil Aviation Authority about a gyrocopter following their meets, and an investigation was launched just before Morse's death.The hearing continues.