The senior officer in charge of the Stephen Lawrence murder case yesterday admitted he had regrets about a series of mistakes in the early days of the police investigation in 1993.Detective Superintendant Brian Weeden, now retired, told the public inquiry into Stephen's racist killing: "I think inevitably there were some things that could have been done more quickly and more efficiently."Mr Weeden took over the inquiry three days after 18-year-old Stephen was stabbed to death by a gang of white youths in Eltham, south London. No one has been convicted of the murder.Mr Weeden said he adopted his predecessor's strategy not to arrest immediately the four suspects named by a number of local people. That would have made a nonsense of the surveillance operation mounted to discover the suspects' associations, he said.But on his first day, when one of the suspects was seen carrying a black binliner out of his house, the police photographer had not set up his camera and there were no back-up officers. "That was regrettable," he said.He also discovered that although the inquiry was considered serious enough to use the powerful Holmes computer, his detective team had no experience of using it. "It was not a good state of affairs," he said.Another failure was the delay in following up an incident when a red Astra full of jeering youths twice drove passed Stephen's body. Eight days later the car was stopped by police who established that the driver had been convicted of a previous racist attack and his passenger was a well-known south London Nazi. But they were not properly interviewed for over a month because the record of the car stop was inadvertently attached to the back of another set of documents.Mr Weeden said the error may have been caused by pressure on his team.Part of the pressure was a series of "very distracting" letters and phone calls from the Lawrences' soliticor, Imran Khan, seeking information. The correspondance soon became confrontational, he said.At the same time relations with the Lawrence family also deteriorated. Although he had immediately sent them a letter of condolance and said he looked forward to seeing them, they did not take up his offer. "I regret that the family liaison did not go better," he said.The inquiry continues.