Ted Bundy put it succinctly and uncomfortably. "We are your sons, and we are your husbands, and we grew up in regular families," he said, when asked what makes a serial killer. It is an artful description by the American who killed at least 28 women in the 1970s, but the Metropolitan police officers who will interview every serial killer in Britain must be hoping they will arrive at a more practical explanation. In an attempt to establish patterns and profiles that will aid in the early identification of serial killers, a team of officers and psychologists led by Andy Baker, head of homicide investigations at Scotland Yard, are seeking permission to re-interview repeat murderers in jails. British detectives began planning the study following the sniper attacks that left 10 people dead in Washington and Virginia in 2002, fearing they may be ill-equipped if something similar happened here. They hope the interviews will lead to a better understanding of how serial killers operate - and earlier detection of their crimes. "The possibility of early identification of a series will allow for early response and the possible prevention in the numbers of murders within the series," said a police spokesman. Most of the empirical evidence on what makes a serial killer has been gathered in the US. The interviews should allow forensic psychologists to test if the profiles hold true on this side of the Atlantic. "The study sounds very similar to work done for the FBI in the '70s, which became the basis for Silence of the Lambs and the like," said Ian Stephen, a forensic psychologist. "We have only a very small sample, so it will take a long time, but it will be interesting to see how British serial killers compare with American." The FBI research, which remains the basis of much serial killer profiling today, suggests that such murderers can be split into two types: organised and disorganised. Organised killers are often sociable and intelligent. Their crimes are well-planned, with bodies hidden and evidence covered up. They often live with a partner, follow their crimes in the press and are prepared for police questioning. Disorganised killers tend to know their victims and kill spontaneously, leaving messy crime scenes. They often live alone and can have difficulties fitting in with normal society. They do not change their behaviour following crimes and have no interest in reading reports in the press. Serial killers are generally white, male, middle-class and in their 20s or 30s, but it is almost impossible to predict what character trait or twist of background makes the murderer. "We can say things like, 'They are often well-educated,' but these characteristics really can't be too generalised," said Professor Stephen. The problem for police officers in the Scotland Yard study may be that, as Bundy said, serial killers are the product of many environments. "These profiles are useful if you have, say, three or four people who you suspect could be the potential offender. They allow you to look into their background and focus an investigation. But I would be sceptical about whether they can really help in early detection," said Paul Seager, a forensic psychologist at the University of Central Lancashire. Dr Seager is not the only sceptic. Keith Hellawell, the former police chief who interviewed Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, said serial killers were so rare that it made their crimes very difficult to analyse and predict. "It is like looking for a needle in a haystack," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "Many of them have no previous convictions and it is only when they murder once that you have some basis on which to operate." Despite its drawbacks, forensic profiling does allow police forces to home in on suspects. The FBI discovered that most serial killers fall into a pattern - such as victim type or modus operandi - and it is these patterns that can lead police to their doors. The information gathered in the new study may help refine this process. Fantasies "I don't think gathering this sort of information will ever allow us to prevent serial killers, but it can be very useful to match the profile of a person against the profile of the crime," said Prof Stephen. "But, unfortunately, you don't know many things until after the arrest. For instance, Fred West and Dennis Nilsen had violent fantasies as children which they acted on as adults. Often, with a serial killer, the damage has been done in the early years - the only realistic method of prevention is to address that." Under the Met plan - which will also look at 12 other categories of murder, such as honour killings and those motivated by homophobia, and which will need approval from the Home Office - the original investigating officer, a psychologist and an analyst will interview the serial killer. It will not be an easy task. "It is going to be a very difficult job for the police because I don't think serial killers are going to talk. Look at Shipman," said Michael Berry, senior lecturer in forensic psychology at Manchester Metropolitan University. "They are going to play games, offer the police things, and then not come up with the goods." Murder in numbersBeverley Allitt Alllitt was a nurse at the Grantham and Kesteven hospital when a series of mysterious deaths and injuries occurred in 1991. She was convicted two years later on 13 charges of murder and causing grievous bodily harm. Dennis Nilsen An alcoholic gay civil servant, Nilsen killed 16 young homeless men between December 1978 and January 1983 "out of loneliness". He got rid of body parts by flushing them down the drains of his house. He was sentenced to life in 1983 aged 37. Peter Sutcliffe The Yorkshire Ripper killed 13 women - mainly prostitutes - and attempted to kill seven others. He was sent to Broadmoor. Rosemary West Over 20 years, West and her husband Fred abducted, tortured, raped and murdered an unknown number of women. Many were buried under their house at 25 Cromwell Street, Gloucester.Luc Torres