A high court judge today ruled that Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, will not be eligible for parole and must spend the rest of his life in custody.Sutcliffe, 64, received 20 life sentences in 1981 after being convicted of murdering 13 women and attempting to murder another seven. He is currently being held at Broadmoor high-security psychiatric hospital in Berkshire.The former lorry driver from Bradford, who is now known as Peter Coonan, made an application to have a minimum term set on his detention. Despite a judge recommending a 30-year minimum term, this was never formally given and his name was not included on a 2006 Home Office list of 35 murderers serving "whole life" sentences.Mr Justice Mitting said he had read statements by relatives of six of the murdered victims and was in no doubt that they represented the unspoken accounts of others affected by Sutcliffe's crimes. "They are each moving accounts of the great loss and widespread and permanent harm to the living caused by six of his crimes.He added: "This was a campaign of murder which terrorised the population of a large part of Yorkshire for several years. The only explanation for it, on the jury's verdict, was anger, hatred and obsession. Apart from a terrorist outrage, it is difficult to conceive of circumstances in which one man could account for so many victims. Those circumstances alone make it appropriate to set a whole life term."It is not the first time that Sutcliffe has attempted to be considered for release and a decision in his favour would have given him the chance of parole.Sutcliffe's reign of terror across Yorkshire, Greater Manchester and Lancashire began in July 1975 after he attacked 36-year-old Anna Rogulskyj with a hammer and slashed her stomach with a knife. She survived after his attack was disturbed by a neighbour.The serial killer went on to attack or kill 19 other women. Although not all his victims were sex workers, Sutcliffe has said he believed he was on a "mission from God" to kill prostitutes and was dubbed the Yorkshire Ripper after mutilating his victims using a hammer, screwdriver and knife.Following his conviction at the Old Bailey in 1981 he was transferred to Broadmoor after being diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia.West Yorkshire police were heavily criticised for a number of failures to apprehend Sutcliffe. Despite being interviewed by the police on several occasions Sutcliffe was disregarded from the investigation, one of the largest carried out. The police were also distracted by John Humble, the "Wearside Jack" hoaxer, who sent hoax letters and a taped message to police claiming to be the Ripper. Sutcliffe was ruled out by police for not matching the hoaxer's profile. They also failed to link Sutcliffe to a traceable £5 note found on one of his victims.He was finally caught after a routine police check found the car he was travelling in with a prostitute had false number plates.Sutcliffe had been known to police as early as 1969 after he was arrested in Bradford's red light district in possession of a hammer, although he was treated as an attempted burglar. On another occasion Sutcliffe had attacked a prostitute.An official inquiry into the Ripper case in 1981 concluded that Sutcliffe may have been responsible for other attacks on sex workers and unaccompanied women between 1969 and 1975, although no evidence has been uncovered.In considering Sutcliffe's case the judge would have considered the gravity of his crimes, whether he had made "exceptional" progress in custody, the state of his mental health and any representations from him, his victims or their families.In 2006 Dr Kevin Murray, the psychiatrist in charge of Sutcliffe's care since 2001, said in a report that he now posed a "low risk of reoffending". In March the then justice secretary, Jack Straw, said of an earlier bid for a minimum tariff by Sutcliffe that there were "no circumstances" in which he would be released from prison.If a minimum term was set, Sutcliffe would still have had to be declared by a mental health tribunal as mentally fit to return to prison and his case formally considered by a parole board.He now joins the list of 38 others who will never be released including Rosemary West, Dennis Nilsen and Moors murderer Ian Brady.