Will they never learn? Virginia Bottomley has been extolling the virtues of allowing voluntary organisations and commercial companies to run the 65 extra secure places which her department is planning for seriously disturbed juvenile offenders. Twenty-five years ago there were plenty of secure units run by voluntary organisations within the old approved school network. It was a private trust that ran Court Lees, the largest approved school in England, shut down by the Home Secretary in 1967 after the Guardian exposed excessive beating there. One year later, after a special inquiry, the Home Secretary ended the voluntary status of all approved schools and brought them under local authority control. The units were supposed to have been inspected by the Home Office, but a shortage of inspectors meant the full programme of inspection was never carried out.Voluntary organisations have come a long way since 1968, but the leading child care charities have already signalled their refusal to take on penal responsibilities. No one is disputing the need for more secure accommodation for juvenile offenders – so that the practice of remanding boys aged 15 and 16 to prison can be stopped. But Mike Jarman, the child care director of Barnardo's, reflects widespread feeling within the voluntary sector when he asserts that secure accommodation is the responsibility of the Government. Research shows that, though placing disturbed juveniles in secure units may help the community, it does not necessarily help the offender. To participate could breach the trust deeds of charities committed to helping children, rather than the community.The idea of a flurry of commercial companies eager to make a profit from these new units also looks naive. It costs £250,000 in capital per place, and £1,500 per week to run. Who would want to make that investment without any experience of such work – and so few trained people available? It is only because Group 4 is a private company, protected from shareholders' scares, that it has survived its unhappy entry into penal provision. Adult prisoners, however, are child's play compared to the demands made by highly emotionally disturbed juveniles.Alas, Mrs Bottomley stands condemned of trivialising a deeply serious issue. Our own John Carvel recently documented the desperate position of juvenile offenders locked into adult prisons. Too many have tragically ended up committing suicide. Yet the numbers of juveniles in prison continues to rise. There could be no more challenging job facing the new units.