The Soham case exposes serious failings within the vetting system which is designed to prevent people who may pose a threat to children from getting jobs in schools.Though Ian Huntley had no convictions for sex offences, he had been reported to police in his native Humberside on six occasions over sexual assaults or sexual relationships with underage girls. In addition social services in the north east investigated four relationships between Huntley and schoolgirls, one only 13, and an alleged indecent assault on an 11-year-old girl. But checks made by police on Huntley when he was appointed caretaker of Soham Village College failed to unearth these details of his past. At the time Huntley got his job the vetting process was being changed and a new system is now in place. But police and Home Office sources accept that under the new system Huntley would probably still have slipped through the net as the new Criminal Records Bureau continues to rely on local police forces to provide it with intelligence material - details which do not lead to a conviction - which would prevent a man like Huntley getting a job close to children. Even if North East Lincolnshire social services had linked the five cases, which they did not, there is still no direct mechanism for passing such details on to employers such as Soham Village College. In the wake of the Soham verdicts there are bound to be strong calls for the vetting system to be completely reformed. Huntley applied for the post of residential site officer at Soham Village College in October 2001 under his mother's maiden name, Nixon, providing his full address in the north east, his national insurance number and employment record.Under the vetting system in place at the time he also had to disclose his date of birth, any previous names and home addresses for the previous five years. Cambridgeshire county council said these details, including the name Ian Huntley, were passed on to the police. As was normal, Huntley began work before the check came back. At the time the force was processing some 2,000 checks a month - almost seven times the usual volume. Employers were getting checks in quickly because under the new system about to come into force they were going to have to start paying for checks. Cambridgeshire police's criminal records bureau checked the would-be caretaker on the police national computer (PNC) under the name Nixon. The civilian operator failed to check him under the name Huntley. Police admit this was an error and disciplinary proceedings against the operator could follow. Had the operator checked under Huntley he or she should have found that he had committed a burglary in 1995, which may have stopped him getting the caretaker's job as the first line of Huntley's job description was that he was in charge of security at the college. However the PNC would not have shown he was charged with rape in 1998. Nor would this check have thrown up any of the other accusations and reports made against him which did not result in a charge. This sort of information is held locally on police "intelligence" databases. Cambridgeshire police say they sent a fax to Humberside asking them to check Huntley. They are confident they passed the names Nixon and Huntley on. The check showed "no trace" - on the face of it, Huntley had no convictions, had never been cautioned or bound over and there was no "intelligence" on him. Humberside police refused to speak about the checks they carried out on Huntley. But it must be presumed that they did not provide details of the accusations levelled against Huntley.The criminal records bureau (CRB), a joint venture between the Home Office and the private contractor Capita, should have been in operation at the time Huntley was checked. Its opening was delayed and it finally began work in March 2002. But would Huntley's past have emerged if the CRB had been in place by then? A problem is that each of the 43 forces in England and Wales keeps intelligence material - such as accusations of sex crimes - as it sees fit. The Association of Chief Police Officers' code of conduct, based on the Data Protection Act 1998, states: "It is not possible to lay down strict criteria for the removal of data from criminal intelligence records." It says it should not be kept for "longer than is necessary" but it is up to each force to decide how long to keep information and how to use it. As for North East Lincolnshire Council, it says cases involving Huntley came to their attention five times between August 1995 and July 1998. The council says connections between the cases were not made because they were handled by different people. It was only able to unearth its contacts with the children following Huntley and Carr's arrest when the police approached them with names of girls they had discovered Huntley had formed relationships with. The council's children's service argues that its job is to protect children, not to spot patterns of behaviour in adults. But changes may be afoot. The government's green paper, Every Child Matters, published in response to the Victoria Climbie case, proposes a new information sharing system and the setting up of "local safeguarding children boards", to replace area child protection committees. Inevitably the Soham case will be in the minds of the government when it comes to frame legislation. The Home Office says the new CRB system is more efficient. However it does not have direct access to the intelligence databases held by individual forces. Nor would the CRB have found out that social services had investigated Huntley as the link between the cases had not been made - and still would almost certainly not be made. An irony is that if Huntley had been accused of sex crimes while working with children, he would probably have been placed on secret lists which schools can access. Because it was only later that he got the job at Soham Village College he slipped through the net.  · A longer version of this article appears in tomorrow's Guardian