The key witness in the Damilola Taylor murder trial, a 14-year-old girl, was today heard exclaiming: "Just give me the £50,000."The court has been told that a £50,000 reward was put up by the Daily Mail after 10-year-old Damilola was ambushed on the North Peckham Estate, south London, by a teenage gang out to rob him.The jury in the Old Bailey trial today saw a sequence on a police interview video where the witness joked with a teacher "gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme" as she made a grasping motion with her fingers. During a break in the interview, the girl chatted with a teacher who was acting as an "appropriate adult" to look after her interests. After discussion about the cost of telephone calls, the girl told the woman: "D'ya know, I figured how much I am going to give you." Teacher: "How much of what?" Girl: "The money." Teacher: "The rate you're going I doubt very much your evidence will be any use at all to get any reward." Girl: "Yeah, but they still got to give me some money for wasting my time." Teacher: "Wasting your time?" Girl: "My time and your time." Teacher: "You have nothing but time." Girl: "They can let you go to Jamaica and let me go to . . . just give me the £50,000. Gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme." The two then burst out laughing. Mark Dennis, prosecuting, has told the jury it will have to decide how much the reward had helped or motivated the girl to come forward. Before jury members began viewing the tapes, defence barrister George Carter-Stephenson QC, told them to watch out for references to the reward "which we suggest are important". The girl is later told that people can be prosecuted for wasting police time. In another segment of the interviews, she tells the police that she had argued with another girl who said Damilola had died after being pushed on to broken glass. The other girl had been told to say that by the accused brothers, she said. The witness's friend had been going out with one of them over a year earlier when she was 12. "She got pregnant by him," claimed the witness who was wearing a pink, hooded-fleece and sitting on a blue settee. When asked by a policewoman what had happened, she replied: "She got an abortion." Asked what the brothers were like, she said: "Shit bags". Asked in what way, she said: "In a nasty way." Nigerian-born Damilola was left to bleed to death on a stairwell after being stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle in November 2000. Two brothers aged 16, their 17-year-old friend and a 14-year-old youth deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The prosecution says the girl, who was 12 at the time, was the only witness to the attack. Yesterday, during another police interview, the girl said: "I'm going to Spain for free." The teacher asks her: "So how come you are going to Spain for free?" Girl: "Cos the police are paying for it." In another section, she remarked: "I don't get none of this money until I'm 18." The trial continues.