Mercy killings could be removed from the category of murder and no longer punished by a life sentence under the first fundamental review of murder law for more than 50 years, announced yesterday by the home secretary, David Blunkett.The terms of reference have not yet been announced and Mr Blunkett insisted that the government remained committed to the mandatory life sentence. But a Home Office spokeswoman acknowledged that the review, to be led by the department with input from outside bodies, was likely to look at the question of how mercy killings should be treated. Any root-and-branch review would be bound to look at the possibility of reclassifying homicides now considered as murder and putting some in a lower category with discretion for judges over the sentence. Judges complain that current rules force them to treat all people convicted of murder in the same way. Many believe the mandatory life sentence fails to reflect the wide variations in crimes now classified as murder - at one extreme, the sadistic serial killing of children and, at the other, the injection by a doctor of a patient with only days to live, begging him to end the intractable pain. The review follows a Law Commission report in August which described the law as "a mess" and called for a major overhaul - including a rethink on whether the mandatory life sentence for murder should be retained - because of "the breadth and depth of discontent" with the current law. Senior judges have long argued that the best way to end the anomalies is to make life a maximum, rather than a mandatory, sentence and leave it to the judge to sentence according to the circumstances. In a new book, Malice Aforethought, Sir Louis Blom-Cooper QC and Terence Morris, emeritus professor of criminology at LSE, call for a new offence of "criminal homicide" to replace murder and manslaughter, with no mandatory sentence but life as the maximum. The commission looked at the "partial defences" to murder - diminished responsibility and provocation, which reduce a murder charge to manslaughter - after Harriet Harman, the solicitor general, suggested that that the provocation defence, often invoked by husbands who kill their wives in a fit of jealousy, should be abolished. She hoped to include a provision in the domestic violence, crime and victims bill now going through parliament. But Mr Blunkett's decision to order a wholesale review, to start in 2005, is certain to delay any legislative changes for several years. The Home Office spokeswoman said the government's commitment to the mandatory life sentence "does not stop the review from examining and recommending alternative ways to structure offences of homicide, or looking at issues on the construction of the offence such as the intention of the offender, possible defences and partial defences". She said the Home Office was discussing with the Law Commission what role it should play in the review. The commission's consultation exercise showed that 64 respondents out of 146 - including 21 judges - believed a mandatory life sentence for every case of murder was "indefensible and should cease". The review will be the first wholesale re-examination of the subject since the Royal Commission on Capital Punishment, which led to the 1957 Homicide Act.