Tuesday6.30pm: Two men posing as police officers kidnap Securitas depot manager Colin Dixon. An hour later, Lynn and son Craig, eight, are kidnapped from their home in Herne Bay and taken to a farm building in a red fake parcelforce van thought to be in west Kent.Wednesday1am: Renault truck arrives at Securitas depot. Robbers force staff at gunpoint to open loading gate.3.15am: Staff raise alarm.Evening: Bank of England announces at least £25 has been stolen. Adrian Leppard takes over the investigation.Thursday Morning: Detectives interview the Dixons and depot staff members.Afternoon: First CCTV footage is released of white truck at the depot. Police appeal for information. Securitas and its insurers post a £2m reward for information leading to the recovery of the stolen cash, now thought to be almost £50m. All ports and airports placed on high alert.Evening: A 29-year-old man and a 31-year-old woman are arrested at separate addresses in Forest Hill, south London. A 41-year-old woman is detained at the Portman Building Society in Bromley, south-east London, after trying to bank £6,000 in cash in packaging reportedly bearing the Tonbridge depot markings. A Volvo thought to be involved in the abduction of Colin Dixon, is found, on fire, in the village of Leeds, near Maidstone.FridayAfternoon: Acting on a tip-off, police recover a white Ford Transit van from car park at Ashford International Hotel. The van is thought to be the one used to transport Mr Dixon to a remote farmhouse at the end of his ordeal. Two large sacks of new notes taken during the robbery are found in the back. However, the white Renault lorry - used to transport the cash - is still being sought by police.Evening: Police release a computer generated image of one gang member involved in the abduction of Mr Dixon. He is also depicted without his bogus uniform and shorn of his beard, believed to be fake. Detectives begin to question the three detained suspects, who are later released on police bail pending further inquiries.SaturdayTwo men, aged 55 and 33, arrested in the Maidstone area. Police release a second photofit, further details of the kidnapping and admit they cannot know how much cash was stolen until staff are able to return to the depot. Passenger lists for Eurostar trains are scrutinised amid speculation that the crooks escaped to the continent.