Police investigating the murder of a man whose badly burnt torso was found in a layby have released an image of a suitcase similar to the one he was discovered in.The unidentified body, which was missing its head and limbs, was found by a member of the public in a parking area off the A628, just east of Tintwistle, Derbyshire, at 12.30pm on Monday 10 October. Police believe the man’s remains were left in the layby, which is popular with walkers, some time between 9pm and midnight the night before. Detectives are widening their inquiries to include Derbyshire, Manchester, West Yorkshire, South Yorkshire, Cheshire, Merseyside and Staffordshire. There is no match for the man’s DNA on the national database, but analysis of the body suggests he had white or light-coloured skin, was aged between 18 and 40, and was probably between 173cm and 180cm (5ft 8in and 5ft 11in) tall. The suitcase was black, 80cm by 68cm by 31cm, and was made by the brand Stockton.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The suitcase image released by police. Photograph: Derbyshire ConstabularyDerbyshire police have called for anyone who saw somebody carrying such a suitcase in the Tintwistle area on the day in question to contact them. Police have also asked anyone to come forward if they have a friend, colleague, neighbour or relative matching the description of the murder victim who they have not seen in recent weeks. Assistant chief constable Bill McWilliam said police had had more than 60 calls from members of the public with information. “We’re grateful to these callers but unfortunately, we have still not been able to identify the man. He could have gone missing from anywhere in the country but simply hasn’t been reported missing by those who know him,” he said.“Do you have a friend or neighbour you haven’t seen for a while? Maybe you only see them from time to time. If you think they could have gone missing, please get in touch with us. Similarly, if you know anyone who owns a suitcase like this, or you saw someone in the area with a suitcase like this on 9 October, call us.”