Convicted sex offenders will have to register with their local police every year instead of every five years under changes to the child protection laws to be unveiled today.The home secretary, David Blunkett, is also expected to announce in his speech to the Labour party conference that people convicted for sex offences abroad will have their names added to the register when they return to Britain.More than 18,500 convicted sex offenders, including child abusers, will be affected by the changes which will form part of legislation reforming Britain's Victorian sexual offences law and the treatment of sex offenders which is planned for the new year. The decision to plug these gaps in the sex offenders' register follows a Home Office review of the first five years of the sex offenders' registrar. The offenders will have to report each year to their local police station regardless of whether their circumstances have changed. Failure to report is already a criminal offence that can carry a prison term of up to five years. At present offenders have to report every five years, and when they move home. The Home Office says 97% of convicted sex offenders are on the register, which has been in operation since 1997. Most are registered for 10 years but the more serious offenders are on it for life. It is expected that more regular registration will prevent even more offenders disappearing "underground". The decision to force "sex tourists" convicted of sex crimes abroad to register enters new legal territory as it means offences committed in other jurisdictions will automatically lead to a penalty in Britain. It will apply to sex crimes that carry a prison sentence of two years or more. This will be more difficult to enforce and will involve closer cooperation between the national criminal intelligence service and police forces abroad. Mr Blunkett is expected to tell the conference: "These measures will help the authorities to know who sex offenders are and where they are living."