Almost three fifths of all prisoners in this country are reconvicted within two years of their release. For younger prisoners and those serving short prison sentences, the reconviction rates are even higher. Why are these rates so high? And what can be done to bring them down?The challenge of turning a prisoner away from crime is huge. The profile of prisoners reveals the legacy of a lifetime of social exclusion. The figures speak for themselves. Compared with the general population, prisoners are 13 times more likely to have been in care as a child, 10 times more likely to have been a regular truant and two and a half times as likely to have had a family member convicted of a criminal offence. Many offenders have extremely low employability, poor basic skills, few positive social networks, severe housing problems, often complicated by drug, alcohol and mental health problems.Many people leave prison with neither a home nor a job to go to - factors that are strongly associated with re-offending. They are also likely to leave with few of the right skills to find work in the future. Prison can make it difficult to maintain positive family contact, causing relationships to break down. Throughout the Social Exclusion Unit's research - which included visits to more than 50 prisons and involved canvassing the opinions of victims, prisoners, front-line staff, statutory authorities and charities amongst others, we have looked at ways in which a prison sentence can be an opportunity to reduce re-offending. We saw for ourselves the hard work that the Prison Service has put in to improve basic skills provision, offer offending behaviour programmes and drug treatment. We also saw many examples of good practice involving the voluntary sector in terms of resettlement and advice. But the good work that is going on does not reach enough people and is not sufficiently sustained on release. As a result, many ex-prisoners do not break out of a cycle of offending, even when they intend to do so.For many offenders, prison is a first opportunity to access services such as education, training, drug treatment and mental health care. But as it stands all too often the opportunity is lost and the offender is alienated even further from services that give them a better chance of going straight on the outside.The task of turning an offender away from crime is considerable, because social exclusion and re-offending are inextricably linked. The majority of prisoners experience significant levels of social exclusion in their lives before beginning a prison sentence - and all too often prison sentences can make this worse. The statistics demonstrate the scale of the challenge:· Ex-prisoners are responsible for over 1 million crimes per year, at a cost of at least £11 billion;· 75 per cent of prisoners leave prison without a job;· 30 per cent leave prison homeless; · 50 per cent of prisoners have poor literacy; · 65 per cent have poor numeracy;· 58 per cent of released prisoners are reconvicted within 2 years;· Rates are even higher among short-term prisoners - those sentenced to less the 12 months - and younger prisoners. 18-20 year olds are reconvicted at a rate of 72 per cent and recommitted at a rate of 47 per cent;· Those reconvicted will in fact have received a further 3 convictions within two years;· 70 per cent of prisoners are released to no education, training or employment.But a prison sentence should be a huge opportunity to improve the chances of offenders leading a healthy and productive life once outside the prison gate.At the moment, access to rehabilitation in prison and on the outside is patchy and often depends on what is available rather that what a prisoner might need to stop them re-offending. Our report recommends that prisoners have a case manager who will ensure that they receive the support that they need if they sign a 'Going Straight Contract'. This would initially be targeted at 18 to 20 year-olds. The contract would include incentives and sanctions and would set out what was expected of them throughout their sentence, both in prison and in the community. A full-time package of rehabilitative programmes and support would be available, tailored to the individual prisoner and based on a comprehensive assessment of the factors that lead to re-offending. The programme should cover the entire sentence, in and out of prison, and should be overseen by a case manager.Prisoners would make payments from their prison wages into a Reparation Fund for the victims of crime, and into a fund for their case managers to use for their rehabilitation in the community. Case managers would have the option of withholding this rehabilitation fund in the community should prisoners not fulfil the conditions of the contract.And prisoners would need to be supervised on release. As is the case now, released prisoners who do not fulfil the conditions of their statutory licence or who re-offend would be breached, and may be sent back to prison. Measures to tackle financial and housing need among newly released prisoners should be investigated including the development of effective reception and resettlement procedures in all prisons so that housing and benefits advice can be given before prisoners are released back into the community.Reducing re-offending not only benefits prisoners and their families but also wider society in helping to reduce the costs of crime, the numbers of victims of crime and help build safer communities for us all.· Louise Dominian is Deputy Director of the Social Exclusion Unit. The Unit's report Reducing re-offending by ex-prisoners, was published lon July 1st. You can read the summary and full report (both in PDF format) can be read on the Social Exclusion Unit website.About Observer Comment ExtraThe Observer website carries additional online commentary each week, responding to recent pieces to continue the debate and offering additional coverage of the major issues. The online pieces are also trailed in the print pages of the newspaper. The Crime and Justice debate pages bring together the best of the paper's analysis and commentary with a range of exclusive online commentary to provide a forum for the broadest debate on criminal justice reform.Send us your viewsEmail Observer site editor Sunder Katwala at observer@guardianunlimited.co.uk with comments on articles or ideas for future pieces.