Damilola Taylor's dreadful, pointless death is the stuff of every parent's nightmare. A child killed with a knife and, it is assumed, by a child or young person, one of the boy's peers in what may well have been a final act of bullying that went too far.In the face of Gloria Taylor's distress at having her beautiful child so mercilessly taken, at the knowledge that she had complained to his school that he was being bullied, there is public outrage, a desire to show we care, that we share her fury at whoever committed this bad, bad act.The trouble is that this increasingly familiar way of making ourselves feel better, manifest in the oceans of media stories about hooligans and thugs, actually distances us from understanding that young people who commit such dreadful acts are not born thugs and hooligans. They become that way because their mental health needs are bypassed until they become a dangerous, dreadful, driving force. The mental health problems of children in Britain are something we don't dwell on. Kids with hyperactivity, with emotional chaos bubbling inside, with a despair so deep they will do anything to keep it at bay, kids who act out their disturbance in ways that are at best unappealing at worst lethal don't capture the imagination. We like mental health problems to come in the form of Shakespeare's fools or simple-minded lunatics amusing us with their harmless antics. This is blind folly for those kids whose problems may, to us, seem a private menace for their families or a failure of parenting, but who very often have mental health problems and need help early if they are not to turn mad and bad. When I sat on the Mental Health Foundation's steering committee into children's mental health, preparing the report Bright Futures, it was calculated that at any one time 20% of children and adolescents are experiencing psychological problems. It is very likely Damilola's killers are among them, as was the psychotic cellmate who killed Zahid Mubarek in Feltham. When these children become thugs, commit dreadful acts and are vilified, we lock them up. We concluded in Bright Futures that "the demonisation enables troubled and troublesome children to be portrayed as the preserve of the mental health professionals or the criminal justice system not the concern of society as a whole". This point was emphasised this week with the publication of a Prison Reform Trust report showing that out of a sample of 592 young people aged 16-20 in prison, 95% were assessed as having one or more mental disorders. Some had as many as five. Ten per cent had functional psychosis and up to 67% suffered from anxiety and depression. One-third of young women and 20% of young men had attempted suicide before being sent to prison. These mental health problems are not a product of prison, although prison is the last place equipped to treat the psychological problems of our fragile and vulnerable young, as the statistics for suicide and self-harm bear witness. We might well have felt sympathy for them if we'd heard their stories, so often ones of deprivation and poverty, before they committed their mad, bad acts, before they were driven to an urgent quest to escape the bad feelings inside themselves by acting them out on someone else. The bullying that Damilola endured is one of the commonest and most urgent signs we should heed. In the past few years it has been identified as a serious problem - not just swaggering playground machismo but a merciless quest for power and control by those who all too often feel powerless. According to Young Voice, the charity set up to report the views and experiences of our young, 37% of teenage boys say they have been subjected to physical violence from bullies. Young Voice makes the important point that "bullying is a vital indicator of the health of the community".  Our prosperous capitalist society enables many of us to protect and nurture our children. But there is remarkably little interest in encouraging the government, which to its credit is doing more than its predecessors, to prioritise children's mental health problems in schools with special needs help and educational psychologists, or in funding some of the imaginative and constructive organisations offering practical help, psychological support, and early intervention for those children and young people who need it. Our powerful media, with all the opportunities it has to help us take some moral responsibility for growing violence and criminality, revels in headlines that separate thugs from nice middle England. This is far more comfortable than accepting responsibility for children who are spiralling out of control, who we wouldn't much want sharing our kids' Playstations and teatime treats. We should recognise our responsibility, albeit distanced, for Damilola's death. If we want to protect children like him, we need a comprehensive and dynamic range of initiatives to spot, intervene and help when children show signs of mental distress. Those of us fortunate enough to have the time and energy to battle for these things must do so. a.neustatter@dial.pipex.com  Related stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' Leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a school boy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate