The people of Morecambe came in their coats and flat caps yesterday to pay tribute to the 19 cockle fishers who drowned last week on a sandbank a couple of miles up the bay.Perhaps they had been expecting a priest, a band and For Those in Peril on the Sea. What they saw was a simple Buddhist ceremony of great reverence and dignity. It was held outside the lifeboat station on Morecambe's prom, where the dead were ferried last Friday as they were plucked from the sea. A rescue hovercraft that searched the bay for almost 24 hours as the disaster unfolded was drawn up outside and the flag of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution flew at half-mast. As a breeze picked up towards the end of the ceremony, the flag began to flutter and the smell of incense from joss sticks filled the air. A few women, some British, some Chinese, wiped away tears. Members of Manchester's Chinese community, led by priests in saffron and scarlet robes, abandoned their traditional anonymity and took control on a grey day when the line between sea and sky was all but invisible. The tide, which can race in faster than a man can run, was out, with a blue-hulled boat resting on the exposed mudflats. The priests bowed before a table bearing food for the dead on their final journey: avocados, apples, a melon, oranges, cauliflower, peppers, broccoli and rice. They then led 19 chanting followers in yellow tabards on a slow procession along the prom, sprinkling water to purify the area and ensure that such a tragedy will never happen again. They returned to the table to plant joss sticks in a bowl of sand. The Chinese led and the officials followed: a Lancashire police chief superintendent, the chief executive of Lancaster city council. Then came the Morecambe people: a woman in an electric buggy, a girl in a long black coat, a man with grey hair, earring and tattoos. Traditional white rabbit lucky sweets were distributed but there were no speeches, no funeral orations, no show of public grief. "When people die, we believe the soul stays with body for 49 days," explained Andrew Yu, from Manchester's Buddhist temple. "The chanting is intended to catch the souls of the dead and send them to heaven." They did not wish the victims of the bay to have "a bad memory" and be left asking why they had to die. "Our Buddha is very kind and will do everything to forgive people and rescue people," said Mr Yu. "We hope they will have a better life next time." Joan Crinion, from Morecambe, looked on. "I feel so sorry for those people and my heart goes out to the families left behind," she said. "I was shocked beyond despair. It should never have happened." The last of the incense had barely drifted heavenwards when the Morecambe lifeboat was launched to rescue up to 40 cocklers reported stranded on a sandbank only yards from the site of last week's tragedy. The group, all believed to be English, managed to make their way back to the shore without help. · Geraldine Smith, the MP for Morecambe, yesterday challenged the Home Office minister, Beverley Hughes, for details of the raids made by immigration officers on illegal immigrant cocklers in her constituency, adds Sarah Hall. Ms Hughes' deputy, Fiona Mactaggart, had insisted such raids had taken place when she wrote to Ms Smith in August last year to tell her "resource issues" meant local police could not be given extra help from the immigration services.