Lawyers who delay criminal cases to boost their fees will face fines as part of the government's reform of the criminal justice system to be announced next month.Confirmation of the plan is contained in an audit commission report, Route to Justice, published today, which estimates that more than £80m a year is wasted through adjournment and cancellation of trials. It says that the current fee structure for lawyers "may be seen to offer an incentive for legal representatives to prolong cases in the judicial process unnecessarily". The report suggests that a new culture is needed in the courts that challenges inadequate preparation by lawyers and measures their performance. The audit commission says the answer might be to have a fee system for lawyers that re wards those who deal with cases speedily. But the home secretary, David Blunkett, is believed to be keen to introduce a system of fines to deter those lawyers who stall criminal cases, for example through repeated adjournments, to boost their fee. The report says that the criminal justice system is made up of seven different agencies, including the police and the prison service, is overseen by three government departments, employs 300,000 people and costs £13bn a year - but rarely acts as a "system" at all. It says that there is a lack of common and shared objectives which create tensions between the different agencies, and this dilutes the emphasis that should be placed on the needs of victims, witnesses and offenders. Different agencies, whether the police, crown prosecutors or the courts, too often blame one another for failing to achieve their own targets rather than cooperate to overcome them. The report says there is a need for "strong leadership" to produce much better cooperation. It adds that delays and inefficiencies are happening throughout the system, from the moment a crime is reported to the day an offender is sentenced by the court. In particular, too many cases are dropping out of the system unnecessarily, allowing offenders to evade justice. Even simple matters such as updating the police national computer with the outcome of new cases takes the police between 27 to 90 days, against a target of three days. The report says that while 5.2m offences were recorded by the police in 2000-01, only 326,000 offenders were sentenced in magistrates and crown courts. It also points out that within two years of starting a community sentence or finishing a prison sentence, over 50% of offenders are back in court.