A police officer yesterday said Ian Huntley seemed "incredibly helpful" as he assisted her in the search for Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman on the night of their disappearance.But the constable revealed that during the search Mr Huntley had claimed not to have the keys for a large storage shed at Soham Village College, where he worked as a caretaker. Almost a fortnight later the police discovered the keys to the shed in Mr Huntley's home. When they opened it they came upon the schoolgirls' partially burned clothes. It also emerged yesterday that the senior officer initially in charge of the hunt for the 10-year-old friends asked for extra officers but was not given reinforcements. And the Old Bailey heard that the sergeant's notes of a conversation she had with Mr Huntley on that night had been lost. On the 10th day of the trial police dog handler Anna Burton told the Old Bailey that in the early hours of the morning after Holly and Jessica vanished on August 4 last year, she came across Mr Huntley at Soham Village College. PC Burton said she told Mr Huntley, 29, who denies murdering the girls, what she was doing. He asked if he could help and volunteered to get the keys for the school. "I thanked him and said I was very grateful for his help, especially as it was so late," said PC Burton. The officer said they chatted about dogs as they walked around the school grounds. When she first saw Mr Huntley - who had emerged out of the mist - his dog was with him. During the search the pair came to a storage shed known as "the hanger". Mr Huntley told the officer it was used to house sports equipment. "I asked him if he had the keys," said PC Burton, "He said he didn't, which I thought was strange." He also told her it had no alarm. Asked why she had wanted to know if the building had an alarm, PC Burton said she was concerned that the missing children might have got themselves locked in. PC Burton said she walked around the building and rattled the door handle before moving on. The jury has heard that the keys were found almost two weeks later on a bedside table in the bedroom of Mr Huntley and his girlfriend, Maxine Carr, 26, who denies two charges of assisting an offender and conspiring to pervert the course of justice. In the hangar, police found the girl's partially burned Manchester United shirts and other items of clothing. PC Burton said she spent about an hour with Mr Huntley from about 1am. She said: "He was very pleasant... incredibly helpful". The officer said she was surprised that someone so young was head caretaker in charge of 26 people. She said: "I also thought that's where he gets his energy from to be so helpful so late at night." But he did not mention to her he had seen the girls. The court has been told Mr Huntley is likely to concede that he did see the girls and that they came into his house. PC Burton told the jury that she was called back to Soham Village College on August 16 when police were searching the hangar. She said an officer had run up looking "ashen and shocked". She overheard that there had been a "significant find". PC Burton said she and her dog searched part of the hangar. Asked what she was looking for, she said: "For two little girls alive." The jury was told that Mr Huntley did not admit he had seen the girls until about 2am on August 5. Retained firefighter David Hobbs said that he had been searching for the girls with the caretaker for an hour before Mr Huntley mentioned they might have walked past his house at 6.30pm. Mr Hobbs told him he should report what he had seen to the police. Mr Hobbs said in court that Mr Huntley had seemed "calm" during the search - as if he was there just to walk his dog. The firefighter said when he first saw Mr Huntley that night he was standing in the doorway of his house holding a mug. Another retained firefighter who helped with the search, Steve Jarvis, told the jury that Mr Huntley had commented to him that the police "were out in force". Mr Jarvis said he felt "annoyed" and replied: "I should think they are. Two small girls are missing." Susan Hurrell, another Soham resident who helped search for the girls, described talking to Mr Huntley between 2am and 2.30am. Mrs Hurrell, a teacher at Holly and Jessica's school, St Andrew's primary, said Mr Huntley told her he might have seen the two girls. He said they had asked him how his girlfriend was. They knew Ms Carr because she used to work as a classroom assistant in their year. Mrs Hurrell went on: "I said: 'It must have been Jessica and Holly.'" He told her he saw them at 5.50pm. He knew it was that time as he had been "sorting out his dog" when they passed his house. Mrs Hurrell said she was "quite excited". She took him over to a police officer, though he appeared "reluctant". Mrs Hurrell said Mr Huntley twice started to explain what he had seen but "floundered". He told the officer, Sergeant Pauline Nelson, he was "tired" and his head was "muddled". Sergeant Nelson, who was leading the search for the girls that night, gave a different version. She said after being told that Mr Huntley had seen the girls she pointed at him and ordered: "You, here!" Sgt Nelson said it became quiet as Mr Huntley approached her. He told her, she said, he had seen the girls at about 5.30pm. "I wanted to know if he had told a police officer. He hadn't. I asked why. He didn't think it necessary." The officer noted that Mr Huntley smelled of soap or aftershave as if he was freshly bathed. She asked him where Ms Carr was. He did not tell her but asked her why she wanted to know. The jury has heard that Ms Carr was 110 miles away in Grimsby but was to tell police she was in the house to back up Mr Huntley's account of what happened. Under cross examination, Sgt Nelson admitted she had not written details of the meeting in her notebook. She said she had taken notes on a piece of A4 paper, which she lost. She also revealed that around eight officers were involved in the search that night. Her request for reinforcements had been denied. Soham Village College secretary, Susan Midgley, told the court that Mr Huntley liked to be known as "residential site officer" rather than "caretaker". She said the caretaker's house was kept "clean and tidy" and that Mr Huntley and Ms Carr kept pet rats. She said that in the days following the girls' disappearance the pair had complained about the "intrusion of the media". The trial continues.