Lawyers representing farmer Tony Martin today launched an appeal against his conviction for the murder of a teenage burglar.They have also said they may seek an injunction against Norwich crown court after receiving reports that court staff were deterring trial witnesses and jurors from contacting the farmer's defence team.Martin's solicitor Nick Makin said that one of the grounds of appeal would be the intimidation of witnesses and members of the jury."We have heard from some people that the local court in Norwich has been discouraging people from contacting us in connection with witnesses or jurors being intimidated," said Mr Makin. "We are taking this up with the court officials. If it turns out to be correct, we will probably go for an injunction against the local court. We are told some witnesses have telephoned the court and been told by the court that they should not contact the defence solicitors."Asked about the allegations that court staff were deterring callers from contacting Martin's defence team, Norwich crown court official Mike Haw said: "If Mr Makin has written to me I haven't received his letter yet and I don't know why he should be saying that."Martin, 55, of Emneth Hungate in Norfolk, was found guilty of murdering Fred Barras, 16, at Norwich crown court last week, following an eight-day trial. He was sentenced to life imprisonment after being convicted of murder by a 10-2 majority.Martin was also convicted of wounding a second burglar, Brendan Fearon, with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. The farmer was cleared of attempting to murder Fearon and of possessing a pump-action shotgun with intent to endanger life.Jurors heard that the burglars had been shot after breaking into Martin's isolated home late at night in August. It was alleged that Martin, who had suffered a number of other burglaries, hated criminals and gypsies and had shot the burglars "like rats in a trap". The farmer said he fired in self-defence.Documents sent to the court of appeal, and which have not been publicly disclosed at the request of the court, set out six main grounds of appeal, said Mr Makin.The grounds, according to Martin's defence team, are firstly that the judge failed to tell the jury what constitutes self-defence and that they should look at the question of self-defence "from the viewpoint of the victim of crime at the time that the crime was being committed". He also did not inform the jury that a victim of crime can take action to protect both himself and his property. Secondly, a fair trial was "not possible in an atmosphere of intimidation of both witnesses and jury".Thirdly, the judge wrongly allowed evidence about Martin's opinion on burglars and travellers - opinions which Martin denied he held.Fourthly, in his summing up, the judge failed to tell the jury that the defence and prosecution agreed on the most likely sequence of events in Bleak House on the night Fred Barras died. "Mr Martin fired below a torch being shone at him by (another burglar, Brendon) Fearon and as a result of avoiding firing at Fearon holding the torch, Mr Barras was hit," said Mr Makin. The judge also did not mention that Mr Barras could not be seen by Martin as he fired the weapon, said Mr Makin.Fifthly, the prosecution "changed their tack in the middle of the trial" and suggested Martin had "shot burglars like rats in a trap". Mr Makin said: "The prosecution should have mentioned this earlier - it had at no time been part of their case until the trial was well under way that Mr Martin was alleged to have set a trap. Furthermore, there was no evidence to support this prosecution allegation."Finally, the jury's verdict "could not be rational" as it found Martin did not intend to endanger life with his shotgun yet they found he had murdered Mr Barras with it.Concerns about intimidation were expressed by lawyers after a woman claiming to be a juror called a Norwich-based local radio phone-in the day after Martin was convicted. She alleged in a call to Broadland 102 FM that jurors had been intimidated by people staring at them from the courtroom's public gallery. Broadland insisted the woman caller had not spoken of being "intimidated, pressured or nobbled". On Wednesday Norwich-based BBC Radio Norfolk said it had also been in touch with a juror and been told that members of the panel felt uneasy.Martin's lawyers have mounted their own investigation and have appealed for jurors to contact them. "Mr Martin hopes that the court of appeal will deal with this as quickly as possible and that he can get out of prison," said Mr Makin.