Ministers launched a recruitment drive today to find a judge to run Britian's first "one-stop crime-busting centre". The Department for Constitutional Affairs is looking for a middle ranking member of the judiciary to pioneer a US-style community justice centre. The £3m centre is due to open in north Liverpool by December to deal with cases of antisocial behaviour and low-level crime. Based on similar schemes in New York, it will also offer drug treatment, debt counselling and restorative justice programmes all under the same roof. The judge will be required to monitor offenders' progress through any sentence that he or she hands down. The position carries an annual salary of £113,121. The successful candidate will be expected to start work in September, ahead of the centre's formal opening. "What we are looking for is someone who can take development of this new approach to handling offenders in partnership with the community," said a Department for Constitutional Affairs spokesman. He added: "The judge will be expected to monitor the progress of the offender personally and establish a rapport with the community, becoming the public face of the community justice centre."The pilot scheme will initially run until the end of 2006. It is a partnership between the Home Office, the Department for Constitutional Affairs and the Crown Prosecution Service. The project will be closely based on Red Hook community justice centre in New York, which the home secretary, David Blunkett, visited last year. Officials have yet to announce the exact location of the Liverpool pilot. The spokesman said the new job would be open to a range of existing members of the judiciary, including serving circuit and district judges in England and Wales, recorders and certain senior judicial post holders. The closing date for applications is July 12.· The Home Office is also calling for entries to this year's Taking A Stand award, to recognise people who have acted against antisocial behaviour in their neighbourhoods.The overall winner, announced in December, will receive £5,000 and an additional 100 winners will get £1,000 each. The closing date for entries is September 28.