Unsupervised teenagers will be expected to be off the streets by 10pm under new laws at the heart of the home secretary, Jack Straw's anti-"yob culture" package, which has been designed as much to wrongfoot Tory opposition in the run-up to the election as to continue to bear down on the falling crime figures due out next month.But Mr Straw's plans to raise the age of local child curfews to 16 and to issue £100 fixed penalty fines for public drunkenness and disorder were immediately criticised by child welfare charities and youth organisations. The National Children's Bureau said it was dismayed by the plans, while the British Youth Council deplored the move as "the criminalisation of a group of people largely ignored by society." The crime package also includes the long-awaited bill to license the 125,000 private security guards who operate in Britain, new moves to clamp down on the trade in stolen vehicles, and measures to tackle the link between alcohol and violent crime. Reform of the licensing hours, promised by Home Office ministers in August, which would have led to optional 24-hour opening for pubs seven days a week with the ban on children lifted have, however, been shelved until after the election. A move to set up a national confiscation agency to seize the assets of organised crime will also have to wait until the next session. Instead only a draft bill is promised but in the meantime the Inland Revenue is to be given unprecedented powers to hand over to the police the tax records of individuals for a whole range of offences. Until now, such disclosure was limited to cases of treason and murder.   Criminal justice Mr Straw yesterday defended the child curfew proposal, saying: "Why are there youngsters out on the streets at 10 or 11pm. Where are the parents? Children should be in their homes at 10 or 11pm not racketing around the streets." Ministers point to the limited success of a similar scheme in Hamilton, Scotland, to answer criticism that no local authority in England has used existing curfew powers for those aged 10 and under. The bill will also include new fixed penalty fines - to be used like parking tickets - for public drunkenness and disorder, and powers for the police to immediately close down rowdy pubs and bars. The police are also to be given the power of immediate arrest over kerb crawlers and hit-and-run drivers and will be given new powers to remove material from premises for searching. It will also give the inland revenue power to disclose confidential tax details to the police.   Private security industry This will license for the first time the private security industry in Britain, which has expanded rapidly since the 1980s to employ more than 400,000 people now employed. The industry's reputation has been badly damaged by criminal elements. The number of private security guards now outnumber the police. The bill will mean all individuals working in the industry will have to apply for a license. The protection in the Rehabilitation of Offenders' Act for those with criminal records will be waived in some cases. There will be a new offence of working without a licence in the security industry. Those who will be covered include security guards, "bouncers", wheelclampers, private investigators, security consultants and key-holders. Companies will also have to register, and, in the long term, private approved security officers could be used for street patrols to supplement police.   Car crime  The proceeds from speed camera fines are to be used for more cameras. There will be an increased effort to tackle the industry in stolen cars which are broken up and sold for parts.    Criminal assets The draft Proceeds of Crime Bill is designed to set up a confiscation agency with the power to sue for the recovery of criminal assets using a civil standard of proof in the High Court.Among the Home Office measures canvassed as possibilities but missing from this Queen's Speech are bills to introduce indeterminate sentences for the most serious offenders, to bring a new offence of "corporate manslaughter", or to reform the asylum voucher system