An official inquiry into serious failings by the probation service following the conviction of two serial offenders for the killing of the financier John Monckton will be announced next week by the home secretary.The inquiry will look at the quality of the risk assessment carried out before the early release last August of Damien Hanson, after serving seven years of a 12-year sentence for attempted murder. Three months later he and his accomplice, Elliot White, both 24, tricked their way into the Chelsea home of Mr Monckton and killed him during a meticulously planned but ultimately botched attempt to rob his wife.Both men were convicted at the Old Bailey. Yesterday White, who admitted robbery, was cleared of murder but convicted of manslaughter. A jury is still considering attempted murder charges and wounding charges against him.Hanson, of Shepherds Bush, west London, was convicted on Thursday of Mr Monckton's murder, an attempt to murder Mr Monckton's wife, Homeyra, and robbery. The court heard that he planned the ill-fated robbery and was obsessed with the very rich.The government's inquiry, which is expected to be announced on Monday, will address the parole board's decision to allow Hanson's early release and the subsequent standard of supervision in his case. The Guardian has learned that at least three different officers were supposed to be responsible for Hanson during the 12 weeks between his release and the murder.The investigation will seek answers to an emerging set of questions:· Why was Hanson considered for release when he had apparently been evaluated in prison as being an inmate with a 91% chance of reoffending and an increasing tendency towards violence?· How did he come to be released with a parole board evaluation that meant he was subjected to the lowest possible form of supervision?· How did Hanson convince prison staff that he was a model prisoner when it is now thought he used prison internet facilities to research the lifestyles of potential robbery victims?· How was he apparently able to continue his research of wealthy targets within a probation hostel without anyone realising that anything was amiss?· What caused the breakdown in communications which apparently meant that the police were not aware of Hanson's release until two months after the event?He remained at his hostel for two weeks after the murder and behaved erratically, missing at least one probation meeting. A further question is why no significant action was taken.Hanson was released to a hostel in Essex, away from his London haunts and old contacts but overcrowding there meant instead he was sent to a hostel in Streatham, south London.The career criminal, who had been convicted four times by the age of 16, was supposed to be the subject of a multi-agency public protection arrangement, which includes police, probation and representatives from social services. It would have had responsibility for supervising his movements within the community. But the supervision level allocated to him meant he was never referred to such a panel. Instead, he remained the sole responsibility of the probation service.The Home Office inquiry will be led by Andrew Bridges, the chief inspector of probation. The move was welcomed by Harry Fletcher, deputy general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, who urged the government to act quickly to correct any shortcomings. "This is a horrific case. The inquiry should look at the circumstances surrounding the decision to let Damien Hanson out on parole and the supervisory arrangements."But he stressed that the inquiry must look at the available resources, particularly in London. "We must ensure the service has enough trained and experienced staff to carry out our public protection duties," he said.Merrick Cockell, the leader of the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, where the killing occurred, said: "This could have been avoided. If Hanson had still been in prison, he would not have been at that house."During the trial, Richard Horwell, prosecuting, told jurors the attack was "every householder's nightmare". He said Hanson had planned the robbery at the Moncktons' home - which was likened to "a fortress" - after seeing Mrs Monckton shopping at a shoe store in King's Road, Chelsea, and following her home. White rang the bell wearing a Royal Mail Parcelforce jacket and carrying a parcel bearing Mr Monckton's full name.Hanson burst into the property first, stabbing Mrs Monckton twice in the back before "calmly and coldly" demanding her jewellery. He then stabbed Mr Monckton in the heart and lung. The couple's daughter Isobel, nine, who witnessed part of the attack from an upstairs balcony, rang the police after the robbery. Her father died soon afterwards and Mrs Monckton narrowly survived after emergency surgery. She still walks with a stick.During the trial, a taped police interview was played to the court in which White admitted knowing Mrs Monckton would be at home.The jury was told that Hanson had committed a series of increasingly violent crimes since adolescence, beginning with a burglary at the age of 12.The circumstances of Mr Monckton's murder prompted widespread concern about violent crime in London, particularly within Chelsea, where affluent families have been repeatedly targeted. Residents there are so concerned that many pay for private security firms to patrol the streets.Charles Clarke, the home secretary, is anxious to look into specific failures in the case rather than a more wide-ranging inquiry. But the development is bound to fuel the wider debate over the privatisation of the probation service.