A man accused of butchering a work colleague and then scattering his body parts across the country had threatened to kill him, a court heard today.Stephen Marshall, 38, told Jeffrey Howe that he would kill him and his family if he didn't move out of his home in Southall, north London, St Albans crown court heard.In March and April last year parts of Howe's body were found across Hertfordshire and Leicestershire. He became known as the "jigsaw man" after the series of macabre finds.The two men met through their work selling kitchens, the court has heard. Marshall and his 21-year-old girlfriend, Sarah Bush, who is also on trial for murder, moved into Howe's house.Giving evidence, Bush's friend Danielle Matthews said Bush had told her while drunk that Marshall was the killer.Matthews, who worked with Bush as an escort, said: "She said Steve was goading Jeff about moving out of his home [and that] he turned around to Jeff and said, 'Get out of your home. I'll kill you and your family.'"Matthews told the jury Bush had confessed to witnessing the murder. "She said it started in the bathroom. She was saying 'lots of blood', 'a foot', 'dismembered', 'constriction of breath'. She said: 'Steve killed Jeff.'"Marshall and Bush had moved into Howe's flat with his permission but wanted it all for themselves, prosecutor Stuart Trimmer QC said. Their alleged motive for the killing was to steal Howe's identity and use his property and money.Matthews told the jury today that Bush had mentioned a cheque paid into her account from Howe's account."She said she was opening accounts and getting material things like a pair of boots," Matthews told the court."She said Steve was buying cocaine with Jeff's money."After that she said Jeff had gone on holiday and she hadn't seen him for a while."Howe was stabbed to death and dismembered in his own home on 8 or 9 March last year, the court has heard.On 30 March Bush went to Matthews's house and was acting strangely, the court was told. Matthews said: "She was a bit over the top: nervous, overly chatty, not her normal self."After getting drunk on beer and sambuca in a nearby pub Bush told Matthews said she knew Marshall had killed Howe because she had seen it happen, Matthews told the court.Another woman present that night, Sophie Franklin, told the court she had overheard Matthews and Bush discussing the murder."She said Steve killed Jeff by stabbing him in the back. That when Steve had stabbed Jeff in the back, Jeff was screaming and Steve was screaming at Sarah to put a pillow over Jeff's mouth," Franklin told the jury.She said she also overheard Bush refer to "hands in Epping Forest".The court was told about the controlling nature of Marshall's relationship with Bush. The couple had met when Marshall was Bush's client, with him paying her for sex, Matthews said.As the relationship developed Marshall forced Bush to change her name from Sara to Sarah because he did not like the name Sara, she said.Bush had begun to look rough and haggard, which she attributed to the stress of being controlled by Marshall, the court was told.She struggled to see her two daughters, aged four and two, once she was in a relationship with Marshall, the court was told.Marshall had allegedly been violent towards the girls' father, who Bush said had sought an injunction against him, Matthews told the court.When Bush did see her children, she did so without Marshall knowing, she added.Matthews broke down in tears in the witness box as she confirmed that she was frightened of what Marshall might do to her.He disliked her being friends with his girlfriend and had threatened to kill her, the court heard.Marshall denies murder but admits being party to the dismembering and dumping of Howe's body. He blames Bush for the murder and claims she confessed to him that she was the killer. Bush denies all the charges against her.