Police investigating the murder of two Chinese graduates today released CCTV images of one of the victims before the killing.The bodies of Xi Zhou and her boyfriend, Zhen Xing Yang, both 25, were discovered in a flat in Newcastle's West End on Saturday afternoon. The couple had been attacked with a knife and suffered severe head injuries.The CCTV images show Zhou's last known movements. She is seen leaving a Wagamama restaurant in the city centre on Thursday after she finished a waitressing shift. She gets on a bus and travels to the flat in Croydon Road that she shared with Yang. Zhou was last captured on camera a couple of hundred yards from her home. She failed to turn up for her shift on Friday. A friend discovered her body on Saturday afternoon and officers called to the scene found Yang's body in another bedroom. Zhou had been suffocated, while Yang had bruises to his arms that were inflicted up to an hour before his fatal head injuries, possibly while he tried to protect his head.Detective Superintendent Steve Wade, who is leading the murder investigation, said Yang, also known as Kevin, was "subjected to an extensive assault, which has caused very significant bruising to the forearm".Police have yet to establish a motive for the double murder. Links to Triad gangs or drugs have been ruled out. It is thought the couple may have known their killer, or killers, and let them in.It is not yet known which of the victims was killed first. Yang was discovered in nightclothes in the back bedroom, while Zhou was found in the front bedroom in daytime clothes.Wade said an offender profiler was being brought in to help Northumbria police with the investigation. "He will take a look at the sequence of events and give us some assistance into what happened," he said.Police played down reports that a man arrested today in Sheffield for violent burglary may be connected to the murders. Wade said: "At this stage there is no evidence to link it to the murder, but you never say never in this business."Forensic tests are still being carried out at the ground-floor flat in Croydon Road. Officers discovered the body of the couple's black and white cat hidden in a bowl in their bathroom.The cat was found submerged in water and covered with kitchen gloves and a towel. Police said they were consulting Chinese culture experts to identify any significance to the murder victims' pet being killed.Wade paid tribute to the "hard-working, respectable couple", who met at Newcastle University, from where they both graduated with MAs in 2006. After leaving university, Zhou started her waitressing job at Wagamama. Yang's occupation has not yet been established.