A body found in woodland in North Yorkshire is that of the missing Jobcentre worker Joanne Nelson, police confirmed today.Her body was discovered in woods one mile north of the Brandsby, a village near Malton, yesterday. The 22-year-old was reported missing from her home in Hull on Valentine's day, prompting a huge search.Humberside police said the identification was confirmed by her parents, Charlie and Jean, at 2.30pm. They were accompanied by the police family liaison officer. In a statement, the couple thanked police, saying: "We are so relieved to get our darling daughter Joanne back. "We have had so many family and friends help us through this time ... the police have made a fantastic effort. and the family liaison officers have supported us throughout. "We want to say thanks to everyone who called the police to help and everyone else who has been involved in bringing Joanne back to us." Detective Superintendent Ray Higgins, who is leading the murder inquiry, said: "I want to say how relieved I am for the family of Joanne. "I met them last night to tell them what had happened yesterday afternoon. I think I can say that they too are relieved. "There are many other emotions involved, but this is a private time during which the family and their friends must be allowed to come to terms with these events."Earlier today, it was revealed that a postmortem examination had revealed the cause of death to be strangulation. Ms Nelson's body was removed from the scene last night and taken to a mortuary, where the postmortem was carried out by the Home Office pathologist Professor Christopher Milroy today.A Humberside police spokesman said Professor Milroy had concluded that the cause of death was manual strangulation. Ms Nelson's boyfriend, Paul Dyson, 30, of Hotham Road North, Hull, has appeared in court charged with her murder. The body was discovered by Detective Superintendent Higgins and Detective Constable Phil Gadd.Today, the wooded location remained cordoned off while a fingertip search took place.