Police have won anti-social behaviour orders against alleged members of a notorious Manchester gang banning them from wearing body armour or riding bicycles anywhere in the city.If they breach the four-year orders, they could be jailed for up to five years. The orders were imposed by Manchester magistrates court as part of a crackdown on drug and gun crime in the south of the city. The orders were imposed on a 17-year-old from Moss Side, on Jamie Taylor, 28, from Fallowfield, and on 24-year-olds Daniel Gordon, from Stretford, and Christopher Moodie from Hulme. All four have associations with the Gooch Close gang, which has been involved in an ongoing turf war in Moss Side with the rival Pitt Bull gang from neighbouring Longsight. The feud has claimed 26 lives in five years, with a further 200 people injured in shootings. Detectives said the four men had contributed substantially to fear and intimidation in Moss Side and Hulme. The bicycle ban has been brought in because gang members ride around on mountain bikes to carry out drug deals. The four men were among 10 people held last month after police raided homes in the Claremont Road area, targeting heroin and crack dealers. The orders, known as Asbos, aim to restrict their behaviour by imposing sanctions that prohibit their association with gang culture. Christopher Moodie is banned from wearing a balaclava or a bandanna, and was warned to stay away from Meshach Gordon, 21, the Gooch Close gang leader serving nine years for possessing firearms with intent to endanger life. He is also banned from congregating in groups of more than three people. Daniel Gordon was banned from carrying weapons and using threatening, insulting or intimidating language. His solicitor rejected any suggestion that he is a member of a gang. In 2001, four leaders of the Gooch Close gang were jailed for nine years after they were caught by police holding a meeting at a Moss Side house. Several members of the Pitt Bull gang were jailed the following year after a big police operation. But Gooch Close gang members were still active - with its members driving high-performance cars, wearing bulletproof vests and dealing in crack cocaine. Greater Manchester Police's chief constable, Michael Todd, recently admitted gang culture is worse in Manchester than in London. Police patrols were stepped up in Moss Side in August after Justin Maynard, 19, was shot dead. Earlier this month, a college student, Nureni Sheikh, 19, was killed after leaving an engagement party in the area. He was standing on a pavement when two masked gunmen approached and shot him. Chief Inspector John Graves of Greater Manchester Police said: "I have no doubt that these four men have either individually or collectively contributed substantially to the atmosphere of fear and intimidation that exists in our community - their behaviour relates to the most serious, aggravated levels of anti-social behaviour. "As well as using drug enforcement tactics, including arresting drug dealers and implementing new legislation allowing the closure of crack houses, we have also been addressing the levels of serious anti-social behaviour displayed by the criminal minority." He said the orders cannot work without the full support of local communities, who want to make the area a more pleasant place to live. Manchester gangs are typically groups of youths initially associated with each other because they went to the same school, grew up on the same estates and began committing minor crimes at a young age. They then progress to street drug deals and become affiliated to various gangs, gaining street credibility with their peers. An Asbo hearing of three other men has been adjourned until February. Two others will be dealt with later this year.