A promising young architect was stabbed to death in his lunch break when he tried to fight off a mugger who demanded his wallet and mobile phone, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Bernard Hegarty, 29, left work to buy a carpet, but on the way back to his office in Bethnal Green, east London, he was targeted by Christopher Olokun and stabbed through the heart, said John McGuinness QC, prosecuting.Passersby rushed to help Mr Hegarty and began administering first aid, including a postman, Lukman Abdul, who spoke to Mr Hegarty."He was able to tell him he had been stabbed with a knife and that the person who had done it was black rather than white", said Mr McGuinness."Mr Abdul asked whether anything had been taken from him and he said something that sounded like money but was not very clear".Mr Hegarty was taken to hospital but died five days later without regaining consciousness. A Tottenham fan who lived in north London with his parents, Mr Hegarty had been popular with his colleagues and conscientious in his work, said Mr McGuinness.The attack had been one of a string of robberies in the area, with two being carried out just days before Mr Hegarty's murder. The court heard that during his lunch hour on August 11 Mr Hegarty had logged on to football websites and then left the office at 1.26pm.He was attacked as he walked back. The only witness was Karen McKenna, who noticed two men struggling near bins behind some flats."One was Mr Hegarty, the other appeared to be dark skinned," Mr McGuinness told the jury. "From what she could see, the dark skinned man was pulling Mr Hegarty, who was trying to push him away."Ms McKenna did not see a weapon and did not raise the alarm. Mr Hegarty was next seen staggering in the street, covered in blood, by two passersby. As they tried to help him, he said: "I've been mugged," adding, "money, stab and mobile."An air ambulance was called and a doctor performed open chest surgery in the street to restart his pulse. But after a second operation, Mr Hegarty died.Mr Olokun was arrested after a homemade knife sheath was found near drops of the victim's blood. Mr Olokun's DNA was discovered when the sheath was taken apart, it was alleged.The prosecutor said: "Mr Olokun has a propensity to carry knives and this is not the only homemade knife sheath which can be linked to him."Mr McGuinness said Mr Hegarty was "clearly a courageous man" who had fought off a man trying to steal his wallet and mobile phone. "That courage has cost him his life, because the would-be robber turned into a murderer."Mr McGuinness told the jury: "We say that the motive for the attack was robbery. This is supported by what he himself said at the scene before he lost consciousness and by the odd position of his wallet in his trouser pocket."The robber appears to have been after money and his mobile. Although neither was taken, the crown is not able to say whether or not the robber might have got away with some cash. Any other motive for the attack is improbable."Mr Olokun, 31, of no fixed abode, denies murder, attempted robbery, and seven further counts of robbery.The case continues.