Senior police officers warned last night that the snap 12-hour strike by prison officers which led to chaotic scenes across the country yesterday could have serious implications for maintaining order both inside jails and on the streets. Leaders of other public sector unions claimed that the strike could be the start of a series of bruising clashes between the public sector and the government.After tense discussions throughout the day the Prison Officers Association executive relented, telling its members to return to work immediately in an announcement just after 7pm yesterday.But that was not before a chaotic day in which up to 900 people sentenced to jail or remanded by courts were turned away from prisons and the government said the action over a pay dispute could have already led to the death of an inmate.Earlier, the Prison Service was granted an injunction to force the officers back to work, but staff at many jails defied it. The action appeared to bring swift results when the POA said it had been offered "meaningful talks" with the government.The POA chairman, Colin Moses, said last night: "The executive has decided in the light of the offer of meaningful discussions regarding the staging of pay, to lead our members back to work, irrespective of the threat of an injunction."John Hancock, POA branch secretary for Wormwood Scrubs in London, told prison officers at the jail: "You stood together today, we've won the day we feel."Facing his first major test as justice secretary, Jack Straw condemned the action which started unannounced at 7am. His ministry went to the high court to argue that the union, which lost the right to strike under the Conservative government in 1994, was breaking the law.As the negotiations - scheduled for Friday - were announced yesterday evening and prison officers began to return to work, Mr Straw criticised the "shotgun" strike and said the only way to solve the matter was by negotiation across a table.Steve Gough, vice-chairman of the POA, said the government did not serve the court injunction on the union and said the action was only called off because of the offer of peace talks. "The response from our members today was overwhelming," he said.As the strike gripped most of the 131 prisons in England and Wales, prisoners in Liverpool took briefly to the roof and POA members broke their strike temporarily to return them to their cells. In Cardiff inmates taunted officers by chanting "you're breaking the law". The fire brigade were called to Birmingham prison to deal with two minor fires. Although officers at Long Lartin, in Worcestershire, Bristol and Canterbury heeded the court order to return to work, others ignored it.Senior police officers did little to disguise their dismay with the 34,000-strong POA, which was staging the first national walkout in its 68-year history, and warned of the dangers of further walkouts."It is a matter of great regret that no advance warning was given to us which would have allowed time to better contain the risks to public safety and security," said Ken Jones, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers. "If this dispute continues, there will be consequences for the police service and the neighbourhoods they serve; chief officers will be obliged to divert staff away from core police work. We would ask that those involved in leading the dispute bear such consequences in mind."In the high court, Bruce Carr, counsel for the Ministry of Justice, told Mr Justice Ramsey that reports had been received "of one death in custody at one establishment where the now deceased prisoner was unlocked nearly two hours later than would have been the case if staff had been present. We don't know whether, if staff had unlocked at the normal time, that prisoner would still be alive." While emphasising that no "causative link" had been established between that incident, at Acklington prison in Northumberland, and the strike, the mention of the death in court is bound to heighten tensions.Charles Bushell, general secretary of the Prison Governors Association, whose members had to staff the jails yesterday, praised the prisoners for not taking advantage of the situation. "You could say they are the one group who have behaved impeccably," he said. As prisoners were kept locked up all day and visits and court appearances cancelled, probation officers arriving at jails found themselves unable to see inmates.Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, said disputes could spread to other public sector unions. The TUC's conference in Brighton next month will debate a motion from the Public and Commercial Services union which warns of "industrial action, if necessary" if the effective "pay freeze" is not addressed. "There has been simmering discontent for years," said Mr Fletcher. "There is a real chance that it will spread beyond the prisons to other public sector unions."Significantly, the strike, over the terms of a 2.5% pay deal, won support from elsewhere in the labour movement. Mark Serwotka, general secretary of the PCS, said: "Below-inflation pay awards leading to pay cuts in real terms are completely unacceptable and is a problem that PCS members delivering vital public services also face."