The commissioner of the Metropolitan police has admitted for the first time that failures in the preparation of the Damilola Taylor murder case may have hindered the chances of securing convictions at court.Sir John Stevens said that the Met had been forced to divert detectives from the inquiry once the four boys who eventually faced trial had been charged because the murder squads were so under-staffed. He believed this may have affected the quality of the police's preparatory work. "A large number of murders at that stage meant that resources may have gone elsewhere," Sir John told the Guardian. "Whether we pushed enough resources into the inquiry after the arrest is an issue that we are looking at. "We have to look at every single aspect, and ask whether we could have done things better. If mistakes have been made we need to ensure we learn from them." Sir John said that an example of the shortcomings was the failure of the police to provide convincing counter-arguments to a key element of the defence case. Detectives knew months before the trial that a mobile phone owned by one of the defendant's had been used nearly two miles from where Damilola was stabbed, no more than seven minutes after he suffered the fatal injury. Yet the police did not provide any evidence to show how the boys could have got from A to B in such a short space of time. "We didn't show how they could have got there," said Sir John. At the time, the Met's murder squads were under strength by between 400 and 600 officers, which had meant that the massive inquiry which was conducted before the arrests could not be maintained once the boys had been charged, he added. Sir John said that 20 years ago "you arrested people, charged them, got the case prepared and waited for the trial". But the analysis of forensic evidence, and the police's obligation to disclose documents, meant that preparatory work now needed to be much more rigorous, and had to continue right up to trial. He stressed this was a matter for the police, and that he was not criticising the work of the crown prosecution service. The lack of resources was an issue that had to be addressed, he said. "My feeling is that this is an area that needs to be looked at, and not just in the Damilola case." All four defendants accused of murdering the 10-year-old boy were acquitted during a trial that ended in April. Two reviews were launched in the aftermath of the trial. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, asked the director of public prosecutions, Sir David Calvert Smith, to assess the CPS performance. A draft report has already been completed. A review of the police investigation, chaired by the Bishop of Stepney, John Sentamu, is under way but is not expected to be published until the end of the year. The bishop was one of three advisers to Sir William Macpherson in his inquiry into the flawed investigation into the Stephen Lawrence murder. In the Damilola trial, the key prosecution witness, a 14-year-old girl known as Bromley, was cross-examined by four defence barristers over several days. The DPP is likely to recommend that the CPS should be allowed independently to assess police witnesses in future cases. Sir John said yesterday that he fully supported the idea, insisting there "has to be assessment by lawyers".