A footballer began life imprisonment today for his part in a wave of "tit-for-tat" shootings on the Stonebridge Park estate in north-west London, where "the law of the jungle" had held sway, a court heard.Gavin Grant, 26, who was still listed as a midfield player on Bradford City's website today, was one of three men given minimum 25-year terms for their involvement in the death of Leon Labastide, 21, who was gunned down outside his parents' home in January 2004. Detectives believe the murder led to up to 30 further shootings.Grant also played as a striker during a career which took in three other Football League clubs, Gillingham, Millwall and Wycombe Wanderers. He was cleared in 2007 of another murder during the violence which followed the death of Labastide.A charge that Grant, of Kenton, north London, had committed perjury at his trial for murdering Jahmall Moore, 22, in January 2005 was allowed to lie on file.Gareth Downie, 25, from Birmingham, received a similar term for murder, as did Damien Williams, 32, of Southwark, south London, for conspiracy to murder. Grant was said by Bradford to be playing on a non-contractual, unsalaried basis "as he looks to work his way back into football". As he was sentenced at the Old Bailey, London, a woman shouted from the public gallery: "It's all fixed" and "You are coming out".The recorder of London, Judge Peter Beaumont, said Labastide's murder had been revenge for a series of "tit-for-tat" shootings and that he had been "executed".During the trial, prosecutor Stephen Batten QC told the jury that many people involved in the case had been linked to shootings and drug dealing on the estate. "Attitudes and standards are different," he said. "It is more the law of the jungle than the law of civilised England. You will hear about and see people whose behaviour will probably disgust you and make you wonder if there is any hope for the human race."The court was told Labastide's killing led to the second murder. Grant denied involvement, saying Labastide was a friend.Detectives with Operation Trident, the unit set up to deal with gun crime in London's black communities, believe that the fallout included up to 30 connected shooting incidents in the area. Following the arrests of Grant and others, shootings in the area fell by almost half. Detective inspector Steve Horsley said Grant had thought he "had got away with murder", adding: "He carried on his footballing career while, all along, he had blood on his hands."Roberto Parchment, 24, originally convicted of Moore's murder, was found guilty again following a retrial in December brought about by the involvement of a supergrass, Darren Mathurin, the first used by Operation Trident. He was jailed for life again and ordered to serve the remainder of his 28-year sentence. However, Romain Whyte, 25, who had previously been convicted of conspiracy to murder, was cleared by a 10-2 majority verdict. In the same trial, the jury failed to reach verdicts on Grant, Williams and Downie for the Labastide shooting.Mathurin, 28, a former drugs dealer who made £1,500 a week, was not called to give evidence during the three men's retrial.Mathurin's life sentence with a minimum term of 16 years for conspiring to murder Moore was reduced to a straight eight-year sentence in 2008. He admitted conspiracy to murder another man, Sean Cephanis, and other offences, and was given a concurrent sentence. He will be eligible for parole after serving four years.The jury in the retrial of Grant, Downie and Williams heard that trouble started with a burglary at the home of Whyte when three women were terrorised and it was suspected that £20,000 in drug money was taken. A 16-year-old girl, who had been in the house, gave evidence under an assumed name. It was rumoured that Labastide was behind the burglary, and Williams arranged for Grant and Downie to shoot him, it was alleged.In the spate of shooting incidents which followed, Moore was gunned down by Parchment in mistake for Cephanis. Grant told the court he was not involved in the shooting and said he had been set up.Labastide's mother, Diane Havill, said in a statement: "His senseless killing by so-called friends who grew up with him has left it hard for me to understand the futility of snatching Leon's future whilst, in the same breath, destroying their own."