The chances of ex-offenders staying clear of crime are improved by employment. So it makes sense to find a senior Home Office official on secondment to The Prince's Trust, the charity that specialises in getting young people into work. More surprising is that Mike Ainsworth, who has almost 20 years' experience in the prison service, once had a rather different career path in mind. "I was working as a dancer - a failing dancer," he says, "and I went for a careers interview where they tell you what you're capable of doing. What came out was prison officer." Candidly, he adds: "I had no interest in the area, but as a job it paid pretty well." Ainsworth heads the trust's offenders' initiative. He went to the charity initially for just six months, but has been there some two-and-a-half years, working on plans to replicate the success of the trust's job placement scheme at Hollesley Bay prison, Suffolk. Governors' attitudes to such matters have changed markedly over the past five years, says Ainsworth, 44-year-old former deputy governor of Holloway women's prison in north London. "They used to think that when a prisoner was discharged, they'd finished their job," he says. "Now they recognise they need to be part of the rehabilitation process. However, a lot of the good work I've seen done with prisoners was lost when they left because there were no effective bridges between prison and the outside world." A Prince's Trust course designed to act as that bridge was recently launched by Prince Charles at Reading prison, where it has been piloted. Ainsworth has nurtured the course's development, but credits Reading prison officers Dave Allison and Dave Streeton with the idea. The course is a truncated version of the trust's popular, 12-week volunteer programme that each year helps some 8,000 mainly unemployed, 16- to 25-year-olds to build confidence, motivation and skills though teamwork in the community. The shorter, two-week model combines the essential elements of the programme, including a short residential stay outside prison. Young offenders made up one-in-six participants on the traditional programme in 2001-2. A few were on day release, others had left prison; three out of four four went on to education, training or employment. However, many prisoners who while inside showed a willingness to attend the course never showed up - hence the need for a prison-based version. "A minimum aim is that when they are released, the participants have the ability to operate as part of a team, have an action plan that lays out for them routes to employment and the name of a Prince's Trust contact in their area," says Ainsworth. Initial results from the Reading pilot are fairly positive. Of the 40 18- to 21-year-olds who took part, 15 have found jobs and five have gone on to the trust's 12-week programme. But 13 are still in custody and the trust has lost contact with another seven. Pilots have been conducted at two young offender institutions - Portland, in Dorset, and Stoke Heath, Shropshire - but it is too early to assess the impact. According to Home Office figures, 92% of under-21s who serve a short custodial sentence are reconvicted within two years. It might be argued that participation in a Prince's Trust-type course should be a mandatory part of a community sentence. But Ainsworth is adamant that the trust's work must not be seen as part of the criminal justice system. "A magistrate did mistakenly sentence someone to a Prince's Trust course recently," he reveals. "But it would be difficult to sustain the mix of people on our programme if that was the case." And Ainsworth is realistic about the impact that the trust can have on reoffending rates. "Look at the reasons why people reoffend within 24 or 48 hours of discharge," he says. "You go off to the railway station with a £94 [homeless] discharge grant in your back pocket and, if you're very lucky, a white plastic bag with 'HM prison service' stamped all over it. You probably won't have a job to go to and maybe won't even have accommodation. "Other problems will be waiting for you at the end of the platform. If you're a man, there will be a dealer happy to relieve you of your £94 and help you forget you don't know what's at the end of the railway line. If you're a woman, you'll have a dealer and probably a pimp waiting for you." "Our 12-week development course is really good, but you probably need somewhere to sleep tonight before you can think of that. So we need to work in partnership with other agencies to find people housing, help to get them off drugs and move them into employment." The trust is working with voluntary organisations such as the Amber Foundation to help find appropriate accommodation for young ex-offenders, and Sova, to run a mentoring scheme. Ainsworth has nothing but praise for the work of the voluntary sector. "They put clients first. It can take risks in the way the prison service can't, and has the flexibility and freedom to say if something isn't working and to try a different tack and approach. In contrast, the government is a bigger ship to turn around - and doesn't move easily."