The Newcastle United footballer Joey Barton today pleaded guilty to assaulting a former team-mate in a training ground row. The 25-year-old midfielder was a Manchester City player when he attacked colleague Ousmane Dabo last May.Barton had been due to stand trial at Manchester Minshull crown court on one charge of assault occasioning actual bodily harm. However, the player - who has been capped once by England - changed his not guilty plea shortly before the scheduled start of the hearing. Barton, whose victim was in court to hear him plead guilty, is due to be sentenced tomorrow morning. He is currently serving a six-month jail term for an attack in Liverpool at Christmas.At Minshull crown court today, prosecutor Richard Vardon outlined Barton's attack on Dabo. He described the incident as an "explosive combination of football and violence" in which the pair had squared up to each other.Dabo was said to have felt intimidated when Barton had invaded his personal space as he shouted and swore at him. The Frenchman pushed the midfielder's shoulder with both hands and in retaliation Barton punched him to the ground. Vardon said several witnesses claimed Barton then continued to punch Dabo while he lay in a dazed state.His victim was treated in hospital for the effects of head trauma, an inflamed eye and bruised eyelids following the attack. Vardon said: "He [Dabo] said he was genuinely scared that his eye was going to be permanently damaged so that he could not play football and there was a risk to his career." He went on: "He [Barton] has never apologised or sent any messages of apology."Since bursting on to the Premier League scene in April 2003, Barton has made headlines both on and off the pitch. In April 2004, he stormed out of Manchester City's ground before kick-off after being dropped from the side to face Southampton. He broke the leg of a 35-year-old pedestrian while driving his car in Liverpool city centre at 2am in May 2005. In March last year, he was arrested on suspicion of assault and criminal damage in an incident involving a taxi driver.Barton was sold by City to Newcastle for £5.8m soon after assaulting Dabo. He is understood to have changed his not guilty plea today, after Judge Mushtaq Khokhar indicated he would impose a suspended sentence for the assault. Dabo, 31, now plays for the Rome side Lazio.