The definition of domestic violence will be amended from March with two important changes: the inclusion of coercive behaviour and the recognition of 16- and 17-year-olds as victims of abuse.These amendments, although they are not a change in criminal law – as many have assumed - are broadly welcomed. By highlighting coercive control, there is now a clearer focus on patterns of controlling behaviour rather than individual incidents.The inclusion of 16- and 17-year-olds is a much-needed development given that 40% of teenagers report abusive intimate relationships and that, according to the Crime Survey for England and Wales, those aged between 16 and 24 are the most at risk of domestic violence of any age group. Hopefully their inclusion will send a strong message to services and young people that their experiences are valid and that they need and deserve support. Young people aged 16 and over are able to get married and may well be parents themselves, yet until now their experiences of abuse have not been officially recognised.However, we must not assume that by changing the definition of domestic violence it will automatically increase their safety. In the last two years, 31% of funding to the domestic and sexual abuse sector has been cut leaving valuable services over-stretched and under-resourced. Many of these services are designed to suit the needs of adults rather than young people and may not be able to respond to any increased demand for support. Young people also have the additional barrier of not always being able to hold tenancies or access housing benefit. At present, an average of 230 women a day are turned away by Women's Aid (representing 9% of those seeking refuge) due to a lack of space. Even if a young woman were able to secure a place, she may not be eligible for housing benefit to to cover the cost of her staying there.Historically many young people have fallen through the gaps between children's services and domestic violence services. It is vital that national guidance is developed to establish who is responsible for responding to young people affected by abuse and that services are supported to deal with the rise in referrals. What would be devastating is if the outcome were simply an increase in the eligibility threshold, once again resulting in young people falling through the gaps.Recent analysis of the Home Office This is Abuse campaign aimed at young people has shown that thousands of young people are experiencing horrific forms of abuse and yet do not always recognise they are being abused, due to a normalisation and worrying acceptability of abuse in society, and especially in their age group. There is also a concerning lack of understanding about what is sexual consent.If the government is serious about protecting and supporting young people at risk, it must do more than announce an amended definition for domestic violence. It must provide appropriate training for practitioners and direct schools to provide sex and relationship education that focuses on equipping young people with an understanding of healthy relationships, consent and how to access help.