If Hollywood were to make a machine that fashioned judges, the result would probably be something like Constance Briscoe. A beautiful advocate who chases her racial abuser and corners him until he surrenders to police. A tattooed mother of two who races motorbikes in her spare time. A tragic abuse victim who rose above adversity to write a bestselling memoir.Briscoe, one of the UK's very few black judges (the eighth appointed, she tells me), is all of these things and more. This week, she earned the approbation of middle England when that racial abuser, the unfortunately named Lee Death, was fined and ordered to carry out 100 hours' unpaid work for calling her a "fucking wog" and a "black cunt" as she stopped her car to let him cross the road last year.She doggedly pursued Death down Fleet Street, near the high court in London, and identified him to police in a bar called The Alibi - leaving him with none. The media were impressed: imagine, a judge who actually catches criminals. "I stopped my car to let Death, and about five others who were with him, cross the road," Briscoe recalls. "Then he called me an effing wog and a black c... [she doesn't say the word], and I just thought that this man had an issue with me because of my colour, and I was not going to let that situation develop. So I called the police."Death and his group tried to get into a taxi but Briscoe pulled up next to it and tapped on the window. "I told the cabbie that that man had racially abused me and the police were on their way to arrest him," she says. Death ran away and Briscoe abandoned her car to give chase.Did she tell the police she was a judge? "Good heavens, no," she says. "I was very impressed with the police. They were there in five minutes. Afterwards, in an interview room, an inspector came in and said he was sorry I had been subjected to such abuse. They were marvellous."But why did she pursue her abuser? "Well, I just thought it was the right thing to do," she says. "I have a mixed-race son, Martin, who is 19 and at university, and a mixed-race daughter, Francesca, who is 17 [both from a previous relationship. Her partner now is Anthony Arlidge, a QC], and I wondered what could have happened if they had been abused. They could so easily react in the wrong way and get involved in a confrontation."I wanted them to know that the way to deal with it isn't to get involved, but simply to call the police and let them deal with it. And so that's what I did."The week before Death was sentenced, Briscoe was in the papers for a different reason. Her 73-year-old mother, Carmen, was suing Constance over allegations of childhood abuse made in her memoir of her childhood, Ugly. But Briscoe is unabashed. "I have a letter my mother wrote to a solicitor in which she says her biggest regret in life was that I didn't die at birth," she says. "No, I have no regrets about writing the book."Briscoe was born 49 years ago in south London. She does not remember her mother, who was originally from Jamaica, ever having a job, and her father, George, also from Jamaica, gave up whatever work he did after twice winning the pools. "He bought houses and had lots of tenants," she recalls. "Whatever he won, it was enough never to have to take a proper job again."But money did not buy happiness - not for Constance, at least. In Ugly, she describes how her mother abandoned her at 14, along with her sisters, Patsy and Pauline, and how she, Constance, had to take on cleaning jobs before and after school in order to survive. Briscoe has three natural sisters, two natural brothers, three half-sisters, a half-brother and an adopted sister. The remainder went with her mother."I say that I was beaten and abused by my mother," she recalls. And here the tears begin. "My mother had a problem with me because I wet the bed as a child. She singled me out." Briscoe describes the abuse she suffered, showing me scars on her face, arm and hand as she relates each example. "She cut my arm when I failed to pluck a chicken properly, she crushed a toy aeroplane into my face, and here, you can see where [her stepfather] stubbed out a cigarette on my hand. My mother twisted my nipples so hard that I later had to have lumps removed from my breasts."She says her mother called her Clare, a play on the word "clear". "She said I was transparent. She could see straight through me."One of the claims in her book was that when she came home one day with school photographs, her mother refused to buy them because Briscoe was so ugly. "She said my nose was too wide and I had plunger lips." Could that have been a joke? "A joke?" she asks. "A joke? Sure, maybe." Again, she begins to cry.One reviewer doubted the veracity of her recall of this incident from so long ago (about 1966). But surely this is a moment that would be etched on a child's mind? The photographs were sent back.It isn't clear which of her siblings and half-siblings may line up with or against her in any litigation, but she stands by her story - saying she has since found out that other sisters were "required" to leave her mother's home at 14.Briscoe herself left home in 1979. In spite, she says, of her mother's objections ("only clever people go to university"), she secured a place studying law at Newcastle and was called to the Bar in 1983. For eight weeks of the year, she sits as a crown court recorder. The rest of the time she sits on mental health tribunals and inquests and is a criminal barrister specialising in rather nasty cases: "Sex offences, murder, firearms".We meet at her chambers in Bell Yard, a stone's throw from the high court. She is wearing a charcoal frock-coat, a long black skirt and a blue-ish jumper that matches blue streaks in her black hair. She is, she says, a very private person. But there are contradictions: an autobiographical sequel, Beyond Ugly, and an unnamed third memoir are completed and with the publisher. What drove her to write about these painful episodes?"Ultimately, I wanted the book [Ugly] to be uplifting," she says. "I wanted to encourage people who have been abused in any way not to remain silent about it, not to hold a bond of silence with their abuser."But whatever bond there was with her mother has been sundered. "I had hoped there might be some sort of reconciliation," she says, "but not while my mother is in such a state of denial."Despite the tears, there is fire and steel in Briscoe, and no room for regret or bitterness. She speaks at a thousand miles an hour, sometimes laughing with a girlish, slightly unnerving quality. She doesn't fit any stereotype of victim, either of emotional abuse or of racism."I don't see myself as a role model. I don't feel I deserve that. I wouldn't put myself up as an example to my children. I didn't become a barrister because I wanted to become a role model for others. I did it because I wanted to be a barrister. And that's it, really."In her spare time, she enjoys riding motorbikes and restoring Morris Minors. She and her previous partner had a Ducatti and a Honda they used to race at Brands Hatch. "I hate to admit it," she laughs, "but we even had a little motorbike built for the children."Briscoe says she is content with her life now. "I don't want to be seen as a victim. I want people to know that you can put bad things behind you and recover. Storing them up and letting them hold you back is wrong. You have to overcome them and move on."She has encountered no snobbery in the legal profession, and she enjoys her role as something of a judicial oddity, telling a tale of an open day at court when a young boy was most impressed by her blue streaks, the bows on her shoes and the red rose tattooed above her right ankle. "His mother told me that I had done more than anyone to encourage her son to become a lawyer!"A role model, after all, then. One with a tattoo on her ankle.Constance sorrowAn excerpt from Constance Briscoe's Ugly: The True Story of a Loveless Childhood The first time I was locked in the cellar, my mother had asked me to go down and get some potatoes. She gave me a pot to put them in. Taking the pot, I approached the cellar door, pulled back the bolt, turned the light on and went carefully down the flight of stairs to the bottom, holding on to the side of the wall. The sack of potatoes was at the far end of the cellar, together with other household rubbish. I collected about 10 potatoes in the pot and turned round to make my way back. When I was in the middle of the cellar I saw my mother's legs at the top of the stairs. She suddenly flicked the light switch off then moved backwards and the door to the cellar swung shut as I ran up the stairs. I heard the bolt slide home. I asked her to let me out, but she just walked away. I hadn't done anything wrong that I knew of. I started crying. In a panic I banged on the door and she shouted, "If you know what's good for you, you will shut the fuck up."· Ugly is published by Hodder & Stoughton on Nov 2 at £6.99. To order a copy for £6.99 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0870 836 0875