Invited by BBC2's Newsnight last Friday for a discussion about the rioting, I was looking forward to an interesting debate. Fellow guests were Owen Jones, whose recent book on the white working class was widely admired, and historian David Starkey, whose perspective should have been a plus.But, instead of that debate, the viewers were treated to Starkey's random and confused thoughts on British youth culture. It appears the problem is that white youngsters have turned "black", while articulate black men like David Lammy MP sound "white". Enoch Powell was in there, of course, as was our old friend gangsta rap. Social nihilism? Hands up, black folks, that's you he's talking about. And it was all larded up with the need for "plain speaking".It is, as anyone who's tried it will know, very difficult to argue with crass stupidity. What do you make of someone who thinks using "Jamaican" slang encourages youth to torch buildings? You may as well argue that speaking with an upper-class accent encourages people to hunt foxes. The host, Emily Maitlis, Jones and I had a go at challenging Starkey's views. But it's difficult to challenge someone who offers you no evidence apart from someone's text message and a spell teaching in Jamie Oliver's Dream School.As a former teacher I was tempted to suggest that Starkey go out into the corridor and think about what he'd said. Do intelligent and well-educated people in Britain really believe this nonsense? Are the debates about "race" and criminality that were supposed to have been fought and won decades ago going to have to be rehashed? Do we really need to compare gangsta rap with other forms of "outlaw" music, like country and western? Again?Mercifully the response to Starkey's remarks was overwhelmingly negative. I've been bombarded with emails and tweets from across the globe, 99% of which found him either ludicrous or comical. One tweeter was reminded of the 1970s character Eddie Booth from Love Thy Neighbour, the British sitcom. If this reaction was representative, at least the riots haven't left us back in an ethnic year zero. Some wondered why I hadn't become annoyed, but it's difficult to get annoyed by this kind of tired, crude stereotyping you've been hearing since you were a kid.The fallout from the riots has revealed a deep sense among many people that Britain is suffering from a profound political, economic, cultural and spiritual malaise. People want answers, and central to that is a frank debate about where we are and what we can do about it. Attempts to dismiss the search for reasons for the rioting as excusing violence is like dismissing a GP's warnings about smoking as excusing early deaths.But the central problem with Starkey's comments is that they were based on complete ignorance about the social dynamics of urban life in Britain. After the Newsnight broadcast he told me that I should listen to his views, but I suspect mine are more valid. I've lived it and he hasn't. Of course Starkey isn't alone in that. Too much comment on the disorder came from people peering into our urban goldfish bowl, cobbling together some anecdotes and golf-club chatter and then peddling it back as analysis. What we need is informed and articulate comment (even in Jamaican slang) from people who've lived life on the streets where the disorder happened.We also need informed comment about the rioting against Henry VIII. Was it primarily motivated by economic or religious grievances? And on that, if nothing else, I'm looking forward to hearing David Starkey's views.