Another crime was committed in Whitechapel early yesterday morning which is even more revolting than that which was discovered recently in the same district of London. As Constable John Neill was walking down Buck’s Row, Thomas-street, Whitechapel, about a quarter to four o’clock yesterday morning he discovered a woman between 35 and 40 years of age lying at the side of the street with her throat cut from ear to ear. This wound was about two inches wide, and the woman was lying in a pool of blood.She was conveyed to the Whitechapel Mortuary, when it was found that, besides the wound in the throat, the lower part of her body was shockingly mutilated, the injuries having apparently been effected with a large knife. The victim is a woman 5ft. 2in. in height. The hands are bruised and bear evidence of having engaged in a severe struggle. There is the impression of a ring having been worn on one of the deceased’s fingers, but there is nothing to show that it had been wrenched from her in a struggle. Some of the front teeth have been knocked out, and the face is bruised on both cheeks, and very much discoloured. The deceased wore a rough brown ulster with large buttons in front. Her clothes are torn and cut up in several places, bearing evidence of the ferocity with which the murder was committed. The only way by which the police can prosecute an inquiry at present is by finding someone who can identify the deceased, and then, if possible, trace those in whose company she was when last seen. In Buck’s Row the greatest excitement prevailed yesterday, and several persons in the neighbourhood stated that an affray occurred shortly after midnight, but no screams were heard, nor was anything noticed beyond what might have been considered evidence of an ordinary brawl. When the body was searched a comb and a piece of soap were found in one of the woman’s pockets, and the only clue as to her previous place of abode was found on her garments, one of which showed that she had, at some time or other, been a workhouse inmate.Mary Ann Nichols was the first victim of Jack the Ripper.