Individual company directors will escape prosecution and imprisonment under legislation to strengthen the offence of corporate manslaughter, the home secretary, David Blunkett, disclosed yesterday.Details given by him confirmed that companies would face unlimited fines if they are found guilty of the new offence of corporate killing. A draft bill is to be published, with legislation expected in the autumn. Mr Blunkett said: "There is public concern at the criminal law's lack of success in convicting companies of manslaughter where a death has occurred due to gross negligence by the organisation. "The law needs to be clear and effective in order to secure public confidence and must bite properly on corporations whose failure to set or maintain standards causes a death." A Home Office spokesman confirmed that individual directors would not be targeted by the proposals. The decision was welcomed by the Confederation of British Industry, which praised Mr Blunkett's approach. Michael Roberts of the CBI said: "Good health and safety practices comes from shared responsibility across the workforce, not from trying to blame individuals unfairly." The Labour MP Andrew Dismore, who has campaigned for a law on corporate killing since representing victims of the King's Cross tube fire of 1987, said individual directors should face prosecution: "If you can prosecute individual directors, which you can, for breaches of company law by a company, or for cooking the books or whatever, I fail to see why you can't prosecute them if they kill somebody." Ruth Lea of the Institute of Directors agreed, arguing that if an individual manager was individually responsible for recklessness that led to a death, they should have the book thrown at them. The bill will have to address crown immunity, which prevents prosecutions in the public sector. The health and safety executive believes about 600 members of the public die each year in incidents. The promise to strengthen the law was made in Labour's 1997 manifesto and repeated in that of 2001. Mr Blunkett made his announcement this week in the face of amendments to the criminal justice bill demanding immediate action, backed by more than 80 Labour MPs.