Police today appealed for help to find two men who attacked a young mother and tied her hands together, leaving her and her four-month-old baby trapped in a fire at their home on Sunday night.Danielle Wails, 21, escaped from the blaze, but her son died later in hospital. Detectives hunting the attackers believe they deliberately set the house on fire.Detective Superintendent Barbara Franklin, of Northumbria police, said Ms Wails and her son, Alexander Gallon, had been at home alone in Cowgate, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, on Sunday night. The front door of their house had been left open, which was "the norm".Two men wearing black entered the house and attacked Ms Wails in the kitchen, knocking her unconscious. They tied her hands in front of her with telephone cord and dragged her into the living room, where Alexander was asleep on a sofa.When Ms Wails regained consciousness, she was aware of smoke in the room. Another sofa in the middle of the room, between her and Alexander, was on fire. Neighbours tried to get into the house when they heard her screaming for help through the letterbox. She managed to dial 999 with her tongue, and emergency services were immediately called to the scene. Firefighters rescued Alexander from the fire, but he died later in Newcastle general hospital."It is difficult to comprehend the wickedness of someone who could do such a thing, and we appeal for the public to come forward and help us," DS Franklin said. "This is a horrific incident which has left a baby dead and a young mum injured."She said there was "no way" the two men could have been unaware that Alexander was in the room, because he was crying when Ms Wails was attacked. No motive for the attack has yet been established.DS Franklin said it was too early in the murder investigation to say whether Alexander had died in the fire or by any other means. A postmortem examination on his body is due to be carried out today. She said Ms Wails was not a victim of domestic violence.Ms Wails was treated for minor head injuries and bruising to her wrists, but was discharged from hospital today. She is staying with relatives, and was said to be "distressed and shocked".The two-bedroom house in Cowgate was leased by a charity which helps vulnerable young mothers. The organisation, St Cuthberts Care, teaches young mothers better parenting skills. Anyone with any information about the case should contact the incident room on 0191 2146555 ext 65208.