Two independent investigations are under way into the murder of an innocent man who was beaten and burned to death after vigilante neighbours mistook him for a paedophile.Bijan Ebrahimi, 44, had taken a series of photographs of local youths attacking his hanging baskets and intended to hand the images to police as evidence.But someone saw him with the camera and told police that Ebrahimi, who was registered disabled and couldn't work, had taken pictures of children.Officers took him away for questioning and as Ebrahimi left his council maisonette in Bristol residents began chanting: "Paedo, paedo".He was quizzed at a police station but officers soon realised he was blameless and released him. By then rumours had begun circulating in the Brislington area that he was a child abuser and two days later he was murdered.A neighbour, Lee James, 24, beat Ebrahim unconscious and then with the help of his friend Stephen Norley, also 24, dragged him into the street. He was doused with white spirits and set on fire.James pleaded guilty to murder and Norley admitted assisting an offender. They will be sentenced at Bristol crown court next month.The Independent Police Complaints Commission is examining how officers dealt with Ebrahimi before his death.Last month the IPCC said it had served notices of gross misconduct to three police constables who had dealings with the murdered man. They have been suspended by Avon and Somerset police.An inspector, sergeant and constable who dealt with Ebrahimi while he was in custody have also been served with notices of gross misconduct.Bristol city council has launched its own voluntary review of any contact it had with the victim.Speaking after the hearing, an Avon and Somerset police spokesman emphasised Ebrahimi was innocent. He said: "Mr Ebrahimi was arrested on suspicion of a public order offence – breach of the peace – and after being interviewed he was released with no further action taken."We can categorically state he had not taken any indecent images and that nothing of concern had been found on his computer."In a family statement his relatives said Ebrahimi was a "loving and caring man" who lived for his garden.They said: "Bijan was a quiet, disabled man whose only joys in life came from his horticultural interests and his cat. Bijan was a caring, loving and unselfish man. He was an excellent uncle and a warm, supportive brother."Ebrahimi was arrested and released on Friday 12 July and was killed in the early hours of Sunday 14 July.One resident, who wanted to remain anonymous, said: "On the Thursday evening everyone came out and they were calling him a paedophile. There were about 20 people out there all having a say. They had him down as a 100% paedophile. When the police took him away everyone was cheering. Then he got released back into that."Another resident added: "Whoever started those rumours now has to live with that. He wasn't a paedophile and he's now dead. That's a hell of a conscience to have."Neighbours spoke of Ebrahimi's passion for the flowers and plants he grew in front of his maisonette. But after youngsters started destroying his beloved garden he began taking pictures to hand over to the council and the police.