A woman was jailed for five years today for using the "date rape" drug Rohypnol to knock out a wealthy banker and a film director and steal thousands of pounds worth of goods from their luxury flats.Selina Hakki, 37, was jailed at London's Middlesex Guildhall crown court for using the drug to steal property worth £20,000 from her two victims. Police said she was the first woman to be convicted of using the powerful sedative on men and that there may have been "many more victims".The court had heard how Hakki targeted the men at plush London nightspots and encouraged them to take her back to their homes. She then spiked their drinks, using red wine to conceal the sedative's bright blue dye, before suggesting they retire to bed. Once her victims fell unconscious she helped herself to designer clothes, watches, clocks and cash. Police said that her victims could have died if they had developed an allergic reaction to the drug.Guyana-born Hakki, of Bow, east London, was convicted in December of two counts of causing the Rohypnol to be taken, and two of theft between May 2002 and August the following year.Police said the timescale convinced them there may have been more victims and that four other men reported being drugged and robbed but decided they did not want to go to court. The police and Judge Henry Blacksell praised the two victims who did give evidence: film director Alexander Jovy, 34, and city banker Volker Vogler, 38. Judge Blacksell told Hakki that it was clear what she did to her victims had a "traumatic" effect on them and that they had been required to then give evidence in the "full glare of publicity"."They were left senseless. It is no thanks to you they did not suffer any physical long-term effects. Certainly they did mentally, with the added problem of the loss of their property," the judge said. Outside court, Detective Inspector Paul Healy said the five-year jail sentence reflected the seriousness of what she had done. "We have linked her by forensic evidence to six crimes like this that we are aware of. They have been going on over a long period of time. "I would like to thank the two people that did come forward. By giving evidence they have secured convictions against her and taken her off the streets."The court had heard how in September last year, Mr Jovy met Hakki in the Aura nightclub in Piccadilly, in central London.Mr Jovy told the court he recalled little of the club but he had a memory of heading back to his flat in Maida Vale, west London, with Hakki in a taxi. He poured two glasses of red wine and went into the bathroom. After he returned, Hakki suggested going to the bedroom, but he collapsed as he got up.Mr Jovy, who received an Oscar nomination in 1998 for his film Holiday Romance, said: "I remember that very clearly. I just collapsed on the floor. I remember the glass of wine breaking. I was very confused."When he awoke he found that a Cartier clock, a backpack and video camera had been taken, along with a £5,000 Rolex watch that his late father had given him as a 21st birthday present.After he went to the police, samples of his blood and urine were taken and found to contain traces of Rohypnol. Hakki's DNA was later discovered on cigarette ends at the flat.Hakki was traced and the case linked with a similar incident in May 2002 when Mr Vogler met Hakki at the Hilton Hotel in central London.She asked if she could go home with him and at his flat in Knightsbridge, where he poured two glasses of red wine then went to the toilet. When he returned she encouraged him to finish off his drink. He told the court: "She had taken off a bit of her clothing and said: 'Why don't you loosen up and go to the bedroom and I will follow you.' I got up, went into the bedroom and that's the last thing I remember."The next day he woke up feeling so groggy he was unable to go to work. He discovered the black Versace jeans and jumper he was wearing the night before had been stolen, along with three pairs of shoes, an £850 Omega watch, a Tiffany alarm clock, cash and other items.