Liverpool is the first city in the UK to seek an official managed zone for working prostitutes, it emerged yesterday.The plans will come into effect as soon as the Home Office gives Liverpool city council the go-ahead. The zone would provide a health clinic, and would be managed and policed by trained workers. It will be the only city in the UK to have official approval, although an unofficial scheme ran for many years in Edinburgh. Officials in Doncaster have also expressed interest in developing a similar scheme. Two prostitutes were murdered in the Anfield district of Liverpool in July last year by Mark Corner, 26, who dumped their body parts in a bin bag in an alley. He is now at Ashworth hospital in Merseyside under the Mental Health Act. Officers from Utrecht in Holland, where managed zones have been used for 17 years, will visit Liverpool next month. In Utrecht the tolerance zone operates between 7pm and 2.30am in an industrial area. Under the scheme pimping would be banned in the area monitored by closed circuit television, and sex workers would have to be registered. Anyone touting for trade or looking for prostitutes outside the managed zone would face arrest. Academics at Liverpool John Moores University's Centre for Public Health are carrying out evaluations on four areas, based on a list of criteria. None of the areas are in residential districts of the city. Professor Mark Bellis, director of the centre, estimates that there are hundreds of women working in Liverpool as prostitutes on the streets or in saunas. "A key consideration is we do not want to impinge on residential areas," he said. "These zones need to be situated away from residential areas and local businesses have to be the sort which close late at night." Councillor Flo Clucas, executive member for community safety, said the areas being considered were already used by prostitutes. "Once the university evaluation is back and the home secretary gives us the go-ahead we will bring a resolution before the council about consulting people in the area," she said. "This isn't about condoning prostitution, it's about managing it and helping girls to come off the game." But a spokeswoman for the English Collective of Prostitutes said it opposed the zones and called for decriminalisation: "Toleration zones in industrial areas away from the protection of communities are nothing more than an excuse to tolerate rape and other violence against prostitute women. Where these zones already exist police in the area wash their hands of it and refuse to act on complaints of violence. A spokesman for the Home Office said the law did not permit managed areas for street prostitution. But the zones were under review to provide greater safety, less stigma and help stamp out the trafficking and exploitation of children. "But such zones in practice are often highly contentious," he added.