In A Hero of Our Time, Lermontov's classic novel from 1841, a Russian captain asks: "It was the French, I suppose, who made boredom fashionable?" No, comes the reply: it was the English. "Ah, so that's it!" says the old army man. "They've always been habitual drunks!"When it comes to drinking, this country evidently has form. And yet reading yesterday's report from a committee of MPs it is hard not to think that, at least over the short term, things have got a lot worse. In a report that looks at the challenges facing British police, alcohol is listed alongside gun and knife crime as one of the biggest problems. The usual alarming statistics are published - that drink-related crime and crime prevention now costs police over £7bn a year (and costs the NHS more than a £1bn a time) - but the most worrying passage is from a note by Chief Constable Stephen Green of Nottinghamshire. The drinks industry "has stretched policing to the absolute limits", he writes. "The whole focus of officer shift patterns is to deploy sufficient resources at weekends to cope with alcohol-fuelled disorder and football violence ..."So lax drinking regulations cause police to struggle and doctors to complain. Even supermarkets, which have driven alcohol prices down so far, admit there is a problem - though, typically, they will not act to solve it. Asda boasts about stopping sales of booze between midnight and 6am, while Tesco has withdrawn sales of very strong alcohol in some cases. What these isolated measures show, however, is the weakness of the law. Voluntary codes and market discipline have not worked; it is time for government to act. No 10 is apparently working on a new code for the sale of alcohol to be trailed in the Queen's Speech. That is a start, but there must be real doubts whether a government that remains so far behind in the opinion polls has the resolve to face down a lobby group as powerful as the drinks industry.The litmus test of any new alcohol regulation will be whether it deals with the issue of price. Ministers should do two things here: raise duties and impose a minimum price for alcohol. A minimum price will prevent cans of strong lager being sold for 25p, but without a tax hike that money will be funnelled back to the drinks industry - instead it must go into the public purse to treat the damage done by excessive drinking. Local authorities must also have more power over licensing. Pubs that cause trouble should be shut down, and more pubs and nightclubs should pay towards the cost of policing and hospitals in their neighbourhoods. This will be expensive for drinks retailers and customers, but the past few years have demonstrated that cheap drink can carry a high cost.