 Scotsman Editorial, July 20 "We are promised an end to the '1960s liberal consensus' on permissiveness towards law and order. Plus a massive five-year assault on crime and criminals, with 5,000 of the worst recidivists in England and Wales tracked constantly by satellite ... Is this the Tory manifesto for the next general election? No, it is Tony Blair on the latest New Labour plans to reduce crime ..."There is the nagging worry that the prime minister is merely being opportunistic. One test is whether or not he is serious in debating the so-called '1960s liberal consensus' or whether it is a convenient Aunt Sally, designed to appeal to the readers of certain middle-market tabloids, but whose invocation covers up the need to have any serious debate about the causes of crime ... Blaming the past is easy. Mr Blair is on trial to prove he can do something about the present."  Daily Telegraph  Editorial, July 20 "The press won't be alone in raising an eyebrow at the words 'five-year plan' when attached to an initiative from Westminster ... There was a blizzard of statistics. The numbers of burglaries, car thefts and robberies are declining, but this fits into a long-term trend, partly explained by better technology, such as safer locks. Most other categories of recorded offences are still on the increase, especially violent disorder, vehicle tampering and interference, common assault and criminal damage ... "By rejecting ... 'the 1960s consensus' and advocating a return to 'rules, order and proper behaviour', Labour is admitting that the left's founding values have failed. The presiding government for the bulk of the 1960s was a Labour one and it was in the Wilson administrations of 1964-70 that the bulk of liberal legislation ... was introduced. On the eve of the 10th anniversary of Mr Blair taking over as Labour leader, it grows increasingly hard to know what he stands for."  Times  Editorial, July 20 "Seven years ago Mr Blair came to power promising, in a slogan perfectly judged to win support from across the political spectrum, to be tough on crime 'and the causes of crime'. The five-year plan published [on Monday] by David Blunkett, his home secretary, amounts to a recognition that what toughness his government has been able to summon has been partially effective at best ... "This presents the prime minister with a political problem ... Hence the peculiar suggestion that only now has a '1960s liberal consensus' on law and order been abandoned, as if 18 years of Conservative rule, and in particular Michael Howard's work as home secretary under John Major, had not departed already from that tradition ..."The new plan contains thinking that is both sound and new ... The doubts that the plan raises concern its implementation. Specifically, the technology it requires - some of it as advanced as a smart bomb's guidance system - must actually work."  Daily Mail  Editorial, July 20 "How very rich. Mr Blair says the liberal values of the swinging sixties are to blame for the social breakdown that makes life a misery in so much of this country. Yet aren't his policies - easing the drugs laws, allowing pubs to open round the clock, legalising brothels and devaluing marriage - just the sort of measures that would have made him so fashionable a politician in that decade? ... "There have been so many promises from New Labour to get tough on crime - barely a week passes without some new war, blitz, crackdown or bizarre idea like marching culprits down to the cash machine to pay an immediate fine - and so little substance that it is impossible not to feel a degree of cynicism."  Daily Mirror  Editorial, July 20 "The less said about Mr Blair's speech the better. With respect, prime minister, it achieves nothing to blame the ills of Britain today on the swinging sixties. "So what we must look to is how effective Mr Blunkett's measures will be. And one of the main lessons of the past decades is that simply talking tough gets us nowhere ... Mr Blair must consider not just the next day's headlines, but how his government will tackle this vital problem. This must not become a land where the streets run with blood every closing time."  Independent  Editorial, July 20  "It is pathetic for the prime minister and his illiberal, Hampstead-hating home secretary to pin the blame on the 1960s ... Far from creating a society where anything is acceptable, the 1960s laid the foundations of a civilised and tolerant nation ..."By pandering to the half-baked theories of the illiberal right the prime minister hopes to nullify Tory attacks of Labour being 'soft' on crime. Yet in doing so, he is not only betraying the achievements of past Labour administrations, but ignoring some of his own government's successes in reforming the criminal justice system ... This is not a trite question of being soft, or hard, on crime. It is a question of what works best in reducing offending rates ... "Sadly, Mr Blair feels he must spout these silly soundbites that only serve to underline the cynical nature of his government. Such contempt for the electorate is almost criminal."