You may remember an odd little news story from about five years ago, made all the front pages in one of those nice dull weeks when most people simply get on with living instead of working out fiendish new ways of being violently stupid towards other people. It was about a flower. A massive flower at Kew, which blooms only every 23 years, and smells of death and fish: its name was amorphophallus titanum , but I always wondered, quietly, why they didn't just call it 'Liverpool'.And then, last week, the city came good. First there was the news of the chant which half the city's planning for next season's terraces, gratifying on just about a thousand levels to anyone grown even a tiny bit weary of coverage of local prodigy Wayne Rooney (a name which our sports desk have just advised me should be prefixed, by law, with 'spud-faced nipper'. Sorry).'He's fat, he's Scouse, he wants to rob your house...' wins me back to Liverpool big-time. As, I must say, does the city's robustly unforgiving stance against the Sun newspaper, which last week tried to win back readers on Merseyside with a huge apology for having said, 15 years ago, on its front page, that fans urinated on the Hillsborough dead. For a piece of weaselly fact-lite manipulation, cynical as a fist, it would have brought Michael Moore up off his Kent-sized arse to applaud: the people of Liverpool rightly ignored it, and the paper will continue to sell about three copies in the City Where No Hubcap Ever Feels Truly Safe. The paper tried to argue that it had changed: it was terribly sorry, and half the staff hadn't even been born back then: and all this was beginning to make sense, and they were winning me over, and then came one paragraph and I realised, angrily, that nothing had changed; had, if anything, got worse. 'We do not condemn the outspoken words of men like John Glover, whose son died in the tragedy,' it read, about half-way down, 'for his loss entitles him to hold any opinion he wishes.' No it doesn't. It really doesn't. In that one line the Sun showed just how very little it had changed, and how the phenomenally dubious morals of tabloid newspapers are coming, disastrously, to define our age. Grief makes fools of all of us. Grief clenches the intellect. Searing anger, denial, the desire to place blame, irrational guilt: all these are, classically, symptoms of a fierce and horrible emotion which in some cases requires clinical treatment: and yet we are being told, by the highest-selling newspaper in the land, that this emotion should instead entitle you to be listened to, and that your words should count: the inviolacy of grief demands, apparently, that we treat any argument by anyone bereaved, no matter how flawed or confused or angry or simply moronic, with the kind of respectful silence afforded to Pericles on one of his bigger days. And so we have had thoughts on justice from some people, grieving people, who happen to be among the least qualified in the country to think rationally about justice: Sara Payne, and poor Denise Bulger, wheeled out for eternity to cry more tears and sell more papers. Early as it is, my vote for Man of the Year goes to the indomitable Kevin Wells, the grieving Soham father who refused, so rationally, to agree that the axeing of one police chief would make everything better, and who infuriated the papers and our Home Secretary by saying so. His words deserve hosannahs and preservation: and not because his daughter is dead. Despite that. Simply because they're right.