Harrowing accounts of the full devastation caused by the 7 July 2005 London bombings and the terrible circumstances in which the 52 victims died were outlined in detail for the first time as the inquest into the deaths continued today.Amid scenes of carnage in three underground trains and a bus, victims with appalling injuries cried for help as they awaited medical treatment and rescue, the inquest heard. Some who survived the blasts died before they could be evacuated from the scenes of the explosions.But Hugo Keith QC, counsel to the inquests, told the coroner, Lady Justice Hallett, that she would also hear testimony of countless acts of individual heroism and compassion among survivors, witnesses and paramedics.Many sought to help the injured and the dying without concern for their own safety.Speaking about the bomb which exploded on a Piccadilly line train between Russell Square and King's Cross, causing 26 deaths, Keith outlined the "appalling conditions" that had confronted London Underground staff, paramedics and shocked passengers from a second, unaffected train which pulled up alongside the bomb-damaged carriage."Not only was the carriage dark, smoky and ferociously hot, but in parts it had been totally destroyed," he said. "Not only were the medics short of basic equipment … but the rescuers had to negotiate the bodies of the injured, the bodies of the dead and a large number of body parts that were spread in profusion in each part of the carriage."The coroner at the high court in London was shown footage from the aftermath of each bombing, taken once the dead and injured had been removed. A hushed court saw crumpled train carriages strewn with debris. At Aldgate, a single brown satchel could be seen among the scorched wreckage, while a red handbag lay on the floor of the carriage.The train bombed on the Piccadilly line was strewn with bloodstained newspapers and numerous abandoned bags. A twisted train door had been blown from its hinges and lay on the far side of the tunnel.Relatives sitting at the back of the courtroom – others have chosen to follow proceedings from a private annexe linked to the court by video – watched intently.Keith outlined brief details about each victim, the injuries they sustained and the circumstances in which they died.The Piccadilly line train had been crammed because of delays on the line, resulting in the high casualty numbers on it, he said.Of the 26 dead, six were found at different sections of track, having been blown out of the carriage. A further six were alive when the emergency services arrived but because of the deep and narrow nature of the tunnels, evacuation was particularly difficult and several died before they could be brought to the surface.Witnesses recalled one victim, 28-year-old Christian Small, joking shortly before the explosion that the only way he could make more room in the carriage would be to sit on the roof. He had opted not to get on an earlier train, one recalled, but to let a fellow female passenger board ahead of him.Samantha Badham, 36, and Lee Harris, 30, who planned to marry, were blown onto the track next to the body of another victim, Arthur Frederick, 60, a calypso singer from Montserrat. Witnesses described hearing their "very distressed" cries for help. Badham did not survive the evacuation, while Harris died in hospital on 15 July.On the Aldgate train, Keith said, uninjured passengers had offered to help rather than evacuating the scene. Paramedics and fire service personnel disregarded orders that they abandon the dead and dying 15 minutes after arriving because of fears of secondary explosions.One passenger, Elizabeth Kenworth, an off-duty police officer who had been in the fourth carriage, tied her jacket as a tourniquet around the legs of a man who had lost both legs, and a belt around the leg of another woman. She held their hands, gave them water and comforted them, the court was told. Both survived.On the Edgware Road train, Michael Brewster, 52, from Derby, had become entangled in the hole blown in the floor of the carriage by the bomb, resulting in the "virtual amputation of his lower limbs", Keith said.After he screamed for help , it became clear he could not be pulled free. Two men climbed beneath the train to help him. They began chest compressions, but he died at the scene.Most of the 13 people killed on the bus had been evacuated from the underground system because of the train bombings approximately an hour earlier, Keith said. "By the time the bus reached Tavistock Square, many of the passengers had telephoned family and friends to reassure them that they were alive and well," he added. One victim, Anat Rosenberg, a 39-year-old charity worker, had been on the phone to her boyfriend at the moment the bomb went off.Keith said there had been confusion as to the cause, location and seriousness of the underground explosions, thanks in part to difficulties with communications from the trains. At Russell Square, British transport police had communicated through "individuals running back and forth from the trains to the platforms and from the platforms to ground level" because of a faulty cable, Keith said. As the station is served by a very long spiral staircase it could take 15 minutes to get from the tunnel to ground level.Among the questions the coroner would have to answer, Keith said, was whether it would have made a difference if London underground staff, as well as the emergency services, had been able to attend more quickly.The inquest continues.