PC James Gilchrist began his beat in Chelmsford town centre yesterday morning with an extra bit of kit beside handcuffs, CS gas canister and extendable truncheon.The green and blue booklets folded neatly in his back pocket will, the government hopes, become an effective weapon in the fight against petty crime. In a 12-month pilot scheme, PC Gilchrist and his Essex colleagues will be able to issue penalty notices for disorder of either £40 (green booklet) or £80 (blue), for offences ranging from drunk and disorderly to wasting police time. The notices are intended to save officers doing paperwork, and allow them to be out on patrol. More than 100,000 people in Essex were prosecuted through the courts last year for offences that can now be dealt with by a fixed penalty fine. Essex wasted no time in trying out the notices yesterday. Just gone midnight, 12.40am to be precise, an unnamed officer issued one to an unnamed offender causing trouble in the town centre. The real test comes on Friday night. Patrons of four late night bars spilling on to the street stir a heady cocktail for trouble, and on average police make more than 20 arrests as the pubs close. Many are for minor misdemeanours - "handbag stuff", as PC Gilchrist puts it - but each takes time, much of it the next morning, with officers taking witness statements and writing reports. "If you work Saturday morning it is guaranteed there will be five or six hours of paperwork from the night before," he said. "The fixed penalty should reduce it to 45 minutes." He pointed out that officers in Essex would not stick tickets on offenders as though on illegally parked cars. Offenders would be arrested and taken to the police station, where it would be decided if a notice was appropriate. "The idea we are going to be taking on-the-spot fines came about because of what Tony Blair said about marching young offenders up to cashpoints." The officer admitted there was some unease among colleagues. "It's like all new things, you are never quite sure when it is introduced, especially when it is something the civil liberties lot are on your back about. Hopefully, when we get used to it, it should work pretty well."