You hope, of course, that you will never have to meet Dr Catherine White, but if you did, I don't think you could find yourself in better hands. As clinical director of the Sexual Assault Referral Centre (Sarc) at St Mary's hospital in Manchester, White runs one of the country's leading specialist services for victims of rape and sexual assault.Around 1,000 people - 94% of them women - come through St Mary's Sarc every year. (There are 20 Sarcs in Britain, and the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, has promised another 18 this year.) Most are brought in by police, but some refer themselves. The numbers are going up, says White. "I think people are more able to come forward. I don't believe there's a massive increase in the number of rapes, that's my gut feeling, but we'll never know. I don't know if the internet has made it easier in terms of child sexual abuse. I can't believe human nature has got that much worse. I don't want to believe that."Many are in the 16-24 age group, but the youngest victim to be brought in was three weeks old, the oldest 94 years. Since they opened a specialist child centre two years ago, they have seen 200 children. I wonder how she can say she still has faith in humanity when she is seeing children who have been raped."Sometimes you see some of the most horrific things," she says. As an expert, she is often called to give court evidence; during a recent case in which a doctor was on trial for downloading child pornography, disks were sent to White of some images. "They were absolutely horrific. I think when you're seeing the kids live [in the clinic], it's different because you're chatting with them, but if you actually see what is happening to them . . . I couldn't get those images out of my head for a long time and that's damaging because you start looking at people, men, thinking, 'Are you like that?' But you have to have faith in humanity otherwise you'd go mad. What I find saddest is the multiple victims. You might see a woman who has endured years of domestic violence, and then she's been raped and she's almost accepting of it. They're accepting that their lives are shit and this is another shit thing that's happened."What makes it slightly easier is knowing that she is doing a useful job. "A lot of the examinations can take three hours and you will see a difference in the person who walks in and the one who walks out. They are given time and respect."The clinic is a small group of rooms on the ground floor of the hospital. There are no windows, but they have tried to make it look as cheery as possible. Inoffensively tasteful pictures hang on the walls, and there is a sofa in one room, with silk flowers, a pile of magazines and a stereo. In the children's centre, there is a fish tank, toys and children's books that attempt to explain to a child the unexplainable. The routine is this: when a woman comes in, she meets a counsellor who goes through what will happen. Then the doctor - they are currently all female - will examine her. "Rape is about power over somebody, so what we try and do is give people back that control," says White.At every stage the women are told what is happening and why, and they are asked for their permission before examinations or swabs are taken, "so they understand the process and have a choice in whether something happens or doesn't". They might not want to have a blood test, for instance, but doctors will explain why it is important - maybe the defence will suggest she was on drugs or drunk and so might have "forgotten" she gave consent. A toxicology report will say she wasn't. Not all women want the forensic tests; some come to the centre for counselling. Others don't immediately want to go to the police but the centre can store evidence if they change their minds.It's a place where the women are given the morning-after pill, HIV prophylaxis, and counselling, which can go on for years. They are given clean knickers and a tracksuit if the police need to take their clothes, and a small washbag so they can shower at the centre. It costs around £700,000 a year to run a Sarc, which doesn't seem a great deal when you consider the impact it can have on rape victims' lives. They don't need expensive equipment, but time and money needs to be spent on the staff and on building relationships with agencies such as the police and judiciary."A lot of areas would like to have something like St Mary's but are struggling," says White. "It's inexcusable that there's this postcode lottery - why, if you're in a certain area, will you get brilliant service but if you're outside the boundaries you don't?" But she would rather see fewer centres run well, where women can get every service they need in one place, than lots of poorly run and funded clinics.The government believes an increase in the number of Sarcs is the way to improve the low rape conviction rate of 5.6%. But there are many obstacles to getting a conviction. It is thought that between 75% and 95% of rapes are never reported. "We need to make it easier for women to report it," says White.There is still a vast lack of understanding of rape. White recalls a meeting with a defence barrister. "She was saying [of the victim], 'Why didn't she escape when she had the chance?' It was a female barrister and I thought, 'Here we are - you're at the top of your tree, I'm at the top of my tree and we're trying to second guess why this woman, who was a cleaner and had self-esteem this high [she puts her thumb and forefinger a centimetre apart], didn't react the way we might'."Another time, a female police officer said to White, "You always get injuries, even when you have consensual sex" as a way of explaining why a woman who had reported a rape, and had no visible injuries, might be lying. White laughs - "I was thinking, 'I don't know what kind of sex you have'" - but she knows it's not funny. "We meet excellent police officers and then some who are not so good, who believe all these myths and stereotypes."Juries are the same. "There are a lot where you can be quite flabbergasted at the outcome," says White. The government has put together guidelines to help educate a jury before a trial, on issues such as how a victim might act when reporting a rape. White says most do not act in a hysterical and traumatised way, as juries seem to expect. "They're usually outwardly calm," she says. "Sometimes you might get a reaction that could be seen as inappropriate if you were inexperienced, such as a woman asking questions like, 'Where do you get your hair done?' We chat about all sorts of rubbish, just to relax them, without trivialising what's going on."But it must infuriate her when seemingly clear-cut cases don't get a conviction. "What you have to keep remembering is you don't know what happened; you weren't there. But when the conviction rate is 5.6%, it doesn't mean the rest are lying. It winds me up that when there's a false allegation, there's an outcry in the papers. I'm sure it does happen, but very rarely. The balance is definitely weighted against the victim".