The prime minister today led tributes to 10-year-old Damilola Taylor, who was murdered in Peckham, south east London, a year ago today.Speaking at a youth centre in Peckham, which has been rededicated to Damilola, Tony Blair said: "In many ways what he represented is something that will have a lasting legacy."Mr Blair said that from Damilola's poems he had read, and from people he had spoken to, he had been struck by how the schoolboy was an unusually thoughtful child who cared for others.Mr Blair said: "The best tribute is in trying to help in the remaking of his local community." Damilola's father, Richard, said: "We had high hopes for our child ... he was exceptional." He said that he hoped that when other children used the centre they would "feel a little of Damilola's spirit". Mr Taylor said: "I hope for them what I hoped for my own child and I am proud today to do that in his name." He added that his son's death had done many things, but the most important was that it had made parents, authorities and communities "more aware of their responsibilities to young people".Mr Blair praised Lord Harris, the carpeting millionaire who grew up in Peckham and who has donated £2m towards a new school which will serve Damilola's estate when it opens in 2003. Funding of £600,000 - partially from Lord Harris' donation - has been found for the Damilola centre. The prime minister said that with better facilities, education, homes and employment in communities like Peckham, those who killed Damilola would never have thought to do so. Earlier, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr George Carey, paid tribute to the "loveable and intelligent" Damilola at a special church service. In a moving 10-minute sermon, Dr Carey said a "battle for a better society" based on a return to the values of family life needed to be fought following the murder. The archbishop spoke at St Luke's Church in Peckham, just a few hundred yards from where the schoolboy was found dead after bleeding to death from a stab wound to his leg, and close to Oliver Goldsmith school, where he was a pupil.A 200-strong congregation packed the church, including Damilola's parents Richard and Gloria Taylor, his sister Gbemi, 24, and brother Tunde, 22. Also in attendance were Doreen Lawrence, the mother of murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, and local MP Harriet Harman, who gave the reading.Dr Carey said: "He had a lifetime ahead of him and though only 10 he had already formed a view about what he wanted to do - he planned not just to become a doctor but to do research into epilepsy to help his big sister Gbemi. "Indeed, the Taylor family was primarily in this country for Gbemi's treatment. They had been here 11 short weeks when Damilola's life was so suddenly cut short."Later today, Damilola's parents will launch the Damilola Taylor Trust for epilepsy victims. The Taylors are still living in London while Gbemi receives treatment for epilepsy.Four teenagers have been charged with Damilola's murder and a trial is scheduled to begin in January. They deny the charges. 