The mother, father and grandmother of a toddler who died after drowning in a garden pond pleaded guilty to child neglect on Monday.Two-year-old Daniel Rees-Smith was found at his grandmother's home in Hanham, Bristol, on 4 June last year. The boy's grandmother, Hilary Rees, 44, his mother, Charlotte Rees-Smith, 20, and his father, Andrew Marshall, 22, originally faced charges of manslaughter and neglect.However, before their trial at Bristol crown court on Monday, the trio pleaded guilty to child neglect, which was accepted by the prosecution.The court heard Rees and Rees-Smith pleaded guilty on the basis they had neglected Daniel over a 13-month period, while Marshall accepted he had neglected the child on the day of his death. The prosecution said they would not pursue the manslaughter charges.Rupert Lowe, prosecuting, said: "The pleas offered represent responsibility taken by all three defendants who the Crown says bear responsibility for what happened to Daniel Rees-Smith."He said the pleas were accepted after discussions with the Crown Prosecution Service and police. He had also considered the public interest in bringing manslaughter charges, he added.Rees, Rees-Smith and Marshall from Wrington, Somerset, spoke only to enter their pleas and confirm they understood proceedings. The charge alleged all three "neglected, abandoned, or exposed Daniel Rees-Smith in a manner likely to cause unnecessary suffering or injury to health".Police were called to Rees's home at 10.45pm on 4 June 2010. Daniel, who was still in the pool when the police arrived, was taken to Bristol children's hospital, where he was pronounced dead.Rees and Rees-Smith accepted they neglected Daniel from 1 April 2009 until 5 June last year. Mr Justice Maddison described the actions of three adults as having "considerable shortcomings" and said Daniel's death was "tragic". He told them: "I am not giving you any indication of the final outcome. You are to be sentenced on very serious charges."Maddison adjourned the case for pre-sentence reports to be prepared. Sentencing is due to take place on 21 July.