Police tonight arrested a 16-year-old boy on suspicion of murder, following an appeal for the public's help with the inquiry into the shooting of 11-year-old Rhys Jones.Police confirmed they are examining an abandoned bicycle in the Liverpool area. Witnesses said the youth who shot Rhys was riding a BMX bike.Police also also confirmed descriptions of the killer's firearm, describing it as a black handgun with a long barrel.Two youths previously arrested in connection with the case were earlier released on police bail."We are categorising this as a category A-plus homicide, the most serious investigation to take on," a police official said. "We have made some arrests but this could be a protracted investigation ... We're at a very early stage. The 16-year-old boy was arrested this afternoon in the local area and held on suspicion of murder as part of the ongoing investigation." Police earlier said they were "disappointed" with the public response so far, and issued a fresh appeal for information."If you're responsible, hand yourself in," Assistant Chief Constable Patricia Gallan, of Merseyside police, told a press conference. "If you know who is responsible, tell us. Give Rhys's mum and dad some peace after this tragedy."Rhys was shot in the neck on Wednesday evening as he walked home after football practice in a Liverpool suburb. Police have encountered a wall of silence as they try to penetrate teenage gangs in the area.Ms Gallan stressed that the identity of anyone who came forward would be protected."I need more help in solving this crime," she said. "The answers as to who is responsible are within the community."Whoever heard the impassioned appeal by Rhys's mum and dad last night cannot fail to be moved."Speaking at the emotional press conference, Rhys's mother urged people to help find the killer of "our baby". "This should not happen, this should not be going on. Please help us," Melanie Jones said.Ms Gallan said detectives had recovered CCTV images from the Fir Tree pub, close to where Rhys was gunned down, but the pictures are understood to be grainy.Shortly after Ms Gallan spoke, Ms Jones and her husband, Stephen, laid flowers at the scene of their son's death and stopped to read tributes to him.They left a bouquet of blue roses and gerberas with a message that read: "Goodnight and God bless son, till we meet again."Everton football club - which Rhys supported - will tomorrow hold a minute's silence at their game against Blackburn Rovers in tribute to him. Players from both teams will wear black armbands.The club's captain, Phil Neville, said: "Everyone at Everton, and the players especially, send our condolences to the Jones family after the tragic death of their son Rhys."We all here at the club have families of our own, and we cannot comprehend what you are going through. We appeal to anyone with information to contact the police." The murder of Rhys, believed to be the youngest ever victim of gun crime in Merseyside, has been blamed by some in the community on gang "bravado", but his parents have stressed he was not involved in any gangs."The guy [Rhys] probably doesn't know what a gang is, he's never been in some sort of gang," Mr Jones said at yesterday's press conference."He's got his mates, he's got the people who he hangs around with, he goes and plays football."Ms Jones added: "He's 11 - how would he know about that kind of thing?"The Tory leader, David Cameron, today used the tragedy to highlight what he claimed was the danger of Britain becoming immune to the brutality fuelled by gun crime unless a deep social and cultural change took place.The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, has pledged to introduce new legislation if necessary, in particular a law to compel witnesses to come forward.However, the former home secretary David Blunkett questioned how productive that would be."It isn't legislation alone - the powers exist," he said on BBC Radio 4's Today programme."People themselves have to say enough is enough - we will collaborate, we will come together."Police have described the main suspect as a slim white boy aged 13 to 15 and around 1.73 metres (5ft 8in) tall. He was riding a black BMX bicycle and wearing dark clothes, including a hoodie top with a peak, and white trainers.Gordon Brown yesterday described the killing as a "heinous crime that shocked the whole of the country" and pledged the "people responsible will be tracked down, arrested and punished".Merseyside's chief constable, Bernard Hogan-Howe, described the murder as the most shocking crime in his 20 years' service.