Two men have been charged over an alleged plot targeting the soul singer Joss Stone.Junior Bradshaw, 30, and Kevin Liverpool, 33, both from Manchester, were charged with conspiracy to commit robbery and conspiracy to commit grievous bodily harm.The charges come two days after police arrested two men close to Stone's remote rural retreat in Devon. Bradshaw and Liverpool are due to appear before Exeter magistrates on Thursday.Stone , 24, issued a statement to reassure fans. She said: "I'd like to thank everyone for their concern but I'm absolutely fine and getting on with life as normal while the police continue with their enquiries."Neighbour Simon Alsop, a 57-year-old farmer, said Stone was remaining calm.He said: "She came here for a coffee on Tuesday afternoon and she was all right. She was quite laid back and not in a major panic."It all sounds a bit bizarre and very strange. It is quite scary really. I know the whole family well and they are very good neighbours. If Joss isn't working she is often here. Joss is never there on her own. She usually has a small entourage of friends."Florence Webber, 87, whose bungalow is near Stone's house, said: "It is obviously frightening. You don't expect anything like that in a quiet place like this."Two men were arrested by Devon and Cornwall police on Monday morning, initially for allegedly possessing offensive weapons and being equipped to steal.Police stepped in after a neighbour reported that a Fiat Punto had been seen in the area.Stone was only 16 when she had her first hit, Fell In Love With A Boy, in 2004 and had just turned 17 when she won Brit awards in the British female solo artist and British urban act categories.Her soulful vocals saw her hailed in the United States as "the white Aretha Franklin" and she has enjoyed success on both sides of the Atlantic.Last month, the Sunday Times placed Stone, who grew up in Devon, as the fifth wealthiest British and Irish pop star aged under 30, with a fortune estimated at £9m.Extra police patrols were put on in the Cullompton area where the arrests were made to reassure local people. Police stood guard outside Stone's property.