A security system designed to automatically recognise people on the street and report their whereabouts to a central control room is being tested secretly in three places in Britain, according to the American manufacturer.Three other areas - the London borough of Newham, Tameside in Greater Manchester, and Birmingham - are publicly using the system, known as FaceIt, made by Visionics. A spokeswoman for the company, Frances Zelazny, said some councils had not yet announced their use of the system because it was still "in the pilot phase". The Home Office said it was up to local authorities whether they bought facial recognition software, which works as an extension of CCTV networks, and the government did not know which councils were using it. The expansion of the FaceIt system in Britain comes amid growing doubts on both sides of the Atlantic as to whether the technology works. Civil liberties groups in the US claim Visionics has exaggerated the software's ability to pick out "known" faces in crowds. In Newham, where the council claims non residential burglaries fell by 39% in the six months after FaceIt was installed in 1998, the local police officer responsible for providing photographs of ex-offenders to the council security service told the Guardian that FaceIt had never spotted a live target. "There have never been more than 20 or 25 faces on the system," said Detective Inspector Ian Chiverton. "They've been weeded on a monthly basis. We've chosen what we call our nominal criminals, so they would be convicted burglars and rob bers, but only one facial shot was ever put on. And there's never been a recognition of that facial shot." Visionics denied this. However, the council refused to provide details. FaceIt failed to spot a Guardian reporter who voluntarily put his face into Newham's database and visited the areas covered by the cameras. "He passed our camera side on," said a spokesman for the borough, "so we were unable to detect him. This is obviously a weakness in the system."