In the climax to one of Scotland Yard's most costly and controversial anti-corruption operations, three Flying Squad detectives, led by an inspector, have been convicted of stealing £200,000 and are now serving jail sentences.This disclosure of the scale of corruption at the heart of the Metropolitan police can only be made today, after the refusal of a police "supergrass" to give any more evidence against his former colleagues, and the subsequent collapse yesterday of a linked second trial against detectives. An extraordinary court order has prevented revelation of the Flying Squad convictions for more than two years, while the second ultimately unsuccessful set of proceedings was attempted. The lengthy efforts by a Scotland Yard "ghost squad" to nail corrupt colleagues included not only the use of a crooked detective as a supergrass, but the bugging of an informer's plaster cast. Inspector Fred May, Sergeant Eamonn Harris and PC David Howell are serving seven years for their part in stealing the £200,000, part of the proceeds of a £1.5m security van hijack in 1995. They took it from an "inside man" at Security Express, who was hiding his share of the money in a safe house. Later an informer, a violent robber called Hector Harvey, betrayed the detectives to Scotland Yard's secretive CIB3 anti-corruption operation. But police failed to gain any usable evidence against them. The ghost squad hid a bugging device in a plaster cast constructed for Harvey, who pretended he had broken his arm. Unfortunately the plaster muffled all but fragments of the ensuing conversation. The ghost squad breakthrough only came when other Flying Squad detectives, who had been caught stealing sacks of cannabis, agreed to become supergrasses in return for lighter sentences. One of them, former Detective Constable Kevin Garner, said as many as 20-30 of his Flying Squad colleagues had become corrupt, sparking a huge undercover investigation. He successfully gave evidence against the three. But a second attempt to use Garner as a witness on similar charges against Sgt Harris, who was convicted in the earlier trial, and three other detectives from the north London Flying Squad unit came to grief yesterday. Charges of conspiracy to steal £35,000 were dropped at the Old Bailey and the detectives acquitted after the court was told Garner was unfit to give evidence. In the dock at the Old Bailey yesterday were Harris, Detective Sergeant Michael Carroll and Detective Constable David Thompson. They all denied the corruption charges along with another DC, Ian Saunders, who was too ill to appear. In a successful robbery, a dummy security van had ar rived at a post office depot in east London, just ahead of a genuine vehicle, and £1m was loaded into it. The prosecution alleged Flying Squad officers who investigated the theft and made arrests siphoned off some of the money they recovered. But Garner, who had been released from prison after serving a reduced sentence for helping the police with their anti-corruption investigation, refused to give further evidence earlier this year. Jonathan Laidlaw, for the prosecution, said Garner was suffering from acute anxiety and stress. He had told an anti-corruption officer he had never forgiven himself for giving evidence against his former colleague Harris, and was not prepared to do so again. A new trial was set for this September, but yesterday Mr Laidlaw told the court that Garner was in no state to give evidence in the foreseeable future, and he would have to abandon the trial. Outside the court, Mr Thompson said it had been Garner who had stolen the money, not the defendants. He called for an inquiry into the methods used by the Met's anti-corruption team. Later Scotland Yard said Mr Thompson and Mr Saunders would be reinstated as Met officers. Mr Carroll would remain suspended pending a possible discipline hearing. Harris may mount another appeal against his conviction. · Graeme McLagan is the author of Bent Coppers: The inside story of Scotland Yard's battle against police corruption, published by Orion at £16.99