The father of the murdered British bar hostess, Lucie Blackman, today said his daughter had been "robbed of justice" after a former Japanese property developer was acquitted of killing her.Joji Obara was, however, sentenced to life imprisonment in connection with the rape of nine other women, including one who died.Tim Blackman said his initial belief that the sentence was just had changed after talking with prosecution lawyers."When we came out of court we felt he had received a just sentence of life imprisonment," he told a news conference."But following our meeting with prosecutors we feel that in many ways Lucie has been robbed of justice. That has left us feeling unresolved."Mr Blackman later told Sky News the family believed key evidence had not been put before the court.There was an audible gasp from the gallery of the Tokyo district court when the judge announced the verdict against Obara.Unable to face seeing Obara in person, Lucie's mother, Jane Steare, had decided to stay at home in Kent. She said after today's decision: "I'm heartbroken, absolutely heartbroken. I just can't believe this verdict. My worst fears have come true."Police has failed to provide evidence directly linking Obara to Ms Blackman's death, Judge Tsutomu Tochigi said. In particular, he cited their inability to determine in what circumstances the 21-year-old's body had been moved. As a result, "rational doubts" remained about Obara's involvement, including the possibility that a "third party" may have played a role, Mr Tochigi said.Things might have been different in a UK or US courtroom, a former Japanese prosecutor said."In the UK or US judges and juries can understand the circumstances surrounding the evidence," said Takeshi Tsuchimoto, the dean of Hakuoh University law school. "Japanese judges are just not used to this kind of evidence.""This is bad judgment for Japan."Ms Blackman, a former British Airways flight attendant, disappeared while working as a bar hostess in July 2000. Her dismembered body was found seven months later in a cave at Miura, a fishing village near Tokyo.The judge sentenced Obara to life imprisonment after finding him guilty in connection with the unlawful death of another 21-year-old, Carita Ridgway - an Australian woman who died of liver failure in February 1992 after being drugged and raped - as well as the rape of eight other women.Obara had filmed himself during the attacks."You have trampled on the dignity of women," the judge said in passing sentence on Obara, who slumped forward across the table when the verdict was announced, according to Japanese television reports.The Japanese police have been widely criticised over their handling of the case.The cave where Ms Blackman's body was found is just a short distance from Obara`s condominium, where the killing is believed to have taken place. But no blood was found at the scene and Ms Blackman's body was too heavily decomposed to determine the cause of death.The failure to convict Obara came even as police ascertained that he had purchased a large vinyl mat, a camping table and a chainsaw on July 4 2000, just four days after Ms Blackman's disappearance. The police also know that Obara purchased cement.Obara maintained his innocence throughout, claiming Ms Blackman was alive and well when they parted.The death penalty exists in Japan, and is used in particularly heinous murder cases or those where robbery is also a motive. Prosecutors decided to charge Obara with "rape resulting in death" rather than murder, and sought a life sentence.It was not immediately clear whether either side in the case would launch an appeal.Mr Blackman accepted approximately £450,000 from a friend of Obara as "condolence money", but has repeatedly said that accepting the money in no way implied forgiveness. He spent thousands of pounds travelling to Japan to push forward the investigation into his daughter's death.Japanese police have come in for further criticism since the recent death of Lindsay Hawker, a 22-year-old English teacher. Her alleged killer, Tatsuya Ichihashi, 28, fled the scene of the crime in his stockinged feet while being pursued by police on March 28. He has yet to be apprehended.