Levi Bellfield's surviving victims and the families of those he killed spoke today of how his "evil" acts had changed their lives forever. Marsha McDonnell's uncle, Shane, said the 19-year-old's parents, Phil and Ute, still found it too painful to talk about her death. "On the day Marsha died, a part of Phil and Ute died with her. Marsha's murder was an act of pure evil, an innocent girl attacked from behind with no motive, no reason and no justification. "Since the night five years ago when she was cruelly and unexpectedly taken from this world, they as her family have had to endure a suffering that can only truly be known to those who have been through it. "Losing a child in any circumstances is always an extremely hard loss to bear. To lose a child to such a barbaric act of violence that has no reason or explanation just compounds that grief further. "The psychological and physical effects on us as a result of the manner of Marsha's death compromise their lives to this day." He added: "Marsha was a generous, loving, thoughtful girl. Her goodness, her sense of fun, her spirit and her zest for life are as fresh in our minds today as they were then. "Marsha was enjoying a gap year after finishing school, deciding what career path to take. Like any teenager about to embark on the next stage of her life, she had many dreams and aspirations, which one man shattered. "She was an artistic girl and her next step was to have fulfilled one of her passions by going to college to study photography." Dominique Delagrange spoke of the pain of losing her daughter Amelie. "Our world fell apart on August 19 2004. Amelie had a warm nature, she was lovely, she loved to laugh and joke. She was loving, always smiling, and we could not be any closer. We laughed a lot together. "I was proud of her, of her intention to travel alone like a mature adult. We did not want to let her go but it was not possible to stand in her way. "It will always hurt us not to know what would have become of Amelie had her life not been severed in such a way. She wanted to marry, have children and her sister to be the godmother of her first child, so many unfulfilled hopes which are now intangible. "In fact, we are so reluctant to accept the death of Amelie that her grave is in reality a little garden always covered with flowers and grass. A stone will never be placed on it in the secret hope that Amelie will thus remain in our hearts the playful being, full of laughter, loved by her parents, relatives and friends, resting in the midst of crocuses that she so loved to pick in the spring. "Her loss is an open wound that will never heal. We shall never get over it." Kate Sheedy said she had suffered mentally and physically since being run over by Bellfield in 2004. "To this day I still suffer from nightmares, both reliving the incident itself and also the nightmares I had while in hospital. "For a period of several months I suffered really bad panic attacks, flashbacks and nightmares. I couldn't be alone at all, even during the day. "Even now I will not go out alone if it is dark: I'm too frightened to. If I'm out in the evening, even with lots of people, I dread the journey home. "Now I am able to get out alone if it is daylight, but for the first few months I couldn't even do that. "I started seeing a counsellor [and] was found to be suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and mild depression. "In hospital I was unable to walk so I had to retrain my body to do all the things it should do and rebuild the strength in my muscles. "I was still in a lot of pain. The sciatic nerve in my left leg had been badly bruised and it took a long time to recover fully. "I'm not able to play tennis or anything like that. Once when I went canoeing I was in a lot of pain and had to have several physio sessions. "I still have a large scar on my lower back [and] it hurts to sit in a straight chair any longer than an hour … Since January 2005 I have had to pay for physio, as it has not been available to me on the NHS."