The problem for Theresa May when she stands up in the Commons this afternoon to announce an inquiry into allegations of a cover-up of a child sex abuse ring, possibly involving senior politicians, is one of credibility. Not hers, which is remarkably unscathed after four years in the most exposed job in Whitehall, but that of the whole edifice she represents, the tight little self-preserving body of civil servants and politicians and Oxford and Cambridge that was formerly known as the establishment.It took the outsider's outsider, Norman Tebbit, the semi-domesticated polecat of Margaret Thatcher's early years, to lob the brick into the stew of whisper and rumour that has been brewing for the past week. The establishment never did the Thatcherites any favours. Lord Tebbit has a long memory. From the sofa on the Andrew Marr show on Sunday morning he regretfully agreed that "there may well have been" a cover-up. "That," he said, "was what people did in those days".There is enough thick smoke swirling round this story to make some muscular and highly visible inquiry necessary – but not easy. If it really is true that several MPs were part of a well-organised ring involved in abusing children then there may well be criminal prosecutions to come, the success of which must be protected. But if it is also true that people who could have intervened to put a stop to it, to protect the victims and prosecute the abusers, knew about their activities but ignored them, then the scandal moves on to a different level. It becomes institutional breakdown.The unravelling of these allegations may turn out to be the final revenge of the 20th century's grim politics of sexuality, when institutionalised hypocrisy corrupted everything it touched. It established a culture of deceit. Lies were stock in trade – lies about abortions, about affairs, about homosexuality. It was the fight against that distortion of humanity that formed the context in which it was possible for the chair of the Paedophile Information Exchange – Steven Adrian Smith, who actually worked as a contractor at the Home Office did – to hitch his hideous campaign to the fight for homosexual rights and appear on a public platform to argue that there was no need for an age of consent as children knew when they were having an enjoyable emotional experience.Whitehall's resilience has been built on the motto never apologise, never explain. Its authority rests on the contrivance of appearing to be above the grubby manoeuvring of the politicians. It has emerged remarkably – perhaps incredibly – unmarked as the political world has crumbled under the weight of successive scandals.Whitehall was there to protect and to be protected. It was the impartial arbiter of correct behaviour. The authority of the cabinet secretary, Sir Jeremy Heywood, the resident magistrate who polices the porous boundary between political expedience and public probity, was always there to explain and to exculpate. But that means Whitehall itself has to be beyond suspicion.It has survived terrible reputational blows. It is more than 60 years since Guy Burgess and Donald Maclean fled to Moscow after they were tipped off that even the Foreign Office, so gullible when faced with well-educated and charming young men, no longer believed their implausible tales. Now we know that their Russian spymasters knew perfectly well they were a pair of incompetents, so drunk they left the documents they had stolen in pubs, so gossipy they couldn't keep a secret even when they were sober. These were the stalwarts of public service, whose defection was so terrible that for five years the FCO simply pretended it hadn't happened.No wonder it took another outsider, Geoffrey Dickens, an MP dismissed by his own party as a buffoon, to challenge the official omerta that surrounded reports of criminal behaviour by his colleagues. And no wonder it has taken another outsider, Lord Tebbit, to add weight to the efforts of the MPs Tom Watson and Simon Danzcuk to dig out the truth. It may not look good for the establishment.