Today, we are proud to launch the European Muslim Research Centre (EMRC) at the University of Exeter. We hope that the EMRC will be part of a wider process of voices and perspectives which are too often being ignored, or buried under a tide of negative portrayals of Muslim communities and Islam by vociferous sections of the media and populist politicians.What good is an academic centre on these kinds of issues? The EMRC has taken a first step towards highlighting problems which Muslims are facing on a daily basis. We've looked at cases like that of Yasir Abdelmouttalib. Six years ago Yasir, a young Moroccan, was nearly killed while waiting to take a bus from Willesden to Regent's Park in London. Dressed in traditional Islamic white robes to go to his Friday prayers, this young PhD student was minding his own business, when he was set upon by a gang. After a "barrage of spitting", the gang attacked him and one gang member beat his head with a street broom so badly that his brain was dislodged and his skull had multiple fractures. Yasir was left in a coma for three months.What had Yasir done to deserve these injuries? He had no political cause. He wasn't protesting, he wasn't trying to make any point in wider society. He was a young man, waiting for a bus so he could pray. So what made it OK to beat a man's brains out for no good reason?Earlier this month Terence Gavan, a former BNP member, was convicted of manufacturing a huge array of firearms and explosives, ranging from nail-bombs and machine guns to a rocket launcher. Gavan claimed that he had a "fascination with things that go bang", but others highlight that he felt he had to defend his fellow countrymen fighting Muslims in foreign lands. Gavan wasn't on the counter-terrorist radar – the spotlight of attention wasn't focused on him, but on Muslims as a threat to Britain, rather than British threats to Muslims.Two cases ranging over six years – but more than isolated incidents in modern Britain. Just ask Mohammed Kohelee, the heroic caretaker who suffered burns to his body while trying to prevent an arson attack against Greenwich Mosque last June. Or look at the murder last September of Tooting pensioner Ekram Haque. Haque was brutally beaten to death in front of his three year old granddaughter by a "race-hate" gang. Or ask the police officers injured this past weekend during an English Defence League (EDL) march in Stoke. In 2010, British Muslims face physical peril for simply being Muslim.Our Centre's first report, "Islamophobia and Anti-Muslim Hate Crime: a London case study" is out today. Too much academic and "thinktank" research is based on poor methodological engagement, and repackaging hearsay and assumption in the guise of intellectual contribution. We hope that the EMRC, in partnership with communities and other academics will provide an alternative to this kind of work.As part of this, our centre will engage not only with Muslim communities, but also policy-makers and organisations such as the police. As those police officers remind us in today's report, this kind of violence isn't happening in a vacuum – and is more than the actions of a few mindless thugs. Politicians, ranging from the fringes of UKIP and the BNP, to serious mainstream politicians in the Labour and Conservative parties, not only feel that there is no social or political penalty for attacking Islam, but that not attacking Muslims enough risks being politically outflanked. Politicians are making regular political assessments that it's a vote-winner to call for the proscription of Hizb-ut-Tahrir rather than the EDL – despite the fact the EDL has organised a string of marches which have led to police officers being injured and civil unrest.This behaviour is egged on by populist commentators in the tabloids and beyond, who sensationalise stories to gain print space and air time. They constantly highlight the activities of an incredibly small part of the Muslim community, without ever once considering how the toxic atmosphere they are creating endangers Muslims who lead average non-violent lives. Britons everywhere are fed a diet of the threat of Islam, of concerns about "Islamic extremism", "Islamic radicalisation", and a lack of cultural integration.These reductionist and populist portrayals of Muslims in Britain don't do our society any credit. Politicians need to be braver – and reject cheap votes for real political engagement. Shouldn't politicians actually credit the British public with being a resilient people – intelligent and fair, willing to discuss serious issues in adult ways? The incredibly base nature of the depiction of Muslims by popular Islamophobic commentators betrays more about their personal fears and ingrained prejudices than their desire to make Britain a better place. Who contributes more to British society, the tabloid fear-monger, or the Muslim community anti-war activist?In the end Terence Gavan was sentenced to 11 years in prison. Yasir Abdelmouttalib miraculously survived – though his recovery continues slowly. The failed arsonists at Greenwich Mosque still roam free, and Tooting suffered a spate of anti-Muslim violence. When violence against Muslims stems from thinking childishly, about personal political gain and populist exploitation of fear rather than the betterment of all sections of society, shouldn't we put such childish thoughts aside and make room for real adult political engagement and debate?