The Brazilian cleaner whose trial last year exposed the racy love lives of two immigration judges walked free yesterday after charges that she stole two sexy videos from the male judge and blackmailed the female judge were dropped.Roselane Driza, 37, had been due to face a retrial at the Old Bailey in a fortnight after winning an appeal against her conviction. But Judge Martin Stephens was told that the Crown Prosecution Service had decided not to proceed because the two judges were both ill.A CPS spokeswoman said the woman judge, who can be named only as J, was unfit to give evidence, while her former colleague, Illyas Khan, was seriously ill.Ms Driza was sentenced to 33 months in prison at the Old Bailey last October for stealing videos from Mr Khan, 61, who was her lover, and for blackmailing J, also a former lover of his, for £20,000. She was cleared of blackmailing Mr Khan, with whom she was living until her arrest and who had called her "chilli hot stuff".Her conviction was overturned on appeal in February on the basis of new evidence, and a retrial ordered. The fresh evidence, which could not be reported at the time, cast new light on J's credibility, the appeal judges were told.They saw statements by nine other immigration judges and J's former husband. Ms Driza's counsel, Frances Oldham QC, argued that it disclosed a different character from the one J chose to portray herself as - a professional woman of high integrity.The appeal judges heard that J's former husband claimed that during their marriage, she had displayed extreme xenophobia, regularly swore, and treated people she believed to be her inferiors with contempt. Material provided by the nine judges spoke of her bad language and intemperate behaviour. It was claimed that she made a false allegation of assault against one of them.Following the first trial, an investigation was ordered into the behaviour of the immigration judges by the Office for Judicial Complaints. Both had been employing Ms Driza, of South Norwood, south London, as a cleaner illegally.J was allowed to retire on medical grounds, but the investigation into her conduct continues. Mr Khan has been paid his full salary - £98,900, rising to £101,948 this year - since he was asked to stop sitting in court last September.John Black QC, prosecuting, told the judge that no evidence was being offered against Ms Driza because the two judges were now ill and there was no prospect of their being able to give evidence, "possibly ever".Judge Stephens entered formal not guilty verdicts and told Ms Driza she could be discharged. He said the order banning identification of J must remain.Outside court, Ms Driza, who was wearing tight white leggings, a red patterned top, red patent peep-toe shoes and her trademark dark glasses on her head, blew kisses and said: "I am so happy." Punching the air, she shouted "Freedom!" She added: "Justice has been done."A spokesman for the Office for Judicial Complaints said: "The office will want to review the investigations into the conduct of Judge J and Illyas Khan afresh in the light of the Crown Prosecution Service's decision."