The public does not want to believe that the incidence of crime is decreasing and fear of becoming a victim continues to rise, according to The Observer/ICM poll commissioned for our Crime Uncovered supplement today. While many back a range of much tougher anti-crime measures, including the death penalty, two in five voters still believe that governments can do little to make an impact on the figures.These findings present a stark challenge to a government which has staked its credibility on its ability to tackle crime. The British Crime Survey, the most authoritative study of actual crime rather than that merely reported to police, shows that New Labour has been more successful than many recognise. Its central challenge is now to demonstrate that taking crime seriously means moving away from the 'short, sharp shock' tactics which have been tried and which have failed.Home Secretary David Blunkett has, whatever some critics might say, a progressive agenda on crime. He has long expressed his desire to reduce the prison population. Yet prison numbers have risen to record levels. Blunkett believes, rightly, that effective options to prison will not win public support if they are seen as 'soft'. Yet the Government's demonstration that it is 'the party of law and order', creating more than 300 new criminal offences, risks feeding the perception of a growing crime epidemic. Failure effectively to address antisocial and yobbish behaviour has also allowed many to perceive that crime in general is rising. It is time for a much more honest political and public debate. Oliver Letwin's approach as Shadow Home Secretary has been intelligent. The Government, too, should resist the idea that there are quick fixes on offer. There is little evidence that ID cards, for example, will prove more than an expensive distraction. A more direct route to increasing the low detection rate would be to tackle the sensitive issue of police reform. When the Police Federation meets next month, it will continue to resist modernisations which have been long accepted across almost all other public services. Tony Blair built his political appeal on his ability to reshape the crime debate while in opposition. His government now needs to show the leadership required to do the same in office.