Strathclyde police were trying to find a motive last night for the abduction and murder of the Glasgow schoolboy who was snatched from the street near his home on on Monday.Kriss Donald, 15, was bundled into a car by five Asian men after he and his friend Jamie Wallace, 19, became embroiled in an argument with an Asian man in Pollokshields, on the south side of the city. His body was found by a cyclist on Tuesday morning in a lane near a Celtic supporters' club in the east end of the city. The police refused to comment yesterday on how he had died, but it is understood that he had been badly beaten and there were reports that he had been stabbed. Pollokshields has Scotland's largest Asian population and there has been some racial tension in the area, particularly between gangs of young men. Community leaders said yesterday that the tension had abated in recent months, but Detective Superintendent Elliot McKenzie confirmed that a racial motive was being investigated. Asian leaders appealed for calm, fearing that Kriss's death could be exploited by right-wing extremists who have previously tried to stir up racial tension in the area. "There are no big race troubles in Pollokshields," Mohammed Sarwar, the local MP, said. "What we have is the growing problem of gang culture, which is as much Asian gang on Asian gang as Asian gang on white gang, and we must not let this terrible death be hijacked by people looking to cause trouble." One line of inquiry yesterday was that the abduction and murder might have been linked to Mr Wallace's girlfriend. A claim that Kriss had been seeing an Asian girl was dismissed by his family, but the police said Mr Wallace had been seeing a girl who was not white. "[He] had a relationship with a coloured woman, not necessarily Asian, but we cannot trace her," Mr McKenzie said. The police stressed that this was only one line of inquiry, and Mr Wallace told a Glasgow newspaper that his girlfriend was of African rather than Asian descent.Mr McKenzie said Kriss had been walking with Mr Wallace in Kenmure Street in Pollokshields when they were approached by an Asian man, thought to be in his 20s, at 3.10pm. "It was just an exchange of words, it was not related to anything previous," he said. "I think there was a bit of pushing and shoving and then the car drew up." Police believe there were at least four men in the car, all thought to be Asian and in their 20s. The men began struggling with Kriss as his friend got away. They ripped his jacket off and bundled him into a silver BMW or Mercedes Mr Wallace told the Glasgow Evening Times: "They got hold of Kriss and he kept screaming 'I'm only 15', but they hit him again and again." Detectives say he was murdered near where his body was found, but be might have been held for some time against his will. Pollokshields combines some of the most expensive Victorian houses in Glasgow with tenements occupied by families and young professionals. Despite efforts by the British National party last summer to stir up tension, it is reasonably well integrated. "I think everyone is very sad about what happened," said Aqub Akhbar, who lives in the area. "There are problems with gangs of young men here sometimes, but these are not racial problems. These are Asians who are born here fighting with other Asians who are born here and sometimes with whites." In the grocery shops in Kenmure Street white residents queued beside Asians. "I've lived here for 12 years and never had any trouble," said Karen Dunbar. Bashir Ahmad, a councillor for the area, said the community was deeply shocked by the murder. "It is really very sad. Last night I went to the mosque and people said how terrible it was. What we must do now is calm things down and help the police find who did this terrible crime." Mr McKenzie said Kriss's family was devastated by his death. He said Kriss had been a quiet boy who was not known to the police. "By all accounts he was a good boy, very popular," he added. An increase in the police presence in Pollokshields was evident yesterday: officers on horseback and bicycles patrolled the streets with others on foot. 