A man has been found guilty of stabbing his identical twin brother to death on New Year’s Eve after a conversation about the past boiled over into an argument over a can of beer.Robert Cerqua, who stabbed Christopher Cerqua with a kitchen knife, had sobbed in the witness box as he told the court he loved his brother and described how they had been inseparable as children.The verdict at Winchester crown court came after the jury of nine men and three women had deliberated for 16 hours. It was met with a cry from the public gallery but Cerqua showed no emotion.At the time of the murder, the brothers, aged 31, were back at the family home in Hythe, Hampshire, and sharing a bedroom after long-term relationships broke down.Robert told the court the pair often fought after they had been drinking; he claimed his brother was addicted to strong cannabis.He said that on the evening of the killing – 31 December last year – they sat at the kitchen table, drank cans of lager and sang together. But the mood soured and Robert sent his new partner a text saying they were talking about the past and had “things to sort out”. The argument exploded after Christopher demanded a can of one of Robert’s beers and he refused.Robert told the jury: “When I looked up he turned round with a kitchen knife in his hand. He was glaring at me. I thought: ’I’ve got to get the knife’. My memory is a bit hazy but we scuffled.”He said he heard Christopher “yelp” and continued: “I looked down and I had the knife in my hand.” He could see no blood but realised that he had “caught him”.The brothers’ father, Peter, tried to save Christopher, while their mother, Denise, made a frantic 999 call. Robert ran out of the house without stopping to put on his shoes. “I panicked. I didn’t realise how badly he was hurt,” he said. “I wasn’t hanging around.”Robert was very drunk in the early hours of New Year’s Day when police found him and broke the news that his twin was dead. During a police interview, he said: “I killed my fucking brother … Nine out of 10 times it would be all right. Just my luck he had to die on me.”Robert’s barrister, Patrick Upward QC, asked him to describe his “true feelings” towards his brother. With tears in his eyes, Robert said: “I loved him.”Robert told the jury the brothers were very close as boys. “As kids we were inseparable,” he said. Asked by his barrister how they had got on after leaving school, Robert replied: “Really well, just like brothers should. We used to go fishing together, we played golf together. Pretty much any hobby that I had was his too. We were so similar.”They both went into the building trade – Robert as a bricklayer and plasterer, Christopher as a carpenter – and often worked on jobs together.“We used to have a really good laugh,” said Robert. The pair stopped spending so much time together in their early 20s when they began relationships with two women. Robert said Christopher did not see “eye to eye” with his partner.Robert told the court that there were problems between the brothers when they had been drinking. “We would usually fight,” he said.A few months before his death, Christopher’s personality changed dramatically, his brother said. Robert told the court that Christopher became addicted to skunk and was smoking up to £80-worth a day. “It used to make him mad,” he said.In the weeks before his brother’s death, Robert said Christopher had bitten him three times, once on the neck. “It looked like a love bite,” he said. “It hurt. He just laughed.”On New Year’s Eve Robert and Christopher drank cans of lager together at the kitchen table. Robert said he felt really happybecause of a new relationship he had recently started and planned to set up his own business.Robert said he wanted to talk to his brother about his behaviour. In particular he wanted to make sure Christopher would be able to get on better with his new girlfriend than he had with his previous partner.