Sarah is 18 but looks much younger. Her tiny frame is engulfed by a tracksuit top, her hair scraped back, her huge eyes clear of makeup. In the private room of a Barnardo's project, she nervously plays with a heart-shaped cushion.She was 15, she explains, when she and her 14-year-old cousin met a group of men in a takeaway in a run-down area of their home town. Over a few weeks, the men – who said they were 18 but were in fact in their late 20s – showered them with gifts and attention. Before long – often with their 11-year-old cousin in tow – the girls were going to "parties" around the north of England and further afield where much older men would be waiting."They were nice at first," said Sarah, not making eye contact. "Then they got nasty. They started touching me. My cousin went along with it; they said it was a bit of fun. But I don't like people touching me."Sarah knew what they wanted, but she refused and was punched as a result. "I punched them back," she says. "I'm only little, but I'm tough." Her cousin reacted differently; before long she was having sex with a much older "boyfriend", until one night she was raped by one of his friends.According to Barnardo's, Sarah's experience is disturbingly common. Tuesday's announcement from the government comes after months of warnings from Barnardo's that grooming and trafficking of children is on the rise and happening in every UK town. The charity said earlier this year that it had dealt with 1,098 children who had been groomed for sex in 2010, a 4% increase on 2009, and they fear it may be the tip of the iceberg.The Barnardo's centre in the north-east, where the Guardian was recently granted rare access, last year helped 48 sexually exploited children and identified 50 more at risk, as well as running a missing from home service to keep runaways safe. One of 22 Barnardo's centres in the UK, it is homely, with brightly patterned sofas and walls covered in colourful handmade posters. "The Rules", declares one. "Don't meet any-1 on ur own. Be careful who you send pics 2. Never flash your bits on a webcam." The last rule gives an indication of the problems dealt with here: "Trust no-1", it reads.Holly, 15, who was referred to the centre after running away from home and staying out all night, says she has changed her telephone number since coming here. "I was always getting texts saying we should meet up and stuff. Some of them want photos, some ask for naked photos," she says.Horrific tales of abuse are commonplace. Recently the centre helped a girl who by the age of 14 had had sex with more than 40 men. Abused by her father, Lucy was targeted by a gang of Kurdish men while living in care. It was only after they had her complete trust that the sexual abuse started. The girl described lying in wait in a room - when she heard them call a certain Kurdish word as they walked up the stairs, she knew to prepare herself for sex. Asked why she kept returning, she said it was clean, they fed her after school and had given her a pink hairdryer. "These men see a vulnerability, a need for affection and they meet it," said centre manager Wendy. "They pretend they care in order to control and abuse."The centre is dealing with nine cases of suspected trafficking of children, and the suspicion is that around a dozen men are regularly targeting children in this town. "There is a whole business involved. We hear the same names cropping up, but there just isn't enough cross-county work – perpetrators fall through the gaps," said Wendy.The majority of suspected abusers that the centre encounters are non-UK nationals, including Sri Lankans, Kurds and Afghans, Wendy said. "I'm not saying it is not different elsewhere, but here one of the models of abuser we see are people with different cultural beliefs that are sometimes not conducive to child safety."British-born girls are seen as more liberal, and then [the abusers] see that they can make some money by sharing her with their friends. If there is a cultural thing to discuss then we have to look at that more closely in order to properly protect the child."The ethnicity of abusers came under the spotlight this year after the ringleaders of a gang of Asian men in Derby were jailed for grooming girls as young as 12 for sex, and a group of nine mainly Asian men were arrested in Rochdale on suspicion of grooming a group of white teenage girls. The former home secretary Jack Straw said there was a "specific problem" in the Pakistani community, and vulnerable white girls were seen as "easy meat" by some Pakistani men.He was criticised by charities, police and Muslim groups, who said he was wrong to highlight one community, pointing out that the vast majority of convicted sex offenders were white males. The prime minister, David Cameron, has said "cultural sensitivities" should not hinder police action..Barnardo's have identified different patterns of exploitation: the "inappropriate relationship" with an older men who controls and abuses; the "boyfriend model" where the child is groomed by one man before being passed around his friends; and the most serious and organised sexual exploitation where children are passed through networks, often across the country.So why isn't more done to tackle suspected groomers? Police work closely with the charity, said Wendy, but with children often unwilling to admit they are in an abusive situation, or give evidence against their abuser, there is little they can do. Perpetrators also cover their tracks, using aliases and moving towns."There are people who have been exploiting for years, really dangerous men who think they are untouchable because there have never been any consequences for them," she says. "We need to try a different tactic. We need more surveillance of houses, we need more disruption." But this takes money, and with police making big cuts, extra funding to target groomers seems unlikely.Which is why Barnardo's workers take to the streets as evening falls, as one puts it: "Children do not get abused between nine and five". They go to areas targeted by abusers and talk to children they believe are at risk of exploitation. Recently they alerted the police to two brothers, aged nine and 10, who were wandering the streets late at night. Later the police said the boys were found living with their mother, who had learning difficulties, and their convicted paedophile father who was supposed to have no contact. The boys had been asking friends if they wanted to come back to their house.They visit a Barnardo's safe house, before calling in at the local bus station, where they check the men's toilets for phone numbers offering money to boys in return for sex and chat to the security guards to see if they have seen anything suspicious.At around 10 o'clock, Wendy gets in her own car for a last patrol. She drives past rows of boarded-up houses, pointing out brothels along the way, and pulls up outside a flat above a hairdressers, where girls she has helped have told her they have been sexually abused. Asked how, when faced with their stories, she manages to carry on, she shrugs. "You just do, don't you," she says. "Who else is going to do it if we don't?"And you see kids come out of it. They grow up, become mothers, have lives – and when you see that, you know you've helped them to get there."• Names in this article have been changed for safety reasons