His face is famous now. It shines out at us from all the newspapers and television screens, bright-eyed and sweet, with a joyful, gappy grin. An eager 10-year-old boy who came from the chaos of Nigeria, hoping to find a better life in Britain, and who, on a dark November afternoon, ended up bleeding to death in a grotty stairwell in Peckham. 'I will see him now, every minute, for the rest of my life,' said his grandmother.There's a shrine already growing at the site of his death. Bouquets of flowers are being laid there, and messages of anger and sorrow. The shrine will grow, for, as in the death of Diana, his story has stirred us all up, in pity and in shame and in the need to take part in the national mourning. It's like the Stephen Lawrence murder, like the killing of Sarah Payne, like James Bulger's death. The slaughter of innocence. How could it happen, and why?But while the James Bulger murder seems at first closest in kind, children killing a child, it's quite different. That was like something from another planet, or a grisly horror story made up to spook us at night: two 10-year-old boys snatching a toddler where he waited a few yards from his mother, walking him for hundreds of yards while he wept, torturing him, doing unspeakable things with batteries (they thought once he was dead they could get him going again), finishing him off. There was a grainy video recording of the toddler's abduction so we could watch the replay over and over, tragedy on a loop; there was a video-nasty that the little murderers had maybe watched and imitated. It was clear to most people what to think. We had a robust moral consensus: inadequate or bad parenting, foul television, evil boys and life should mean life. Like the Old Testament God, the public was filled with a need for vengeance. But whoever murdered Damilola Taylor presumably did it by mistake - the murderers are probably horrified and terrified by what they have done. They slashed him and ran off, leaving him to hobble a few steps for help, in the sudden fountain of his own blood. If they hadn't happened to have hit a major artery, it might have been one brief paragraph in the local newspaper; or not even that.If it was an act of depravity, it was the ordinary, nasty, diluted depravity of the way we live now. If it was an act of wickedness, it was wickedness that is being repeated, without the fatal consequences, each day all over the country. Boys are always beating up other boys, everyone knows that. The fact that something very common - ordinary violence - turned into something very uncommon - the murder of a child - places the Damilola Taylor story right at the heart of our society. This is not something set apart from us, that we can describe as evil and monstrous and unnatural, and shut away and forget about. It's with us, all around us, if only we look. It's a glimpse into the world in which we live. This other Britain is ours. Because of this, the little dead boy has become like a lightning rod for a wave of moral scrutiny. But his story has no simple reading. Everyone brings to him the meaning they want to find. He proves everybody's case for them. For moral conservatives, his murder is obviously to do with some kind of collapse of decency, four years after Labour came to power. They argue that there is not enough policing, and that lawlessness rages in housing estates like the one in Peckham, south London, where Damilola briefly lived. (Although, in fact, that particular area had made striking improvements in crime rates in recent years). Commentators who visited it talked of a place 'defaced by rubbish, covered in graffiti, dogged by violence and peopled by a horrifyingly high proportion of youths who are antisocial and prone to violence...'. They argue, too, that broken parenting is the root cause of male aggression and purposelessness. Boys brought up by single mothers go wrong more easily. The traditional family must be restored. On the other side of the fence, liberal critics point to social exclusion and poverty. The gulf that divides the increasingly wealthy from the disenfranchised poor deepens. The youths who are disruptive at school, who are excluded, who wander around the streets with knives, who scuffle on pavements and whose status rises with each act of brutal cool are victims as well as bullies. The culture of mindless machismo, where Damilola was called 'gay' and pushed around because he was eager to learn, is a culture which traps everybody. And somewhere in the uncomfortable middle territory is a new, anxious debate about black-on-black racism, which for many of us is a new one: Nigerians targeted by Afro-Caribbeans. Worried parents focus on bullying at school (a recent survey shows that 37 per cent of teenage boys say they have been subjected to physical violence), and the way in which boys who want to study are vulnerable to playground torments. They want to change the whole school culture, and many feel that teachers simply do not take bullying seriously enough, in spite of the widespread introduction of anti-bullying policies and of the subject of personal and social relations to the national curriculum. Teachers talk of being over-worked and under-valued; for many of them, Damilola was an accident waiting to happen, a shock but no surprise. Architects say housing estates like the ones in Peckham should be bulldozed; experts in city planning say that the problem is that they are being bulldozed too fast, fracturing what sense of community there is. Politicians talk about the 'walk on by' culture; the drug culture; the 'greed is good' and 'who wants to be a millionaire?' culture. We own so much now - we spend more of our money on leisure and entertainment than anything else. We have so many things: satellite TV and computers and mobile phones - and the next must-have is round the corner. But where is our spiritual centre? Religious leaders talk about a vacuum, where God once was, and faith. The blame shifts queasily from individual to family to state and all the way back again. Everyone's to blame. Nobody's to blame. There are no shared moral assumptions here, no dialogue between different ideologies. We are poles apart, sharing only the visceral pity at the thought of Damilola crawling along the road looking for help and never finding it. And what must his last minutes have been like? We search for reasons, desperately wanting a simple one that will unite us again. We feel that something has gone wrong, but we don't know what it is. It is hard to accept that there is no single reason in this bleak tale, and therefore no easy solution. Everyone's a little bit right: the boy was killed because of racism, machismo, an affectless and alienated society, deprivation, broken parenting, a terrible mistake, the worst luck - a whole cocktail of circumstances which coalesced one November afternoon, and it happened to be Damilola Taylor who was there. It could have been someone else, somewhere else. The James Bulger murder was a one-off, and nothing like that will happen again for a long, long time. The Damilola Taylor murder was not. It could happen again next week, next month. Which is why we should not forget too quickly. Damilola should be the ghost of Christmas present, haunting us with his sweet face and his short life and his lonely end. Related stories 30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate