Kirsty Blanksby turns 20 tomorrow but there will be no party to mark the occasion. 'I will just lock myself away,' she said with tears in her eyes. 'I'll never celebrate my birthday again. I don't think I'll be able to celebrate anything again.'Kirsty should have been unwrapping presents with her identical twin sister Petra. But she will be alone. On 19 November last year, Petra tied a shoelace around her neck in her prison cell at New Hall, Wakefield. After five nights and six days by her side, Kirsty and her father Peter kissed Petra goodbye as the doctor switched off the oxygen supply. 'I held her hand and gave her a kiss as she took her last heartbeat,' Kirsty said. 'She'd been thrashing around and her eyes were opening and closing. I knew this was it.' Not a day goes by when she doesn't have flashbacks. 'There is no medicine that can take that away,' said Kirsty, who is sure Petra would be alive today if she had not been in prison. Petra was on remand, charged with arson with intent to kill. She had in fact been trying to kill herself. She had been abused as a child and had been self-harming - injuring herself by cutting, burning or overdosing - since she was 12. She was severely depressed. In the months before she ended up in prison, the 19-year-old swallowed razor blades, overdosed, burnt her hair off, and tried to throw herself off a bridge. By the time of her arrest, her problems were so severe that there were several such incidents a day, and the arson was one of them. During her 130 days in prison, she self-harmed 92 times. She was on suicide watch, but she was not being monitored 24 hours a day. Now Kirsty is asking why Petra was allowed to be sent to prison when she desperately needed psychiatric care. Petra was not alone. She was one of 14 women who took their lives in prison in 2003. This year, there have been nine suicides already. In one women's prison there were 209 self-harm incidents up to 17 June this year, with one death. These involved 41 adults and 11 young offenders and included burning, self-strangulation and swallowing glass. The Observer is highlighting the plight of these women, many of whom are on remand or serving short sentences for petty crimes. Our campaign aims to draw atten tion to the high numbers of vulnerable women with severe mental health problems who are in jail where the care facilities are inadequate. Kirsty understands her twin's illness. Her own body is covered in scars. On the back of one hand are marks from where she has sliced up the skin. A large burn is visible on her inside arm. A month ago she overdosed and slashed her feet. 'The deeper you cut, the better you feel,' she explained. 'It is a way of coping when bad things happen. For Petra, it was a way of coping every day. You are hurting so much inside you can't let it go unless you hurt yourself.' The twins were put into care when they were nine and were split up. Their childhood was traumatic. 'We were forced to drink urine, slammed against the wall and once made to eat dog food.' Kirsty said they were sexually assaulted as teenagers. They spent years in and out of hospital after numerous self-harm incidents. 'I will never regret my scars because they are how I felt at the time,' said Kirsty, holding out her arms. 'These marks represent all the emotional hurt and I will not live my life ashamed of them.' But more painful was the lack of understanding of their mental health problems. 'We were not treated as normal people. A nurse once said I was using beds needed for real patients.' Kirsty has started burning herself. 'I prefer it because it is a more intense pain,' she says calmly. She pauses and looks to her father for support. 'We can't help it,' she says firmly. 'It's an illness. If someone has a broken leg, everyone runs about after them yet if you have mental health problems people ignore it because they don't understand.' Kirsty is angry there was no resident psychiatrist at New Hall. 'Half the people in there need that support - Petra needed it.' After her death, prison workers admitted that they were not equipped to cope with Petra's problems. 'The prison staff are wonderful,' stressed Kirsty. 'But they don't have the facilities they need.' Her father added: 'You only had to glance at her history to know she should not have been there.' Kirsty does not think Petra would have died outside prison. 'There was always someone who knew what she was doing. She thought she had seven years ahead of her in prison and nothing to live for.' Petra had a young son who was adopted a month before she died. Her medical records note that she had said once he was safe, she would be free to go. It is unclear if the prison had access to the notes. On 13 November Petra sent a visiting order to her sister. Kirsty did not receive it in time because she was in hospital after an overdose. A day after she was discharged she was told by phone that Petra was in intensive care in Pinderfields hospital in Wakefield. She never saw her sister conscious again. After Petra's death, the prison gave the family the address of Inquest, a charity that supports families whose loved ones have committed suicide in prison and campaigns for changes to the system. They put Kirsty in touch with Joanne Kearsley, from Farleys solicitors. She is now helping them get through the inquest into Petra's death, likely to take place next year. 'How can they punish you for trying to kill yourself?' asks Kirsty, as tears stream down her face. 'Petra was so special, everybody loved her. The bond between us is broken now but I want to change things so that women like Petra do not die in prison.' www.inquest.org.uk