The home secretary, John Reid, today confirmed he was delaying plans for police force mergers until the autumn after opposition from MPs and some police constabularies.Dr Reid insisted though that the proposal to reduce the number of forces from 43 to 17 was still being worked on by the Home Office, arguing that mergers were still "the right way to improve protective police services". But he added: "I am keen to continue the discussion and dialogue we have begun with police forces and police authorities on the best way to get to that destination. "Accordingly, I do not propose to lay any orders for enforced police mergers before the summer recess," he said. The move was welcomed by MPs, including Tory Robert Goodwill (Scarborough and Whitby), who accused Mr Reid of kicking mergers "into the long grass".Shortly after taking over as home secretary last month, Mr Reid told the Association of Chief Police Officers that he hoped to have started the mergers by the July 25 recess.He said then: "I don't think that you will be waiting in September or November for something to start on this. We have a parliamentary recess which begins at the end of July. I think we will have started the process by then - for some of the people anyway." Mr Reid also indicated that mergers could proceed at a "slightly different pace" in areas where there was still some opposition. Today, he said he still hoped to press ahead with laying orders for the voluntary merger of Cumbria and Lancashire police forces. But Mr Goodwill suggested that mergers would now be a long way down the Home Office agenda. "I can understand your wish to kick this into the long grass which, in the case of Yorkshire and the Humber, I hope is elephant grass," he said, before calling for a referendum before any enforced mergers took place. Labour's Ian Lucas (Wrexham) said that the delay would be "extremely popular" in north Wales, which was facing the prospect of an all-Wales police force. He said he thought the case for such a force was "wanting". Mr Reid said he was responding "to the will of the house, of the police authorities and many outside this house" to address anxieties about the move. The police reform programme was begun by former home secretary Charles Clarke after a report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary which said the current set-up was unable to deal with the demands of 21st-century policing. The idea of bigger, better resourced, forces came in the wake of criticism of the small Cambridgeshire police force's response to the Soham murders. But the government's plans had run into opposition from a combination of police forces and rebel Labour backbenchers concerned that larger forces would distance policing from local people. Earlier in the month Cleveland police force, due to be merged with the Durham and Northumbria forces, launched a bid for a judicial review of the policy in the high court. A group of Labour MPs led by John Grogan warned the home secretary last month that they intended to sabotage the merger plans when they come through the Commons in the autumn.Mr Grogan, the MP for Selby, believes he has found a technicality on which mergers can be defeated.When the home secretary puts a statutory instrument before the Commons to authorise individual mergers, rebel MPs, with the aid of the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, could demand a vote from the Speaker and potentially defeat the orders.