A solicitor warned yesterday that the threat of a jail sentence imposed on a persistent beggar in Manchester could "open the floodgates" for actions by other cities against people who ask for money on the streets.Ben Taylor was speaking after a judge granted an injunction against his client, Leonard Hockey, a 51-year-old heroin addict, banning him from begging in the centre of Manchester. Mr Hockey, of Salford, Greater Manchester, has been arrested 97 times for begging. He faces up to two years in jail for contempt of court if he is caught again in the city centre. The injunction will run for two years. The charity Crisis condemned the decision as "yet another example of the coercion and criminalisation of beggars and street homeless people". The civil action against Mr Hockey was brought by Manchester city council and Greater Manchester police. Begging is illegal under the Vagrancy Act 1824, but it does not carry a prison sentence. At Manchester county court, Judge Richard Holman found that Mr Hockey's activities were a public nuisance. "It is plain on his own evidence that the defendant intends to continue begging," he said. "There is therefore a strong evidential basis for concluding nothing short of an injunction will be effective to restrain the defendant from continuing his begging. The fact is that it [begging] is intrusive and it conflicts with an entirely legitimate aim of providing a pleasant and welcoming environment in the city centre for the general population." The judge said that Hockey's usual method was to target car park pay stations. "All the while, the beggar is there at the pay machine and it is very difficult to ignore him," he said. "There is also the worry as to what may happen if you decline to give the beggar any money, since unhappily some beggars can be abusive or aggressive." Mr Taylor said his client was disappointed by the ruling and he would advise him to appeal. "Mr Hockey has no alternative but to beg. It is his only way of raising his income," he said. "My client is now prevented from begging in the Manchester city area, but there is nothing from stopping him begging elsewhere, though I would advise against this as it is a criminal activity. "We have always said that my client is not a public nuisance. He simply asks people for change." He said other councils had taken an interest in the case. "This is not a blanket judgment but this will open the floodgates to other local authorities bringing injunctive proceedings against beggars." Basil Curley, Manchester city council's executive member for housing, said the injunction sent the right message to people begging in the streets. "These people are not hungry or homeless," he said. "Over 90% of profits from begging goes to fund a drug habit. In Mr Hockey's case this [action] was used as a last resort. He has had 97 cautions." Mr Curley said he hoped Mr Hockey would now get the help he needed and go in to rehabilitation. Inspector Paul Thorpe, a community beat inspector with Greater Manchester police, also welcomed the judgment. He said that each year £1m given in spare change went into drug profits which funded criminal activity. But Shaks Ghosh, chief executive of Crisis, said the decision marked "a sad day for homeless people" and that Mr Hockey's 97 arrests represented 97 failed opportunities for intervention. 