There is an inescapably nightmarish quality to CCTV footage of a terrible crime, the sense of ordinary life impotently observed at the very moment tragedy intrudes. Seldom has such footage been so haunting as that which captured the killing of 15-year-old Alan Cartwright at about 7.30pm on Friday 27 February.Released last week by the Metropolitan police, it shows the moment the schoolboy was stabbed in the chest as he cycled along the busy Caledonian Road in Islington, north London, part of a group of four friends.It happens in a flash, in the blink of an eye. The boy continues cycling northwards, seemingly unharmed, but in fact he collapsed a couple of hundred yards up the road, outside the Cally swimming pool, where he was later pronounced dead.It’s a shocking scene, not because it’s especially graphic, but because it’s so quick. One second a young boy is cycling with his friends, the next his life is brought to a sickeningly premature end. What lends this film a still more unnerving quality is that around it London life continues as ever: people walk by and cars head homewards as the illuminated city readies itself for the weekend.Although relatively rare, killings can of course occur anywhere. This is particularly the case with teenage deaths, which bear little geographical correlation to the wealth or poverty of an area. A map of London teenage killings over the last 10 years shows a fairly equal distribution of locations throughout the centre of the city.But Caledonian Road, or the Cally, as it’s known by locals, has long harboured a reputation for having a rough edge. Running from King’s Cross to Holloway, it has for many years been a strange borderline of a thoroughfare. As far back as 1886, the social researcher Charles Booth called it a “depressing district”. And as the authors of The Secret History of Our Streets: London put it: “The Caledonian Road has always been a firebreak: a dividing line between a fitful affluence to the east and the consistent deprivation to the west.”Last week the Times hailed King’s Cross, which lies to the west of the Cally, “a symbol of London’s emergence as perhaps the – not just a – world city”. The newspaper noted that as recently as 1997 the area was synonymous with homelessness and prostitution.Since then one of Europe’s largest building projects has brought an abundance of shiny office blocks – including the Observer’s – and luxury penthouse apartments to what was once a desert of goods yards and empty railway land, abandoned to drug addicts and street sex workers.Meanwhile, the affluence of Barnsbury to the east has grown much less fitful, as its Regency terraces have become solid £2m properties. Squeezed between this massive regeneration and salubrious gentrification, the Cally can feel like an embattled strip of a fast-retreating or forgotten London.Its chequered history is constructed around the giant Victorian institutions that shaped the neighbourhood. To the south, King’s Cross station, which brought in migrant workers, to the north the cattle market and abattoirs that fed the city, and in the middle the dominating presence of Pentonville prison, casting both a literal and figurative shadow over the area.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Cartwright. 18-year-old Joshua Williams, of Davenant Road, north London, has been charged with his murder. Photograph: Metropolitan Police/PAThey were the kind of establishments that, while necessary, few wanted to live near. And so the Cally became home to the marginalised and the dissident, renowned in the 19th century for its Fenian population and protests.Nowadays the radicalism has faded, but a spirit of exceptionalism lives on in the locals, who speak of the Cally with a mixture of fierce pride and headshaking frustration. Last week many residents voiced their affection for its strong sense of community while despairing at what some perceived as a growing threat of crime and violence.In Edward Square, a small public park that was rescued from the grip of developers by a local campaign, a nurse called Sinedu Tilahun and her friend, Rezarta Rapaj, spoke of their fear of hooded youths on bikes. Tilahun said that in her job she saw a lot of stabbing victims in the trauma unit, and usually they were attacked over trivialities or for minor amounts of money. “I don’t feel safe taking out my phone,” she said.Rapaj recalled that when she first moved into the area she was mugged by a youth on a bike, who grabbed her and snatched her bag. “I ran after him screaming,” she said, “but afterwards everyone told me that I was mad, that I could have been stabbed.”Yet Tilahun said that she also didn’t feel at ease when she walked into the “different world” of Barnsbury nearby. “I get intimidated when I go there. They look at you as if you’re from another planet.”This is a common response. Most of the inhabitants of the Cally have little interaction with the alternate realities that sandwich them. They operate in a separate economic and social milieu. For while the dramatic canalside setting of Central Saint Martins College and the gastropubs of Barnsbury are just a few minutes’ walk away, in terms of what they mean to many locals they might as well be on the moon.In this respect the Cally is a microcosm of a struggle taking place out of sight in many areas of London. As the city rushes forwards, stubborn pockets of communities that don’t fit into the modernising project are left behind, either to fend for themselves or succumb to the encroaching forces of development and the property market. The parade of shops in front of which Cartwright was attacked is an unremarkable collection of the practical – shoe repairs, dry cleaning, barbers, solicitors; the exotic (tattoo parlours and laser clinics); and several fast-food chicken shops and Ethiopian cafes. It has that atmosphere of established transience, as if any of the shops and cafes could close at any moment to be replaced by something very much the same.In a solicitors’ office, a lawyer who wished to remain anonymous said that on his first day at work, about 15 years ago, a man was stabbed to death outside the building. “I’m a solicitor, so I don’t want to say anything against potential clients,” he said, “but it’s always been a tough area. I was assaulted at my desk once because I asked someone to be quiet who was making a lot of noise outside on the street.”Yet at the BTB electrical supply store, Gordon Bush said that Cartwright’s killing was completely unrepresentative of daily life on the Cally. “I’ve been here since 1966 and there have always been problems, but this is out of the blue. You can’t say this is typical,” he said. He thought there had been more tension since “real” police had been taken off the street. “Those plastic coppers,” he said, referring to community support officers, “can’t deal with anything.”Another shopkeeper, who also refused to give his name, said that he had witnessed as many as six ambushes of young cyclists in the past couple of years. “They just rush out from behind a parked car, knock them over and they’re gone. No one gets involved, and nor would I,” he said, because the attacks were so quick and because he had already been the victim of a stabbing in another part of London. “I was off work for seven weeks and when I came back around a dozen of my clients told me that they had been stabbed too.” Nevertheless he believed there was “a real sense of community” in the Cally. “There are no secrets.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Granary Square in King’s Cross, where a massive redevelopment project is under way right next to the Caledonian Road’s often down-at-heel shops. Photograph: AlamyExcept if it’s the press asking. I approached a couple of youths pushing a bike and asked them if they felt it was a safe neighbourhood. “Yeah, it’s safe,” answered the taller one, a young man with a bold swagger and a furtive expression. “But not for you, so why don’t you fuck off before I beat you up and take your watch.”The pair of them then walked off, as if they had fulfilled their civic duty. The threat was later repeated by the same youth when I tried to interview the owner of a cafe frequented by local teenagers. The owner decided he was too busy to answer my questions.In the wake of a traumatic event, a reluctance to speak to outsiders, especially the media, is understandable. But there was something more going on here, a marking out of turf, a projection of local resistance.Behind Caledonian Road, on the Bemerton estate, where Cartwright lived, a menacing group of about 20 youths gathered at the entrance, as if protecting their territory. Around the corner on the main road was the makeshift shrine where Cartwright had died, filled with flowers and moving testaments to the popular cadet and Arsenal supporter. One had been written by Cartwright himself, a mini-biography he had earlier penned, perhaps as a school project.“He was a very nice boy,” said Moussa Mastoukhan, a shopkeeper at the 24-hour All Time Supermarket, directly outside which Cartwright was stabbed. “We don’t have trouble with kids here.”Two other teenagers from the neighbourhood have also died in recent months, one on a crashed moped during a police pursuit and the other in another moped accident. It’s said that all three boys knew each other.A clutch of hooded teenagers stood guard amid the floral tributes for Cartwright, a couple with their faces masked. For all the aggressiveness of their stance, the youths, as Mastoukhan had said, were no trouble. Nor, for all the talk of muggings, bicycle thefts and bravado threats, is the Cally afflicted by an abnormal crime spree.There have been a spate of stabbings in Islington this year, but none of the others was near the Cally. And in general across the city, stabbings of teenagers are coming down. They peaked in 2007 and 2008, when close to 30 were killed each year. Last year that number was down to 11, although this year already five teenagers have met violent deaths.A significant number of killings involving teenagers in recent years have been gang-related, but as the policeman leading the investigation, Detective Chief Inspector Chris Jones, said: “Alan, in my mind, was not a gang member and was purely a 15-year-old boy cycling with his friends on a Friday night at 7.30pm.”There has been talk that the local drug trade has fostered a more dangerous climate on the streets. Islington Labour councillor Paul Convery, who is responsible for community safety, attributed the recent rise in knife attacks on the borough’s streets to the background role of drugs and turf wars.Police have charged a man with Cartwright’s murder and, as things stand, everything regarding the crime is speculation. But one thing is clear. The idea, widely repeated last week, that Cartwright was in the wrong place at the wrong time does a disservice to the teenager and his community. The Cally was his home and cycling along it on 7.30pm on a Friday evening was a perfectly conventional thing to do. He had no reason to expect the appalling fate that awaited him in the heart of his neighbourhood.According to the FT’s report, life expectancy in King’s Cross has climbed to 79. It didn’t say what it is in the Cally, although by any reckoning it must be a great deal more than 15.Alan Cartwright’s life was cut needlessly short. The life of the resilient community in which he lived those few years has to carry on, even if it’s not clear where it’s heading. But then the Cally has a long history of an uncertain future and so far it’s survived.After it mourns the young victim, the Cally will survive this killing, too. The question now is how long it can hold out against the two-sided ambush of its upmarket neighbours.