A couple have been jailed for the manslaughter of their five-month old son, who died from rickets after they neglected his care because of their religious beliefs.Nkosiyapha Kunene, 36, and his wife, Virginia, 32, admitted the manslaughter of their son Ndingeko. Mr Kunene was jailed for three years, and his wife for two years, three months.The pair repeatedly rejected medical treatment and ignored the advice of relatives to seek help after their son became ill, stating that only God gives life.  Virginia Kunene refused a scan during pregnancy after medical staff expressed concern for the baby's health. Photograph: Mark Thomas/RexNdingeko later died after contracting rickets as a result of a severe vitamin D deficiency. Passing sentence, Mr Justice Singh at the Old Bailey said: "The secular courts of this country apply the secular law of the land. They do so equally to all who come before them. The law respects the right of everyone to freedom of thought and belief."However the right to manifest one's religion is not absolute. It is limited in particular by the rights of others. The state has a particularly important duty to protect the right to life, especially when a young child is concerned."The couple, from Erith, Kent, admitted the charge at earlier hearings.The judge said that the couple, otherwise "dedicated and humble", were strict Seventh Day Adventists. But he added: "However their views (in particular Mr Kunene's) appear to be very extreme and do not reflect the official doctrine of that church."Mrs Kunene had sought medical attention in the seventh month of her pregnancy, as the couple hoped to have a natural home birth. She refused medical attention after staff expressed concern for the baby's health, saying it was "God's will" that she did not have a scan.Ndingeko was born on 1 December 2011 and died on 14 June 2012. He spent several days in a special care baby unit due to his low birth weight but his severe vitamin D deficiency was not detected. Once discharged, the couple had promised to return to the hospital should he become unwell. The couple had not refused all medical interventions at all times, but in the following months his health deteriorated and the couple declined check-ups.When family members expressed serious concerns, Mr Kunene responded by saying "we are praying" and "we can't do anything about it until the lord sanctions".On 14 June 2012, he called 999 saying his five-month old child had no signs of life. Police were called to their home, where they tried to resuscitate the baby, but he was pronounced dead later that evening.The judge said that Mr Kunene realised, when he returned home from work on that day, that Ndingeko might die, but he did not call for medical assistance. His wife said that on that day she did wish to seek medical attention but her husband said it would be a sin.The judge ruled that the husband's culpability was higher than that of his wife, which he reflected in the sentence.The judge said he had heard evidence that the hospital also played a part in failing properly to advise the couple and prescribe vitamin D supplements, adding that a serious case review had been taking place and was due to report shortly. It was, according to Singh, to be hoped that all necessary inquiries will have been made by various authorities to establish that everything was done to protect the boy's life that could reasonably have been done.The Seventh-Day Adventist church has issued a statement stressing that church members should seek and listen to health advice.• This article was amended on 5 March 2015 to remove a reference to rickets being contracted as a result of a vegan diet.