More than 80% of CCTV pictures are of such poor quality they are no good for police purposes, and most cameras are in the wrong places to help in fighting serious crime or terrorism, according to a joint Home Office and police report yesterday. The first official report on the need for a national CCTV strategy admits the authorities have no idea how many cameras exist despite claims that Britain is the most watched nation in the world, with more than 4m in operation.The report says there are no statutory safeguards and anyone is able to set up a CCTV network. It suggests the first steps to driving up standards would be to start a national database of schemes, with stronger powers for the information commissioner to license them. Whether legal powers exist to tackle invasions of privacy involving privately-run CCTV is a grey area.Most CCTV camera networks have been developed to tackle low-level, high-volume crime and disorder in town centres, it says. The police are concerned that such cameras at shopping centres and transport hubs are being used to "monitor crowds, slips, trips and falls" and "patrol" rather than to detect crime. This is compounded by an increasing tendency for CCTV schemes to be used as income generators, whether for monitoring bus lanes or for electronic patrolling of private retail and business parks.The report says the picture quality of footage passed to police from many CCTV cameras is "far from ideal" for identifying suspects. It worries that while most footage used to be kept for up to 31 days, there is a tendency for operators to retain it for only 14 days. The report adds that CCTV footage has been helpful, for example in analysis in the wake of the July 7 London bombing, but consideration now needs to be given to placing cameras in areas which would probably not match local crime priorities.It notes that preparations for the 2012 Olympics give the opportunity to reassess the strategic location of cameras all over London. Cameras also need to cover major national infrastructure.The national strategy suggests that a new body is needed to oversee the development of CCTV schemes, including reviewing the location and purpose of all cameras.A Home Office spokesman said the report highlighted the need for improved public accountability, a centralised database, national training standards and a stronger role for the information commissioner. "All the recommendations will be assessed by an expert programme board and a proposed plan of action will be submitted to ministers for consideration."