A car salesman duped a string of lovers and friends into believing he was an undercover secret agent then conned them out of more than £650,000 in a "cruel and calculated" scam which robbed his victims of some of the best years of their lives, it was alleged yesterday.Robert Hendy-Freegard, 32, began to spin his decade-long "wide-rimmed web of deceit" in 1992 after befriending three final year students from Harper Adams Agricultural College in Newport, Shropshire, a court heard. He allegedly told one of them, John Atkinson, that he was a Special Branch agent and his job as a barman in a nearby pub was a cover for his investigation of an IRA cell at the college. Persuading Mr Atkinson to help with the mission, Mr Hendy-Freegard first subjected him to beatings to ensure he was "hard enough" and then conned him into believing his cover had been blown and he would have to give up his life and go on the run, Blackfriars crown court, south London heard. He then duped the other two students, Sarah Smith and Maria Hendy, by falsely telling them that Mr Atkinson had Aids and convincing them to come on a farewell journey around the UK. It was only while they were away on the trip that Mr Hendy-Freegard told the women the IRA story warning them and Mr Atkinson that contracts had been taken out on their lives because of their association with him. Godfrey Carey QC, prosecuting, said the students believed his story because of his "persuasiveness" and because of the political climate at the time, in which there had been a number of IRA bombings. He told the jury Mr Hendy-Freegard, a "consummate confidence trickster" forced them to lead "clandestine and secretive" lives in miserable conditions for several years as he acted out the deceit. Mr Carey said: "The spider at the centre of Mr Hendy-Freegard's wide-rimmed web of deceit was his claim that he was an undercover Special Branch officer for MI5 or Scotland Yard, and variations thereof, which meant that those involved with him had to pursue a clandestine and secretive way of life." The court heard how Mr Hendy-Freegard forced the three students to live in appalling conditions while he gave them meagre allowances to live on. They were subjected to degrading rules, such as not being allowed to use the lavatory before him and were often made to wait hours or even days for non-existent rendezvous. He also convinced the students to break off contact with their families, claiming it could further endanger their lives. "The three remained under his spell for at least three years and in the case of Sarah Smith for 10," said Mr Carey. They were eventually split up and took up jobs, with much of the money ending up with Mr Hendy-Freegard. Miss Smith was only allowed to keep the tips from her job as a hotel worker, while he controlled the rest of her pay, the court was told. He is accused of stealing more than £200,000 from Miss Smith including loans from her mother for £23,000 and £23,500, and £99,064 from a trust fund. Mr Hendy-Freegard continued to live with Miss Smith and began a relationship with her after the three students went separate ways, the court was told. She was captivated by his "charm and sexuality" and bore him two daughters, but he was controlling and obsessive and threatened to kill her. When she found out he was having an affair, she confronted him and was badly beaten up, the jury was told. The court also heard how Mr Hendy-Freegard persuaded Mr Atkinson to ask his father for large amounts of money on the pretext of starting a plumbing business. He is accused of stealing £390,000 from Mr Atkinson. Mr Carey said: "If the effect of this deceit had not been quite so dire, he [Hendy-Freegard] could be dismissed as a Walter Mitty. But we suggest this case is not an equivalent at all. There was cruelty in the way that he forced his victims to live, depriving them of valuable years of their young lives ..." Mr Hendy-Freegard met his fourth alleged victim, Elizabeth Richardson, in a car salesroom where she worked and began an affair, the court heard. Mr Carey said the defendant had a hold over Miss Richardson because he had taken pictures of her naked which he threatened to show to her husband if she disobeyed him. On some occasions she was given £1 a week to live on so she could buy a Mars bar and eat a slice of bread a day, visiting pub toilets to get water, the court was told. He said the defendant made her take loans for £6,000 and £8,000 which he put in his account and told her it was to help sort out her debts. He made her dye her hair blonde, saying it was best to change her appearance as they were under cover,the court was told. Mr Hendy-Freegard met his next victim, Caroline Cowper, a legal adviser, at a car salesroom in Chiswick, west London, in the middle of 2000. He persuaded her to part with £12,800 twice in consecutive months for a money-making scheme, the court was told, but she got nothing. Mr Hendy-Freegard and Miss Cowper also began a relationship and were engaged but the marriage was called off after her family intervened, the jury heard. The court was finally told of Mr Hendy-Freegard's relationship with psychologist Kimberley Adams which began in 2002. He told her a similar story to the one he had told the three students, claiming to be an undercover agent working for the British government. The court heard how Mr Hendy-Freegard managed to con thousands of pounds from Miss Adams' family. Mr Carey said she was terrified of her partner, saying that at one point he had threatened to kill her and her son. The court was told that after his arrest at Terminal 4 of Heathrow airport in May Mr Hendy-Freegard denied all the allegations made against him. In interviews he said the claims that he had behaved dishonestly for 10 years had been invented as part of a "conspiracy" by those who held a grudge against him, including Miss Smith's father and Caroline Cowper. He denies all the charges on an indictment containing 21 counts. The case continues today. The chargesRobert Hendy-Freegard faces a total of 21 charges. They are:  Kidnapping Four charges (Maria Hendy, John Atkinson, Sarah Smith and Elizabeth Richardson) Assault occasioning actual bodily harm Two charges (Maria Hendy) Making a threat to kill Two charges (Maria Hendy and Kimberley Adams) Theft from Sarah Smith, five charges totalling approximately £201,000; from John Atkinson, one charge, of £390,000; from Elizabeth Richardson, two charges totalling approximately £14,500 Obtaining a money transfer by deception from Caroline Cowper, four charges totalling £41,184; from Kimberley Adams, one charge, of $35,000