Police arrested a 31-year-old man yesterday on suspicion of murdering Laura Torn, 18, who vanished nine days ago after a lock-in at a village pub.The suspect, from the Isle of Axholme, north Lincolnshire, is being questioned by detectives at Scunthorpe, 12 miles from Owston Ferry where the young woman disappeared. The last sighting of Laura was at 12.45am on April 27 after she left the Crooked Billet pub in the village where she lived with her parents. Divers resumed a search of the tidal reach of the river Trent - one of the trickiest inland waterways in Britain - at Owston Ferry, where one of Laura's distinctive platform boots was found on a bank last week, just below the waterline. Visibility in the water is almost always nil, with the Trent flowing one way for three hours and then changing direction for nine, stirring up clouds of mud and ooze. Humberside police divers called in a team of specialists with side-scan sonar to sweep a five-mile stretch of the river from bank to bank. A police spokeswoman said that if there was a body in the river, the sonar would find it. Officers have also focused their search on the Red Lion pub at Owston Ferry, which has been boarded up after a recent fire. The search for the teenager, who was brought up in Owston Ferry, was redesignated a murder inquiry yesterday. A police spokeswoman said: "Up to this point, the incident had remained a missing person inquiry but we have now officially launched a murder inquiry." The village was brought to a halt on Saturday night as detectives questioned drivers and visited pubs to reconstruct people's movements on the night that Laura went to the Crooked Billet with her family to celebrate passing her driving test. Among those questioned was a man understood to have had a relationship with the teenager and to have been involved in an argument with her earlier in the evening. Last Friday Laura's father, Peter, a lorry driver, joined his wife, Heather, at a press conference where they said there was "no reason in the world" why their daughter should go missing. They described Laura as "a happy, normal teenager" who had been in a cheerful mood on the night she disappeared. Her parents took her younger brother, Martin, 13, home from the Crooked Billet at 10pm but Laura stayed on and was last seen leaving the pub at 12.45am with a male friend.