In 2008, the National Audit Office asked the parole board to explain why its release rates had declined when serious reoffending by prisoners on licence had not increased. Sir David Latham, chair of the board, has provided an answer to that question in an interview with the Guardian when he explained that public reaction to high-profile cases such as Jon Venables "heightened the danger of politicians and parole board members making 'skewed decisions' based on wrong assumptions about the risks offenders would pose to the public".I had personal experience of this earlier in the week when the Mail on Sunday supposedly "outed" me as Jon Venables's lawyer and suggested that I made my living at taxpayers' expense on the back of undeserving criminals.The article they printed was written after a journalist had called unannounced at my home, claiming that he had obtained my details from the electoral register. It contained a large picture of me, details of my home and the area where I live and my partner's name and age. I have no idea why any of this information is relevant to the question of whether Venables or any other prisoner is deserving of legal representation, but it left me feeling vulnerable and my privacy invaded. In fact, I have not represented Venables for several years and I suspect that my real crime in their eyes was refusing to talk to them about the case, as I strongly believe that all my clients – both past and present – are fully deserving of legal representation as well as confidentiality.I fully accept that people may disagree with the work that lawyers undertake, whether on a personal or intellectual level. I also accept that anyone working in the criminal justice system will deal with cases that are newsworthy and fall within the realm of legitimate public debate. However, that can never justify the increasing desire in some sections of the media to conflate lawyers with their clients. This is an approach that has reared its head in the coverage of some terrorist trials, where the gender and religion of the defence lawyer become the focus of the article.It was also seen in relation to Peter Sutcliffe's application to the high court about the length of his tariff, which was reduced to the headline: "The woman who wants to free the Yorkshire Ripper". It is possible to write provocative or thoughtful pieces on these issues without resorting to the personal. For example, while I do not agree with Julie Bindel's defence of whole-life tariffs, her article on the same case was an examination of the principles the case raises and not a discussion of the identity of the lawyer involved.The rule of law requires that the public have access to a robust and independent legal service. Equally, the functioning of modern democracy requires individuals to be held to account for their personal and professional behaviour. However, the increasing tendency to bring all issues down to individual personalities is not part of that process. It trivialises the very issues that require debate but can have more sinister overtones. The United Nations takes this issue very seriously and has published a set of principles on the role of lawyers, which expressly protects them from identification with their clients or their clients' causes.Confidence in the legal system can only be guaranteed when both prosecution and defence lawyers are able to fulfil their respective responsibilities independent of the popularity or otherwise of the particular role they are called upon to discharge. The conviction, sentencing and release of individuals will always raise important discussions about crime and punishment. That discussion will not take place if it is reduced to sniping at the individuals involved.