Any teenagers over the age of 16 found carrying a knife in the street will face prosecution for illegal possession of a blade under a package of knife crime measures to be announced by Gordon Brown today. In the wake of the recent spate of fatal stabbings, the prime minister will today host a Downing Street knife crime "summit" attended by the home secretary, the attorney general, and crown prosecutors and chief constables.Ministers are also expected to announce a tougher approach to the possession of knives by younger teenagers under 16, but discussions were still going on across Whitehall last night on the measure.The move comes after the death of 15-year-old Arsema Dawit, who was stabbed to death on Monday in a south London block of flats. It emerged yesterday that Scotland Yard is to face an inquiry by the Independent Police Complaints Commission into whether its officers failed to take seriously enough complaints from the schoolgirl, who was from Eritrea, that she had been assaulted and received death threats. She is alleged to have received the threats some weeks before her murder. Whitehall sources indicated that the prime minister and the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, want to be seen to be doing something more about knife crime but do not want to criminalise thousands of young teenagers the first time they are stopped by the police and found to be carrying a penknife. One strong possibility is that parenting orders will be imposed on the families of younger teenagers found carrying a knife. Brown wants to ensure that all parents get the message that they too are responsible when their children are found carrying knives.The Association of Chief Police Officers last night confirmed that national guidance the association had been developing to tackle those over 18 who were found carrying a blade would now be extended to 16- and 17-year-olds. Alf Hitchcock, Scotland Yard's deputy assistant commissioner, has said the move is needed because younger people are getting involved in knife crime and injuries are increasing in severity.The prime minister signalled his intention in the Commons yesterday to introduce a presumption that those over 16 found to be carrying a knife will face prosecution. This is currently the case in London and certain knife crime hotspots, but the policy will now be adopted by the police and crown prosecutors nationwide. Ministers acknowledge that there will be certain circumstances where a caution or no prosecution is warranted for carrying a knife.Brown told MPs yesterday that all parents wanted their teenage children to feel safe in the neighbourhood. He said: "The whole house will agree on the presumption that we prosecute, on which the Association of Chief Police Officers will lay down its proposals in the next few days. It is right, when we see young teenagers below the age of 18 carrying knives, that the presumption that we prosecute should now extend to 16-year-olds as well - that is what the government propose."The decision to firm up the policy on prosecution of those found carrying knives in stop and search operations rather than issuing first-time warnings or cautions follows complaints from Sir Igor Judge, head of criminal justice in the Queen's Bench Division, that there needs to be a presumption in favour of such moves to prove an effective deterrent.Ministers are wary of promising longer prison terms for knife crime. They already face problems managing the record 83,000 prison population of England and Wales. The maximum penalty for carrying a knife has been doubled from two years to four, and although only eight people have been given the maximum sentence, average prison terms have increased. The justice secretary, Jack Straw, pointed out at the weekend that while 300 people were imprisoned in 1997 for possessing a knife, the figure has now risen to more than 1,000 a year. After the latest teenage death in London, the police watchdog announced yesterday that it would investigate whether Scotland Yard had responded appropriately to a request for help from Arsema. On April 30, she went to the police to tell them that a man, believed to have attended the same Eritrean Orthodox church as herself, had assaulted her and threatened to kill her. The Metropolitan police said an officer spoke to the 15-year-old at her school, the Harris Academy, on May 12, but she claimed to have "no knowledge" of the incident. Her family said police officers had told them there was nothing they could do about the man. The police contacted Arsema's mother a week later and the investigation was continuing when she was murdered on Monday. The Independent Police Complaints Commission said it had asked the Met to refer the case to it. The commission said this was in "the public interest" but stressed that the murder inquiry would take precedence.Thomas Nugusse, 21, of Ilford, Essex, was last night charged with the murder of Arsema. He is expected to appear before Greenwich magistrates today, Scotland Yard said. Arsema was the 16th teenager to be killed in the capital this year.