The League Against Cruel Sports’ decision to offer rewards of up to £5,000 for information leading to the prosecution of people involved in dog fighting has been attacked by its former chairman who says it will reward criminals.Having piloted the scheme in Bedfordshire, the league is rolling the scheme out in Birmingham as part of a strategy to collect intelligence on the underground “sport” that anecdotal evidence suggests is on the increase. By building up a picture, it hopes to persuade MPs of the need to tighten the law on dog fighting.Prosecutions, currently under the Animal Welfare Act 2006, carry a maximum penalty of 51 weeks in jail. The charity says that despite being banned almost 200 years ago, a dog fight takes place every day of the year in the UK as the “sport” moves into urban areas where criminal gangs bet on the fights.But John Cooper, QC, who chaired the league between 1996 and 2012 and was then its president until last year, has criticised the decision. “Dog fighters may be criminals who engage in a host of peripheral criminal activities, including violence, drug dealing and gang-related intimidation,” Cooper said. “The clandestine culture of dog fighting and its nexus with other crimes makes it highly likely that those who can give significant evidence, which will lead to conviction, will be involved in the criminal world. It is extremely inappropriate for charitable money to be paid to such individuals, who will, without doubt, use that money to further their own criminal purpose.”In a statement to the Observer, the league said any rewards would be appropriately risk-assessed in line with its charitable objectives. “Offering rewards for information is a tactic not out of keeping with recognised professional practices and one the charity has used in previous years to glean information relating to illegal hunting and dog fighting, including while John Cooper was president,” it said.I'm on trial for giving water to thirsty pigs. If they were dogs, I would be a hero | Anita Krajnc It pointed out that rewards are regularly employed by the police and Crimestoppers. “It is a proven method used to encourage reporting from all strands of society. It has also been thought to serve as a deterrent, as criminals may feel at more risk of exposure. It is incorrect to assume that everyone who provides information relating to a criminal act will be a criminal, as any experienced barrister such as John Cooper or any judge who has heard an ex-parte application in relation to the use of informant information should be acutely aware.”A report by the league published last year suggested that some organised dog fights can last for up to five hours. The dogs’ owners often take the animal out of town to seek medical attention or use DIY kits sold over the internet to avoid alerting authorities.It also found that prohibited dogs were being bred and sold for substantial sums of money. Some were subject to brutal training techniques including body or head slamming. There was evidence that pet cats and dogs were being stolen to be used as live training’ bait’.Cooper, who said he was not entitled to attend trust meetings as president and therefore had no idea the league had offered such incentives, warned the measure could backfire. “As a criminal barrister and QC of more than 30 years standing, it is known practice for rival criminal gangs to inform upon each other, with the sole purpose of putting their rivals out of business,” he said. “By offering a financial inducement to them to do so simply funds the next dog fighting ring and surely is an inappropriate use of charitable funds.”