A judge highlighted public concerns over sexual grooming as he jailed five men for exploiting the "profound vulnerability" of a 15-year-old girl in Rochdale. The teenager's abusers were given sentences of up to eight and a half years on the same day that a serious case review into the issue was published.The review found a catalogue of failings by a variety of agencies had allowed a generation of underage girls to fall prey to grooming gangs. Experts in child sexual exploitation estimate that hundreds of victims slipped through the care net in the town between 2003 and 2012.Judge Jonathan Foster, sitting at Minshull Street crown court, in Manchester, said on Friday it was regrettable that the victim in the latest case had not had her complaint fully pursued when she first sought help over the abuse in 2008.He said: "There have been other similar cases in Rochdale and other parts of the country. In this case we have heard evidence of other girls, friends and associates of [the victim], who were in similar situations to her. Today, the Rochdale borough safeguarding children's board have published their findings in relation to an investigation into the notorious Rochdale grooming case heard at Liverpool crown court. They have made findings about the liaisons between police and social services in Rochdale. It emphasises the public concern about this sort of behaviour."The girl had been plied with vodka and cannabis by many of the men who abused her in 2008 and 2009. Yet despite her giving numerous video-link interviews to police, the majority of her assailants were only arrested last year.The men picked on their victim individually rather than as a gang, as occurred in the case of predominantly Pakistani men who were jailed in Liverpool last year for offences of rape, sex trafficking and conspiracy. Foster said: "I do not think this is the case where [the victim] was being passed from one to another. However, it is a case where there was knowledge in the locality that young people, and therefore vulnerable girls, were susceptible to sexual activity in return for affection, alcohol and drugs. It is just such situations that the law seeks to protect."The court heard that Freddie Kendakumana, 27, a Congolese refugee, who received the biggest sentence, of eight and a half years, had first been interviewed by Greater Manchester police in December 2008. His victim had been told by officers not to have any future dealings with him, but she later confessed to having bumped into him at a flat and the investigation into the allegations was dropped.It was not until police approached her again in February 2011 that a more detailed investigation was conducted. Kendakumana remained free until October 2012.The court heard the girl had chosen to give evidence in two trials "because I felt I didn't want other girls to be affected like me".She said she found the court cases "the hardest thing I've ever had to go through. I felt like my life and my personality was under the spotlight. I was being branded a liar and my life was shown to the wider public like something from a TV show."During the police interview process in 2011 her mental health deteriorated and she had to admit herself to hospital as she began to self-harm again, she said. She is still on medication for anxiety and depression.Kendakumana, of Illminster, Rochdale, was convicted of rape and sexual activity with a child.Chola Chansa, 33, also of Illminster, Rochdale, was sentenced to five years' imprisonment after he pleaded guilty to sexual activity with a child.Abdul Huk, 37, and Mohammed Rafiq Abubaker, 25, from Rochdale, were found guilty of sexual activity with a child and were jailed for four years and two and a half years respectively.Roheez Khan, 27, also from Rochdale, was jailed for six and a half years after he was convicted of sexual activity with a child and witness intimidation.Jane Booth, chair of the Rochdale children's board, said she had been shocked by what had been uncovered by the serious case review."What we have found is that there were significant failings in how the agencies were able to respond both as single agencies and, more critically, when working together. The agencies need to approach the issues in a radically different way if we are going to continue to improve services and protect children."She said the girls were often already vulnerable because of underlying issues in their families. Once they fell into the grip of the gangs they were not listened to or understood."Agencies were not in tune with understanding what was going on. Even if they weren't speaking, their behaviour should have told a story. There should have been more professional curiosity."