Police hunting the killer of Rory Blackhall say a cyclist may have seen the Livingston schoolboy walking away from his primary school on the morning he disappeared.Officers want to trace a blond woman who was at a nearby bus stop at the time but who did not board a bus that stopped there.The police have received more than 500 calls from the public since the murder inquiry began.Rory's body was found on Sunday in woodland not far from Meldrum primary school, which he attended. He had been asphyxiated and hidden under an old, abandoned tent.There had been no sightings of the 11-year-old since his mother, Michelle, had dropped him near his school at 8.30am last Thursday. She last saw him walking through an underpass towards the school, but he never arrived.Yesterday, however, detectives revealed that a cyclist had said that at 8.40am he was cycling along a footpath near the school and had noticed a boy matching Rory's description. He thought it was odd that the youngster was walking away from the direction of the school, police said.The man said he then saw a woman, described as having long blond hair and wearing denim, waiting at a bus stop. She did not get on the doubledecker bus that he saw pull into the stop.Police are now hoping to trace the woman, in the hope that she may also have seen the schoolboy.Detective Inspector Tom Martin of Lothian and Borders police said: "Whilst the informant is not 100% certain that the boy he saw was Rory, this is the first possible sighting we have of him. What is vitally important is that we trace the blond woman waiting at the bus stop as she should have noticed the boy walking past her as well, if he had carried on his route."Officers said there had been a tremendous response after a public appeal to help fill in the 76 hours between Rory being dropped at school and the discovery of his body on Sunday afternoon less than a mile away.Seventy officers are working on the murder inquiry, one of the biggest handled by the Lothian and Borders force. The team includes specialists drafted in from English forces with experience of searching woodland crime scenes.Neither the police nor the Natural History Museum in London could comment on reports that a museum entomologist was helping to analyse insect evidence around the crime scene.Yesterday, mounted patrols were on duty outside local schools as other officers went door to door. Detectives are keen to trace Rory's missing schoolbag, a blue Puma backpack, and have appealed to residents to check bins and gardens. They have also asked for the public's help in identifying the tent that covered Rory's body and a "number of strangers" seen in the woodland area.This morning Meldrum primary school is to hold two assemblies in memory of Rory."All the staff and pupils have been shocked and saddened at the loss of Rory," a spokesman for West Lothian council said. "The two school assemblies have been arranged by the headteacher and the school chaplain. A further event will be arranged at the school at an appropriate time in consultation with pupils and parents to fondly remember Rory."The council will review its procedures after it emerged that the school had not contacted Rory's family when he failed to turn up on Thursday. It was only when his grandfather arrived to collect him that it was realised he was missing.