The body of a murdered teenager was found by members of her family shortly after she went missing, police said today.Detective Superintendent Craig Dobbie, who is leading the investigation into the killing of 14-year-old Jodi Jones, told a press briefing that she was found in a wooded area behind a school in Dalkeith, Midlothian, by relatives who had alerted police to her disappearance."It's one of the most violent crimes I have experienced in my 28 years as a police officer," Mr Dobbie told reporters. He said Jodi had left home at about 5.30pm and had been due back at 10pm. When she failed to return, it is understood her mother phoned round friends before contacting the police."She is one of a fairly extended family and when they were looking for her, they found this body of a young teenage girl, " he added. The body was found in a wooded area near a path behind Newbattle High School between 11pm and midnight.It is understood Jodi attended St David's Roman Catholic High School in the town. Counsellors were on hand to comfort shocked pupils at the school today.The curtains were drawn at Jodi's home in Parkside Place, Easthouses. Friends and family at the house were too upset to speak.An incident room has been set up at Dalkeith police station. DS Dobbie said: "This young girl suffered a violent death and we need to speak to anyone who may have information regarding her death."The path near to where her body was found is used by members of the public as a shortcut from Easthouses to Newbattle Road, Dalkeith. It is also commonly used by people walking their dogs. "We would particularly appeal to anyone who uses this path, or was near it, between 5pm and 10pm last night to contact the incident room." He said the path, to the rear of the high school and close to Newbattle Road, was regularly used by dog walkers. A police cordon remained in place this morning, closing off a section of the path and part of the school grounds where an incident van and four police vehicles were parked. At the school the gates stayed closed although the building appeared to be open. Police were also scouring a nearby field. Midlothian Council's director of education Donald MacKay said: "Midlothian is a very close community and the impact of this young woman's death will be widely felt throughout the area. "All our thoughts are very much with the girl's family and with the schools who are affected by this tragedy. We will do everything that we possibly can to support the family and other pupils, particularly her school friends." He said counsellors would be on hand to comfort the girl's classmates and there may be a review of pupils' safety. Rhona Brankin, Labour MSP for Midlothian, said: "I was shocked and appalled to hear of this tragedy. "I have asked the police to keep me informed of developments in their investigation, and I would urge anyone with information to come forward." Local councillor Ann Stewart-Kmicha, said: "As a community councillor and as a human being, I'm absolutely horrified. It's such a waste of life."Sheila Marie Gillespie, 34, who lives close to the scene, said: "I can't believe it. I have two kids of my own and for something like this to happen is shocking."