Dave Lee Travis, the former BBC Radio 1 DJ, has been given a three-month suspended sentence after being convicted for indecently assaulting a woman in 1995 during the making of a TV programme.The judge told Travis he “took advantage of a young woman in a vulnerable position”, but after the hearing the 69-year-old insisted he was innocent, saying he always feared that “if the prosecution threw enough mud at me, some of it might stick”.Travis was convicted on Tuesday by a majority jury verdict. Appearing under his real name, David Griffin, he was found not guilty of another indecent assault charge, and the jury was unable to reach a verdict on a charge of sexual assault.The latter two charges were being retried after a jury was unable to reach verdicts on them and other similar allegations at an initial trial in February.The charge on which Travis was convicted, which did not feature in the first trial, involved an assault in January 1995 against a woman, then aged 22, who was working on the BBC’s Mrs Merton Show.Sentencing Travis, who was wearing a dark suit and white shirt, judge Anthony Leonard QC said the offence was worthy of a custodial sentence, but took the decision to suspend a three-month sentence after considering the health and financial impact of the two trials on the former DJ.He described the assault, saying Travis had approached the woman, who was in her first job after university, while she was having a cigarette. He said Travis had told her to consider her lungs, while sliding his hands up her chest on onto her breasts, which he squeezed. Leonard told Travis: “When you gave evidence you described what she was alleging took place was a nasty thing to do. You were right in your assumption, but it was more than that, it was an unpleasant and intentional sexual assault.“You took advantage of a young woman in a vulnerable position whose job it was to look after you … I judge that you believed she would not make a fuss and you were right about that too.“In my judgment the aggravating feature in this case is the disparity in your age and status compared to that of the victim, which made her vulnerable to your advances.”Standing to hear the sentence, Travis gave no reaction except to say: “Thank you your honour”.Before the sentencing Travis turned around and banged on the window of the dock to attract the attention of the Sunday Times journalist Camilla Long, who this week claimed that he had also groped her. He told her to move from the public gallery, saying: “You are making me uncomfortable”. When Long indicted that there were no available seats in the press gallery, he shouted over to the press gallery saying: “Will someone give her a seat?”Speaking outside court in front of a scrum of reporters and photographers, Travis delivered a short, unrepentant, statement, standing next to his wife, Marianne. “Two years ago I was accused out of the blue of being a sexual predator. Never before that date had anyone ever suggested to me that I had committed any crime whatsoever,” he said. “After millions of pounds of taxpayers money, thousands of hours of police resources, the judge accepted today that the crown had failed to prove their case against me, namely that I was a sexual predator.”Travis said that he had “always been worried that if the prosecution threw enough mud at me, some of it might stick”. He said: “I am mortified and I am really disappointed that I was convicted of one count, and it’s of little comfort to me that I was acquitted of so many others.” He added that he had the support of his family, and that they “all know the truth”.Earlier, the court heard a victim statement in which the woman said she was “a naive and trusting 22-year-old” when she was subjected to “an unprovoked and terrifying assault”.She said she felt “lucky that I was psychologically robust enough to deal with the distress” and said she had used humour as a defence.She said reliving the event, which happened 19 years ago, had been upsetting and that it was “particularly horrifying” to be called a liar and for it to be suggested that she was looking for financial gain.“I have sought to preserve my anonymity,” she said in a statement, adding that she had no intention of trying to make financial gain from the trial. “I simply wanted to tell the truth and was prepared to go through this unpleasant process to that end.”Stephen Vullo QC, defending Travis, said the two trials had already cost his client £350,000, and he and his wife had been forced to sell their family home. They had moved into a smaller house bought with her proceeds from the sale, and Travis had not been able to work for the past two years “for obvious reasons”.The investigation into Travis was part of Operation Yewtree, the inquiry set up two years ago after the Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal. Travis has consistently protested his innocence since he was arrested at his home in Mentmore, Buckinghamshire, in November 2012.