On the night of October 15 1977, Christine Eadie and Helen Scott walked out of the World's End pub in Edinburgh's Royal Mile at closing time and disappeared.The two, newly 17 and just starting their first jobs, had joined two other friends for a Saturday night pub crawl. The World's End was their last stop. The pub was packed, and Christine and Helen found a seat near the public telephone where they were seen talking to two men. The next day, a couple walking in the dunes of Gosford bay in East Lothian found Christine's bound body. Helen was found a few miles away in a corn-stubble field. Both had been raped, savagely beaten and strangled. The murders became one of Scotland's biggest unsolved criminal cases. More than 500 suspects were identified, more than 13,000 statements taken, but the killer was never caught. The photo-booth picture of the girls with their pageboy haircuts became an iconic reminder that the culprit remained at large. Twenty-six years later, however, police hope they may be closer to solving the case, thanks to a new DNA initiative and fresh evidence from witnesses. In the past week, the incident team at Lothian and Borders police received a call from a man who was walking near Gosford bay on the night of the murders and saw a suspicious vehicle. It was a works van and it was being driven erratically. The man had been prompted to phone by a recent Crimewatch reconstruction. "You may ask why he didn't come forward at the time," said Detective Inspector Allan Jones, who is leading the inquiry. "People just don't do it. They sit and wait until their conscience or something motivates them to come forward." It is one of several fresh leads, the most significant of which is a search of 200 DNA samples which police hope might lead to the killer through his family. It was not until 1997 that detectives were able to isolate the DNA profile of a man, found on both girls, from the World's End evidence. The DNA of the 500 original suspects was analysed, but there was no match.  Strangled Then, last year, Lothian and Borders police heard of a case in Wales where the killer of three 16-year-old girls was traced through DNA from his son. Sandra Newton, Geraldine Hughes and Pauline Floyd had been raped and strangled in south Wales in 1973 by a man who became known as the Saturday night strangler. A DNA sample taken from the victims' clothing did not match any of the samples on the national database, but scientists identified 100 people whose genetic profiles showed similarities to the killer. That led South Wales police to the family of Joseph Kappen, who had died in 1990. His body was exhumed last spring, a sample retrieved and an exact match found. Lothian and Borders police got in touch with the Forensic Science Service, which isolated 200 genetic profiles which bore similarities to the World's End profile from its database of 1.8m DNA samples. Officers are now building up a genealogy for each individual and will narrow the focus in the coming weeks in the hope of finding the killer, or those close to him. "It is so frustrating that we have got the profile of this person and he is out there," said Mr Jones. "He may be dead, but the chances are he is still alive. Even if he is dead, this familial DNA trawl could still track down his family, and we could get to him that way." There has been speculation that the killings must have been the work of two men, not least because the knots used to tie the girls' hands behind their backs were of different types. Mr Jones says there may have been a passive partner in the murders, but he believes the police are looking for one killer. "It is very rare for two people to be involved in a murder," he said. "The percentage probability of one person having committed the murders is up about the 90% mark. It is very difficult to control a situation if there is two involved."  Overwhelmed The police in Wales encouraged the Edinburgh force to keep the case in the public eye, and the BBC Crimewatch programme was enlisted. There have been more than 130 calls from witnesses who saw the programme, which was broadcast at the end of September, but had not come forward before. Helen Scott's father, Morain, 72, has been overwhelmed by the response. "I have always hoped that it could be resolved, and I'm very hopeful this time, especially with the DNA and Crimewatch and the reaction there has been," he said. "There is never a day that goes by that I don't think about it. Helen didn't go out on a Saturday night much, and she was the kind of girl that was never late home. She just told me she was meeting some friends later when she went out." Mr Jones says there has never been a question of shelving the case. A new incident team has been set up to pursue the latest leads. "Helen and Christine were just young girls, not even women," he said. "They had just turned 17 and were fairly new to socialising. They were just beginning to spread their wings."