Brian Paddick. Remember him? This time last year, when being trapped in a jungle with Timmy Mallett was (I assume) the last thing on his mind, he said some sensible things about crime. This is rare among politicians and guaranteed to get them nowhere. No wonder he finished a distant third in the race to become London's mayor. His rival candidate Ken Livingstone damaged himself in the same way. Not only did he point out that crime rates in the capital had fallen on his watch but also observed that the media exploit the fear of crime for gain. Howls of synthetic outrage duly ensued. By contrast, the victorious Boris Johnson avoided sensible comment about the subject with the same dedication as he avoided alcohol and visiting the inner London boroughs. The one exception was his insistence that people were worried about teenage knife crime. He got away with it, though. And now, as both mayor and chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority, he is blessed with hazily defined but considerable power to influence how crime in the capital is detected and prevented by the police. What use will he make of it? Has he a clear idea? Might he get round to sharing it with us some time?That's a cheap shot and it's troubling my conscience already. But not much. Johnson is, after all, happily rid of Sir Ian Blair and – with the help of his new best friend Jacqui Smith – he's installed his favourite applicant Sir Paul Stephenson at the head of the Met. Several election pledges have been honoured, such as the introduction of online crime maps and the deployment of dedicated teams at transport hubs and among suburban railway stations. Johnson speaks proudly of the stop-and-search strategy Operation Blunt 2, which Sir Paul has promised to continue long-term. He's ticked boxes and cleared decks. We now wait for him to do something worthwhile. Another cheap shot? Not really. Johnson has some interesting ambitions in this field, but they have yet to be fully and coherently explained. I fear the main reason for this is that the Mayor is intellectually impaired by an ailment known as "common sense disease", one that afflicts the law-and-order part of many Conservatives' brains. In Johnson its symptoms were apparent in sotto voce manifesto clauses about doing away with "political correctness", and were graphically apparent at Stephenson's Scotland Yard unveiling when the mayor spoke of the need for "common sense policing". What exactly does that mean? For speak-as-I-find know-alls of the seething classes, it's about honest plods being free to nick anyone they don't like the look of. For others – that Paddick fellow, for instance – it's about the opposite: targeted action informed by grassroots intelligence supplied against a backdrop of local trust. It would be good to know exactly where Mayor Johnson stands on this and related matters, such as the further evolution of Safer Neighbourhoods Teams, the practical application of "zero tolerance" theory (as opposed to its handiness as a crowd-pleasing soundbite) or those regular, public meetings with borough commanders he's spoken of in the past but barely at all more recently. Yet the foreground talk from Team Boris has been mostly of budgets and efficiencies. That's at least partly forgivable. Media and public alike accept received wisdoms that more cops automatically mean less crime, hence the unhelpful preoccupation with a slippery concept known as "police numbers". Political opponents are either equally obsessed with it, or pretend to be. Given this, it's no surprise that Kit Malthouse, Johnson's deputy for policing, is keen to argue that he will be pushing up "police numbers" in spite of having less money to spend. Others don't believe him. (If you're quick you can catch the flavour of this head-hurting debate by watching the London segment of last Sunday's Politics Show.)I urge the Blond's administration to boldly rise above this fruitless fray. Johnson thinks London's mayor should have much closer control over London's policing, including the power to hire and fire the commissioner. There's huge resistance to this idea, some of it rooted in legitimate anxieties that Johnson himself has highlighted by his entirely counterproductive involvement in the Damian Green affair. Yet there's a powerful argument that it would greatly enhance police officers' democratic accountability with beneficial outcomes for their effectiveness on the ground. The heart of this argument is not about "police numbers" as an end in itself, but how those numbers are made use of, how they deal with the communities they serve and to whom they are finally answerable. Mayor Johnson should make that case, in clear and comprehensive terms. Of course, this would risk his sounding sensible about crime with all the electoral drawbacks that entails. But this is a politician who's prospered by confounding conventions. Who better, then, to confound those that govern our sterile debates about policing and crime?