The News of the World is to face legal action from two Romanians who were cleared this week of plotting to kidnap Victoria Beckham.Neither of the two have criminal records, and say they are victims of a set-up involving the paper's renowned investigative reporter, Mazher Mahmood. The trial judge referred the NoW to the attorney general when the trial collapsed, after it emerged that it had paid £10,000 to a key witness in the case. Charges of conspiracy to kidnap were dropped on Monday against Adrian Pasaraneu, 27; Alin Turcu, 18; Luzim Balliu, 30; and two others who cannot be named for legal reasons. The crown prosecution service told Middlesex Guildhall crown court that it could not rely on the evidence of Florim Gashi, who had previous convictions for dishonesty and had accepted a payment of £10,000 for tipping off the paper about the alleged kidnap plot. The father of Mr Pasaraneu said his son, a medical student, planned to sue the NoW. Ioan Pasaraneu, who lives in a village in southern Romania, said: "I always trusted British justice would see through this and my son now plans to take legal action against the newspaper. I never believed the fantasies about my son and now I have been vindicated." He said that, according to his son, the story had come about because of a conversation at a party. "Adrian told me that while he was at a party in London, one of the guests started a conversation about how to make money without working and the name of Victoria Beckham was mentioned. Someone recorded the conversation and got £10,000 for the tape."The News of the World stands by its story, and points out that it was not responsible for bringing the men to trial. Andy Coulson, the editor, told Press Gazette this week: "We are bewildered by what is an apparent ambush on Maz and the NoW in court. We think it is important to recognise that decisions to prosecute are not made by newspapers. "All we did was to print what we considered to be a bona fide investigation which was legally sound for publication. We then passed on all our evidence, and the evidence was pretty considerable, to the police." The police and CPS have also been criticised over the case. Defence lawyers told the CPS in January that the NoW had paid Mr Gashi, a Kosovan parking attendant, for the story. He received a cheque for £10,000 dated November 1 last year, the day before the five men were arrested in a swoop that was filmed by the NoW and broadcast on evening news bulletins. The CPS, however, says its decision not to rely on Mr Gashi as a witness was made only after his record for dishonesty emerged, and in particular his involvement in allegations of drug dealing among parking attendants in south London. A CPS spokeswoman said: "It was a culmination of details that we became more and more aware of. The thing that came out in the past month was the allegations of drug dealing in Wandsworth that relied on Mr Gashi's evidence. "It was only in the past month we realised that, in that investigation, evidence had come to light that proved he was no longer a reliable witness." The mother of the second Romanian, who cannot be named, told a newspaper in her home country that her son had already filed a lawsuit against the NoW. "I knew he was not guilty from the very beginning. Three days after he was arrested he phoned me. He told me to ignore what the media said about him. He told us it was a set-up organised by a 'scandal newspaper'. "My son will stay in England until he gets a verdict against this paper. He won't come home very soon. "I am afraid the trial will go on for some time. He suffered very much. When they arrested him he burst out laughing because what was happening to him was just too absurd."