Police claims of Merseyside becoming the drugs distribution centre of Britain with a wealthy breed of "untouchables" operating outside the law prompted MPs' calls for extra funds for the area.A confidential report from the chief constable, Norman Bettison, to 17 Merseyside MPs also pointed to shootings increasing 300% in three years and estimated that a third of security firms in the conurbation were run by people with convictions. It claimed that criminal gangs were diversifying into mainstream activities by using special EU funds meant to regenerate the area, one of the poorest in Europe. Facing criticism that his force is neglecting community policing and funding too many early retirement packages for officers, Mr Bettison told the MPs he was facing a £6m shortfall while having to concentrate on high-level operations against organised crime. He warned that "essential services" are under threat. His private report, marked "strictly confidential - MPs' eyes only", followed a meeting with the MPs at Westminster several weeks ago when he faced complaints about policing on Merseyside. Mr Bettison's depiction of Merseyside as a conurbation wallowing in organised crime hit a raw nerve. "The way this is being portrayed is putting Merseyside in a very bad light," complained the MP for Liverpool Riverside, Louise Ellman. "The city centre is being transformed with new buildings and a lot of good things are happening, while day-to-day crime is falling." Mr Bettison said 60% of all drugs in Scotland are routed through Merseyside while half of all customs and excise seizures have links with the area. In addition, there was evidence of criminals with "unexplained wealth". He said "hard choices" had to be made between these high-level operations and "visible crimes" in the communities he served. Balancing these two areas prompted tough questioning when the chief constable met MPs at Westminster. "While we believe Merseyside police is clearly underfunded, we also raised questions about its efficiency and the big number of early retirements which have to be funded," said another MP.