For the boys at Castington young offenders institution, it was simply accepted practice. An inmate, one of the weaker ones, had fallen behind with repayments to his tobacco baron. He had been warned the night before of what would happen.As he came out of his cell on recreation break, he was felled with a vicious blow to the head from a snooker ball concealed in a sock. The blows continued and the pool of blood around him grew until a guard eventually intervened. 'It happened regularly,' says 20-year-old former inmate David Rudd, who witnessed the incident. 'It was just part of life there. Sometimes people would get a beating, sometimes they would get cut up in the showers. I only managed to avoid it because I kept myself to myself and never got into debt.' An investigation by The Observer has revealed that last week's damning report into conditions at the young offenders institution at Feltham, Middlesex, is merely the tip of the iceberg. Two more reports by Sir David Ramsbottom, the Chief Inspector of Prisons, are due out later this month, one into Stoke Heath in Shropshire and the other into Brinsford in Wolverhampton, revealing conditions as bad, if not worse, and prompting calls for all such institutions to be closed down as a matter of urgency.All three jails are hotbeds of extreme violence. The rate of assaults at Brinsford is 68 per cent, while both Stoke Heath and Castington are running at more than 55 per cent - nearly three times worse than the very worst adult prison. The Home Office target for assaults in all prisons is just 9 per cent. Last month, during three separate days of mass rioting, inmates at Castington caused hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of damage, wrecking more than 30 cells. Staff elsewhere have reported an increase in violence and disobedience since numbers held started to climb. Wetherby in Yorkshire is said to be out of control and even Huntercoombe in Oxfordshire - an institution with a reputation for tolerance and low levels of assaults - is now reporting problems. Sir David, who has yet to inspect Castington, told his staff last week that if he saw just one more hellhole for young offenders he would demand that the Home Office explain why such institutions continued to exist. According to Rudd, the entire regime for young offenders encourages an atmosphere of intimidation. 'It starts from the day you get there. The bullies want to find out who is most susceptible, identify the weakest. They know how to spot an easy target. They tell people that they have to salute the guvnor when he appears, that they have to collect milk tokens. A lot of people fall for it. If you stand up for yourself, you're usually okay. As soon as you let people take advantage of you, you're finished. It's a game but some people just can't handle it. Some people get suicidal and try to top themselves.' Rudd also reported problems with unsuitable pairings of inmates, both at Castington and elsewhere. 'When they stick you in a double pad, they don't have a clue who they're putting people in with. There is no doubt whatsoever that there are racist people in jails and that is a real problem when it is so chaotic.' The most recent criticisms at Feltham followed the murder of Zahid Mubarek, a 19-year-old inmate who was bludgeoned to death by his cellmate Robert Stewart in a racist attack hours before he was due to be released. Last week Stewart was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder. Stewart had written dozens of letters praising the killers of Stephen Lawrence and stating that he intended to murder his cellmate. All correspondence is supposed to be monitored but this was not done. Juliet Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust observes: 'The average amount of purposeful activity that inmates at Feltham indulge in is 15.2 hours a week - the worst of any young offender institution. Drug use is at 21 per cent compared with the prison service average of 14.2 per cent. In the past five years there have been six different governors in charge at Feltham. If Feltham had been a failing school instead of a failing prison, no one would have tolerated as many as two changes of headship,' she says. Other factors which may have contributed to Murabek's death are also being explored by the Chief Inspectors. Feltham has a policy of preventing the build up of cliques by not housing black or Asian prisoners together. There is also 'wind up' - prison officers house certain inmates together, knowing they will not get on, simply for their own amusement, a practice which will be made public next week in a report on Birmingham prison. There are growing calls for YOIs to be abolished. Last year, Northampton and Hampshire abolished all custodial sentences for under- 18s, except in extreme circumstances. There was no increase in the level of offend ing. In Massachusetts in the United States, all juvenile prisons were closed overnight and replaced with a sophisticated system of mentoring and counselling, with no rise in youth offending rates. At present, 77 per cent of inmates from young offender institions go on to re-offend. 'All the young offenders institutions are untenable,' says Harry Fletcher of the National Association of Probation Officers. 'They're just warehouses. 'At least a quarter of the people kept in these places do not need to be there at all. It's not surprising that they become centres for racism, bullying and assaults. We need an urgent inquiry into the role and purpose of these jails.'