Britain is in the grip of an "appalling" teenage yob crimewave - at least according to the front pages of the country's two biggest-selling tabloid newspapers last week. They reported that a "hardcore" of half a million young "louts" are to blame for rising street crime, and that they had owned up to offences ranging from burglary and drug dealing to muggings and assault. The government, said the Tories, was in danger of creating a whole new generation of criminals.Both the Sun and the Daily Mirror were reporting the results of new Home Office research, which came up with the startling conclusion that one in four boys aged 14 to 17 could be classified as a "prolific or serious offender". The results came from the 2003 Crime and Justice Survey, a new self-report survey of offending based on interviews with 12,000 people aged 10 to 65. The Home Office describes it as providing "the most robust self-report offending information for the general household information."The research was published on the same day as the quarterly crime figures; the idea that Britain is in the grip of some new teenage crime wave sits rather oddly with the evidence of these figures, that crime is continuing to fall across England and Wales. Even the most cursory reading of the Crime and Justice Survey report would find it hard to sustain the idea that the country is going through some new, previously unknown, alarming growth in yob culture. It is said that the Home Office research director published the report in response to criticism that the British Crime Survey does not interview anybody under the age of 16 and so provides an incomplete picture of crime in Britain. The headline findings of the new Crime and Justice Survey at first glance appear to provide some evidence for the tabloids' claims. It concluded that "serious and prolific" offending is concentrated among teenagers, and around a quarter of 14-to 17-year-old boys could be classified in this way. Girls offended less with only 13% in this category. The problem lies in the definition of the phrase "serious and prolific" for they bracket together two very different patterns of offending behaviour. The researchers defined "serious offenders" as those who stole a car, carried out a burglary or robbery, stole something from somebody else, committed an assault or sold class A drugs. Prolific offenders were defined as those who committed six or more offences in the last year. But while some media accounts took this to mean that a quarter of all teenage boys regularly committed the kind of serious offences outlined above, the report makes clear that in fact most prolific offenders were involved in minor crime, some of it very trivial. As Home Office minister Hazel Blears pointed out, this in a large part covers offences such as not paying their bus fare and stealing sweets from the local shop. These are not the kind of offences that keep the police awake at night. If the tabloids had probed a bit deeper into the report they could have had even more apparently startling headlines such as 52% of all men admit to committing at least one criminal offence during their lifetime. For one of its main findings is that while most people do grow out of minor crime as part of the "maturing process" there is a group of about 1.6 million over-25s who admit to being involved in crime. The report does confirm that teenagers do commit more than their fair share of crime - about a third of all offences - but it also shows that the kind of crime people get involved in changes as they get older. Among juveniles non-injury assaults account for a large share of the incidents; drug selling is as common as property crimes among 18- to 25-year-olds; while with older adults it mostly involves stealing from work or other kinds of property crime. As the report itself concludes: "Young people, particularly males, are more likely to offend and are responsible for a disproportionate volume of crime; but it also shows that older people are a numerically large group of offenders." These findings are actually in line with repeated Mori surveys for the Youth Justice Board in recent years which suggest that the idea that juvenile crime is going through some new explosion is wrong. The other startling finding in the Crime and Justice Survey was that only 1% of offences end up in a court appearance. This sparked claims that the police and the criminal justice system were, perhaps, a waste of time. The survey confirms that most people who admit they have committed a crime do not come into contact with the police. Although respondents acknowledge that the most common reason they decided to desist from crime was either "I knew it was wrong" or "I grew up/settled down", the survey did find that a substantial minority - between 20% and 33% - said it was after being caught by the police, or fear of being caught, that persuaded them to stop offending. The authors concluded this meant that the impact of official sanction appears to be relatively strong. Far from needing to worry about the alarming growth of "yob Britain" the survey carries the more reassuring message that minor offending is not uncommon, but most people simply grow out of it. · Alan Travis is the Guardian's home affairs editor