The key witness in the Damilola Taylor murder trial told a teacher she was being given a free holiday in Spain by the police, the Old Bailey heard today.The court heard the girl witness, now aged 14, excitedly announce: "I am going to Spain for free."The teacher asks her: "So how come you are going to Spain for free?" Girl: "Cos the police are paying for it." The teacher jokes back: "Are they? Well excuse me, I want to go somewhere." The reference came during police interview videos of the girl recorded a month after she contacted police. The teacher, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was acting as her adult guardian during questioning by two women police officers. In another part of the interview, the girl says: "I don't get none of this money until I'm 18." The court has been told that a £50,000 reward was put up by the Daily Mail after Damilola was ambushed on the North Peckham Estate. The crown alleges that he was killed by a gang of four teenage boys. Mark Dennis, prosecuting, has told the jury it will have to decide how much the reward had helped or motivated the girl to come forward. Before jury members began viewing the tapes, defence barrister George Carter-Stephenson QC, told them to watch out for references to the reward "which we suggest are important". Schoolboy Damilola, 10, from Nigeria, was left to bleed to death on a stairwell after being stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle in November 2000. Two brothers aged 16, their 17-year-old friend and a 14-year-old youth deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The prosecution says the girl, who was only 12 at the time, was the only witness to the attack. She has told the court that she lied in her initial recorded interviews with officers. She said she was covering up the fact that she had witnessed the killing and thought she would get into trouble because she did not help or phone the police. But she says she told the truth in a later interview on January 31 2001, describing how she hid while the boys surrounded Damilola. The prosecution says the girl has been consistent throughout in identifying the four defendants as the attackers. She has halted court proceedings on the last two days after demanding to go home as she was cross-examined by defence lawyer Courtenay Griffiths QC. The judge Mr Justice Hooper has allowed her to stay away until Friday while the jury watch the videos. The girl looked relaxed and was sometimes giggly in the police interviews, in contrast to events in court. In one video, after an officer left the room between questioning, the girl buried her face for several minutes in the teacher's lap. Later, the teacher told the girl: "It's all right, hush baby, hush." Earlier, one of the officers had told her she was being brave in coming forward about the killing. Asked why she had contacted the police, she said: "Because I kept seeing the news and it was just making me upset that I knew and his family's looking for the killers. "I would just like someone to confess. If it was my little brother then I'd want someone to say 'I know who killed him'." The girl then went on to claim wrongly that some of the defendants had telephoned her and said they had been involved and supposedly boasting: "That's one less African in the world." The hearing was adjourned until tomorrow. 