Two teenagers were yesterday arrested on suspicion of murdering a skydiver who plunged 13,000ft to his death.The young men were questioned yesterday afternoon and evening at separate police stations about the death of Stephen Hilder, 20, in the summer. Hilder, an army cadet, was killed after both his main chute and the reserve were allegedly sabotaged before a jump above Hibaldstow airfield in North Lincolnshire. Police believe that whoever tampered with Hilder's gear must have had some knowledge of parachuting. The two men, who are both 19, were arrested at 12.45pm at Scunthorpe police station. Police refused to give any more details about the pair, but it is understood they knew Hilder. The arrests caused waves within the tight-knit skydiving community, which has been devastated by the death. Only last month, the police appeared to be struggling. They admitted that they had not found anyone who would have wished to harm Hilder, who was based at the Royal Military College of Science at Shrivenham, near Swindon. The skydiver, a veteran of more than 200 jumps, had been taking part in the national championships of the British Collegiate Parachute Association at the time of the tragedy in July. At first it was assumed that he was the victim of an accident. But police quickly discovered that a cord and webbing designed to keep in place his main parachute and its reserve appeared to have been cut. Both chutes blew away from his harness when he tried to open them, leaving him helpless as he fell into a cornfield. Video footage of his last moments has been shown on television. He was seen giving a thumbs-up sign before leaping from the plane and then holding on to two colleagues in a freefall formation. Officers worked hard to establish who could have had access to his equipment. Parachutes are supposed to be kept in a room which is locked overnight. Detectives have interviewed hundreds of people, including family, friends, teachers and fellow students of Hilder, who was from Hereford. Officers have consulted detectives in the US who dealt with a similar case, and a specialist officer with skydiving experience has been brought in to offer detailed technical knowledge. Last month, Detective Colin Andrews, who is leading the inquiry, wrote to all members of the British Parachute Association asking for help in solving the "wicked crime". He claimed he was "satisfied" that whoever committed the crime had some knowledge of skydiving. But he said: "We still do not know why anyone would wish to harm Stephen. He appeared a popular and well-liked man, although some people have told us that on occasions he was disliked by skydiving colleagues." The letter asked if Hilder had a "secret life", and said that the police knew that some people within the skydiving community had been withholding information. Hilder's parents, Paul and Mary, declined to comment yesterday. In July they made an appeal for information and said they were "living through every parent's worst nightmare". His girlfriend, Ruth Woodhouse, 24, of Stafford, added: "Somebody has taken this sparkly person from the world in the most awful way, leaving a huge gap in not only the lives of his family and myself, but also the close-knit communities of skydiving and the army." A spokeswoman for Humberside police emphasised that the investigation was not at an end: "Inquiries are ongoing and the police are appealing for anyone who knows anything about the incidents surrounding Stephen's death to contact them."