It is clear that the government sees the reduction of crime levels as a political priority almost as important as improving the NHS. David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, wants to improve police efficiency by a range of measures, such as league tables and giving fresh powers to civilian officers. But new research from his own department indicates that more money for the Crimestoppers initiative might prove an equally good investment. Last year, Crimestoppers - which operates a national free telephone number (0800 555 111) - took 500,000 calls. About 17% of these resulted in an arrest, charge or caution. Crimestoppers was also responsible for recovering stolen property worth almost £4m. Of the calls that led to positive action, most related to drug offences (34%), followed by car crime (13%), theft (10%), violence (7%) and burglary and robbery (4%). Perhaps the most surprising of these Home Office statistics punctures the notion that Crimestoppers is a rather convenient operation for minor criminals seeking to make a bit of money by informing on their mates. (The scheme pays rewards of £50 to £500, depending on where the information finally leads.) In 1999, the last year for which figures are available, only £34,000 was paid out in rewards. In other words, out of a total 85,000 calls leading to some action being taken, the average reward paid out was less than 50p a call. This may be seen as a significant crime-fighting bargain. In terms of overall value for money, the researchers struggled to quantify the cost-effectiveness of Crimestoppers because the follow-up costs are, to some extent, unquantifiable. Their best estimate is that each "positive outcome" has cost the scheme about £485. While not able to make any direct comparisons with more traditional criminal detection methods, they do claim that Crimestoppers is "cheap compared to other forms of intelligence-gathering, especially where police officers' time is factored in to any significant degree". The Home Office researchers recommend a series of improvements to the Crimestoppers scheme, including raising awareness of it among the public and, less predictably, the police. Perhaps most interestingly, though, it is suggested that more calls be dealt with not by an anonymous answering machine, but by a "live" officer.· More information at www.homeoffice.gov.uk/rds/prgpdfs/brf1001.pdf· To suggest research topics, contact ivorgaber@yahoo.co.uk