A teenage boy allegedly tortured and killed because his attackers believed he was practising witchcraft struggled to get out of the bath where he was drowned but had no strength left, a court has heard.The Old Bailey watched video footage of police interviews with the brother of 15-year-old Kristy Bamu – who cannot be named for legal reasons – carried out the day after Kristy was allegedly killed by Eric Bikubi and Magalie Bamu, both 28, because they believed he was a sorcerer.Kristy was found dead in the bathroom of a blood-covered flat in Forest Gate, east London, on Christmas Day 2010. He had 101 injuries and was covered in deep cuts and bruising allegedly administered by an "armoury" of weapons.He and four siblings had travelled from Paris to visit their sister Magalie Bamu in London for the Christmas holidays when Bamu and her partner became convinced they were witches, the court heard.Kristy's brother said that after days of abuse Kristy was taken into the bathroom on Christmas Day after asking for a drink of water. "He staggered to go and sit on the sofa but as he had lots of blood Magalie said: 'You stay standing, don't sit on my sofa'."Describing Kristy's last moments, his brother said Bikubi told Kristy to get in the bath and when he lay down "because he was tired" told him to stand up to "experience God's strength".He added: "He [Bikubi] said get up, but [Kristy] couldn't. He tried to hold the walls to get up but he was hurting everywhere [...] He tried and then he laid down because I think he had no strength left. He tried to use the edges, he tried to push down on his hands but he couldn't because he was dizzy and he fell down every time."Asked how he knew Kristy was dizzy, he said: "Because he'd been hit with a bat, his hands were trembling."He described how two of Kristy's sisters, an elder brother and another child in the house were also put into the bath, which was filling up. Kristy's head up to his nose and neck were submerged and he was not moving, he said."The water was getting higher and higher and Kristy was lying down until the water got up to the very edge of the bath. They pulled the plug. Kristy wasn't moving any more. [Bikubi] gave him a cardiac massage but nothing happened."The brother detailed the abuse that was inflicted on Kristy in the days leading up to Christmas. He described how Bikubi had forced the siblings to hold down their brother while he raised tiles above his head and smashed them down on to the 15-year-old.Asked how hard Bikubi had hit Kristy, he said: "Hard, as he was angry, as if he wanted to kill him".Bikubi shoved a metal bar into Kristy's mouth and hit his teeth with a hammer "as if he was going to bang in a nail", he said. "I know he said: 'I'm going to break all your teeth, all your teeth are going to disappear'."He told the court the beatings were so violent and protracted that Bikubi was forced to rest and let his partner Bamu take over. After "continuous" beatings with a metal bar, a hammer, pliers and a pile of tiles, Bikubi sat down, the court heard."He said 'I've had enough, I need to have a rest.' […] And Magalie hit him hard and quickly each time."Yves Bamu, the eldest brother of the siblings, was charged with guarding the door to make sure Kristy did not escape, while the others had to clear up the blood that was all over the flat, the court heard.Bikubi denies murder, but has admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility, and has pleaded guilty to two counts of actual bodily harm. Magalie Bamu denies murder and two counts of actual bodily harm.The trial continues.