The Little Britain star David Walliams was bombarded with gifts by an obsessive female fan who waited outside his home and BBC studios as part of a campaign of harassment, a court heard yesterday.Despite repeated police warnings Sarah Bartholomew, 29, continued to contact the comedian, hand-delivering a letter and gifts to his home and bombarding his agent with text messages. Bartholomew, from Clacton-on-Sea, Essex, pleaded guilty at a hearing last month to harassing the TV star between last October and February this year, and was released on bail. However she breached the bail conditions and was arrested again. Yesterday at Highbury Corner magistrates court in London, Jonathan Steingold, defending Bartholomew, said: "My client has asked me to tell this court of her strong feelings for Mr Walliams. She has asked me specifically to impart that." Deputy district judge David Miller replied: "I think that she's made that quite clear on a number of occasions. I'm not sure it's going to help her."Bartholomew, whose obsession with the comedian began in 2004, was seen hanging around the BBC, where he worked, and outside his home at all hours, prosecutor Kathryn Iyer said. She said the defendant also sent the comedian letters, many of them sexually explicit.The court heard that late last year the star's solicitors wrote to her ordering her not to contact him. In response she sent large numbers of emails to the lawyers and to Walliams's agent, Carl Hill. The messages became more aggressive, and one said: "David knows what's coming to him." Bartholomew also sent the TV star underwear, cuddly toys, chocolates and DVDs. She was arrested on May 3 for witness intimidation after sending text messages to Hill and hand-delivering items to the star's home. Iyer said Bartholomew sent two computer memory sticks to Walliams containing documents running to more than 1,000 pages.She was released on bail again on May 6 but that same day Walliams's agent again received messages from her. Two days later she was arrested for breaching her bail conditions and remanded in custody at Holloway prison.Adjourning sentencing for psychiatric reports, the judge said she faced a "significant" jail term, adding: "Our job is to protect the public, and David Walliams is a member of the public."