There is a small group of once popular Christian names that have fallen out of use because of their association with one hated individual. In Germany, Adolfs under 50 are thin on the ground. And you can count on the fingers of one hand the Myras born in this country since 1966.That was the year Myra Hindley, who has died aged 60, was jailed for life at Chester Assizes along with Ian Brady for the murder of two children. Later she admitted her part in the killing of three others. The crime became known as the Moors murders.While other child-killers came and went in the public imagination in the four and a half decades following her conviction, Hindley was destined to remain a hate-figure until her death even among those too young to remember her trial. To reflect such prejudices - and, some argued, to inflame them - her name was only ever used in those tabloid newspapers, which maintained a campaign against her, with the qualifying adjective "evil". That Medusa-like snap-snot of her, taken in 1966, with her peroxide hair swept up and back and a fixed, almost defiant, look in her eyes, became one of the icons of crime in the latter part of the 20th century. For the relatives of her five victims, for most mainstream politicians and for the vast majority of the public, keeping her in prison was an article of faith. Life had to mean life in her case if we were not to be seen as a society to be going soft on crime. Her 25-year "tariff", as suggested by her trial judge, was in recognition that there was a possibility of rehabilitation (wherease Brady was deemed "wicked beyond belief"). When that tariff was reached in 1991, it was changed first to 30 years, by the then home secretary David Waddington, and then, by a successor, Michael Howard, in 1997, to forever. Despite her record as a model prisoner, it seemed that in his eyes her crimes had somehow got worse with the passage of time. The courts, however, took a different view. At the time of her death, Hindley's lawyers, led by Edward Fitzgerald QC, were fighting to uphold a high court judgment that for politicians to increase tariffs in such cases - and Fitzgerald always included Hindley among the small group of "lifers" affected by this practice - was beyond their powers and illegal. The authorities' repeated refusal to grant Hindley parole came even though she more than met all the criteria for such treatment. In the end it was public opinion - which according to the letter of the law can play no part in the judicial process in regard of individual prisoners - that kept her in jail. Britain's longest-serving woman prisoner was, in effect, a political detainee and prejudice her jailer. There was some irony in that fact that jail, for Hindley, had provided her an opportunity to make of herself a better person while accepting her punishment. So during spells in Holloway, Durham, Cookham Wood in Kent, and latterly Highpoint in Suffolk, she obtained an Open University degree in humanities, became a voracious and intelligent reader and a keen student of politics. In conversation, she was a surprisingly articulate observer of the society from which she has been locked away for decades. The warm, funny, blunt middle-aged woman was unrecognisable from the evil Gorgon who haunted parents' imaginations. Even usually cynical prison officers, who had come into contact with her, became supporters of the campaign to get her released. The strength of her connection with the outside world was just one aspect of what became the obsession that drove her on - the desire to end her days outside prison. So terrible had been her crimes, however, that few were prepared to accept her rehabilitation as genuine. Indeed, the more convincing evidence that was presented of her transformation, the more the myth grew in response that she was a manipulative schemer, prepared to do anything and trick anyone in order to be free. A small band of supporters, led initially by the former Labour cabinet minister, Lord Longford, who began to visit her in 1969, then by the former Observer editor, David Astor, who funded her ongoing legal campaign. Since both their deaths, Fitzgerald, Longford's grandson-in-law, has tried to win over the sceptics, but it was all to no avail. Hindley came to realise that it was a forlorn battle. As a consequence, she suffered long periods of deep depression and her health problems, aggravated by heavy smoking and the onset of osteoporosis, multiplied. To some close to her, it seemed she had a death wish. It was the only way she would ever be free. She had few true friends. Her connection with her supporters was, in essence, a professional one. Though her relationship with Frank Longford was warm and close, she periodically broke off links with him on the grounds that he was doing her more harm than good. Within three years of her sentencing, she had severed her ties with Brady, who later maintained that she was as committed to murder as he was. The very mention of his name still had the power years afterwards to drive this usually passive woman into a rage. In 1998, she claimed that Brady had sadistically abused her. In her isolation, she found increasing sustenance in a return to the Catholicism of her youth. Though she rejected with a laugh the suggestion made often in public by Longford that she was "a good religious woman", she spent long hours in prayer and with her spiritual guides. That contributed to what was an on-going and ever-present remorse for her crimes. For anyone who knew her - and I was fortunate to visit her on a number of occasions and remained in touch with her until her death - there could be absolutely no question that this was genuine. Even the religious authorities, though, doubted her. When she was accepted as a lay member of the Franciscan order in the early 1990s, it was, she remarked, the first time anyone had welcomed her into their organisation. The decision of the national headquarters of the Franciscans then to overrule their local representatives and rescind her membership was a cruel blow. Even the personal intervention of the late Cardinal Basil Hume on Hindley's behalf failed to move them in their abhorrence of her. Hindley's case continued to rouse public passions. For some, it was the tape-recording of the tormented last hours of 10-year-old Lesley Anne Downey, made just before she was murdered by Brady, assisted by Hindley, and later played to the jury, that can never be forgotten or forgiven. For others it was the complete lack of remorse that Hindley and Brady showed as they were sentenced to life that stuck in their minds, obliterating all subsequent images. As the woman of the pair, Hindley shouldered the greater part of the public outrage. Her name remains a reproach to the very notion of nurturing children. Photographs of her posing with her pet dog on Lesley Anne Downey's grave on Saddleworth Moor only heightened the popular assumption that she was the devil incarnate. Hindley was born in the Manchester district of Gorton to a father who was later disabled by an accident at work and a mother who was a machinist in a local factory, she was an unambitious, unremarkable, tongue-tied school-leaver in a dead-end clerical job at Millwards Chemical Merchants when she met stock clerk Ian Brady. She was 16. He was intelligent and well-read, though largely self-taught. To her, he was drenched in glamour. She later said her was the only man she had met with clean fingernails. He was also dangerous. She quickly fell under his spell and was dragged into his crazed world of paranoia, sadism and pornography. Though she later rejected any effort by her supporters to mitigate her own guilt in the Moors murders by showing how completely she was taken over by Brady, it was clear from their trial onwards that the whole appalling scheme was the product of his perverted imagination. He took the lead and she followed. Her crime, which nothing should diminish, was to lure the children who became his victims and then to look on as he murdered them and disposed of their bodies. Those who refused to believe that Hindley had been changed by her long years in prison pointed to her failure for 21 years after her trial to answer the pleas of the distraught parents of three of her victims whose bodies had never been found. When in 1987, she finally agreed to help in the effort to locate the corpses, it appeared a cynical gesture aimed at ingratiating herself to the parole authorities. Her previous silence was hard to explain even for those most dedicated to seeing her released. Her change of heart, they claimed, was part of her own internal struggle to come to terms with the full horror of what she had done, the last stage of repentance and the beginning of real remorse and reform. At the time of her death, Hindley's case and the whole question of politicians' rights to increase tariffs set by trial judges was heading inexorably for the European courts. Her lawyers believed that the judges might be able to take a more dispassionate view of whether she qualified for parole than British home secretaries, with an eye on electoral advantage, or a judiciary that seemed unwilling to embark on a run-in with ministers over such a hated figure. Though her death brings that long legal battle to a premature end, the dilemma her case highlighted remains in an age where we talk easily of being "tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime". Do we want a parole system that is based on public opinion, or one that answers to some higher principles of justice and rehabilitation? If it is the former, the home secretary may as well install a clappometer in his office and ask for a show of hands and headlines. · Myra Hindley, born July 23 1942, died November 15 2002