A nationwide police alert has been launched for a violent sex offender after the murder of a 77-year-old woman in Northumberland.Northumbria police said there was an "urgent need" to find Graeme Jarman, 47, who disappeared from his home in County Durham 12 days ago. They have warned he should not be approached and appealed for him to contact them. His details have been circulated to every police force in the UK.Pensioner Judith Richardson was the victim of a hammer attack at her home in Hexham on 19 August. Police had called at her house after finding her handbag stuffed in a bin outside a charity shop in Newcastle, 25 miles away.Detective Chief Superintendent Neil Adamson, from Northumbria police, said: "This was an incredibly disturbing and horrific attack. It was inflicted on a defenceless elderly lady, in her own home, minding her own business, in the middle of the day. The level of injuries inflicted were dreadful, to say the least."All the more reason for us to make this appeal to the public to locate the person we now want to speak to in connection with this inquiry, Graeme Jarman. There is an urgent need to locate him."A spokeswoman for Northumbria police said Jarman was a registered sex offender with a history of violence. An all-forces alert has been issued as he has relatives in the south of England.Jarman was last seen in Stockton town centre on Friday. He has not been back to his home in Consett since 17 August. A CCTV image taken that morning showed him wearing blue jeans and a light blue polo shirt with dark cuffs and collar. He was carrying a dark jacket.He is described as heavily built, of average height, with a shaved head. Last Tuesday, he failed to appear in court on a shoplifting charge.Officers have said some bank cards appeared to be missing from Richardson's handbag. A postmortem showed Richardson died from head injuries. Police found a hammer in a plastic bag in the street near her home and have confirmed it was the murder weapon.The victim's family said: "This has been a devastating loss and we are all in a state of shock. Judith was a wonderful person and we all loved her dearly."Jarman has been described in court as an "evil, cunning sexual predator" who told a teenager whom he raped at gunpoint that he was an "everyday psychopath".He was jailed for seven years in 1988 for kidnapping and raping a 17-year-old girl whom he locked in the boot of his car in Peterborough. She then endured a seven-hour ordeal involving extreme violence.After being released on parole, Jarman disappeared in June 1992. Two days later, he tricked his way into the home of a woman in St Annes-on-Sea, Lancashire, where he robbed and indecently assaulted her. He went on the run for seven weeks before police arrested him in Hastings.He was jailed for 15 years after admitting indecent assault and robbery. He was released from prison 10 years ago, and moved to Oxford, where he began sleeping rough. While on licence, he held a woman at knifepoint before stealing her car. He was jailed in 2003 for eight years at Oxford crown court after admitting theft. He was released from prison in 2008 and went to live in the north-east, where he was subject to monthly visits from police.