A crack cocaine user who worked as a school community worker was jailed for life today for the murder of his baby daughter who he had said was possessed by evil spirits.Sitab Ullah, 26, was found guilty of murdering his three-month-old daughter, Samira, by a jury at the Old Bailey. He was told he must serve a minimum term of 20 years of his mandatory life sentence.Police said it was the "worst case of systematic torture" they had seen since the Victoria Climbié case, which prompted the most extensive investigation into the child protection system in British history. The court was told the baby was allowed home with her parents, Ullah and his wife, Salma Begum, 25, by social services, despite Begum being twice temporarily rehoused away from Ullah by Westminster council. The court heard Ullah kept Begum a virtual prisoner in their home in Maida Vale, west London. She was beaten daily, but was too scared to get help.Begum, who, according to her defence lawyer, displayed all the signs of battered wife syndrome, pleaded guilty to child neglect and was jailed for 15 months. She told the jury that Ullah started mistreating Samira after becoming paranoid when using crack cocaine and heroin. Begum said: "He didn't want me to feed her too much. He complained she was becoming greedy because he thought the thing inside her wanted to be fed all the time."Samira died on October 16, last year, after her head was swung against a hard surface in the family's bedroom.A pathologist said her brain injury was the worst they had ever seen. She had injuries, including cigarette burns, and bruising from her head to her feet. There was evidence she had been swung around the room at different times. The Old Bailey heard that Ullah, who worked closely with police in his job, made sure no one saw Samira, who was born prematurely, after she returned home from hospital. Delivering sentence today, Judge Stephen Kramer told Ullah: "You abused your role as a father." The judge went on: "She was defenceless and particularly vulnerable. She could not articulate to anyone how she felt, except for crying."It appears from the evidence that you thought she was, or might have been, possessed by evil spirits as a consequence of your drug habit." Judge Kramer said Begum told police she was too scared to get medical attention for Samira. The judge told her: "You were ill-treated over a period by Sitab Ullah. The message, however, must come out that those who neglect their vulnerable and defenceless young children will receive sentences of imprisonment." Begum has been in custody for almost a year and was eligible for immediate release. Her counsel, Nicholas Price QC, claimed she was a "sad and desperate woman" who showed the classic signs of being a battered wife. "She is the other victim in this case," said Mr Price. Begum was initially charged with murder but the charge was dropped after she agreed to give evidence against Ullah. Giving evidence from behind a screen, she told the jury how she saw Ullah abuse the baby. She said: "I saw him pinch her nipples. I asked him not to do it, so he flicked her foot instead. He was saying he was not hurting her. He was hurting the thing inside her." Begum said that on one occasion they had not answered the door to a health visitor. Then, on another occasion, she emerged from the kitchen to find Ullah strangling the child. Begum told the court: "He was strangling her and squeezed her neck with one hand. She was not breathing. I said 'what are you doing?' and he dropped her on the bed." Begum said Ullah had shaken the baby on the day she died, and then gone out to eat a meal of chicken and chips. Later they tried to feed the baby but she did not respond. "He was holding her and hitting her on the back," she said. Ullah worked as a community worker and liaison officer between students and police at North Westminster community school's sixth form college in Paddington, west London. He was trusted enough to be allowed to sit in on interviews as an "appropriate adult" chaperoning Bangladeshi youngsters at the local police station. After today's convictions, Detective Sergeant Patrick Barnes said: "Samira went through hell. Her injuries were horrendous. In 26 years as a detective, this is the worst case of systematic torture I have seen." A spokesman for Westminster council said a report had been commissioned by the Area Child Protection Committee into the role of social services, health visitors, hospital staff, as well as education, police and housing staff. "The conclusions of the report was that Samira's death could neither have been predicted nor prevented by the agencies who had contact with the family," said the spokesman.