The prison inspectorate's disturbing report of the culture of violence and fear in Cookham Wood young offender institution (YOI) prompts serious questions about whether prisons should continue to accommodate children under 18. Similar findings at Castington where a large number of young people had suffered broken wrists during the use of force and Huntercombe where levels of bullying, assaults and fights were high, suggests more than failings of individual establishments. There is a structural problem that needs urgent fixing.The Prison Service – which accommodates four-fifths of the juvenile custodial population in its YOIs – is poorly suited to locking up young people. In 1996, the then chief inspector of prisons, Sir David, now Lord, Ramsbotham recommended that they should relinquish responsibility for all children under the age of 18. Children represent less than 5% of the total prison population. An organisation whose first objective is to protect the public by holding adult prisoners securely, cannot be expected to provide the level of care, supervision and support required by challenging teenagers.Instead of implementing Ramsbotham's recommendation, the government gave the Youth Justice Board (YJB) responsibility for commissioning secure places for under-18s in the hope that market forces would bring about change. Thanks to substantial investment, particularly into education within YOIs, there were some early improvements. But the regular survey (pdf) of young prisoners' views conducted for the prison inspectorate makes for a sober assessment. The latest report found that despite some progress, almost a third of young people in YOIs felt unsafe at some time, with on average, one in five young men feeling that they had been victimised by members of staff while in their current establishment.What is the underlying problem? Prison establishments are too big – wings of 60 young offenders are too large to be easily and safely supervised let alone to provide measures to meet individual needs. The rules and procedures in juvenile YOIs are basically the same as in adult jails – regulations on the use of force for example , have not been amended for use with children and despite its unsuitability as a punishment, segregation can be ordered in disciplinary proceedings for children as well as adults. The number and type of staff working in YOIs is often not up to the challenge of dealing with disturbed adolescents. On average, juvenile YOIs have one member of staff for every 10 young people, a much lower ratio than the two other kinds of secure establishments which house young offenders. There are two members of staff for every three young people in secure children's homes and three staff for every eight young people in secure training centres. There are no minimum education requirements for prison officers and they are given only a basic nine-week training course. Shortcomings are increased by hostility from parts of the Prison Officers Association to a more child centred approach.Fundamentally prisons are the wrong places for under-18s. Although the system has are some excellent individual staff and good models of practice these could be made more effective within an organisational ethos and structure dedicated to the secure care of young people. The evidence make it hard to understand the Youth Justice Board's recent decision to buy fewer places in secure units. Young people in secure childrens homes recently told Ofsted inspectors that for the most part the unit was a safe place to be, that it kept them out of trouble and helped them to sort themselves out. By contrast only a minority of young people in YOIs told prison inspectors that they had undertaken steps to prevent themselves offending again.The chief inspector of prisons has demanded that a limit be placed on numbers held at Cookham Wood. It's time to extend that demand to the prison system as a whole. A concerted effort to drive down the numbers locked up on remand and under sentence could free resources to ensure a more constructive approach to those who genuinely need to be detained – one which makes both them and us safer.