The West Yorkshire police force has paid £310,000 in damages to a man left severely disabled after officers mistakenly assumed he was drunk when he was suffering from a blood clot on his brain, his solicitor revealed today.David Powell, 44, from Headingley, Leeds, uses a wheelchair and needs 24-hour care as a result of the incident. His solicitor, Iftikhar Manzoor, today said medical evidence suggested his client would have suffered only minor disabilities if the police had acted more promptly.Mr Powell was arrested on July 17 1998 after officers were alerted that a man was lying at the bottom of some steps near his home. When officers arrived at the scene, they smelled drink on Mr Powell's breath, assumed he was drunk and arrested him, ignoring a head wound. He was taken to a Leeds police station where just an hour and a half later he was found collapsed in his cell. He was taken to Leeds General Infirmary where the blood clot was quickly diagnosed. However, by then it was too late to treat much of the damage to his brain and as a consequence Mr Powell has been left with very little mobility, is blind in one eye and has difficulty communicating. West Yorkshire police issued a statement extending its sympathies to Mr Powell. "What has occurred is above all else a personal tragedy for Mr Powell and, while financial provision cannot return to Mr Powell his health, it is our belief that this settlement should enable him to be appropriately cared for," the force said. "The matter was fully investigated at the time under the supervision of the independent police complaints authority. There was insufficient evidence for any disciplinary action against any officer."Mr Manzoor said police should have taken him to hospital upon arrest, and at a "bare minimum" should have had the police surgeon examine him when they arrived at the police station."I accept police officers are not medically trained but the facts suggest this was a case of missed opportunities," Mr Manzoor said. "I sincerely hope there is never a repeat of this kind of incident and as far as West Yorkshire police are concerned I hope that lessons have been learned."