Three teenagers accused of the murder of Damilola Taylor were remanded in custody for a week after they appeared in court yesterday.Hassan Jihad, an unemployed 19-year-old, and two brothers, aged 16 and 17, all from Peckham, south London, are charged with murdering the 10-year-old schoolboy four years ago as he walked home from a computer club. The three, who would have been aged between 12 and 14 at the time of the attack on November 27 2000, appeared at Camberwell Green magistrates court in south London. Wearing jackets and sweatshirts with hoods, the two youngest accused, who cannot be named because they are juveniles, sat on either side of a member of court staff in the dock behind a glass screen. Mr Jihad, wearing a T-shirt, sat behind them. They spoke only to confirm their names and dates of birth during the five-minute hearing. Damilola, a pupil at Oliver Goldsmith school in Peckham, was stabbed in the thigh with a broken bottle as he walked home from an after-school class. He bled to death in a stairwell outside a lift, a few hundred metres from his home on the North Peckham estate. Four youths were acquitted of his murder when they stood trial at the Old Bailey in 2002 after a key witness - a 14-year-old girl known only as "Bromley" - was discredited as a liar. Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria, who were not in court yesterday, have been kept informed by Scotland Yard about the progress of the investigation, part of which has involved efforts to break a wall of silence encountered by the original police team. The three teenagers were remanded in custody to appear at the Old Bailey next Friday morning. Robert Jansen, prosecuting, gave brief details of the case. Lawyers for the accused made no representations and there were no applications for bail. The teenagers have been in custody since they were arrested on Wednesday morning and taken to separate police stations in south London. The decision to charge them was taken after discussions between detectives and Crown Prosecution Service lawyers.