A former Metropolitan police officer was jailed today for 13 years for an elaborate plot to kidnap a bank manager from his home in the hope of extorting a sum of £100,000.Mesut Karakas, 25, was a police constable whose employers already suspected him of wrongdoing. Despite being a member of a police force he was the leader of the gang that plotted the kidnap.Karakas and other members of his gang were fans of the television show The Wire, and a bug, placed in his car, recorded them discussing "tips" on avoiding detection, suggested by the drama series. They also discussed how to "question" the bank manager they intended to kidnap in order to extract the cash.Police believe the gang had access to guns and that they planned to set up bogus roadworks near the home of the bank manager. Searches uncovered four sets of false car registration plates, industrial gaffer tape, dust masks, a balaclava, plasticuffs, industrial ear protectors, and the van which officers believed would have been used in the plot.Karakas, conspired with Richmond Darko, 25, Ijah Rowe, 24, Jamie Lowe, 25, and Gokhan Kuru, 24, to kidnap a Lloyds TSB manager, based in London, in an attempt to steal money.Karakas received 10 years for conspiracy to kidnap, two years for misconduct in a public office, and one year for assault, with the sentences to run consecutively.Sentencing at Blackfriars crown court, the judge, Aidan Marron, told him: "You were the principal in this conspiracy, about that no one can have any doubt."Rosa Dean, prosecuting, said the motive was money. "The five defendants, over a period of months from the summer of 2009 until the date of their arrest, October 21, were planning a kidnap that was both sophisticated and carefully planned. The crown says that this was foiled only by the intervention of police who had been monitoring the defendants."The court heard that a listening probe device recorded Karakas and Lowe discussing The Wire. The judge added: "Your collective activity was planned professionally and systematically. No one listening to the probe material will forget the cold, callous, way that you behaved." Police said they were satisfied with the vetting used when Karakas joined the force.Karakas's conviction for assault related to an incident in Chapel Market, Islington, London, on 25 July last year, in which four members of the gang, including himself, left a man with multiple injuries after attacking him with a baseball bat. Using a police computer, Karakas printed out the incident report and shared it with Lowe.Lowe pleaded guilty to perverting the course of justice after an envelope containing £10,000 was posted through the letterbox of the assault victim asking him to drop the case against the four men. After the assault the gang plotted the kidnap.