Press AssociationA civil servant and her taxi driver partner who cheated the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) out of £1m in an expenses fraud have been jailed for six years.Lisa Burrows, a CPS area manager, and Tahir Mahmood raked in £4,000 a week over five years by lodging claims for nonexistent taxi journeys. They used the proceeds to fund luxury holidays in Dubai and New York, designer handbags, clothing and jewellery, Birmingham crown court heard.The pair were arrested in February. Burrows, 41, of Oldbury, West Midlands, and Mahmood, 50, of Hodge Hill, Birmingham, admitted cheating the CPS out of £1,021,475 by producing invoices for a fictitious cab firm purporting to cater for witnesses.The fraud went unnoticed despite four annual audits. Detailed investigations have failed to trace more than £660,000 of stolen public funds.Brian Dean, prosecuting, said Burrows, who worked at CPS offices in Birmingham, began the fraud in 2008 shortly after meeting Mahmood. Mahmood, who "held the purse strings" in the fraud, set up a bank account in a false name to receive payments to a fictitious taxi firm.Passing sentence, Judge William Davis QC, described the fraud as a gross abuse of a position of trust. "It is difficult to imagine a more serious fraud of its type," he said. "It was you, Burrows, who created and then authorised the payment of the bogus invoices. You knew how the system worked. Over the course of five years, you, Burrows, paid into your bank account over £320,000 in cash, all of which must have been the proceeds of the fraud."That money went on high living – expensive holidays in Dubai and New York, designer clothing, jewellery. What happened to the rest of the money – some £664,000 – is not known save that it was you, Mahmood, who withdrew the money in cash."The fact that the fraud involved the CPS and was committed by a senior member of that service – the body responsible for bringing criminals to justice – will have affected and eroded public confidence."In a statement, the CPS said: "This fraud was carried out by a member of staff with significant financial authority who abused a position of trust. Investigations are being finalised. However, an independent external audit provides strong assurances that this was an isolated case. Indeed, no further fraudulent activity has been identified."Nevertheless, the CPS has strengthened its financial controls and procedures across the organisation in order to prevent, as far as is possible, any fraudulent activity in the future."