Prison officers are being forced to deal with a 'toxic mix' of substance abuse and psychological disorders among an increasing number of seriously disturbed prisoners who should not be in jail in the first place. These are the conclusions of the head of the government's prisons watchdog, Anne Owers, who said prison governors were 'on the edge of coping' with the crisis, with jails routinely operating at 24 per cent above capacity. Last month prisoner numbers rose to more than 76,000 for the first time. Jails in England and Wales are barely coping with the numbers of inmates with mental health and drug problems, still struggling to deal with black prisoners' experience of racism and beset with an overcrowding crisis that refuses to go away, Owers told The Observer. She also announced that she had commissioned an inquiry into racism in prisons after questionnaires from black inmates during inspections of individual jails showed that they felt they were being treated far worse than white prisoners. The former human rights campaigner who became Chief Inspector of Prisons in 2001 said it was too early to say if the 12 suicides in the first 12 days of this month were a trend or a 'blip', but said there were too many people in prison on permanent 'suicide watch' who were suffering from psychiatric disorders and would have been in mental hospitals 20 years ago. 'My sense of the prison system at the moment is that it is on the edge of coping,' she said. 'It is under that continual, chronic pressure of running at 24 per cent over-capacity. There is just no room for consolidation.' She said the problem was most acute in female prisons. 'You have got that real toxic mix of substance use, which you often find in women prisoners is a way of coping with other forms of abuse which have happened in the past. Therefore [the drug abuse] is blanking out some forms of mental disorder so that when you detox someone you take away that blanket and all the problems that it was suppressing come to the surface.' She said the policy of 'care in the community', which saw large numbers of mentally-disturbed patients released from large Victorian psychiatric institutions in the Eighties, had led to many former inmates of mental hospitals ending up in prison. 'There is an underlying problem of prisons that are receiving seriously mentally ill people who would have been in mental hospitals 10 or 15 years ago, who were released on a promise of care in the community. They simply found there is not enough care in the community and they ended up back in prison.' Official estimates show that 80 per cent of women in prison have diagnosable mental health problems, while 66 per cent have neurotic disorders such as depression, eating disorders or a history of self-harm.