I have been mugged twice in my life, once alone, and once in front of my kids. In front of my kids was worse. Last April, I was walking with my nine-year-old daughter and six-year-old son through our local Victorian cemetery and nature reserve. Two lads, about 16 or 17, tall, skinny, and both wearing shell suits, approached us.One of them grabbed me from behind, pulled my arm behind my back and clamped a sweaty, stinking hand over my mouth. He told me not to scream and I wouldn't get hurt. Both children started to cry. One mugger tried to pull my rucksack off, but it couldn't get past my twisted arm. The guy with his hand over my mouth took it off to help him, and I just screamed, even though he had told me not to. It is an automatic thing, like being on a rollercoaster, or giving birth; you just scream. The muggers looked confused, tried a few more tugs, and ran off. I grabbed my children and held them tightly. We found a woman with a mobile phone, rang the police and they drove us around in a car to see if we could spot the muggers. I hoped my son would love this, but it was hot and stuffy in the van and we all felt carsick because we had to ride backwards. All the police could say was that I was nuts to walk through that cemetery, even in broad daylight. They wouldn't let their wives do that. It didn't seem too bad, as muggings go. There were no weapons, no injuries, nothing stolen, and so I just assumed the repercussions would be minimal, too, nothing that a little chat, lots of kisses and cuddles wouldn't fix. When my husband and I talked to the kids, they were a strange mix of tearful and excited. They both said they thought that the boys were going to take me away, and wanted to know what would have happened then. I told them that would never happen, but they wanted to know how I knew that. I was stumped and said, "I just know. And if it did happen, you'd find a nice grown-up lady to help you. "Yeah," they said, "but what if there wasn't one?" "There's always a nice lady," I said. Then I let Cartoon Network weave its valium magic. Of course, the children said they never wanted to go to the cemetery again, and despite my lame, "If you fall off a horse, get back on it," protestations, I didn't really want to go back either. Then I said that we would go, but only with daddy or lots of friends, or a huge dog with a big bark. We'd organise a picnic or something. We'd make it a fun cemetery again. A few days later we went for a family holiday to New York, my home town, city of Zero Tolerance. We had such a great time, I thought the kids had forgotten about the incident. But when we got back to London, my son started to get very tearful in school. He cried most days, and told the teacher that he wanted to be home with his mum in case bad boys came. One day he just cried his eyes out at home, and said that everybody was bad and that he wished the seed that had made him had been destroyed. One day I saw him punching himself repeatedly in the stomach. He was depressed. We took him to our GP, who said that it was probably a delayed reaction and that we shouldn't be too alarmed by his dramatic statements - kids often say things that they don't really understand - and he organised a session with a counsellor who helped him to talk about his feelings. He talked about death a lot and bad people, and ways to die. We half-expected him to slap up a poster of Kurt Cobain. It hurt to hear our child being so bleak, but it seemed to help him. The tearfulness eased up. Over the next few months, he started to have more happy days than unhappy days. Four months on, he seems his old, happy, cheeky self. It's a cliche but true - time really does heal. But four months for a crappy little attempted robbery? How long would it take him to recover if I had been stabbed? I hope we never have to find out. We have since returned to the cemetery for family walks. Once, at the exact spot it happened, the kids said, "This is where it happened, isn't it?" And that was it. What to do if it happens to you· Don't think that you are granted a mugger's version of diplomatic immunity if you have your kids with you. They don't care. In fact, the police say that it can make you more vulnerable because you are so focused on them. · Striking a balance between helping children feel safe and secure, but not making any false promises can be difficult. Peter Dunn, head of research and development at Victim Support, suggests talking about practical ways to feel safer, such as carrying a personal alarm, not walking down certain streets at night and staying in groups · Don't assume that if it wasn't all that traumatic for you, that it isn't traumatic for them. The Royal College of Psychiatrists, in a paper on traumatic stress in children says that children can be severely affected by witnessing a crime. Signs to watch for are difficulty sleeping, nightmares, fearful, clingy and anxious behaviour, anxiety about being separated from you, poor concentration, irritability, and psychosomatic symptoms like headaches and tummy aches. · Do encourage children to talk about the event. "It is common for children to fantasise that what happened is somehow their fault, and that they should have protected their parents," says Dunn. Dr Guinevere Tufnell of The Traumatic Stress Clinic in London suggests helping the child to create a story about the event. "When something traumatic happens, small reminders can trigger a reliving of the event in flashbacks, nightmares and anxieties. Turning the event into a story, to which the child can add details or illustrations, helps them to put the event into the past. Creating a story with a happy, safe ending, helps the child to make sense of what happened and feel safe." · If you have been badly shaken up too, no matter how seemingly small the crime, call Victim Support on 0845 3030 900. If you are anxious and upset, your kids are going to pick up on it. · If your child is showing signs of stress, contact your GP. The waiting lists for psychiatric services for children tend to be very long, but your GP might be able to push things along. A short, rapid intervention of one or two sessions could probably head off longer-term problems.