A suspect in the murder of Stephen Lawrence who is wanted for drug dealing is among 10 British criminals thought to be hiding in Spain.Jamie Acourt, 40, from south-east London, was allegedly part of a cannabis-dealing gang between January 2014 and February 2016.He previously achieved notoriety after he was named as one of the suspects in the investigation into the racist murder of 18-year-old Stephen. The teenager was killed by up to six attackers in 1993, two of whom, David Norris and Gary Dobson, were convicted and are serving life sentences.Another suspect on the list is Shane O’Brien, 28, accused of murdering 21-year-old Josh Hanson in an unprovoked knife attack in a bar in Hillingdon, west London, in October 2015.Police believe he has “strong links” to Spain, and uses a false identity to evade capture. A second line of investigation is that he may be in Dubai.The “most wanted” gallery also includes suspected fraudster Mark Acklom, 43, from London, who allegedly posed as a Swiss banker and an MI6 agent as he fleeced a woman, whom he said he would marry, out of £850,000.Accused conman Acklom convinced her that he needed money to renovate a property, which she later found out that he did not own. The alleged victim, Carolyn Woods, 55, told Sky News: “I was completely devastated, he left me destitute and destroyed my life.”Investigators are also hunting convicted fraudster Sarah Panitzke, 42, from Fulford, North Yorkshire, who laundered £1bn as part of a massive tax scam and is due to serve an eight-year jail term for conspiracy to acquire criminal property.Steve Reynolds, the head of international operations for the National Crime Agency, said: “The fugitives we are hunting are wanted for serious crimes and must be returned to the UK to face justice. We need the support of the public to help us catch them. Be our eyes and ears and tell us if you have any information on the whereabouts of our targets.”The list was unveiled by British and Spanish authorities at a joint press conference in Málaga on Thursday.It features Jonathan Kelly, 36, from Glasgow, who is wanted for a string of violent crimes including a machete attack that left his victim paralysed; and alleged drugs kingpin Dominic McInally, 25, from Liverpool, who is accused of leading a cocaine-dealing gang that made £1.25m a month.The chairman of Crimestoppers, Lord Ashcroft, said: “These people have managed to evade arrest and avoid justice. We know that with the help of Spanish authorities, along with the public in Spain and the UK, we can find these people.”Here is a list of the 10 most wanted British fugitives thought to be hiding in Spain: • Jamie Acourt, 40, from south-east London, was allegedly part of a cannabis-dealing gang between January 2014 and February 2016. He is 1.73 metres (5ft 8in) and athletic, with a pale complexion, dark brown hair, brown eyes, and sometimes wears glasses. Acourt is a suspect in the 1993 racist murder of teenager Stephen Lawrence. • Shane O’Brien, 28, is accused of murdering 21-year-old Josh Hanson in an unprovoked knife attack in a bar in Hillingdon, west London, in October 2015. Police believe he has “strong links” to Spain, is using a false identity and has been helped to avoid capture. Another line of investigation is that he may be in Dubai. A £20,000 reward is on offer for information leading to his arrest and prosecution. O’Brien has a birthmark on his face and a tattoo on his back that says “Shannon 15-04-06”. • Suspected fraudster Mark Acklom, 43, from London, allegedly posed as a Swiss banker and an MI6 agent as he fleeced a woman whom he said he would marry out of £850,000. He is wanted by Avon and Somerset police for fraud by false representation after starting the relationship with a woman from Bath in January 2012. He allegedly deceived her into lending him more and more money, apparently for renovation work on a property that she later discovered he did not own. He is 1.75 metres (5ft 10in) and has dark brown hair and green eyes. • Violent offender Jonathon Kelly, 36, from Glasgow, who paralysed one victim in a machete attack, is wanted after going on the run when he was released on licence in 2014. He has convictions for a string of violent crimes including assaults causing severe injury and permanent disfigurement, robbery, and having a sharply pointed weapon in prison. He was also subject to a sexual offences prevention order. Kelly is 1.75 metres (5ft 10in), heavily built, and has blue/grey eyes, short brown hair and occasionally has a beard. There are scars to both sides of his face, on his arms and right hand. • Suspected paedophile Steven Carruthers, 43, from Bury, Greater Manchester, is wanted by Cumbria police after officers found more than 5,000 obscene images of children, including some being sexually abused, on his computer. He was interviewed after police raided his home in Ambleside, Cumbria, in March 2014 and denied committing any crimes, then went on the run when he was released on bail. He is 1.68 metres (5ft 8in) and has short, brown hair or a shaved head, and blue eyes. • Sarah Panitzke, 42, from Fulford, North Yorkshire, laundered £1bn as part of a massive tax fraud. She went on the run in May 2013 before the end of her trial for conspiracy to acquire criminal property, and in her absence was sentenced to eight years in prison. Panitzke is 1.68 metres (5ft 7in), slim, and has “mousey”, straight hair, and blue eyes. • Dominic McInally, 25, from Liverpool is allegedly the boss of a cocaine-dealing gang that pulled in £1.25m a month. It is claimed that members of the drug ring travelled to the border of France and Belgium in January 2014 to pick up 6kg of the class A drug and hid it in a secret compartment in a Seat Leon, before it was seized by police. McInally is 1.78 metres and has blond hair. • Mark Quinn, 52, from Liverpool, is wanted by Police Scotland for allegedly being involved in a drug-dealing gang that made, smuggled and sold amphetamine with a street value of more than £11m between August 2013 and April 2014. He is 1.75 metres and has short, brown hair. • Suspected drug dealer Simon McGuffie, 41, from Liverpool is accused of being part of a Merseyside gang that sold cocaine, heroin and cannabis across the north-west. He has a two-inch (5cm) scar on his right cheek, and a scarred right arm. • Matthew Sammon, 45, from Croydon, south London, is wanted on suspicion of making and possessing indecent photographs of children. He was arrested and questioned in April 2014, but went on the run when he was released on bail and has not been seen since. He is 1.75 metres and has short brown hair.