Today's extract from The phone hacking scandal: journalism on trial* is a fascinating history lesson by John Tulloch, head of Lincoln university's school of journalism.He takes us on a journey back to the 19th century to explore the origins of the relationship between reporters and the police and then he concludes with a warning...If contacts between the two sides are precluded then it may well not be in the public interest.Crime news was one of the basic staples in the rise of the press in the early 19th century, along with gambling, sexual scandal and sport...Newspapers created a rough and ready form of "soft" social regulation to which the early police played a "hard" role. Dickens refers disparagingly to the "Old Bow-street police" and their propensity to hang around with Grub Street denizens... [They were] hand-in-glove with the penny-a-liners of that time...The prime exponent of this popular press was to become the News of the World, from its start in 1843, but it joined a host of weekly popular newspapers, such as Robert Bell's Penny Dispatch and Edward Lloyd's Penny Sunday Times and People's Police Gazette, in shocking crime news, and a diet specialising in "seductions, rapes, murders and any other sort of horror."Until the advent of Alfred Harmsworth and the rise of the popular daily newspaper of the 1890s, this was the largest and economically most buoyant part of the British press...Given its size and profitability, it is at least plausible that paying, as well as wining and dining police officers and detectives for tips, was fundamental to this culture of Victorian popular journalism, but these papers... were also frequently prepared to attack the newly established police...This was not just a working class market. The middle-class magazine Household Words, which Dickens started in March 1850, fished in the same waters with somewhat different motives and featured a substantial number of articles on the police, many concentrated in the first issues and focusing on the work of detectives. Although the evidence is slight, it is highly likely that Dickens made discreet payments to favourite police officers, as well as publicly hosting parties for detectives in his offices...He wrote stories for his magazines based on the use of his police contacts, edited and rewrote police articles by his contributors, and accompanied police raids into the East End. In an age that was very suspicious of the organised state, he functioned as a one-man propagandist for the new police force and the new "science" of detection...Payment of course was, by its nature, covert. One of the most celebrated policemen of the Victorian age, Inspector Charles Frederick Field... owed his prominence to Dickens. Field was well-known as the "model" of Bucket in Bleak House... which conferred on him a form of early stardom... After Field retired in December 1852 and opened a private inquiry bureau, Dickens is reported to have subscribed £300 to a testimonial (a sizeable sum equivalent to about £8000 today), although there is some dispute aboutthis...Other evidence of payments is a bit scarce. As an editor, Dickens was tight with money in his payment of contributors to Household Words. However, in a letter to his chief sub editor... in April 1851 setting out his plan for another police article... he wrote:"Any of the Scotland Yard people will do it, I should think; if our friend by any accident should not be there, I will go into it... of course we will pay any man and do as they recommend." [author's italics]Over this period, the Metropolitan police avoided major scandals but acquired an unsavoury reputation for corruption and incompetence in the 1870s after Dickens's death.From its origins the question of "perks" was a live issue... Recurrent efforts were made to control the use of perks at various points in the 19th century. Indeed, ferocious attacks by the press on police venality and incompetence were a feature of the late Victorian scene – particularly marked during the outbreak of murders in the East End in the 1880s attributed to Jack the Ripper...Payments to policemen only became comprehensively illegal with the passing of the Prevention of Corruption Act in 1901, and it was made an offence for a police officer to receive payment and for someone to make one, in the context of recent increases in police pay and allowances... A major reason for the reluctant establishment of the Scotland Yard press office in 1919 was "fears about unauthorised leaks produced by reporters bribing officers."By that time a cosy and, to some extent, self-regulating culture had arisen between a corps of Fleet Street crime correspondents and the police in which each side needed each other – the police used the press for publicity, to get a result, to fight for better resources and advance their careers. Journalists relied on police tip-offs to get the latest information, access to victims and lurid details to dress up stories. Copious amounts of alcohol in a number of well-established London watering holes oiled the relationship. But references to money payments in journalists' memoirs are sparse... Consider the guarded references of Frederick Higginbottom – a noted Pall Mall Gazette journalist – in his memoirs:"Go back to notorious murder mysteries of the eighties of last century... Every one was written up by expert reporters in touch with the police, and each of them provided sensations for months. The police used the press then, as they do now, and they gave away information freely if it helped them to trace a missing suspect." [author's italics]Now a host of accounts have begun appearing in the press testifying to the ubiquity of this culture...As the Daily Telegraph observes: "Payments by journalists to police officers have a long history"...The researcher of Victorian journalistic morals finds real difficulties in uncovering a covert culture whose basis was cash – the beauty of cash, of course, lies in its being untraceable. Modern prosecutors, with many more tools at their command, still face great difficulties...But does this expensive pursuit of information brokers and allegedly corrupt police officers serve the wider public interest? Most of it is likely to be very hard to prove and the former Metropolitan police chief, Brian Paddick, argues that there is "absolutely no point" in attempting to investigate whether journalists were paying police officers: "If these claims are true," he says, "then it is most likely officers were paid in cash and there is no way of proving it". One might observe that this seems to discount a careful auditing of gold bath taps against the ostensible income of the officer.A final point to ponder: could efforts to stamp out payments between hacks and cops lead to the death of popular journalism?...Here's an interesting ethical conundrum. Freedom of the press may require us to argue for a tolerable level of corruption to enable crime to be reported, especially the crimes of the powerful, in the wider public interest. It doesn't lend itself to transparency, or ethical puritanism, and it doesn't exactly meet any Kantian test – mild corruption of the police by journalists might, indeed, lead to highway extortion for imaginary driving offences, as happens in Russia and the ex-Soviet republics. But it may be a price worth paying.Tomorrow: Phil Harding, the man who wrote the BBC's editorial guidelines, discusses what sort of journalism qualifies as being in "the public interest." *The phone hacking scandal: journalism on trial, edited by Richard Lance Keeble and John Mair, is published by Abramis