The man accused of faking his own death in a canoeing accident has today admitted deception but denied other charges of using criminal property.John Darwin, 57, and his 55-year-old wife, Anne, made their first crown court appearance in Leeds for a plea and directions hearing. The couple have been accused of a series of fraud-related offences totalling nearly £250,000.Darwin pleaded guilty to seven charges of obtaining cash by deception and a passport offence. He denied nine other charges of using criminal property, an offence related to alleged money laundering. Prosecutors said Darwin would not face trial for the charges he denied, which will be left to lie on file.His wife denied six deception charges and nine of using criminal property. She will now face trial at Teesside crown court on July 14. Darwin, who had been declared dead in 2003, walked into a police station on December 1 last year and said: "I think I'm a missing person."The former teacher and prison officer vanished after taking his canoe into the sea in Seaton Carew, Hartlepool, in March 2002. A major air and sea search failed to find any trace of him, and he was pronounced dead the following year.It has since been claimed that he was living next door to his wife for much of the time he was believed to have been dead.The couple, who stood together in the dock, did not speak apart from entering their pleas. As they faced the judge, Darwin turned to his wife and squeezed her hand. Peter Makepeace, representing Darwin, told the judge that his client "accepts entirely that a lengthy custodial sentence is inevitable".Makepeace asked for a pre-sentence report to be prepared, adding that Darwin had been seen by a psychiatrist and there were no mental health issues relevant to the case. However, he added: "Mr Darwin has been in custody. It has been an extremely difficult time for him. There have been self-harming issues." The judge agreed for the report to be prepared, and told Darwin he would have to be held in custody until the conclusion of his wife's trial.