Superintendent Ali Dizaei was once groomed to be a role model, a leading ethnic minority officer in a force struggling to recover from being branded institutionally racist. Instead he was investigated and prosecuted "like an enemy of the state", according to one senior police officer.Mr Dizaei's supporters say the Metropolitan police tried to destroy one of its most vocal internal critics on race. Even one of the force's most senior officers admitted to the Guardian that the investigation had mushroomed out of all control; another said in exasperation: "What were we doing? I'm aghast. We don't appear to have learned." The Met says it had no choice but to investigate a senior officer after receiving allegations of wrongdoing, irrespective of his race. The trial's collapse yesterday means tight reporting restrictions were lifted, and the story of the pursuit of Mr Dizaei by his own force can be revealed. The seemingly minor charges over a scratched car and £270 of allegedly false mileage claims came after a massive investigation, staffed and resourced like a murder hunt. The jury in an earlier trial involving Mr Dizaei was not told that he had been under intense police surveillance, with his phones bugged, for more than a year as part of a corruption investigation. Originally, the Met made a set of allegations against Mr Dizaei including that he was a threat to national security, assault, misuse of drugs, sex with prostitutes and accepting gratuities. It ended up charging him over his reporting of an attack on his car, which a jury took just a few hours to acquit him of after a five-week trial. The crown said Mr Dizaei had lied about the location at which his black BMW was damaged on September 6 2000, in order to make it seem that police officers had done it. He admitted lying, but said he had not told the truth fearing he would get into trouble with his boss for ignoring an order not to attend a meeting of the Black Police Association (BPA). Mr Dizaei, the jury heard, was operating in a climate of hate. He was a vocal and high profile critic of the Met and was the BPA's legal adviser. The Iranian-born policeman, once tipped to become Britain's first ethnic minority chief constable, had the ear of powerful people outside the policing world. He was awarded a certificate of commendation for his BPA work by the then home secretary, Jack Straw, and attended a Downing Street seminar on Britishness. The trial also exposed the racial tensions still plaguing the Met, after the Macpherson report which found the force institutionally racist. Mr Dizaei's style and views grated with his colleagues. He is teetotal, he did not drink with them, but went to the trendy Roof Gardens club in central London, taking out a £400-a-year membership. He had a law doctorate and was the son of a former senior Iranian police officer. He was also seen in the plush cars of diplomat and lawyer friends. Although his marriage was over, Mr Dizaei stayed with his wife for the sake of their three children; he had a string of affairs. He wore sunglasses, cowboy boots and personalised his uniform with a Versace belt. After breaking up with one woman, Mr Dizaei was caught in a tapped conversation saying: "I will take such revenge on you that, like a dog, you will be sorry. You will cry for years."  Unpopular Mr Dizaei became increasingly unpopular as his views on racism within the force became more widely known. The backlash against him brought open abuse and racist hate mail after he made a keynote speech at a BPA meeting. A Daily Telegraph report of his speech was pinned to the wall at Chelsea police station. Scrawled on it were the words "fucking tosser." Mr Dizaei also became unpopular with white junior officers when he helped colleagues subjected to racial harassment. One was an officer of Vietnamese origin based at Chelsea, who found pinned to his locker a racist drawing of a supposed Chinese person with "yellow, bastard, Chinky" written on it, and he was called a "gook". The BPA felt there was so much hostility to it within the police that in 1999 it wrote to the then Met commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, saying that white colleagues had warned them of a "backlash" after the Macpherson report which would lead to a campaign to professionally undermine senior BPA members. From his first day in the Met, Mr Dizaei was under suspicion and the force's own investigation into him began within weeks of him joining in 1999. The Metropolitan Police Authority member, Peter Herbert, was briefed in confidence about the case by a senior officer and said: "The briefing was biased and racist. They were out to get him whatever the cost. It was all hearsay or gossip. They had a fundamental dislike about who he was, rather than anything to do with corruption." The investigation, codenamed Helios, set him a series of integrity tests. Through the FBI, Helios got an Iranian officer working for Canadian police to approach Mr Dizaei during a speaking trip to Los Angeles to see if he did or said anything that could be corrupt. In January 2001 the secret investigation went public after Mr Dizaei was suspended from his £52,000 a year post. Since October 1999 the wiretaps and covert surveillance had caught conversations with friends and associates. To get the legal permission to carry out phone taps and surveillance, police needed to show they were investigating allegations of serious crime or that Mr Dizaei was a threat to national security. Yet by autumn 2000 senior officers were admitting that they had discovered nothing other than potential disciplinary offences, but the surveillance continued. A camera was placed outside his house in Henley and he was followed by officers carrying cameras in bags. Footage from CCTV cameras capturing his cashpoint withdrawals was seized then checked against his bank records. Every aspect of his life was gone into. Initially, the allegation of drug involvement from an informer was enough to obtain warrants for surveillance, but, in January 2000, detectives were told that Mr Dizaei was an "agent" for the Iranian secret police. The allegation came from the mother of a woman with whom Mr Dizaei had a relationship, and then a messy parting. It proved bogus. The threat to national security allegation was also based on him associating with people from the Iranian embassy, which was in the area he policed. Mr Dizaei is an Iranian national and had even informed special branch before his visits. His barrister, Michael Mansfield QC, told a pre-trial hearing that the criminal charge [relating to the scratched car] was brought to minimise the Met's embarrassment: "They were worried about public image and how it would look having spent all this time and money with nothing to show for it. The risk is it turns into a witchhunt with nothing to show for it." At a pre-trial hearing the lead investigator, DCS Barry Norman, said to Mr Dizaei: "I wish I had been at the dentist the day this job was given out." One senior officer spoke to the Guardian about the case: "It just ran out of control. I think it was incompetence rather than a conspiracy." But BPA members believe the targeting of Mr Dizaei was an attempt to discredit their organisation. Leroy Logan, chair of the Met BPA said: "They treated him like an enemy of the state. I've never known a white officer being treated like this." As the BPA's legal adviser Mr Dizaei, a trained lawyer, advised scores of officers suing forces for alleged discrimination. The investigation obtained confidential material from Mr Dizaei relating to these cases, then passed it on to the Met's own solicitors' department, which was effectively being sued by the officers. The Met even misinformed a Home Office minister about the case, and then went on to misinform MPs about whether legally privileged material had been seen by Helios officers. A host of complaints and disciplinary allegations are also outstanding about the investigation itself. A life in the police· Ali Dizaei was born in Tehran, Iran, in 1962 and came to Britain at the age of 10. His grandfather and father were both deputy commissioners in Tehran's police force. · After studying at Slindon College, a public school in Sussex, and South West London College of Business Education, he gained a law degree at City University in 1982 and studied to become a barrister. · He joined Thames Valley police in 1986. By 1996 he was a chief inspector, running policing in Oxford, before moving to the police staff college at Bramshill where he taught for a year. · He gained a masters degree in law from Brunel University and in 1998 he gained a doctorate in law. · He was seconded to the Home Office as vice chairman and legal adviser to the BPA and with special responsibility to advise the home secretary, Jack Straw. · In March 1999 he joined the Met as superintendent. · In April 2001 he was due to take the strategic command course, gateway to the police service's upper echelons, but was suspended over an array of corruption allegations. · In April 2003 he was acquitted for the first time, and yesterday the crown announced that the dropping of the last criminal charges he faced. 