Britain's jails remain too crowded for prisoners to receive worthwhile education and training, while government efforts to reform the system are progressing too slowly, an all-party report by MPs says today.Many more able and longer-term inmates continue to get no decent educational opportunities because the curriculum in prisons is dominated by basic skills training, it says.Methods for assessing prisoners' education and training needs are still inadequate and ineffective, according to the report published by the All Party Parliamentary Group for Further Education and Lifelong Learning. Records are not passed on and individuals have to be assessed every time they move prison.The report, Inside Track: Prisoner Education in 2004 and Beyond, finds some prisoners have been retaking the same qualifications in different jails."It's not that there aren't very good people working in this field, but they are overwhelmed," said Julia Baggins, the report's author. "This is set to change. It's just that while the gears are crunching, more and more people are coming into the system."A critical failure is the absence of a system for easing prisoners who have had education or training back into society when they complete their sentences, she said. "Whatever you do to try to assist people in prisons is in danger of being lost in the fragmentation on release. It's very depressing - all these people are going to come ricocheting out and we are not, at present, able to do very much for them."The MPs in the group were shocked at the "wholly inadequate management and provision of prisoner education and training", said its joint chair, David Chaytor. "Our impression is of a sector in which many dedicated and hard working tutors and organisers are struggling to do their best in what are frequently impossible circumstances," said Chaytor, Labour MP for Bury North. "Securing a job on release is the best-known safeguard against further offending by ex-prisoners. Under current arrangements, it is extremely unlikely that more than a handful will be released able to do that."The MPs recommend that every prison should become a "secure college" if the public is to get the best from its investment in the prison system. For this vision to be realised, the group calls for the size of the prison population to be capped, relative to capacity, and the majority of prisoners to be held within their home areas.The prison population has expanded dramatically from approximately 49,000 in 1994 to approximately 75,000 in 2004. "This expansion in population has not been matched by a parallel expansion in capacity, staffing and facilities," the report comments. "Prisons are operating at the limits of their capability."At the end of July, 83 of the 138 prisons in England and Wales were officially designated as "overcrowded".The report acknowledges that the proposed new National Offender Management Service (Noms) will bring together the work of the prison and probation services, and institute "end-to-end" management of offenders from the moment of conviction, right through the sentence and back into the community. But the detail of how this is going to work remains to be clarified.The all-party group recommends there should be just one assessment for each prisoner at the point of first entry to prison, covering all aspects of their learning and training needs. These needs should be highlighted in every prisoner's sentence plan. As an urgent priority, extra investment is needed in electronic transfer of records.The MPs are also calling for significant additional investment in work-related training, and in academic and other learning opportunities for the more able and/or longer term prisoners.They urge the Offenders' Learning and Skills Unit (Olsu) to consult the examination and accreditation boards to ensure that all courses can be pursued on a modular basis. The report found no systematic approach to delivering modular accreditation across the prison system. Prisoners are often transferred mid-course to another jail which may not offer the same course."Their coursework and records of achievement are often lost in transit," says the report. "Prisoners' learning is too often disrupted. Sessions are regularly lost because prisoners are not escorted to classes."