A crack addict serving life for killing a young architect is being questioned over the murder of an American artist in a London park six years ago.Christopher Olokun, 36, who was convicted of killing Bernard Hegarty in Bethnal Green, east London, was arrested in Cambridgeshire yesterday in connection with the frenzied stabbing of 27-year-old Margaret Muller, sources said.Olokun was being questioned at a Cambridgeshire police station by Scotland Yard detectives. The killing of Muller on 3 February 2003 has become one of Britain's most notorious unsolved murders. Muller, who studied at the Slade School of Fine Art, was subjected to a frenzied knife attack as she ran in Victoria Park, Hackney.She was found slumped on a path between a rose garden and a playground after fellow joggers heard her screams. She had suffered multiple stab wounds. At the time police said two men were seen running from the scene.Muller had moved to London from the USA in 1998 to study art and lived in a converted factory where she also had a studio. Over the last six years her murder has been linked to other frenzied knife attacks, but the suspects have all been ruled out. A month after the killing officers staged Scotland Yard's biggest reconstruction, asking more than 100 witnesses to retrace their movements in the park, with detectives warning that Muller's killer had in all likelihood stalked the area looking for a victim. A reward of £15,000 was offered for information leading to an arrest and conviction. Within months, officers carried out more than 1,000 house-to-house inquiries and took more than 1,000 witness statements. They revealed the suspect probably had a history of killing animals for pleasure, and appealed for burglary victims whose animals had been harmed to come forward. A spokesman for Scotland Yard said yesterday that a 36-year-old man was being questioned in connection with the killing. A second man, 46, was also arrested yesterday on suspicion of assisting an offender. He was released on bail.Olokun is the ninth person to be arrested by officers investigating Muller's murder. Detectives at one time linked the killing to a frenzied knife attack on a second woman, Monica Watts, in December 2003 in Clissold Park, Stoke Newington, north London. But her 15-year-old killer, Elias Cecchetti, known as "Slasher", was eliminated because he was in custody at the time of the attack on Muller. In 2005, detectives questioned Eminem impersonator Christopher Duncan, 25, over Muller's death after he was convicted of murdering law student Jagdip Najran. Duncan battered his victim over the head with a metal baseball bat. At Olokun's Old Bailey trial, the court heard that Hegarty died five days after being stabbed in the street near his office in Bethnal Green in August 2004. He had been on his way to buy new furniture when he was attacked. Olokun told a cellmate he had gone out "hunting" after smoking crack. He said of Hegarty: "The prick wouldn't give me his phone or his wallet."