A student jailed for posting offensive and racist comments on Twitter following footballer Fabrice Muamba's on-pitch collapse has been banned from university for the rest of the year.Liam Stacey, who has been released from prison after serving half of his 56-day sentence, was told not to return to Swansea University's campus.Speaking after leaving prison, 21-year-old Stacey expressed deep sorrow for what he had done, saying he had been drunk, and spoke of his shock that his abuse had gone "nationwide". He said his comments had been "disgusting".Stacey sparked an outcry following Muamba's cardiac arrest in March when he tweeted: "LOL, Fuck Muamba. He's dead." Other Twitter users immediately criticised Stacey, prompting him to post further offensive and racist comments. He branded some people who censured him as "wogs" and told one to "go pick some cotton". Stacey was quickly traced by police, arrested and jailed by magistrates in Swansea.He was also suspended from university, where he was a final-year biology student. The university has now imposed a full suspension until the end of the academic year. Stacey, from Pontypridd, south Wales, will be allowed to sit his final exams as an external candidate next year. But even if successful he will not be invited to the graduation ceremony.A university spokesman said: "We take the actions of this student very seriously, which is why he is no longer part of our campus community."In an interview with BBC Wales's Week In Week Out programme, which is being broadcast on Tuesday, Stacey said he was "massively sorry" for what he had done.He said he heard about the collapse of the Bolton Wanderers midfielder during a day of heavy drinking as he watched the climax of the Six Nations rugby on television.Stacey said: "I had had a lot to drink. I don't know why, I decided to tweet about it. Then about half hour, hour later I was getting responses back and I wasn't in the right frame of mind to think what was going on. It just got all out of hand then. I didn't intend being a racist when I got up that morning, I just wanted to go out and have a good time with my friends and watch the rugby. Within about an hour, two hours, everything escalated."Stacey said he hit back when other Twitter users criticised him. "I was retaliating to what they said about me. I realised about an hour later it had gone nationwide and it was like a witch-hunt on Twitter for me. I didn't realise what I had done, the enormity of it, it was huge, across Great Britain. I was on the phone to my mother then, on the phone to one of my mates, crying."I didn't know what was going to happen to me. There were threats towards me and my family. I was kind of defending myself but the way I did it was disgusting. It was stupid, disgusting. If I could turn back the clocks I would, 100%."He also told the programme: "What I struggle to get my head around was the week or two before I was just a normal kid getting on with my work in university, getting on with life, playing rugby with all my mates, then a week or two later I was just going to prison, everything had been turned upside down."Stacey pleaded guilty to an offence under the Public Order Act 1986. He admitted that he used threatening, abusive or insulting words with intent to cause harassment, alarm or distress. He also accepted that his offence was racially aggravated.