Sonnets, rhyming couplets, haiku and villanelles aren't standard fare on the wings of most category B prisons. But after the 7.30pm lock-up at HMP Grendon in Buckinghamshire, a number of inmates will spend the evening crafting verses in their cells in preparation for the performance that is the culmination of a 10-week exploration of their writing talents.HMP Grendon is the UK's only fully therapeutic prison and gets glowing reports from Her Majesty's Inspector of Prisons. Men with convictions for serious crimes choose to come here and, once accepted, must engage in individual and group therapy, and an educational programme that aims to stimulate, stretch and enhance their academic and personal skills.The Grendon Live Literature programme, as the poetry workshops are known, is directed by Alan Buckley and Steve Larkin, two Oxford-based performance poets. In the past two years, the project has led to the sight of lifers poring over their compositions, discussing how to construct blank verse, and group analysis of each inmate's literary output.Library sessionsA Sonnet for Wales is the poem under the spotlight this morning as Bill starts his one-to-one session with Larkin in the prison library. Apart from the bars on the window, it feels like a school. Bill explains that the sonnet is a love poem for his home nation: "For me, it captures what it is to be from Wales. This one I really took some time over. Often I just get it down boom boom boom, but this one I didn't."Larkin starts reading the poem out loud but, since he's looking down at the piece of paper, doesn't see the horrified look washing over his tutee's face."Stop that, you're bloody murdering it, stop it, I'll read it!" Bill says. Swinging on his chair as he takes over, his lilting accent helps to clarify the rhythm, which, he explains, is meant to echo the mountainous landscape he comes from.Bill arrived in Grendon in 2005 and is an experienced participant in the poetry workshops. Why does he keep coming? "I like the individual help. They say, 'Try this, try that', and you go away and keep at it," he says. "There's feedback from the others when we're in the group, and I like the focus on the performance at the end, too. It builds your confidence."What does he find difficult about writing poetry? "Thinking that some of my stuff is rubbish," he says. "And wanting to write about identity, and always going overboard about Wales. I find it hard being away from where I'm from. My best poem was when they asked us to write something called 'If I ruled the world for a day'. Mine ended 'it would all be Welsh', and I performed it and gave it to my mum."At the other end of the library, Buckley is working with Peter on a poem about God. "You could probably brighten up this image here," suggests Buckley."What, this one, about God as a tramp, sitting on a bench, surrounded by bags, and then the bit about being in the bath?" Peter asks. "Yeah, maybe I'll keep the tramp, but lose the bench. Or lose the bath, but keep the bench. It's like trying to juggle blancmange."The sensitivity required to write poetry and the harsh atmosphere of prison might seem unsympathetic partners, but Larkin says Grendon's therapeutic purpose makes for a fertile creative environment. "To write poetry, you have to have life experience, which they have here in spades; an active mind - well, they're doing therapy every morning; and time, and they're locked up from 7.30 at night. Most of them are writing to escape."The work's quality has at times surprised both poets. "I'm thinking of a brilliant piece where one inmate wrote about being out of jail and being back on the pull," says Buckley. "It was electrifying.""There's diverse needs here," adds Larkin, "from an extremely intelligent and articulate individual whose writing I would rate against anybody's, to someone who came along last week and whose letters to his family comprise just a few words. One person came to me with a few lines that were quite good, including: 'I'm a slave to your heart.' It turned out to be about a mixed-race relationship, so he explored that and gradually brought in more slavery metaphors. From just those initial fragments, he worked it up into a proper 40-line performance piece."Education at Grendon is not part of the therapy, but can integrate with it, says Andrew Woodley, the prison's head of learning and skills, who champions the Live Literature programme. "In most category B prisons, the men would have an average literacy age of 10," he explains. "In Grendon, they're more often at GCSE to A-level, and it means the education programme here will be different from what you'd see elsewhere."Superb performerMuch of the value of the poetry programme, Woodley believes, lies in helping the men be more confident and articulate. "It certainly improves their literacy skills, but it also develops their presentational skills. They all know that they're working towards a performance, in front of an audience of around 80 of their peers and invited guests. That's not a small thing and they take it seriously."The final element of the day is a group workshop. The men sit in a circle, and each inmate is invited to stand up and perform the lines they've written. Comments are invited, and the level of support, matched with insightful analysis, is remarkable. One man reads his piece, entitled One Big Sentence. He's a superb performer, using his Cockney accent to spring the intricate wordplay he's crafted into life.Then comes a tricky moment. Larkin asks Tate if he'll perform for the first time. Tate is reluctant. But the group urges him on, and he knows he needs to give it a go."I'll do my short one, about anxiety," he says. He stands up, but can't look at anyone as he rushes through the lines: "I'm weak. Can't speak."Buckley suggests looking towards his audience after each line. "I'll feel like a dick," Tate protests. "It's embarrassing - the whole thing is telling you what a shitbag I am!" He gives it a go, and when it's over, everyone claps."Honest, mate, I prefer it like that, because it brings us in more," says one inmate as Tate takes his seat."It's just the confidence to get up and say it, because the words are good, no doubt about that," says another."It just feels unnatural," Tate mumbles."Well, it will at first," says Larkin kindly, "but the more you do it, you know, the better it gets."· Inmates' names have been changed