David Blunkett, the home secretary, felt like celebrating with a stiff drink when he heard of the death of the serial killer Harold Shipman, it emerged yesterday."You wake up and you receive a phone call telling you that Shipman has topped himself," he said in a frank conversation with regional journalists. "And you think, 'Is it too early to open a bottle?'" "Then you discover that everybody's really upset that he's done it. So you have to be very cautious in this job, very careful." Shipman hanged himself in his cell at Wakefield prison on Tuesday. He was not on suicide watch and his death is being investigated by Stephen Shaw, the prisons ombudsman. Mr Blunkett said questions about Shipman's death needed to be answered but he did not believe prison officers or others could be held responsible. "I don't want to pre-judge the inquiry but the presumption at the moment is that people did their job properly," he said. "If [someone is] determined to mislead, it is very difficult to stop someone achieving it. "After all, this is a man who, it has been said publicly, managed to kill, we don't know [how many], but in excess of 200 people, and to mislead the colleagues around him. So he was good at being able to find ways around it." Mr Blunkett said there was no evidence that Shipman had indicated he might take his own life. "Had there been, over the last five years, then obviously steps would have been taken, as they are in other instances, to change the nature of the supervision," he said. But changes affecting prisoners serving life would need to be examined because of the potential long-term cost. It has been claimed this week that Shipman may have chosen to kill himself before his 60th birthday to ensure that his wife, Primrose, would receive a full pension. The Liberal Democrat's home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, criticised Mr Blunkett's wish to celebrate. "Many families of Harold Shipman's victims were devastated to learn of his suicide," he said. "Now they will never know why he killed their mum or granny or brother or sister. "Mr Blunkett has nothing to celebrate in the fact that the prison service is incapable of detaining people properly for their crimes, and has an appalling suicide record. Mr Blunkett should put his cork back in the bottle." A Home Office spokeswoman said: "All we can say is that we confirm the home secretary made those comments."