Rob AllenDirector, International Centre for Prison StudiesI very much hope the probation service does survive for another 100 years, but to do so it needs to become what it started out as: local and responsive. The service has become managed from the centre, from Whitehall. It has ceased to be responsive to the needs of local communities, it has less of a presence in local communities. Twenty or 30 years ago there were sub-offices in the places offenders lived. They got to know families, neighbours. We know less about communities now. I suppose if you were after a soundbite it would be "places as well as cases". We know where the majority of our clients live - rundown estates and the most deprived neighbourhoods. If it is going to survive we need to re-emerge in these neighbourhoods by creating alliances with local authorities, wider civil society, churches and faith groups. Sheffield is the fourth largest town and there is just one downtown probation office. We need to go back and look at the things we pioneered and did very well.John Denham MPFormer Home Office minister and chair of the Commons home affairs select committeeThe probation service will continue for as long as there is a criminal justice system and offenders to support and rehabilitate. It needs to change and bring in a wider range of organisations to provide the service, which the current bill is set to do. This will bring in more voluntary sector organisations and perhaps local authorities that are already well placed around education, training and housing needs and can play a role in supporting offenders. I am not sure of the extent to which a lot of the local probation boards were really in touch with the communities that they served. Private sector organisations will also come in but they do not necessarily have the skills or experience themselves and hire the same people that are already in the service. Social enterprises will also have a place but we shall have to see how that area develops. The huge growth of housing associations and social landlords may also be an area that could take on probation service work.Harry FletcherGeneral secretary, National Association of Probation Officers (Napo)The probation service is going through its biggest crisis in its history, with unprecedented threats from the government that could see it fragmented or even abolished. The values of the probation service have been so distorted over the last 15 years that it no longer knows where it is going. If the government continues to look at the probation service as an agent for punishing people that can be run by the private sector then we are finished. Rehabilitation and reintegration of people back into society is what the service is all about. I want the government to listen carefully to the House of Lords debate later this month on the second reading of the offender management bill and take account of the fact that the overwhelming view of the probation service is that it must focus on rehabilitation and reintegration.Paul CavadinoChief executive, National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders (Nacro)The expertise and quality of this country's probation service are the envy of nations throughout the world. Following its outstanding achievements over the last 100 years, the probation service will remain the lead agency responsible for the supervision of offenders in the community. However, it will work much more extensively with voluntary organisations that provide offenders with help in areas such as accommodation, education, employment, mentoring, family work, addictions, mental health and community engagement. These are all crucial to reducing reoffending and they require the service to develop and maintain strong partnerships with voluntary and community agencies. The emphasis on "tough" community sentences will put the service under increasing pressure to load more requirements into the sentences and licences of supervised offenders. This risks setting offenders up to fail. Probation staff have limited discretion to refrain from breaching offenders for forms of minor non-compliance, such as being late for appointments, and this is fuelling a large increase in breaches and recalls to prison. The service should work with other organisations to lobby against this trend. This means working to increase understanding of the time and persistence that is needed to turn around the lives of offenders with chaotic lifestyles.Graham BeechDirector, Crime ConcernWe are facing colossal challenges and urgently need to find a coherent way to unlock reoffending rates, ease the pressure on prisons and reduce the fear of crime. This calls for more openness, transparency and inclusion. It also means cross-sector partners working with people in the heart of communities. Probation must now start to take a critical look at its "make or buy" decisions, which will mean allowing other sectors in to deliver services. Only when we embrace this core principle will we start to see the true benefits of services being delivered by a range of providers, particularly the third sector. This will allow the community to take centre stage and community sentences to work for neighbourhoods and victims as well as for offenders. But we have to be creative with community sentences so they become more meaningful and relevant to the neighbourhoods in which they are served. So far, we've seen the word community taken out of community service so that we now call it unpaid work. What's more, too many offenders drop out of probation programmes which are invisible to victims and the wider public. It's fine to work on offenders' attitudes and behaviours, improve their skills, tackle their debt and substance misuse problems but we have to get the community more involved by informing and engaging local people and businesses. By opening the system to new partners and shifting the focus to community safety, rather than solely concentrating on the offenders' needs, we can look to the future with confidence.Joyce MoseleyChief executive, RainerI hope probation gets to return to its roots over the next 100 years. That would see a focus on engagement - the modern equivalent of an old principle to "advise, assist and befriend". It would also see probation officers encouraged and able to consider the full range of issues affecting offenders. The early log books from the London Police Court Mission (LPCM) [which became both the Probation Service and Rainer] show time spent on finding employment, on tackling family issues as well as the court work. Those early years saw a major contribution from charities, particularly volunteers. I hope that these will again be allowed to play their part. The early work of the LPCM was partly credited with reducing the prison population from 33,000 to 11,000. Effective community sentences offer our only hope of avoiding the tried, tested and failed mass incarceration approach of the US. If modern probation officers, working alongside the voluntary sector, were able to achieve a similar feat to those first missionaries, the next 100 years could be well worth celebrating.· Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"