A young carer was shot dead on her way home from work after being caught in the crossfire of a gun battle. Magda Pniewska, 26, a Polish national who had lived in Britain for four years, was hit in the head by what was thought to be a stray bullet after two men fired shots at one another in south London at around 6.20pm on Tuesday.Police found her lying at the bottom of steps suffering from a serious head injury. She was taken to King's College hospital but died just over an hour later. Detectives are investigating whether the shooting, near a park in the New Cross area, was connected to drug dealing.They said two men were involved in the gunfight, one standing next to a red Volkswagen Polo, the other standing at the top of a flight of steps.Ms Pniewska worked as an activities coordinator at Manley Court Nursing Centre, a care home just 50 metres from where she was shot.She lived locally with her Polish boyfriend and had been following her normal route home, across the park and up the steps, when she was shot.Oliver Thomas, south-east regional director of Bupa care homes, described Ms Pniewska as a "truly lovely person and one of the most dedicated carers" who would be deeply missed.He said: "We are deeply shocked and saddened by the sudden and tragic death of Magda. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and friends - our thoughts are with them at this very difficult time."A Bupa spokeswoman said staff at Manley Court treated patients with dementia, serious illnesses and mental health problems.Yesterday, a neighbour said her husband had been at home when he heard two shots and people calling for help. The woman, who did not wish to be named, said: "There was a large group of young kids, about 12 or 13 years old, who were causing a lot of havoc. They are smoking, drinking cider, always playing with crackers ... the little fireworks. That's what my partner thought it was last night, but then he heard someone saying, 'Someone's been shot.' "Speaking at the scene, Detective Chief Inspector Tony Boughton, from the Metropolitan police Operation Trident unit, said Ms Pniewska's mother was in Germany and her father in Poland.Three men and a woman have been arrested and a vehicle recovered but no weapon has been found.It is the second shooting to take place within the area in less than a month. Metropolitan police documents leaked earlier this year revealed that police were monitoring at least eight gangs based in the borough of Lewisham. This year, at least 20 teenagers have been murdered in London, some of them as a result of gang violence.A postmortem examination was expected to take place at Greenwich. Police said the killing was not linked to a second south London shooting about five hours later in Stockwell, where a 21-year-old man was found dead with gunshot wounds. That shooting is also being investigated by officers from Trident, which tackles gun crime.