A man who survived a frenzied knife attack at the hands of serial killer Joanna Dennehy has relived his ordeal in court. Robin Bereza was walking his dog through Hereford when he was selected at random and repeatedly stabbed by the 31-year-old murderer. He survived the attack but Cambridge crown court was shown graphic photographs of his injuries on Friday.Giving evidence at the trial of Dennehy's two alleged accomplices, Bereza said he was struck twice by Dennehy before he realised what was happening. "I saw the lady with that thing in her hands. I didn't know what it was," he added. "I got worried, then frightened. I said: 'What are you doing?' She said: 'I'm hurting you, I'm going to fucking kill you.'"The court was told earlier that after murdering three men in Cambridgeshire, Dennehy and one of her alleged accomplices, Gary Stretch, drove 140 miles to Hereford, searching for victims, after she told him: "I want to have my fun." After attacking Bereza she went on to attack another man, John Rogers, at random.Describing the attack in Westfaling Street, Hereford, near the junction with Holmer Street, on 2 April last year, Bereza said: "A car stopped. I didn't think any more of it. I just carried on walking with the dog."I felt a blow to my right shoulder. I turned around and saw this lady. She just stared straight through me."The retired fire service worker described how he tried to fight Dennehy off, but to no avail. "I kicked her and made contact. It had no impact on her: she just came straight towards me," he said."I ran into the road. I put my hand to my jacket and saw all this blood. She tried to come for me again. I kicked her again; she still didn't react."The attack ended when a "big gentlemen" in a car gestured for her to leave before speeding off, he said. Bereza was treated by paramedics before being taken to hospital by air ambulance.The bodies of Lukasz Slaboszewski, 31, John Chapman, 56, and Kevin Lee, 48, were found dumped in ditches in March and April last year. Police believe Slaboszewski was killed around 19 March and the final two victims were killed on 29 March.Dennehy, of Orton Goldhay, Peterborough, pleaded guilty to three murders at the Old Bailey in November and is in custody awaiting sentencing. She also admitted preventing the lawful and decent burial of all three victims and two charges of attempted murder.At the Cambridge trial this week, Stretch, real name Gary Richards, 47, of Orton Goldhay, has denied three charges of preventing the lawful burial of all three men and two counts of attempted murder.A second alleged accomplice, Leslie Layton, 36, also of Orton Goldhay, has denied perverting the course of justice and two counts of preventing the lawful burial of the bodies of Chapman and Lee.A third man, Robert Moore, 55, of Peterborough, has admitted assisting an offender and is also awaiting sentence.Rogers, the second victim in Hereford, suffered stab wounds to his back and chest after being attacked by Dennehy on the same day as Bereza.He told the court he was walking on a cycle path when he felt a sudden punch in his back. "I turned around and saw the woman who stabbed me just standing there," he added. "She started stabbing me in the chest."He asked Dennehy: "What's this all about?" and she commented on the fact he was bleeding, adding: "I better do some more", the court heard. "She didn't seem to be showing any emotion," he said. "She didn't seem to be enjoying herself. She just seemed like she was going about business."Rogers said he fell to the ground but the attack continued as he drifted in and out of consciousness. "As I lay there I thought: 'This is where I'm going to die'," he said.Passers-by stopped to help Rogers before he was taken by air ambulance to hospital for life-saving surgery.The trial continues.