Two teenagers were stabbed to death in south-east London last week. The city has now witnessed 10 such deaths since January, while crime figures last year showed an 18% rise in knife offences. Despite the government’s commitment following the riots of 2011 to end serious youth violence, with new funding directed towards 33 areas, what these grim statistics indicate is that the current policies are not working. Some historical context can help us understand why.In 2002 I was commissioned by the Home Office and Metropolitan police to work in Lambeth, south London, to explore an explosive rise in street crime in the borough. The immediate crisis was a wave of muggings in which knives were routinely used, by young disadvantaged males, to separate victims from the mobile phones they were beginning to carry. This provoked other young people to start to carrying knives for protection. This is where the current problem began and when knife carrying began to be normalised among groups of young people in London.'Zombie knife' seller urges shoppers to buy before ban takes effect With my colleague Dan Silverstone I began to examine the culture of the febrile, subterranean street world in which knives were being used. What we found were people living precarious, makeshift day-to-day lives, many of whom eked out a living in the burgeoning drug economy. Many spoke of themselves as being “on-road”.In this world, weapon use was terrifyingly normalised and violence could erupt due to a variety of motives. Knives were often carried as a protective measure, to ward off muggers or gangsters intent on seizing the assets of street-level drug dealers.But while self-defence was often the initial reason behind people carrying knives, situations often arose that led to them being used for more offensive purposes. Often the violence was not pre-planned. Someone might look at you the wrong way and such disrespect would lead to knives being used. With many people territorially affiliated, being caught in the wrong territory could also lead to weapon use. In a world where “beef” could break out over trivial issues and where there is widespread distrust of law enforcement, knives could be used to dispense “justice”. Often such conflicts took the form of vendettas, in which violence begets violence. As we know from too many tragic cases, bystanders and other third parties could be caught in the crossfire.This hyper-violent street culture is not confined to the capital and reproduces itself in poor, multiply deprived areas of our inner cities; predominantly among young men locked into a highly precarious existence.Unfortunately, in a society where upward social mobility for the urban poor is desperately limited, and where many young men churn between low-paid work and what has now become a coercive workfare system designed to fail them, this street world is not so much a destination they choose but one into which they find themselves decanted.As gang violence rises again, drug legislation is screaming out for reform | Deborah Orr Ending such violence is incredibly difficult in a society where poverty and its consequences are rarely spoken about and where disadvantage is considered by many to be a self-inflicted condition. While the ban on “zombie knives” that came into force this week is certainly justified, any expectation that this will curtail the implosive violence of the street is likely to be misplaced.Could more stop and searches make a difference? Only if they are better targeted and less indiscriminate. Can they be made so? I’m not optimistic. More imprisonment? We’ve tried that and it’s not working. While gangs are certainly part of the problem, the situations in which knives are used extend beyond gang violence. Given this, making gang suppression the key policy response to serious youth violence in the wake of the 2011 riots – which were not caused by gangs – was to miss the bigger picture.There are many innovative projects undertaken by dedicated practitioners designed to persuade young people against knife crime. But unless these are supplemented by a comprehensive programme of urban renewal, the problem of knife-related violence will unfortunately continue.