The father and uncle of a young Kurdish woman began life sentences last night for arranging her "barbaric and callous" murder to restore their family's "honour".Ari Mahmod, 51, recruited a gang of thugs who tortured, raped and strangled his niece Banaz Mahmod, 20, before cramming her body into a suitcase and burying it in a pit, where it lay for three months. The brothers had decided Ms Mahmod was to be killed because she had fallen in love with a man they felt was unsuitable.Ms Mahmod's father, Mahmod Mahmod, 54, left his home in Mitcham, south-west London, on the morning of the murder so that she could be killed there. An older sister was in the house at the time.An associate of Ari's, Mohamad Hama, 31, who was recorded in prison boasting of kicking and stamping on Ms Mahmod's neck "to get her soul out", was also sentenced to life yesterday. He pleaded guilty to murder.The three men showed no emotion as they were ordered to serve a minimum of 60 years. As they were sent down, relatives wept in the crowded public gallery.Ari, a respected businessman whom the judge described as "the force behind the enterprise", was told he would spend a minimum of 23 years behind bars, while Mahmod will serve 20. Hama will serve a minimum of 17 years.Ms Mahmod's sister Bekhal broke down in court as she described her as a good person, a "smart, fun and attractive lady with a caring personality" who wanted, above all, to be happy.Speaking from behind a screen, in a black burka, she read an emotional statement on her love for her sister and her continuing fear for her own safety.She said: "As I am separated from my family I have no one to share my memories of Banaz and no one to share my grief."If there's one thing I could wish for it would be to have Banaz back. I love her and I miss her."Ms Mahmod's boyfriend, Rahmat Sulemani, 29, told the court she was the "sweetest person in the world. She only wanted to do good things for people." They had planned to marry and had already planned names for their children.Mr Sulemani, whose grief has driven him to attempt suicide, said: "Banaz's death has destroyed me completely inside and day after day I'm falling apart."She was subjected to a series of sexually violent acts during a two-and a-half hour ordeal carried out by Hama and at least three men who have fled the country.She had told police on four occasions that her family had threatened to kill her, and reported a murder attempt by her father. There is now an IPCC investigation into the police handling of the case.Brian Barker, the common serjeant of London, told the Mahmods: "You are both hard and unswerving men for whom apparent honour in the community is more important than the happiness of your flesh and blood and for whom killing in the name of honour is to be put above tolerance and understanding."He described Ms Mahmod as a young woman with personality and determination. "Having endured a short and unhappy marriage, she made the mistake of falling in love with an accomplished man that you and you family thought was unsuitable. So to restore your family honour you decided that she should die."He praised the courage of Bekhal and Mr Sulemani, for giving evidence at "considerable risk" to their own safety and commended Detective Inspector Caroline Goode for her "diligence and skill" in pursuing the case.Edited extracts of Bekhal Mahmod's statement to court:"I find it really hard to say how much her death has affected me. Words just do not say enough ... I left home when I was 16, but I stayed in touch with [my sister] Banaz. I knew what was happening to her, and how unhappy she was in her marriage. When she split from her husband I knew of it. The last time I saw Banaz alive was in 2005 ... I have a picture, as I saw her on that occasion, wearing a grey tracksuit. She did look rundown ... I have nothing of Banaz except two pictures, and I find it very hard to grieve for her. As I am separated from my family, I have no one to share my memories or share my grief with.I wish with all my heart I had taken her with me in 2005 because she would then still be alive. Banaz was a smart, fun and attractive lady. She had a very caring personality and got on with everyone. As we grew up Banaz would tell me she wanted to be a professional person, a doctor or a lawyer. Above all she wanted to be happy and have a loving husband and children ... Since her disappearance I can honestly say there's not been one night without having nightmares about what has happened to her. Banaz herself does not come into my dreams or nightmares, and that upsets me; I would like to see her again. Because of the circumstances of Banaz's death, I know I shall never be safe again, and constantly have to look over my shoulder.I cry and become very upset when I think what's happened to her. My life will never be the same again. If there's one thing I could wish for it would be to have Banaz back. I miss her and love her. Banaz was very dear to me and a special sister and friend. The world was not good enough for Banaz; at least now she can rest like an angel."