Two men formerly suspected of murdering Stephen Lawrence were in jail last night after being convicted of a race hate attack on an off-duty police officer, half a mile from where the black schoolboy was stabbed to death.David Norris, 25, a passenger in a car driven by Neil Acourt, 27, threw a cola drink and shouted "nigger" at Detective Constable Gareth Reid as he crossed the road in Eltham, south-east London, on May 11 last year. The prosecution said that Acourt was part of a "joint enterprise" with Norris and drove the car at the black officer to cause him harassment, alarm or distress motivated "by virtue of one reason and one reason alone - his colour". The jury at Woolwich crown court took two hours to find the pair guilty and Judge Michael Carroll remanded them in custody until sentencing on August 27. The judge said he was "satisfied on the material before me that if I permitted bail there would be substantial grounds to believe further offences will be committed". As he was taken down to the cells Acourt said: "Fit-up. Fit-up." Acourt and Norris were two of the five prime suspects in the 1993 racist murder of Lawrence but were cleared. No one has been convicted of the stabbing at a bus stop in Eltham. The court heard that Acourt was convicted of possession of an offensive weapon on February 14 this year and sentenced to community service. The judge also heard that Norris had two convictions for driving offences and two for theft, the last in November 2000, for which he was fined £100. The judge gave a heavy hint that he would sentence the men to jail. Norris claimed to the jury that he had not used racist language and said he threw the cup because he "flipped" in a "moment of madness" brought on by nine years of persecution following the publicity about him and the Lawrence case. Norris, of Chislehurst, Kent, and Acourt, of Greenwich, south-east London, had denied causing racially aggravated intentional harassment, alarm or distress. The jury heard that DNA from a straw found at the scene matched that of Norris. Eyewitness William Daw said he heard shouting before the car sped up the street, with the driver smiling and laughing. Mr Daw said Norris made a masturbating gesture with his hand at DC Reid. The eyewitness described the immediate effect of the incident on DC Reid: "The passenger was still in his seat and appeared to be gesticulating at the man who was frozen at the traffic island. He appeared shaken." During the three-day trial, the court heard that DC Reid, a police officer for 12 years, was returning home after his day shift, and was in plain clothes. He told the court that he heard shouting coming from a car held at some traffic lights and recognised the driver and passenger as suspects from the Lawrence investigation. The car then raced out of the junction and drove towards DC Reid, who was standing on a traffic island, and he believed it was going to hit him. He said: "The next snapshot I have is this arm, or the hand making a flicking motion and the [drinks] container coming out of the window. I could still hear laughter and I heard the word 'nigger'." DC Reid told of his shock at the incident and denied claims from the defence counsel that he was playing the race card. Sources at Scotland Yard said the verdict had no impact on the continuing Lawrence investigation. The crown prosecution service is still considering whether to bring further charges relating to the murder. After the verdicts, Detective Inspector Stuart Goodwin said: "The fact this case came to court, and the verdict today, sends out a strong message to the people of London that the Metropolitan police service and the crown will continue to work together to bring the perpetrators of hate crime to justice." Acourt was cleared in 1996 of murdering Lawrence after a private prosecution brought by the schoolboy's parents. The case against Norris was dropped before it came to court.