 A cannabis dealer who bludgeoned and stabbed the former EastEnders actor Sian Blake before killing their sons in their sleep has been given a whole life prison sentence.Arthur Simpson-Kent, 49, pleaded guilty to killing Blake, 43, and their sons, Zachary, eight, and Amon, four, at the family home in Erith, south-east London. He repeatedly batter ed Blake and the two boys around the head with a small axe before stabbing them , days after Blake learned she was terminally ill and decided to leave their “unhealthy” relationship and move in with her mother.Following the assault Simpson-Kent wrapped the dead bodies in plastic and buried them in the garden before fleeing to Ghana.Sentencing him at the Old Bailey on Wednesday, Mr Justice Singh said Simpson-Kent had abused his position of trust and attacked his victims, who were unable to defend themselves.“I have been left in no doubt that this is one of those exceptional and rare cases where the requirements of punishment mean that a whole life order must be imposed, even after taking into account the mitigating factors,” he said.“The manner in which the defendant killed his victims in this case was truly horrific. Although the murder weapons have never been found, the evidence, including the pathology evidence, is consistent with his having killed each of his victims in turn, first Sian Blake and then each of the boys. It is consistent with his doing so with repeated blows with a blunt instrument, using severe force, and then by using a bladed weapon.”He added: “He sought to lay a false trail by using Sian Blake’s mobile phone. He lied to the police and others about the whereabouts of the family.”The court heard that Simpson-Kent had told Dr Philip Joseph, a psychiatrist, “something just snapped in me”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sian Blake was ‘besotted’ with her sons Zachary and Amon, her family said. Photo released by Metropolitan police Photograph: Metropolitan policeHe told him: “I felt as if I had just been pushed off a diving board and was falling.“I grabbed hold of a small axe that was kept on a ledge in the kitchen. Sian’s head was bent low down and she was bent over looking at the floor. I approached her from the side and hit her at the back of the head as hard as I could and she fell unconscious at the first blow. After that I hit her repeatedly on the head. My mind was blank and I was focusing on doing and not thinking. It was like I was there but not there.”Joseph said the defendant had no history of depression, but he had features consistent with a narcissistic personality, which include “a grandiose sense of self-importance, requiring excessive admiration” as well as being exploitative, arrogant and lacking in empathy.Simpson-Kent remained impassive as the sentence was given, as Blake’s family cried in the public gallery.Simpson-Kent attacked his victims on the night of 14-15 December 2015. Blake, who played Frankie Pierre in 56 episodes of EastEnders between 1996 and 1997, had been diagnosed with terminal motor neurone disease, and was unable to fend off the blows by her partner. Singh said there was evidence Blake and her eldest son had struggled or been restrained, while this was “less marked” with the youngest child.A day before Blake and her sons were murdered, she had gone to her mother, Lindell Blake, and asked if the whole family could move back into her house in Leyton, east London. Told that Simpson-Kent was not welcome, the former actor “appeared to accept” the decision and her family understood that over the Christmas period she would move back to east London with her boys, leaving Simpson Kent behind. That day, 13 December 2015, was the last time her family saw Blake and her sons alive.Learning of the plans the next day, Simpson-Kent attacked his family “with heavy, deliberate, repeated blows”. He then attempted to cover up his crimes by wrapping each of his victims in plastic and sheeting and burying them in the garden. He laid a concrete slab on each and covered them with soil before hurriedly attempting to repaint their bungalow.Simpson-Kent then called a charity to take away all clothes and possessions belonging to Blake and the two boys, and burned some items in the garden.Police went to the bungalow on 16 December, but Simpson-Kent was uncooperative, eventually letting officers into the house and telling them that Blake had been fed up with the tension between him and her family and had taken the children to Cambridge. Blood stains were later discovered in the house, before the bodies were unearthed outside.In “a deliberate attempt to mislead”, Simpson-Kent sent texts to Blake’s family letting them think she was moving away for months and did not want to speak to them, the court heard. In the days following her death, her family received texts from her mobile phone saying she had gone away.One sent to her sister Ava read: “I’m taking time to myself and my children without constant opinions from family and friends […] nobody knows what I am going through and regardless of all the comments, no one can cure me.“I have had enough of appeasing everyone. We are away and I will not be calling or speaking to anyone for a few months.”As police launched a missing persons investigation into Blake and her children, Simpson-Kent booked a flight from Glasgow to Accra via Amsterdam. In a message to a friend, he said: “I can’t go into details about what I have done but I only have two choices. Go to Ghana one way or die.”In the Ghanaian town of Busua, Simpson-Kent told a local man he “had killed his girlfriend first and then he had killed the two children afterwards”, the court was told. He was seen “really partying” on New Year’s Eve and was spotted taking two young women to a cafe the following morning.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ava Blake, the sister of murdered Sian Blake, arriving at the Old Bailey. Photograph: Stefan Wermuth/ReutersTwo days later he was caught by local police. In desperation he told them he had killed his partner and children as part of an agreed murder-suicide pact because of Blake’s terminal illness and his poor relationship with her family. The prosecution argued there was no evidence to support this.Malcolm McHaffie, the deputy chief crown prosecutor for CPS London, said Simpson-Kent had committed “brutal, cold-blooded murders of his partner and children, whose trust he grossly breached”. He said the defendant had denied Blake’s family precious time with their much-loved sister, daughter, mother as well as wiping out “a future generation of the family”.Simpson-Kent had gone to great lengths to conceal his crimes, misleading friends, family and the police about what he had done, McHaffie added. “Even more callously, he suggested that Sian and he had entered into a pact to end all of their lives because of her condition. This was not true. In fact, Sian had been making inquiries about schools for the children and had been considering moving to live with her family without him.”In a statement read outside the Old Bailey, Blake’s family said Simpson-Kent was a “monster” who had attacked their loved ones in their home, “where they should have felt safe and secure”. “Arthur has robbed us of our dreams and aspirations, everything we wished for Sian and our precious boys,” they said. “He stood in the dock with a smirk on his face and showed no remorse.” Arthur Simpson-Kent admits murdering Sian Blake and their two sons DCI Graeme Gwyn, from Scotland Yard’s homicide and major crime command, said: “I hope that the sentence passed today gives Sian’s family some small amount of comfort at this very difficult time. I would also like to thank the Ghanaian authorities for their assistance in relation to the arrest and extradition of Simpson-Kent.”In a statement read to the court on Tuesday, Blake’s mother said: “It’s difficult to put into words how much we have suffered as a result of their murder and how we will continue to suffer for the rest of our lives. We are all living a life sentence, we are all living a nightmare. I would give my life for another moment with my daughter.”She said Blake had lived for her sons. “She was besotted with Zachary and Amon. They completed her.” The family now had to live knowing that Blake and her children would have been “scared, terrified, before this monster slaughtered them in their home”, she said.“Time is supposed to be a great healer but our wounds are open and bare for everyone to see. We have scars where Arthur has taken what was not his to take.”In a victim impact statement read to the court, Blake’s cousin Cheryl Golding said: “I have nightmares, visions of how I suppose they were murdered – the terror in their eyes, the look that would have been on Sian’s face.“Sian, in life, would want the best in people – could never quite comprehend that sometimes people do evil things. She would simply say: ‘Why do people want to do that?’“I suffer each day and night with these thoughts going through my head. Why did they have to die? They could have been left alone.” 