A former cage fighter who was extradited from Morocco to face trial, today pleaded guilty to three charges linked to the £53m Securitas robbery in Tonbridge, Kent, in 2006.Paul Allen, 30, of Chatham, Kent, admitted conspiracy to kidnap, conspiracy to commit robbery and conspiracy to possess a firearm, the Crown Prosecution Service said.Allen was flown back to the UK under police guard in January 2008 four days after five men were convicted for their role in Britain's largest cash robbery.Posing as police officers, the gang got away with what was described as a "king's ransom", in February 2006. But they left behind £153m because they could not fit any more into their lorry. The manager of the depot, Colin Dixon, and his family were kidnapped at gunpoint. The story of the raid is to be made into a Hollywood film.Allen was due to be retried at Woolwich crown court in south-east London after an Old Bailey jury failed to reach a verdict in January. But the father of three admitted the charges today.Allen's agreed basis of plea said that he did not handle or obtain any firearms used for the raid. He said he was working for his friend and fellow fighter Lee Murray, who is now in prison in Morocco.Roger Coe-Salazar, chief prosecutor for Kent, said: "The Securitas robbery was meticulously organised and we have never had any doubts that Paul Allen played a pivotal role in the planning and execution of it."Four days after the robbery Allen fled to Morocco where he was hoping to live on his share of the proceeds, prosecutors said. In a spending spree Allen and Murray bought villas, drugs and jewellery, and spent thousands of pounds on plastic surgery for their partners.After he was caught, Allen spent 20 months in Rabat jail before being extradited. Murray, whose father was from Morocca, claimed Moroccan nationality to avoid extradition.At the original trial prosecutor Sir John Nutting QC said the men planned and executed the raid with "military precision".The raiders, seen in CCTV footage wearing balaclavas and holding guns including a shotgun and an AK-47 assault rifle, threatened to kill staff in the depot if they did not co-operate.Stuart Royle, 49, Lea Rusha, 35, Jetmir Bucpapa, 26 and Roger Coutts, 30, each received minimum prison terms of 15 years. Emir Hysenaj, the inside man, was jailed for 20 years. Charges against Michelle Hogg, who worked on the prosthetic masks for a fortnight, were dropped after he agreeed to testify against the men.Murray, the ringleader, was one of the world's leading cage-fighters, earning £30,000 a bout at events, the Old Bailey heard. He planned the hold-up months after he suffered a near-fatal stab wound outside a party in the West End of London.Cane Patterson, another man named in court as taking part in the heist, is still at large. He is suspected of being the robber who, disguised as a police officer, was the first one to force his way into the depot on the night of the heist. Patterson is now believed to be in hiding in the West Indies.Police recovered £21m of the stolen haul.