Ashley Carpenter was so incensed when he was almost knocked off his bicycle by one car and soaked when another drove through a puddle that he decided to seek revenge in a very unusual way.He slashed 1,728 car, lorry and van tyres in a series of nocturnal attacks on the south coast aimed at "inconsiderate motorists". His 10-day vandalism spree caused £250,000 damage to the vehicles and widespread distress among motorists in Bournemouth and Christchurch, Dorset, last December. Unfortunately for Mr Carpenter, an unemployed 37-year-old from Boscombe, Dorset, part of his vitriolic tyre slashing campaign was captured on closed circuit television. He was arrested the after police examined the footage and were able to identify him. Yesterday at Bournemouth crown court he was sentenced to 16 months in prison for eight offences of criminal damage He had asked for 540 other offences to be taken into consideration, relating to 497 vehicles in Bournemouth and 43 vehicles in Christchurch. He said he had embarked on his vandalism after a car almost knocked him off his bike and another car soaked him by driving through a puddle. He cycled around with a sharpened screwdriver and randomly punctured the tyres of cars parked in drives, on roads and in public and private car parks. The prosecution said the scale of his offending was "unprecedented, and caused immense distress". His defence counsel, Robert Grey, described Carpenter as very much a loner. He lived alone, had no children, no relationship and no close friends. "He had not been able to discuss his frustration with others. This man is socially inadequate," said Mr Grey. "He perceived a number of incidents of inconsiderate driving by motorists towards him. He says that twice he was nearly knocked off his bike by motorists and on another occasion he was subjected to verbal abuse by car drivers. "Things built up and came to a head when he lost control ... he says it was to inconvenience other car drivers." A spokeswoman for the AA said outside court that pedestrians had legal protection against inconsiderate drivers and did not need to resort to criminal damage to get even. "Mr Carpenter could have chosen a simple and more lawful way to get even," Rebecca Rees said. "Had he gone to the police after he was splashed by the car, the driver of the vehicle could have been fined £2,500 and received up to nine penalty points on his or her licence for driving without due care and attention." She said that a driver who ignored a cyclist and caused him or her to fall off or be injured could be fined £5,000 fine and given five to 10 penalty points. A Crown Prosecution Service spokesman said: "Carpenter resented the inconsiderate manner in which motorists treated him as a cyclist on the roads. "He wanted to send out a message to motorists which immobilised and inconvenienced as many of them as possible. "We all work and live in the community and at the time we shared the growing feelings of worry and concern as more cars were damaged night after night. "We are pleased that our work with the police brought Carpenter to justice." The recorder, Stephen Lennard, said the five weeks Carpenter had already spent in jail would be taken into account and he would serve half the sentence before being released on licence. He told Carpenter: "In December last year, motivated by frustration and anger at what you considered to be the inconsiderate manner of motorists as experienced by you as a cyclist and a pedestrian, you embarked on your astonishing and extraordinary campaign. "In your own words to the police, to send out a message to motorists and to immobilise and inconvenience as many as possible." He said the scale of the damage and the financial consequences were "breathtaking".