Detectives hunting the killer of 11-year-old Rory Blackhall today made an appeal for five specific witnesses who could hold vital information about the case.The plea is a direct result of yesterday's reconstruction of Rory's journey to school in Livingston, West Lothian, which prompted around 120 calls from the public to the police.Rory went missing last Thursday after his mother had dropped him off in a lay-by near his school. He was last seen walking through an underpass. His body was found four days later under an old tent in nearby woodland. A post-mortem examination revealed he had been asphyxiated.Police now want to speak to two men they described as "vagrant" types who were seen near the underpass, a man wearing a black "deerstalker type" hat, and a man and a teenage boy who were seen sitting around a camp fire in the woods near Dechmont Law.Detective Inspector Tom Martin, who is leading the investigation, said: "These three witness appeals are as a direct result of yesterday's publicity."It is important that all these people come forward so we can establish if they saw anything that might help with trying to find Rory's killer."The first two men were seen at 9.35am on the morning Rory disappeared. They were spotted on the Nellburn Path 100 metres south of the underpass. Both were described as being in their 30s, 5ft 11ins, of slim build and wearing denim jackets and blue jeans. One was carrying a can of lager and the other a small bottle of beer.The day before, on Wednesday August 17 at 8.30am, a father walking his two children to school spotted a man dressed in black, wearing a black "deerstalker type" hat coming out of the woods near an electricity substation close to Woodlands Park.On Saturday August 20, two days after Rory had been reported missing, a witness walking their dog saw a teenage boy and another man sitting around a large campfire in woods near Dechmont Law. The teenager was wearing a vertical striped shirt and fawn-coloured pants, and the man was described as wearing dark clothing and had short dark hair.The witness appeals follow yesterday's reconstruction in which officers questioned 180 people in the underpass. A total of 800 calls have been made to police since the murder investigation was launched on Tuesday.Mr Martin praised the "encouraging" response from the public, but urged anyone who might have more information to come forward."Any information received, no matter how insignificant you might think, may just be the key clue we are desperately seeking to solve this very complex investigation," he said.After an appeal earlier in the week, detectives had interviewed a blonde woman seen waiting near a bus stop close to where Rory had been dropped off. Police said today she did not produce any new leads and that line of inquiry was now closed.Anyone with information is asked to call the incident room on 01506 445650 or email roryblackhallenquiry@lbp.pnn.police.uk.