A significant minority of prison governors are boycotting a special early release scheme and undermining the government's attempts to cope with soaring jail numbers, according to leaked Home Office papers. The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, privately told governors 10 days ago that they had to make much greater use of the home detention curfew scheme because prison numbers were "reaching crisis point". The disclosure that the scheme is being underused is likely to anger the home secretary, David Blunkett, who has ordered that it be urgently extended so that inmates who qualify are released three months - instead of two months - early. The prison population reached a record of 69,150 last Friday and is expected to hit 73,000 by June. Only 13,571 low-risk prisoners out of a possible 53,813 eligible inmates were released on an electronic tag two months before the end of their sentence in 2001. Where implemented, the scheme has proved highly successful, with more than 97% of participants completing their sentence without being convicted again. But the leaked results of an internal prison service investigation show that even this low 25% release rate has fallen in recent months. It also reveals that some prisons are effectively boycotting the scheme. For example, Dartmoor releases only 4% of its eligible inmates on home detention curfew; Preston 5% and Bristol 6%. This compares with 69% at Norwich, 61% at Ashwell; and 60% at Low Newton. In a leaked memorandum from prison service headquarters to area managers, Nick Sanderson, head of the prisoner administration group, says: "There was much scepticism from governors and probation officers. Many see nothing in it for them except extra risk and extra work. "There is genuine anxiety about getting it wrong and the consequences which might follow. A sizeable minority of participants objected in principle to releasing prisoners early." Inmates are released early only after a detailed risk assessment but the leaked memo makes clear that this is not the reason so few are benefiting from the scheme. It says that although funds were provided for two extra staff to work full time on the scheme, many prisons used the money for something else. "It seems that many - if not most - prisons have developed local policies which eliminate whole swaths of eligible prisoners. The two which came up most regularly were people convicted of driving while disqualified: this was seen as prima facie grounds for judging that the prisoner would immediately reoffend if released. And prisoners with positive mandatory drug tests: it was felt if they took drugs in prison they were bound to do so on home detention curfew." Harry Fletcher of the National Association of Probation Officers said the prison population is rising at a rate of more than 500 a month but that the home detention scheme will not resolve the crisis unless it is used and properly funded. "The inconsistency between similar jails is extraordinary. Three out of four eligible prisoners are not being released. The numbers released will need to double if the remorseless rise in the prison population is to be contained."