Maxine Carr broke down in tears in a police interview when she learned her then boyfriend Ian Huntley had been charged with the murders of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.But she protested his innocence as officers outlined their case against him, insisting: "He can't have been; it can't have been." Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the 10-year-olds but has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. He claims the girls died in a freak accident in the bathroom of the couple's home in Soham, Cambridgeshire, on August 4 last year. Ms Carr, 26, who was a classroom assistant at the girls' primary school, denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender. On Wednesday the jury heard extracts from her interviews after her arrest. She admitted she had lied by saying she was in Soham when the girls vanished, having actually been in Grimsby. But she said she did so because Mr Huntley had had a nervous breakdown after being acquitted of a rape charge in 1998, and had feared he would be "fitted up" again. In dramatic exchanges read by counsels for the prosecution yesterday, the police told Ms Carr they had formally charged Mr Huntley with two murders. "He can't have," she replied. She repeatedly said "no" as police explained his fingerprints had been on a bag containing the girls' clothes, which had been found in a bin in a hangar building at Soham Village College, where Mr Huntley worked as a caretaker. Ms Carr went on: "No, he can't have been, it can't have been." The officer said: "He killed Holly." She replied: "No, he hasn't." Officer: "He has killed Jess." Ms Carr: "No." She also denied "deliberately befriending" the two and denied that Mr Huntley had "sexual fantasies" or that they shared such fantasies. Shown a map indicating that the bodies had been found close to Mr Huntley's former home in Wangford, she repeated: "He hasn't done it, he hasn't done it. "I don't care, it's not Ian, it's not Ian." The officer urged her to look at the evidence, asking: "Who was the last person to speak to Holly and Jessica?" "Ian, I think," she replied. Officer: "Who's got access to the hangar?" Ms Carr: "Ian." Officer: "Whose fingerprints are on the bag?" Ms Carr: "Ian." Officer: "Who lived in Wangford?" Ms Carr: "Ian". Officer: "Who goes plane spotting in Lakenheath?" Ms Carr: "He hasn't been there for ages." Officer: "Who's got a false alibi?" Ms Carr: "Ian." The officer told her: "Maxine, you're wearing blinkers." She replied: "I'm not wearing blinkers, he wouldn't do anything like this. I don't know what's gone on with these girls, you can paint a picture, any picture, but I have got my own feelings ... I love him." It also emerged that Ms Carr continued to lie in her interviews, saying that she had written a note outlining the details and timings of the false alibi. When police pointed out it was in Mr Huntley's handwriting, she conceded that it was, but said he had been acting as "secretary" to help her get her story straight. She said lying had been her idea, and he had urged her to tell the truth if arrested. Help The officer said: "If Ian committed these offences... maybe he needs help, and maybe that is why he was saying to you that you should tell the police the truth." "I want to tell you the truth. He has not committed the offences," Ms Carr replied. "I haven't done anything and I know Ian hasn't done anything... yet it still feels like we are the ones who's taken those girls." If she had returned from Grimsby to find that Mr Huntley had been involved in the abduction, she said, "I would have taken them back. I wouldn't have done anything. I wouldn't have played along with anything. I wouldn't protect him from the charges you are throwing at him, murder or abduction or whatever." Warned at another point that assisting an offender was as serious as committing the crime, she replied: "I'm not trying to protect Ian in any shape or form." She told police that if Mr Huntley had committed the murders she would not want to be with him, adding: "I'm not that wrapped up in Ian... to let him do anything and just sit there and let the [girls'] parents go through whatever they are bloody going through." But she had believed her lie would be "irrelevant" because the police would soon account for their disappearance. She added: "We hadn't done anything." Asked if she meant "you and Ian together", she said: "Neither of us. I haven't done anything, he hasn't done anything." At another point she snapped: "I wish you would go out and find the real person instead of plaguing everybody else." She described her boyfriend as a "very emotional person" who would not hurt anybody and who would have "fallen apart" if he had killed anyone. Asked how she could be 100% certain, she replied: "I cannot say 100% - all I can say is I know Ian. I know Ian better than you or anybody here or anybody else or even his mum, probably. He is not a malicious person, he is not a violent person, I just can't see any particular reason why he could be accused of something like this." She denied that either of them had any sexual interest in children, and said the question was "disgusting". Asked if she had discussed these issues with her boyfriend, she said they had not been together when Jamie Bulger was murdered but that she had discussed the Sarah Payne case with his mother. But she said Mr Huntley's view of people who targeted children sexually or killed them was that "they want shooting or whatever... they just want castrating, people like that. That's our view." Ms Carr said she had last seen the girls at the end of the term, and repeatedly denied arranging for them to visit her home. She also denied that the couple had "groomed" the children, or that she had been involved in disposing of their bodies. Asked if she wanted to say anything else, Ms Carr said: "No, I cannot do any more than that. I have helped you but I have not done anything. I am being straight with you. I am sorry, sorry [for] what I did." Asked what she meant, she added: "Just sorry about that. Just I did not think for one second that anything would come to Ian. I thought you would find something, find someone else. I just wanted to save him." The case continues.