The Metropolitan police officer being investigated for an assault on Ian Tomlinson before he died had a chequered history which should have barred him from the force, it has emerged.Investigations have revealed that the officer, who was in the Tactical Support Group during the G20 protests, had previously been accused of using unnecessary force while serving with the Met.Vetting blunders meant that this was never identified and he managed to leave the force and rejoin.The officer has been questioned under caution by investigators from the Independent Police Complaints Commission on suspicion of manslaughter after he was caught on film striking and pushing over Tomlinson. The 47-year-old newspaper vendor died shortly afterwards. A first postmortem indicated he had died of a heart attack, but Tomlinson's family demanded a second examination, which identified internal bleeding as the cause of death.The IPCC, which is investigating the death of Tomlinson, is aware of the situation about the officer's past, as is Scotland Yard. Both declined to comment officially while the investigation into the death was continuing.The new details emerged as the Met faces further criticism tomorrow with the publication of a report by Denis O'Connor, the chief inspector of constabulary, on police tactics during G20. The report is likely to call for widespread changes to the way protests are policed, in particular giving more weight to the public's right to protest peacefully and the need for the police to communicate clearly with demonstrators during times of tension and in fast-flowing situations.O'Connor has conducted a Mori poll of the public's view on policing protests as part of his inquiry. He has examined the controversial tactic of containment during demonstrations, which the Met commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, has defended.Details of the past of the officer at the centre of the IPCC inquiry into Tomlinson's death emerged yesterday. He had been on a disciplinary charge and facing a misconduct hearing earlier in his Met career.The charge related to an incident while he was on sick leave with a shoulder injury when the officer became involved in a road rage incident. It is understood he tried to arrest the other driver involved in the incident, who later complained that the officer had used unnecessary force.Before the discipline board convened, however, the officer took early retirement from the Met on medical grounds, and was awarded a medical pension.Some years later he rejoined the Met as a civilian. He then applied to join Surrey police as an officer. When he was vetted the unresolved disciplinary matter should have shown up but does not appear to have done so. The officer was recruited to Surrey police with no blot on his disciplinary record. He later applied for a transfer to the Met, which again did not reveal the unresolved disciplinary charge.In his career at the Met he was moved to the TSG, the elite public order unit within the force. It seems that at no point was his history flagged up during interview and vetting for this role.