A crackdown on 'date rape' is under threat from a growing revolt by peers arguing it will lead to miscarriages of justice.The flagship government reforms are designed to tackle a macho 'No does not always mean no' culture that sees only 7 per cent of rape cases end in conviction, with attackers evading justice by arguing that they believed their victim wanted sex, even if she was fighting them off. The planned changes in the law would require such men to make genuine efforts to 'resolve doubts' over whether the woman was willing. But Ministers are facing a long and bitter battle in the House of Lords later this month, with some peers warning that innocent men will be jailed as a result of relationships that sour or 'dates' that go wrong.Others say the changes are so complicated that confused juries will simply fail to convict the guilty. Lord Thomas of Gresford, the Liberal Democrat peer and judge spearheading the attack, will push for lower sentences for so-called 'acquaintance rapes' - where the victim knows the attacker - than for attacks by a stranger, as long as there are no aggravating circumstances. 'Of course acquaintance rape between partners can be as serious where there is brutality,' he said. 'But juries know that a conviction for rape is going to mean a minimum of five years and up to life, so that even a quarrel between partners which results in one withdrawing consent can mean a husband going to prison for five years, and then they won't convict.' A two-tier system would be widely supported in the senior judiciary, he said, and would help give juries the confidence to convict. 'I am not carrying the can for rapists here in any way,' he said. 'But people who have committed the crime should be convicted and people who haven't, shouldn't - it's that simple.' However the Government has so far rejected calls for a lesser offence of 'date rape', arguing it is offensive to women who may be just as traumatised by being attacked by someone they know. Acquaintance rapes are more common than strangers pouncing on victims in dark alleyways, but less likely to lead to convictions: cases often hinge on arguments about consent in which the victim's past relationships, her behaviour on the night, and even what she was wearing at the time are dredged up in court to give the impression she was 'fair game'. Critics of the Sex Offences Bill range from the former Labour MP Lord Campbell-Savours - a long-term supporter of Owen Oyston, the tycoon jailed in 1996 for the rape of a 16-year-old model in a group sex session at his mansion, who still protests his innocence - to the Labour barrister Baroness Mallalieu. 'Lawyers are saying this is unworkable and will not make much difference to conviction rates, and we are anxious that the law is framed in such a way that the right people are convicted,' said Baroness Noakes, the Tory frontbencher who has also tabled amendments to the Bill. Home Office Minister Lord Falconer has already offered one concession to rebels complaining that the changes are too complicated, tabling amendments to clause 78, which lists circumstances where it would be automatically assumed a woman did not agree to sex, such as if she were asleep or the man had used violence against her. The Home Office said his move merely simplified the clause without watering it down, to meet criticisms that it was 'too difficult' for juries to grasp. But the biggest clash on 31 March, when the bill is due to reach its committee stage in the Lords, will be over Clause 1, which makes a man guilty of rape if he had sex with a woman who was not consenting in circumstances in which a 'reasonable person' would think she was unwilling. This clause obliges men to prove that they took steps to 'resolve' any doubts. A number of peers, including Campbell-Savours, have tabled amendments scrapping this idea altogether. Both Noakes and Thomas have tabled amendments allowing defendants not only to argue that a reasonable person would have thought the woman was willing to have sex, but crucially that a man like him would have thought so. That could cover overseas men with different cultural assumptions about women's behaviour, or men of low IQ if a jury believed they were unlikely to be able to work out what messages the woman was sending.