One of the jurors in the collapsed Jubilee Line corruption case yesterday spoke out against the way the panel had been treated as it served an unprecedented 21 months in a trial beset by delays.Helen Boyask, 62, the wife of a London accountant, had just retired from Harrods where she had worked for 30 years, when she was called up. She said the experience turned into a prolonged nightmare. "I was disgusted," she told the Guardian. "I had been desperate to get on with my life for nearly two years. But even on the last day when the trial collapsed we were told nothing, but kept waiting all day, cooped up in a basement room. "Then we were called in and discharged. We were bewildered and thought, 'Why have we been thrown out?'" Mrs Boyask said the failure of the trial to make progress had been deeply upsetting. "I thought, how long is this going to go on? I couldn't stand sitting endlessly in that room. For much of the time we were not in court." An inquiry has been called by Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, into the handling of the longest jury trial ever attempted, which was abandoned on Tuesday, with the six defendants on trial formally acquitted. A seventh has pleaded guilty. Contrary to claims that the case showed that complex fraud was too difficult for juries to understand, Mrs Boyask is emphatic that mismanagement was the problem. "It wasn't too complex at all. We understood every single thing," she said. "We'd made hundreds of notes. It was very easy to understand. We all talked about the case properly and discussed it." What she does think was intolerable was the attempt to make a jury serve for such an inordinate time. "If the trial goes on for such a length of time, naturally you're going to get illness, pregnancies, paternity leave - people's wives have got to be allowed to have babies. And you're going to get resentment as well." Some of the jurors missed out on overtime, or chances of promotion, she said. One man faces months retraining in his job as a train driver. Another woman, who had needed an operation, took a month off to recover and then returned to jury service, was replaced in her job as a secre tary. "People were desperate to get out of this case," she said. The juror who went on strike last week, precipitating the collapse of the trial, had pension problems at his IT company. "He rang me and said, 'I'm never coming back'." Mrs Boyask was unable to spend time with her 73-year-old husband and her grandchildren, and had to turn down the prospect of a part-time job. She received no loss of earnings payments, because of her retired status. She wrote to the court after 12 months' service, asking for financial assistance: "The judge never replied." She persisted, writing to the Department for Constitutional Affairs. "They said we can't help you. In other words, get lost! "I talked to the expenses office at the Old Bailey. I was wearing a suit and they said: 'You don't look as if you need the money'. It was insulting."