A convicted sex attacker who wanted to become a serial killer was jailed for life at the Old Bailey today for the murders of two women.Derek Brown, 48, was found guilty of the murders of Xiao Mei Guo, 29, a DVD seller, and Bonnie Barrett, 24, a sex worker, whom he picked up in Whitechapel, east London. Both were young mothers.Police believe Brown, a newspaper delivery driver from Preston, Lancashire, was trying to emulate the serial killer Jack the Ripper. He had borrowed the book, Killers: The Most Barbaric Murderers of Our Time, from his local library as well as assembling a DIY murder kit, including a bow saw, a steam cleaner and waterproof sheeting.A search of Brown's flat in Rotherhithe, south-east London, last October, revealed blood from the women in the kitchen, corridor and bathroom, where police suspect he may have dismembered the women. Judge Martin Stevens said he had disposed of the bodies with "frightening efficiency", and had preyed on Guo, an illegal immigrant, and Barrett, a crack addict, because they were vulnerable and he thought they would not be missed.Brown had made attempts to hide DNA evidence by stripping the walls and taking up carpets.The jury found Brown guilty of the murders despite the victims' bodies never being found. Relatives of the two women made emotional appeals to Brown to tell them what he did with their remains.Guo's husband, Jin Hua, who came to Britain illegally with his wife, said: "The children repeatedly ask me the question 'Where is Mum? We miss her. Can we talk to her?' I have no courage to tell them that their mother was murdered and dismembered and will never be found. "I don't want them to go through the same pain I am now suffering. We want her body so my children and I can say goodbye."Barrett's mother, Jackie Summerford, also asked Brown to tell her where to find her "precious little girl".The court heard that Brown had sought notoriety and had said he wanted to be "famous". A friend of Brown said: "He had threatened me with making himself famous in an unpleasant way."Brown, a father of seven who was convicted of rape in 1989 and has a string of other convictions, is also a suspect in another murder and is thought to have carried out further sex attacks.Police said Brown was a heavy drinker and had a voracious appetite for sex with prostitutes and will take any new sex attack claims "very seriously". During the trial, Brian Altman QC, for the prosecution, told the Old Bailey: "Both women were street workers and both were soft targets for a predatory killer."Sentencing him to life with a minimum term of 30 years, Judge Stephens told Brown: "What you did to each of those women before you killed them we can only speculate about. How you killed them we cannot know. "What we do know is you disposed of their bodies with frightening efficiency so that not a trace of either woman has been found. The anguish of both victims' families is exacerbated, made much worse by their inability to lay each lady to rest."Detective Chief Inspector Mark Kandiah, who led the investigation, said Brown would continue to be questioned over what he did with the women's bodies. "He is clearly a very evil man. He is showing no remorse," he said.