Within the corridors of Camberwell magistrates' court in south London, the names of the Preddie brothers were whispered in awe by teenage girls who would gather to watch their every appearance. From the ages of 10 and 11 the Preddies were at the apex of the rigid pecking order that bound their gang, the Young Peckham Boys.Brought up by their mother, Marion Johnson, they lived an almost feral existence on the streets of the North Peckham estate, terrorising residents, stealing mobile phones and robbing members of the public.Danny Preddie, the youngest of the two, was considered the toughest member of the gang. Five months before the killing of Damilola, Danny was convicted of assault with intent to rob after attacking a teenage boy with a baseball bat and demanding money from him.On the day of Damilola's killing, Danny Preddie was on bail for five offences. He should have been under a 24-hour curfew at the Abbey Street childrens' home for these offences, but he escaped that night to join his gang for what was to be their fatal clash with the 10-year-old schoolboy.Ricky Preddie, 13 at the time of the killing, also had a history of violence and theft. He was also supposed to have been under supervision, for going equipped to rob at the time of Damilola's death.A year before Damilola's death, the Preddies and others were charged with a multiple sex attack on two girls aged 10 and 12 in a park in Peckham. They allegedly pinned the girls to the ground and assaulted them. But the boys were freed in June 2000 when Judge Neil Denison threw the case out at the Old Bailey because they were too young to have a fair trial in an adult court.Their release led to an outcry on the North Peckham estate. When six months later, in November 2000, Damilola was stabbed to death, the name Preddie was not far from the lips of people there. Despite police claims that there was a wall of silence, it took just a few days for a friend of the Preddies to come forward with information that they had stabbed Damilola.Five days after the killing detectives arrested them but they dropped them from the inquiry within a month after a new witness emerged, a 13-year-old girl, naming four other members of their gang as the killers. This witness, known as Bromley, diverted the whole investigation and led to the collapse of the crown's case at the first trial when the judge labelled her a liar.Outside court as the four teenage boys emerged triumphant in January 2002, they were met by the Preddie brothers. While the gang returned to their hunting ground, echoes of the failed Stephen Lawrence inquiry were resonating loudly within the corridors of Scotland Yard.A new inquiry was set up into Damilola's killing and under intense pressure Detective Superintendent Nick Ephgrave sifted through the piles of evidence only to be led relentlessly back to the Preddie brothers. The breakthrough came when a private forensic lab found spots of blood, on Danny Preddie's trainer and the cuff of Ricky's sweatshirt, which had been overlooked.Meanwhile the Preddies had continued their activities. Danny was sentenced to three years for robbing passengers on a train at knifepoint, his brother was arrested for several violent crimes. But in January 2005 they were arrested for the killing and yesterday convicted of Damilola's fatal stabbing.Detectives believe it was Danny Preddie's desire to steal Damilola's distinctive silver puffa jacket that led to the fatal confrontation six years ago. But Damilola's parents may never know which of the gang carried out the fatal stabbing as he was surrounded in the dark of a dismal stairwell.Since Damilola's death, the North Peckham estate has been demolished and rebuilt, but while the Young Peckham Boys have grown up, they have not gone away. They still live on the estate, and their bond of silence has remained intact.