An attempt by media groups to obtain fuller details in the case against the former royal butler Paul Burrell was refused by the judge yesterday in the interest of protecting the privacy of princes William and Harry. Parts of the evidence, including extracts from a statement Mr Burrell made to the police, have been kept from the public but given to the Old Bailey jury to read privately. Photographs - apparently of the princes as babies - alleged to have been stolen by Mr Burrell have been shown to jurors and the judge but not described in open court. Some observers have questioned whether similar privileges would be granted to ordinary members of the public involved in court cases. Part of the courtroom containing the evidence has been screened off and part of the small public gallery overlooking the area has been cleared. At a hearing in open court before the start of the trial the judge, Mrs Justice Rafferty, was told by Jonathan Caplan QC, representing ITN, the Guardian and Associated Newspapers - publishers of the Daily Mail and the Evening Standard - that the principle of open justice required all evidence in open court to be read publicly. He described Mr Burrell's statement as a very important document, saying certain passages had been deliberately not read out by the prosecution in open court. William Boyce QC, prosecuting, said one of the themes of the statement had been the special relationship between the princess and Mr Burrell. Mr Burrell had told the police that he would give examples of the relationship in his statement on the strict understanding that they would only be used in relation to the investigation. The judge said yesterday: "The interests of justice in this singular case encompass those not only of Paul Burrell and the jury having all possible assistance in trying him, but also those of the two young princes. "In my judgment the interests of justice are served if the listening public are able to follow the type of evidence or material, whether video, photo or manuscript, the author, topic, date of creation where identified and the identity of the person producing it." The case, in which Mr Burrell, 44, denies three charges of theft of items belonging to the Prince of Wales, the estate of Princess Diana and from Prince William, restarted yesterday with a new jury, following the discharge of a previous jury on Wednesday for legal reasons.The prosecution alleges that Mr Burrell, Princess Diana's butler until her death in August 1997, stole more than 300 items, including private letters, autographed CDs, photographs and more than 3,000 negatives, clothing, wedding presents and official gifts. Most of the items were discovered when police searched Mr Burrell's home in Cheshire in January last year. The trial continues.