A leading provider of the government's flagship initiative to counter drug-related crime has voiced concern at the rate at which offenders are dropping out of the programme. The anxiety is echoed by probation officers, who fear the rate could be more than 50%. Drug testing and treatment orders (DTTOs), rolled out nationally last October, are designed to break the cycle of reoffending through rehabilitation. Offenders convicted of an imprisonable offence, and deemed suitable for the order, are given a community sentence, provided they agree to attend a drug treatment course for a minimum of 15 hours a week for between six months and three years. Anyone subject to an order can be sent to prison if they repeatedly fail to attend the course, or are tested positive for drugs. The scheme is seen by ministers as a key to breaking the cycle of drug misuse and crime. But Helen Cantrell, national criminal justice development manager for Addaction, a leading drug treatment charity contracted to deliver DTTOs, says: "Drop-out rates are very high. Most of the country is really struggling with implementing DTTOs." The charity is contracted to deliver the orders in Surrey, Lincolnshire, Hastings, inner London and parts of Leicestershire and Derby shire, in partnership with the probation service, health authoritites, social services and the police. While the philosophy behind the orders is "sound", she says, the practical expectations are unrealistic. "It was supposed to be needs-led and treatment-led, but it's become about number-crunching and pushing people to attend. There's not a problem with the uptake, but with how to keep offenders attending. It's a very demanding programme for a chaotic drug offender to achieve." The Home Office says 546 DTTOs have been issued since October and only 20 have been breached. But Cantrell says that when offenders breach the conditions of an order it can take time to send them back to court. "I know the numbers of breaches are higher than that. Offenders have high, complex needs but they're being lumped into a group to meet time targets, which is resulting in individual treatment getting lost." Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, says officers have had reservations about the initiative since it was piloted in three areas. They fear that offenders will be taken on to the scheme with little hope of completion. "In the pilot, over 50% of orders were breached," he says. "The drop-out rate now is much higher. Officers feel they've been set up to fail." Cranstoun Drugs Services and charity Turning Point, two other DTTO contractors, both say it is too early to measure the effectiveness of the orders. But Peter Glass, a director of Cranstoun,adds: "Addaction are more informed as they're very much at the forefront of knowing what's working well." One drug offender, given a two-year DTTO in London, has told the Guardian that there is a "phenomenal" drop-out rate on his programme. "The format is so rigid and many people just can't do it," he says. "If they've got nowhere to live, and are struggling with addiction, it's just not possible to stick to the programme. "It's not really addressing issues about housing and employment. We're put into groups and asked to talk about our week. Some people are very confused. It's not that the staff don't want to help. The ethos is very good, but for a lot of people it's just a way of staying out of prison. "It's a case of the government saying, 'We're doing something about drug-related crime.' We're being fobbed off. It hasn't been organised properly and it's just not working." The Home Office plans an evaluation of the scheme later this year. "We can't be drawn over speculative figures," says a spokesman. "We're aware it's early days, but are encouraged by the way things are going."