A drugged driver who ploughed into six shoppers in central London, causing injuries that forced a mother and daughter to have their right legs amputated, was today jailed for four years.Alberto Ramos was high on crystal meth when he lost control of his car in Regent Street. Kayleigh Reeve - who was celebrating her 21st birthday - and her 43-year-old mother, Victoria, of Pontefract, West Yorkshire, suffered horrific injuries when the vehicle mounted the pavement.Ramos, of St John's Wood, north-west London, admitted dangerous driving and two counts of unlawful wounding on February 16 last year. He showed no reaction as judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC, at Southwark crown court, told him: "This was a calamitous collision with your car and a number of pedestrians as you mounted a pavement in the heart of the West End." The judge - who said there were suggestions the defendant may have jumped a red light seconds before the accident - said the collision was "horrific" and the crash had caused "mayhem".Both Ramos' victims listened from the public gallery, and both declined to comment after the case. The court heard Ramos had snorted a gram of crystal meth the night before the crash. He later told a probation officer that, having run out of the drug, he decided to meet his dealer and get some more. It was as he drove home through the 5pm Friday rush hour and negotiated the junction of Regent Street and Margaret Street that the accident happened. A traffic engineer later told police Ramos drove through the lights either during the last three seconds of amber or at the beginning of the red phase. Travelling at up to 25mph, he was then "seen to inexplicably veer off the road in a straight line and mount the footpath", the court heard. A split second later, he careered into a lamppost, knocking it to the ground, and ploughed into a group of pedestrians. "The collision left six victims in hospital," Karen Holt, prosecuting, said. "Two of them, a mother and daughter, lost their right legs ... as a direct result of this defendant's driving. A number of others were also seriously injured." She told the court that Reeve, who had come to London with her daughter and two of her friends, later remembered seeing the car head directly for her. "The driver's side of the car drove straight into her and she was thrown up in the air, landing on her back near the front driver's wheel," she said. "Unfortunately, she was fully aware throughout of what was going on and saw that her right foot above the ankle had been torn off ... her leg was unable to be saved, and she had an above the knee amputation." The court was told that when police arrived they were met with a "tangled heap of bodies" in front of Ramos' car. Holt said Ramos admitted to being a "daily user" of crystal meth, a drug widely known to affect driving ability. "Typical driving behaviour can include drifting out of lane, erratic driving and drifting off the road. Usage of MA [crystal meth] impairs judgement and increases risk taking," she added.