A jail term of 13 years was yesterday imposed on a thief who ignored a police dog handler's pleas as he drove down a road with the policeman hanging from a car door. The officer was thrown into a concrete bollard, causing fatal head injuries.David Andrew Parfitt, a drug addict, was at the wheel of a stolen taxi as PC Ged Walker was dragged more than 100 metres along a street in Bulwell, Nottingham, on January 7, Birmingham crown court heard. Parfitt, 26, of Aspley, Nottingham, refused the officer's calls to stop and the 42-year-old father of two was thrown to the roadside and died two days later, it was stated. The jury found Parfitt guilty of manslaughter on a majority 10 to two verdict but cleared him of murder. He was jailed for 12 years and given a consecutive one-year sentence for other offences. Mr Justice Treacy revealed Parfitt had been on licence from a previous sentence for robberies from elderly women at the time of PC Walker's death. The Home Office yesterday confirmed it was to begin an inquiry into supervision given Parfitt by the probation service and police. Mr Walker's widow, Tracy, has claimed Parfitt failed drug tests imposed under the terms of his release on licence and should have been returned to jail. Parfitt had earlier admitted taking the taxi without the owner's consent, driving while disqualified, theft and burglary. The court was told Parfitt had been spotted by a plain clothes patrol in Bulwell after he abandoned a stolen car in a pub car park. Peter Joyce QC, prosecuting, said Parfitt had conned a householder into letting him call a cab. When the taxi arrived, he ran to the vehicle and forced the driver into the passenger seat before seizing the wheel. PC Walker had been called to the scene and, as Parfitt began to speed away, he sprinted to the driver's door and tried to grab the keys from the car's ignition. As PC Walker and his German shepherd Kai were pulled along the street, the officer screamed at Parfitt: "Stop it or you will kill me." The court heard the taxi driver eventually halted the car and Parfitt fled. He was arrested a day later when officers found him hiding in a loft.