A witness to the fatal attack on Stephen Lawrence has described to the Old Bailey how a group of white boys collided with the teenager, overwhelmed him and forced him down to the floor.Royston Westbrook was the first witness to give evidence at the murder trial of Gary Dobson and David Norris about what happened on the night in April 1993 when 18-year-old Lawrence was stabbed to death by white youths.Dobson and Norris are accused of being two of a group of five youths who killed Lawrence. They were charged after new forensic evidence emerged during a cold case review of the case exhibits by scientists.The prosecution claims that fibres, blood and hair found on the clothing of both men places them at the scene and proves their guilt.Westbrook had been trying to get home from work by bus, but had heard that a lightning strike had effected the service on the 161 bus that he needed to take.Standing at the bus stop in Eltham along with Lawrence and Lawrence's friend Duwayne Brooks, he said the night was clear, the street was quiet and the street lights lit up everything.Lawrence and Brooks, he told the court, were messing about "chit-chatting" about football and pretending to kick balls as they waited for the bus.At some point both teenagers decided to go and look for the bus and walked down the road to see if there was one coming. "One of them slightly disappeared around the bend for a few seconds," said Westbrook. "Then they both turned round and started coming back towards the bus stop. As they came round, almost reaching the zebra crossing some boys appeared on the opposite side of the road."Then they started to run towards the bus stop as well. I just assumed they had all seen a bus and were running back."The boys on the other side of the road came diagonally across the road. Stephen and Duwayne kept coming and made it as far as Dickson Road. Then the group of white boys came across the road and just collided with them. That's what it looked like."They surrounded the pair of them and they grabbed Duwayne Brooks' wrist and pulled him. Duwayne ran away towards the bus stop and as he did he turned round and shouted "leg it Steve" or "run"."Then I saw them surround Stephen and he went down through the sheer weight of their numbers in the middle of them. He was completely surrounded, it looked like someone threw a punch at him. Then one of the boys brought his leg back, I assumed to kick him. The kick didn't land and Stephen came out between his legs, he struggled up and just ran up the hill … ran for his life."Westbrook said he believed he was witnessing a scuffle in which Stephen had got punched. "It was so quick, it was about 10 seconds … what was quite strange is it was so quiet. When there's a fight there's some form of shouting when you see the fight, but nothing was said, nothing at all. From my view it was a completely unprovoked attack. Then the boys just stood there for a few seconds and then walked off down Dickson Road, they didn't run."At the bus stop Westbrook and another youth got onto the bus, and the young man turned to him and said: "Looks like he got hit because he was black doesn't it?"As the bus drove down the road he looked out of the window to see Stephen lying on the ground and a commotion around him."I was just a bit perplexed about it," he said. "It hadn't seemed like much at the time. I thought someone had been punched and that's all. So when I heard two days later that one of the boys had died I was shocked."Westbrook later attempted to identify the white boy at the front of the group. "I thought I would be able to," he said. "But as it was, I couldn't."No witness has ever been able to identify the five white attackers.During cross-examination, Westbrook said the white boys had not targeted Lawrence particularly."I don't think they were particularly worried which one of the two boys they grabbed," he said. "They managed to get one, they seemed content with one and they let Duwayne go after grabbing his arm."Dobson, 36, and Norris, 35, deny murder.The trial continues.