A teenage girl who killed a father of two with a single punch was today sent to prison for more than six years.Kayleigh Murray hit Paul Woods – who a court heard had been "in the wrong place at the wrong time" – in a "senseless" attack as he tried to chase after her friend who had stolen his bag, which contained a bottle of alcohol.Woods, 29, fell backwards and hit his head on the ground, losing consciousness. He underwent surgery at Glasgow's Southern general hospital, but died the next day.Murray admitted a charge of culpable homicide after the attack in Maryhill Road, Glasgow, on 28 July. Chelsea Speirs pleaded guilty to assault and to robbing Woods.Both 19-year-olds had previous convictions for assault. Murray, who was intoxicated on a cocktail of fortified wine, cider and Valium when she killed Woods, had been on probation at the time.At the high court in Edinburgh, Judge Lord Pentland ordered her to be detained for six years and nine months. Imposing an extended sentence, he further ordered Murray to be supervised for three years and three months upon her release from custody on licence.Speirs was sentenced to detention for two years and three months. The court heard that she posed a high risk of reoffending, and further ordered that she be placed under the watch of a supervising officer for a year after being freed.Passing sentence, Pentland told Murray she must have delivered the fatal blow with "considerable force".He said: "While you did not intend to kill Mr Woods, there is no doubt that drunken violence of the type in which you engaged can, all too often, result in tragic consequences of the type that ensued here."The terrible consequences for Mr Woods' immediate and wider family of your senseless violence are powerfully conveyed in a number of victim impact statements, to which I have given close consideration."He was a young man with a loving partner and two young children. He and they were looking forward to a happy future together."The court heard that Woods, of Glasgow, had been watching football with friends at a nearby pub on the evening of the attack. After leaving the pub, he went to a local off-licence and bought a bottle of alcohol.After he left the store, Speirs tried to grab the bag and a struggle followed. She then walked off with the bottle.The victim tried to pursue Speirs but Murray, from Shettleston, punched him in the face. Woods fell backwards and struck his head on the road.Murray and another friend left the scene on a bus, still carrying the victim's alcohol.Pubgoers from the Maryhill Tavern tried to help Woods and flagged down a passing police car. Speirs stayed at the scene and became upset, shouting: "I think he's dead."Pentland told Speirs that she had a "disturbing" criminal record. He said: "Your lifestyle appears to have revolved around heavy drinking in the company of other young people. It seems that you have little respect for authority or for other members of the community."Referring to her role in the offence, the judge said: "It is clear that your conduct was entirely unprovoked, violent and persistent. It was aggravated by drink."Donald Findlay QC, representing Murray, said his client did not have a great background and would have to live the rest of her life knowing she had contributed to the death of another person.