Because data on sexual offences is extremely important, the Ministry of Justice, the Home Office and the Office for National Statistics announced in September last year that they would publish a joint statistical bulletin. Because data on sexual offences is extremely difficult to find and verify, not to mention sensitive, they had to announce in November that those statistics would not be ready on time.When the numbers finally were published in January this year, the report was 'structured to highlight: the victim experience; the police role in recording and detecting the crimes; how the various criminal justice agencies deal with an offender once identified; and the criminal histories of sex offenders." The release was quite detailed (we summarised it here) and showed that 19.6% of females and 2.7% of males had been victim to a sexual offence or attempted offence. Useful statistics? That depends. They only cover 16-59 year olds. However, as the recent spate of allegations - from Jimmy Saville to claims about Max Clifford and other entertainers - demonstrates, victims of sexual offences are not always adults. The government response to the Stern review (established to investigate how rape complaints are handled by public authorities) stated that "38 per cent of all rapes recorded by the police are committed against children under 16 years of age".Is that a sufficient amount of detail? Often, you only get what you're looking for with data - unless you ask the right questions, certain trends will remain hidden. Tragically, child sexual abuse could well be one of them. 21,493 sexual offences against children were recorded in 2011/2012. The data, which doesn't include those aged 16 and 17, is police-recorded and therefore doesn't reflect the number of offences committed - but is instead likely to change in response to variables like police activity and public awareness. What's more, unlike sexual offences against adults, this data isn't published in a UK-wide release. Instead, there is a country-specific breakdown. In England and Wales for example, 17,362 sexual offences against children, of which 2,213 were the rape of a girl aged under 13 and 601 were the rape of a boy under 13. This offers an extremely vague guide as to which children are most at risk.The 'under 13' and 'under 16' age categories, (identified by the NSPCC as being of limited value) are also used by the UK authorities to gather statistics on sexual offence sentencing. Data on convictions also lacks detail. The quarterly release from the Ministry of Justice does not differentiate between children and adults in its statistics on rape convictions. Local authorities publish numbers about their child protection registers, a record of those "assessed as being at ongoing risk of harm". One category of risk includes sexual harm but this is sometimes recorded as zero - a result which is possibly attributable to differences between local authorities in terms of their training, resources and methods.In the absence of nationwide official public statistics on this, and while fear and shame make many victims deeply reluctant to record offences with authorities, self-reporting is key. An NSPCC survey found that nearly one in 20 young people aged 11 to 17 (4.8%) have experienced contact sexual abuse. This rate is higher for girls (7%) than boys (2.6%).Childline, a free 24-hour helpline for children and young people, reported in 2011/12 that 5% of all counselling sessions were regarding sexual abuse. Strikingly, that 5% represents 15,993 counselling sessions.Too often, data categories are framed by out-dated notions. If you're in any doubt about that try looking for official statistics about child-on-child sexual abuse or about domestic abuse in non-heterosexual relationships. When we're confronted with article after article (after article) exposing accusations, convictions and sentencing of sexual abuse against children, neglecting this in the official UK statistics becomes harder to justify.Have we missed anything? Do you know of a reliable dataset on child sexual abuse in the UK? Please let us know by posting a comment below or via Twitter @MonaChalabi or @GuardianData