Detectives searching for Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman found their blackened clothing hidden in the grounds of the school where Ian Huntley worked as a caretaker, a jury at the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Strands of hair from their alleged murderer were "mixed up" with the clothes, which included their Manchester United shirts. An attempt had been made to burn the items, which had been cut off the girls, the court was told. The prosecution claimed there were numerous links between Mr Huntley, who worked at the Soham village college in Cambridgeshire, his car, his home and the clothes. Police found his fingerprints on a binliner on top of the clothes. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the girls, but the court has heard he is likely to accept he was alone with them in his house when they died and that he disposed of their bodies. He has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Maxine Carr, 26, who was Mr Huntley's girlfriend at the time, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, said Ms Carr had lied by claiming to have been with Mr Huntley on August 4, when the girls disappeared. She had been 110 miles away. It was only after her arrest that she told police that her boyfriend had phoned her in "absolute tears" the following day, because he was the last person to have spoken to the girls. He allegedly told her: "I'm going to get fitted up like I did before." The jury also heard that Ms Carr was seen sobbing as she peered into the boot of Mr Huntley's car two days after the girls vanished. Police who visited the couple's home on August 5 noticed it smelt of "lemony" cleaning products. Mr Huntley was seen cleaning his car a few hours later. The jury also heard how Mr Huntley had allegedly tried to lead police away from him by giving them false reports of people acting suspiciously. Mr Latham said: "It shows a devious and calculating mind, well able to think about what he needed to do to distract attention away from himself." The case continues.