A London firm has designed a bulletproof hoodie. It's £300, which seems a phenomenal amount, and I can't see how it would be effective, since my experience of a sweatshirt with a hood is that it's a roomy, shapeless thing, and if a draught can whistle through, then so surely can a bullet. But never mind that, concentrate for a second on the emotional pull this garment has.It started off as the sartorial signature of the young criminal. The term hoodie initially seemed racist to me, a way of saying "a group of young black guys", without actually calling anyone black, and nobody could point it out, because the first person to say the racist connection would be the first person who made it. It never became necessary to protest over this sleight of hand, however, since the criminal connotation of the look was immediately subverted by that very association - all young people, of all races, of all classes, anyone under 25 who wanted to look a bit downtown, started dressing in this way. Hoodie activity hereafter came in waves. Bluewater banned them; the Scottish youth parliament voted whether or not they were antisocial, by wearing hoods up or down. A tabloid newspaper sent a goodie in a hoodie to a mall, to be kind to people. David Cameron's policy on social disenfranchisement boiled down to "hug a hoodie". Everyone knows what a gang of hoodies means - they know it isn't a bunch of girls on the way to the gym, even though they'd be as likely to wear them as anyone else would; they know it doesn't mean whey-faced middle-class kids travelling in twos. It's a universal uniform of youth, really, and yet rhetorically, it means "any group a passer-by might find threatening ... What? I didn't say poor, or black, or young, or even male! I just said hoodie!"So it's bogus. I'm amazed anyone with even a slight delinquent tendency would dignify the mainstream by wearing the things. I'm more surprised still that there would be a market for bullet-proof ones, and surprised also that Mothers Against Murder and Aggression would worry about it, apart from the fact that they're mothers, so they'll worry about anything. Lyn Costello, the group's founder, said, "I don't think it helps. It spreads the fear factor and makes teenagers think they are invincible ... we want to encourage them away from a life of violence, not towards it." Of course it's a mug's game trying to persuade a pressure group made up of mothers - many of whom will have experienced of tragedy - to stop overreacting. But for everybody else, it's worth recapping how this cultural moment, where Dyneema - the bullet-proof material - was fashioned into sportswear, came about. If the term "hoodies" was originally used as a way to be racist without having to appear it, that delicate cowardice left ambiguity rippling through any further discussion. So, when a shopping centre bans hoodies, who exactly are they closing their doors to? What does antisocial behaviour mean when it can be inferred from your wardrobe? Does that make goths antisocial as well? Which hoodies, precisely, would Cameron have us hug? Any hood, or just the ones we decide pose a threat of criminality, in which case, shouldn't we be interrogating our own assumptions?No, interrogation is the last thing we want, because prejudices abound here that are less troubling when left unspoken. But the result is that this shapeless garment has come to symbolise a sense of the mostly imagined threat posed by youth in general, and the advent of a £300 hoodie that combines that with bulletproof material is mainly metaphorical. It's no big deal, in other words. Who's going to buy one? Apart from Harriet Harman?mszoewilliams@yahoo.co.uk