A cannibalistic killer who murdered a friend and cooked and ate part of his brain was able to carry out two murders in two months because of "systemic failures" in mental healthcare, an NHS inquiry revealed today.Peter Bryan's symptoms were so unusual, however, that even experienced psychiatrists were fooled by his amiable behaviour, the investigation concluded.Bryan had been admitted to a secure hospital after beating a shop assistant, Nisha Sheth, to death with a hammer in 1993. But eight years later, mental health experts decided he could live in the community under supervision.In 2002 he moved to a north London hostel but his supervising psychiatrist had never before been responsible for a killer and his "very inexperienced" social worker had no training in mental health.Bryan butchered a friend, Brian Cherry, while on afternoon release in spring 2004 and then strangled a fellow inmate, Richard Loudwell, two months later in Broadmoor hospital where he had been sent for the Cherry killing.The health authority NHS London todaypublished two related reports, running to almost 2,000 pages, as part of the routine procedure following killings by recently treated psychiatric patients."There was no particular failure by any individual professional" that could have prevented Bryan butchering his friend, the first report asserted. Bryan, now 39, had an "atypical" mental disorder. "He did not display the expected signs of schizophrenia and appeared to behave normally even when seriously mentally unwell."Other than a couple of minor incidents during his early years at Rampton, Peter Bryan had not displayed any signs of aggressive behaviour since he killed [Nisha Sheth]." Bryan was able to "manipulate" his care regime, the inquiry found.The day Bryan was allowed out for the afternoon as an informal patient "he showed no obvious signs of mental disorder". But the day before he posted a letter to a fellow inmate saying that "I still have my ACE card to play", and that he could still "play my best card of all". The letter arrived the day after Cherry's murder.On the day, Bryan purchased a hammer, Stanley knife and screwdriver before travelling to Cherry's home in Walthamstow, north London.At 7.30pm a female acquaintance arrived at the flat and pushed open the door. She found Bryan wearing no clothes on his upper body, sweating and holding what looked like a kitchen knife. He told her: "Brian Cherry is dead."When the police arrived they found him covered in dried blood. Cherry's body had been dismembered. On the cooker was a frying pan. When charged with murder, Bryan said: "I ate his brains with butter. It was really nice."A second report – also published by NHS London and describing the events leading up to Loudwell's death – was more critical of Broadmoor. Bryan had been there for only 10 days when he strangled Loudwell, 59, who had sexually assaulted and killed an 82-year-old woman in 2002, with a trouser cord in an unobserved dining room, despite nine staff being on duty. Closer observation should have been kept on a patient such as Bryan, about whom so little was known.NHS London confirmed that no disciplinary action was taken against any staff.Marjorie Wallace, chief executive of the mental health charity Sane, said: "It is barely believable that Peter Bryan, who had been in a high security hospital, should within months be in a hostel where he was free to come and go."Barbara Young, chairman of the Care Quality Commission, which now has responsibility for inspecting Broadmoor, said: "We have already taken action ... that will make the service safer."A trail of blood18 March 1993 Peter Bryan kills Nisha Sheth, the daughter of his employer, with a hammer and is suspected of attempting to commit suicide.December 1993 Bryan is transferred to Rampton secure hospital where he tells staff he felt "good" while killing.February 2004 He is admitted to a psychiatric ward at Newham hospital a week after assaulting a girl of 17. Three hours after being let out for an afternoon, he kills Brian Cherry with a hammer, then dismembers and cannibalises his body.April 2004 Transferred from HMP Belmarsh to Broadmoor.25 April 2004 Bryan fatally attacks fellow inmate Richard Loudwell. who later dies from his injuries on 5 June 2004.