David Blunkett's insistence that children as young as three need to be monitored for signs of nascent criminality was never going to get anything other than a lukewarm reception. Speaking at the Parent Child 2002 conference last Thursday, the home secretary said, "We have to provide support at the point where it can be most effective. We have got to be able to pick up on behavioural reactions at school very quickly, even from the moment a child enters nursery."But if there was a subtle point to be made about the benefits of earlier intervention for severely dysfunctional families, tabloid headline writers were definitely not going to pick up on it. According to them, Blunkett wanted to "crack down on terror tots", to "spot future thugs at nursery" and to target "three-year-old yobbos". There is something reliably comic in describing a three-year-old as a thug, because we all know that three-year-olds cry when their ice cream falls off the cone, and therefore do not qualify as thugs in the traditional sense. A few years back, when a New York toddler brought a loaded weapon to nursery, the Daily News and New York Post were at odds on how best to characterise the event in large type: one went for "Pistol Packin' Pee-Wee", the other for "Pistol Packin' Pre-schooler". Today, New Yorkers would probably claim that their nurseries are safer than ours (thanks, presumably, to Blunkett's role model, Rudi Giuliani), but such headlines sum up our attitude to the idea of an under-five underworld: it is a sad and terrifying indictment of the society we live in - and it is also sort of funny. Response to Blunkett's speech, such as it was, ranged from critical to dismissive. The head of the Confederation of Parent Teacher Associations said, "Identifying children at the age of three or four is useless unless something is happening in the home. We don't want to stigmatise young children - we want to work with families." Psychologist Tony Munton said, "I am not aware of any evidence that links behaviour in three-year-olds with criminal behaviour later on." Actually, there is some. Researchers at the University of Southampton studied 828 London three-year-olds born in 1969 and 1970 and found that habitually disobedient children, as well as those with behavioural problems, including hyperactivity and tantrums, were more likely to have criminal convictions as adults. In Dunedin, New Zealand, children born in 1972 were assessed at three, and an "at-risk" group was identified. Eighteen years on, two-and-a-half times as many males in the at-risk group had two or more criminal convictions. Show me the child at three, these studies seem to say, and I will show you the yob of tomorrow. In one sense, of course, most three-year-olds are thugs who simply happen to be safely below the age of criminal responsibility and of a physical scale that prevents them inflicting widespread criminal damage. They engage in activities which are, in adult terms at least, almost exclusively anti-social. They shout a lot. They walk around with ropes of snot running from their noses. If thwarted or annoyed, they are capable of kicking, punching and hair-pulling. Some even bite. So how do you spot the future yobs in a room full of tots who all seem to be auditioning for a junior version of the World Wrestling Federation? My own three sons, aged seven, four, and nearly three, count affray among their favourite pastimes, and the smallest is often the first to curl up his little fist when two toy trains meet on a single track. I have also been a witness to conspiracy, threatening behaviour, deception, incitement and assault. Even "twoccing" - that's Taking Without Consent the remote control. As a parent, I actively discourage this sort of behaviour, largely because it is impossible to read a newspaper while it is going on. But I certainly would not like one of Blunkett's yob-spotters dropping by unannounced on a Saturday morning, or even walking by the window. At school, perversely, the older two are generally very well-behaved, the sort who help collect up the discarded milk cartons after snack time. I believe the four-year-old is now under the impression that he is on staff at the nursery. I can't imagine this on-the-whole-rather-convenient delusion is on the yob-spotter's checklist, but I am not worried about him. He is four. He is already slipped through the net. It is the little one who has got the potential to become the first three-year-old in our family with form. He is the youngest, the baby. We went easy on him. He is not a bad kid, you understand. Just wild. Amusing as it is, describing three-year-olds as potential criminals is not a particularly productive approach to the problem, as it feeds our increasing inclination to look on only slightly older children as hardened offenders. A recent survey carried out for the National Union of Teachers suggested that an increasing number of teachers were being "assaulted" by five-year-olds. Two days before his speech the home secretary unveiled plans to lock up children as young as 10. We now more or less accept that 12-year-olds can be career criminals. The real question is whether intervention at such a young age will help or whether it will further stigmatise children. There is evidence to show that changing violent behaviour becomes increasingly difficult as children get older, and pioneering early intervention programmes in the US have met with some success. It is probably fair to say that the universal provision of nursery education is itself a kind of intervention. It is also clear that more needs to be done and more money needs to be spent, but as Blunkett rightly said, "It makes more sense to invest resources in prevention." My youngest yob tot started nursery just last week, and my biggest fear is that government monitors will spot that he is still wearing a nappy concealed under his clothing. Technically, he is supposed to be potty-trained before he enrols, but he has not taken to it so far. Perhaps we should have waited, but he is only there for a few hours in the afternoon twice a week, so we are just dropping him off, crossing our fingers and telling him to stay lucky. The nursery itself appears to operate a "don't ask, don't tell" policy on this point, for which I am very grateful. However, if the Home Office wants to intervene on this point, I will be only too happy to let them have a go.