Police took the unusual step of naming a 16-year-old boy as the prime suspect in the gangland murder of a schoolboy who was shot dead as he was chased out of a pub car park.Moses Mathias, who would have been 15 at the time of the murder of Guiseppe Gregory in May this year, has been named as a key suspect by Greater Manchester police. A wanted poster has been produced with a large photograph of Mathias showing a distinctive tattoo on his left arm. Detectives have been unsuccessfully searching for Mathias since the murder and have taken the decision to make a public appeal to find him.Gregory, who lived with his mother in Ardwick, was hit in the head when shots were fired into the back of a green VW Golf in the car park of the Robin Hood pub in Stretford, south Manchester, on 10 May as the vehicle was driving away. Detectives believe the gunmen, who opened fire shortly before 11.50pm, may have been driven to the scene in a taxi.Gregory was known by police to associate with gang members and had survived an incident at the age of 13 when he was shot in the leg. In November last year, police sent a letter to his mother warning her that his life was at risk from gangs. She maintained that he was not involved.Huge billboards containing a photograph of Mathias have been projected onto the walls of a building outside Piccadilly Station in Manchester and on a large screen in Piccadilly Gardens in the city centre in an unprecedented move by detectives. Additionally, a £15,000 reward has also been offered to help find Mathias after detectives spent months searching for him.Mathias has family in south Manchester but police believe he may have fled to the Birmingham area.Police have warned the public not to approach him but to contact them if they know where he is.Detective Superintendent Paul Rumney, who is leading the investigation, urged family members who may be harbouring Mathias to come forward. He described him as "a very strong suspect, a compelling suspect".He said: "We have decided we need to raise his profile. It is possible there are gangs who may be giving him some support, or from distant family members. We do not know, no one is talking about it."I believe he is dangerous. Our advice is ring the numbers we have provided if you have any information. My message to him is hand yourself in."We are offering the reward to anyone who can tell us where he is staying – that's all you need to do. We feel we have questions he needs to answer but he will have representation, if he can provide evidence to the contrary we will listen and explore it."Shortly before the shooting, three masked men had gone into the pub and were seen to leave about a minute later. Five men have been arrested on a range of charges in connection with the murder and are awaiting trial.In a statement following her son's murder, 36-year-old Samantha Lewis, said: "Gun crime hurts so many people and Giuseppe was only a 16-year-old schoolboy with the whole of his life in front of him. Giuseppe was my loving and beautiful son who was taken away from me before he had chance to fully experience life."He had a big personality and was loved by all who knew him. Friends looked up to him, family adored him and he will be sadly missed by all."Local police have reported a 92% drop in gun crime since Colin Joyce, 29, and Lee Amos, 33, who jointly ran the Gooch Close gang from Moss Side were convicted following a major operation against organised crime.