The home of a prominent Belfast republican was searched today by police investigating the robbery of £22m in cash from the headquarters of Northern Bank in the city.Officers searched every room in Eddie Copeland's three-storey home and took away shoes and mobile phones and at one stage during the two hours inside opened 30 Christmas presents. Mr Copeland said: "They had no reason to come here because I have nothing to fear and this to me looks like a politically-motivated operation. I had nothing to do with any robbery." Forensic experts in white overalls were involved in the search as armed policemen stood guard outside the house in Ardoyne, a predominantly republican area of north Belfast.A second house in the Lenadoon area of west Belfast was also searched by officers trying to recover the money, which was stolen on Monday and is thought to be one of the world's biggest cash raids. The IRA has denied involvement in the robbery, but police chiefs have not ruled out the possibility that the group masterminded the theft.Late on Sunday, over 10 raiders held hostage four relatives of two bank employees who were ordered to go to work the following day and act as normal. After the bank closed, the workers were forced to help gain access to vaults and pass crates full of cash to a waiting van.Mr Copeland insisted today he had no part in the raid. He was in bed with his partner while their 20-month-old daughter slept in another room when uniformed and CID officers knocked on his front door. Mobile phones belonging to him, his partner and two others due to be handed over at Christmas as gifts were taken away, as well as chips from a digital camera. The search took place after a warrant was issued. At one stage, according to Mr Copeland, 34, one of the officers allegedly told him: "I bet you thought days like this were over." Mr Copeland said he would be contacting his solicitor and would make an official complaint. He said: "They deliberately targeted me because they know I'm a republican in the area. It's politically motivated and they're trying to make out republicans were behind this robbery. "They took all my shoes away, including those I'd had for Christmas. All they left me was a pair of slip-ons. And they opened all the Christmas presents as well. They just peered in and put them back again but it was a serious invasion of my privacy." Mr Copeland was once accused by former first minister David Trimble in the House of Commons as the likely mastermind behind the Shankill Road bombing, which killed nine people in 1993. He survived being shot by a British soldier at the funeral of one of the bombers, and in 1999 was awarded £27,500 compensation by the high court. The following year he was awarded £60,000 after being injured in a loyalist car bomb attack. The high court threw out the case of the then Northern Ireland secretary, Peter Mandleson, that Mr Copeland had engaged in IRA terrorism and thus was ineligible for compensation.