The home secretary, Alan Johnson, led condemnation today of clashes between West Ham and Millwall supporters that saw dozens injured and a man stabbed in the chest.Thirteen people were arrested and five were charged after violence erupted before, during and after the Carling Cup fixture at West Ham's Upton Park ground in east London on Tuesday night. During scenes reminiscent of the violence that blighted football in the 70s and 80s, bottles and bricks were thrown as hundreds of supporters fought with police.Inside the ground, play was suspended as fans invaded the pitch, clashing with police and stewards."The violence that marked last night's match between West Ham and Millwall was disgraceful," Johnson said. "Anyone who thinks that thuggery has any place in modern-day football is living in the dark ages, and will bring only shame upon themselves and the teams they support."Evidence emerged yesterday that the violence had been organised in advance of the game on online forums. A message in one chatroom said: "Make sure you bring your bats and don't bring your kids."A season-ticket holder at Upton Park, who wished only to be identified as Sam from westhamprocess.com, said that plans for violence had been circulating for hours on forums run by the clubs' hardcore "firms". "This was a pre-empted, planned, organised meeting between the firms of one of the most bitterly disputed rivalries in the world," he wrote on his blog. "It begs the question, should there have been more prevention rather than reaction from the police?"The unrest was caused by "a small number of supporters" intent on causing trouble, insisted the officer in charge of policing the match. Chief Superintendent Steve Wisbey said the policing plan before the game was "proportionate and well-considered". Police had worked closely with the two clubs, as well as with British Transport Police and the local authority."Officers responded swiftly whilst missiles were being thrown as they tried to separate fans outside the ground after the match," he said. "Incidents of this nature at a match are thankfully rare, but it would appear that a small number of supporters were intent on causing a confrontation."The trouble started shortly after 6pm as fans made their way to the ground. A total of 750 officers attempted to bring the situation under control, including 125 extra police who were rushed to the ground.A shopkeeper in nearby Green Street who did not wish to be named, said: "All hell broke loose, it was very frightening. There were West Ham fans on one side and Millwall on the other. They were being kept apart by the police. There were West Ham fans for as far as you could see along the street. Bottles and bricks were being thrown from the back and some were hitting West Ham fans at the front. There were loads of people with bloodied faces."A fan who saw about 30 officers in riot gear "storming" towards a pub, said the night "seemed to belong to another era".Three people were taken to hospital, including a 43-year-old man who was stabbed outside the ground. He is in a stable condition in an east London hospital.Although information gained from blogs and online forums hinted at potential trouble, police had not received any suggestion of "that level of violence", a Met spokeswoman said.However, some experts argued that the police and the clubs should have been better prepared. John Williams, football sociologist at the University of Leicester, said that the police had attempted to deal with 80s-era violence with 2009 tactics. "To me [that] seems like a triumph of hope over expectation."