A manhunt is under way for a newly released prisoner who allegedly shot three people, murdering his estranged girlfriend's new partner and causing life-threatening injuries to a police officer.Raoul Thomas Moat, 37, a former bouncer, is said by police to be dangerous and should not be approached under any circumstances after he shot three people in the Gateshead area with a "shotgun-type" weapon during a 24-hour period.Despite an intense police search, Moat has evaded officers in Northumbria since allegedly shooting his former girlfriend, Samantha Stobbart, and killing her partner early on Saturday. He struck again early today in an unprovoked attack when he approached and shot a police officer.Detectives this afternoon appealed directly to Moat to end his shooting spree. At some point on Saturday night or early today Moat contacted a police operator to vent his frustration that no one was listening to him. "You have expressed concern for the future wellbeing of your children," Detective Chief Superintendent Neil Adamson of Northumbria police said at a press conference. "For their sake, this needs to stop now. Whatever has happened, you always will be their father."Enough people have been hurt. This needs to stop now. These are not the memories that your children need to have of their father." Moat has two older children by a former partner.The shootings took place after Moat's release from Durham prison last Thursday following a short sentence for what police describe as a "low-level assault" on a relative. He apparently spent two days trying to find Stobbart, 22, the mother of his three-year-old daughter, Chanel, to confront her about her new relationship. Relatives said that Moat had threatened Stobbart in the past, but this had not been reported to police.At 2.40am on Saturday, Moat allegedly turned up outside her parents' home in Birtley, Gateshead, and fired a shot through the lounge window. The bullet hit Stobbart in the arm and went into her abdomen.Her 29-year-old boyfriend, Chris Brown, a karate instructor who had recently moved to the area from Berkshire, ran outside the house to confront the attacker, who shot him at close range, killing him instantly. Stobbart has an armed police guard in hospital as she recovers from a liver operation and is expected to survive.Less than 24 hours later, at 12.45am today, traffic officer PC David Rathband, 42, a married father of two, was in his patrol car west of Newcastle when he was allegedly shot by Moat, who it has since emerged has a grudge against the force. Rathband, who has been a police officer for 10 years, was in a critical but stable condition in hospital.The officer was able to provide a detailed description of the gunman.Mary Hall, 63, who lives close to the scene of the double shooting, said she saw the figure of a man with a handgun and it had been very shocking. "There are a lot of old age pensioners around here and you don't expect this to happen," she said.The manhunt has echoes of last month's shootings in West Cumbria, with a gunman at large and a major police operation to find him. But detectives were keen to play down any similarities, saying that unlike Derrick Bird's murderous spree, in which 13 people died, these were targeted shootings motivated by domestic and relationship issues. "It is not a random attack on members of the public," Adamson said.Northumbria police's direct appeal to Moat came after Moat had a conversation for several minutes with a police operator, expressing his frustration that he was not being taken seriously by police. He also said he thought his former girlfriend was having an affair with a Northumbria police officer.Addressing Moat, Adamson said: "You believe that Sam was having an affair with a Northumbria police officer ‚ Sam has told us this was not true. Our inquiries have verified this to be not true."Mr Moat, yesterday when you contacted the police it was clear you believe certain things to be true. You have told us police that we are not taking you seriously; I can assure you we are. I want you to know you have our full attention. Innocent people have been hurt."He added that contrary to what Moat may believe, Brown was not, and had never been, a police officer with the force. He was a karate instructor who had recently moved from Slough. He urged Moat to contact the police again.The manhunt was entirely focused on Northumbria, he added. All armed officers from the force are involved and officers from neighbouring forces have been drafted in.Temporary chief constable Sue Sim said PC Rathband, despite being seriously injured, had given a detailed description of the gunman, demonstrating "absolute professionalism" in the most extreme circumstances. "We are absolutely committed to finding the man who did this," she added.