A motorist who killed a six-year-old boy in a hit-and-run incident while driving at almost twice the speed limit has been jailed for five years and three months.Peter Renshaw, 22, struck and killed Owen Wightman, who was crossing a road near his home in Wakefield, West Yorkshire, on 18 June last year.Renshaw admitted causing death by dangerous driving, failing to stop at the scene of an accident and failing to report an accident.Leeds crown court heard that the defendant barely slowed down after the collision but stopped shortly afterwards to check for damage to his car.He turned himself in to West Yorkshire police three days later and told officers he had no idea he had collided with a pedestrian and thought he may have hit a pothole.  Owen Wightman. Photograph: PAThe court heard that Owen was out playing with a friend on Fishpond Lane in Kettlethorpe, Wakefield. The court was told the speed of Renshaw's Fiat Seicento in the 30mph zone was 57mph.Owen was struck by the front of the car and pushed on to the bonnet, the court was told. The impact carried Owen 23 metres (75ft) down the road.The judge, Geoffrey Marson QC, said Owen was a much-loved boy whose death had devastated the family. "He had his whole life in front of him. From what I have read … he was a vibrant, happy child," he said."That day in June last year has devastated their lives. Life will never be the same for them again. The death of a child is every parent's worst nightmare."He told Renshaw there were aggravating features to the case, in particular his failure to stop at the scene. "This gave no thought to the additional anguish to Owen's family, and you knew you had hit someone," the judge said.He said Renshaw had shown a certain amount of remorse, but said it was difficult to accept his submission to police that he thought he was travelling within the speed limit. He rejected Renshaw's assertion that he had briefly walked back down the road after the collision. "If you had walked back down the road you would have seen something," Marson said.Renshaw had completed his second year at university when the collision happened. The judge banned him from driving for six years and his licence was endorsed.