Police who grant bail too freely and youngsters who fail to turn up to answer the charges against them are sabotaging attempts to deal speedily with persistent young offenders, said a report. Figures which show the average time from arrest to sentence has halved are masking significant failures in some parts of the country, the three inspectorates which oversee courts, police and crown prosecutors concluded yesterday. One of Labour's pledges for the 1997 election was to halve the number of days it took to punish persistent young offenders. The decrease from 142 to 71 days was achieved nationally by September 2001. But while the average time was 75 days for April to June 2001, in some high crime areas cases took much longer - 107 days in London, 92 in Avon and Somerset and 90 on Merseyside. The report, from the crown prosecution service inspectorate, the inspectorate of constabulary and the magistrates' courts service inspectorate, found that 15 of the 42 police and CPS areas failed to reach the 71 day target. "It is of concern that over a third of criminal justice areas have yet to achieve the target, and an indicator that there is still significant scope for further improvement," it said. "The success of many areas, which has led to the 71 day target being achieved nationally, is masking the continued poor performance of others." Police contributed to delays by releasing offenders on bail after arrest "for unnecessarily long periods of time" - for 28 days or more - instead of charging them. In 23 of the 99 long running cases, the defendant was released on bail before charge, and in half the cases there was no indication why the charge was delayed. Another factor was "the continuing existence of an adjournment culture at some court centres." In some cases there were seven or more adjournments. In one of five cases which were adjourned, the reason was the defendant's unexplained failure to turn up. In cases where the defendant entered a not guilty plea, one in four trials had to be adjourned because a prosecution witness failed to attend court. Nearly one in five was adjourned when the defendant failed to appear. The failure of defendants to show up was the main reason for delays, the report found. At Camberwell Green magistrates' court in south London, 72% failed to appear, compared with 17% in Wolverhampton. Arrest warrants were issued but in more than a third of cases these took 28 days or more to execute. The report called for a programme of action by courts, police and crown prosecutors at every stage, from arrest to sentence.