Had it not been for the decorators who were rummaging through a leather satchel on top of his wardrobe, pensioner Harvey Richardson would never have attracted the interest of Merseyside police.But the satchel contained a cardboard folder bulging with newspaper cuttings about the unsolved 38-year-old murder of teenager Lorraine Jacob, a detailed nine-page handwritten note confessing to the crime and a gun dating back to the second world war. The confession was neither dated nor signed but was yellowing, as if written some time ago, according to police. Several items of clothing were also found, which are being examined by detectives.Richardson, a retired librarian with a passion for languages, died, aged 77, from colon cancer at a hospice this month. His funeral was on Friday. His relatives had asked a small firm of decorators to tidy up his home.As well as the confession and cuttings, the two decorators found a home stuffed with thousands of books, many reflecting Richardson's passion for Germany and Russia. There were also books about Hitler and the Nazis.A few weeks before the decorators arrived at Richardson's home in Reservoir Street, Aspull, near Wigan, this month, detectives from Merseyside police were conducting a cold case review of the Jacob murder. The young woman's body was discovered in a Liverpool alleyway in September 1970. Richardson was not known to police, had no previous convictions, and there was only one report of him being drunk as a young man, said Merseyside police.The timing of the discovery of the documents was "bizarre", according to Detective Superintendent Ian Kemble, who is leading the inquiry.At a press conference yesterday he refused to divulge the precise contents of the apparent confession, but said it was handwritten on A5 paper and ran to nine sides. The note was being forensically examined, was yellowing, which "appeared to suggest it had not been written in the last five or six years". Following the decorators' discovery Kemble visited Jacob's family to inform them of the latest development.He said the note could be "quite accurately described as a confession to the murder of Lorraine in 1970". However, he was keeping an open mind about the identity of the killer. The results from DNA tests on items found in Richardson's home are expected in approximately five weeks.Another cutting found in Richardson's home was about the murder of Jackie Ansell-Lamb, who was killed while hitchhiking in Tabley, Cheshire, in 1970. But police emphasised that Richardson apparently had no access to a car, never had a driving licence, and there was nothing to link him to this unsolved case. What is known about Richardson is that he fathered two daughters, and possibly a son. The mother of his daughters, to whom he was not married, died in the early 1990s. His family are said to be cooperating fully with the police. Kemble said: "We are particularly interested in speaking to anyone who knew Harvey Richardson at the time of the murder, either socially or as a work colleague, as information they could have could be vital. We believe that Mr Richardson lived in Huskisson Street, Toxteth, at the time of the murder and worked in a restaurant, possibly called The Mariners, which is believed to have been in North John Street in the city centre."