They are hardly the badlands. A ride through south-west London might encompass the urban vitality of Streatham, the suburban charm of Wimbledon, the leafy views of Merton and the affluence of Kingston. It's the territory that spawned a thousand sitcoms about middle England.But for travellers who make that trip on the No 57 bus, the journey has been unsettling, frustrating, even frightening. Last week, officials working for London's mayor, Ken Livingstone, deployed his force of transport police to ride up and down route 57 to catch law breakers, fare evaders and traffic regulation violators. Just three days of operating under police guard led to 20 arrests and the capture of a man who was wanted on a murder charge. Throughout the day and night, uniformed officers have been riding on the top decks, providing reassurance and helping to curb antisocial behaviour. Largely, the tactic has been deterrence, but at least one vandal was caught etching his name into a window. By policing the bus and events along its route, officers have caught disqualified drivers, motorists driving without insurance and people engaged in deception. Automatic number-plate recognition machines have also been used to identify vehicles that may have been used for crime or to commit road traffic offences. Bus driver Andrew Farrell, 42, says having a police guard has transformed the journey. "We were getting drunks, people diving on without paying, fighting, people smoking and people taking drugs. On some days it was a bit like a bad pub. Things could happen at any time." He said the journey into the outer suburbs was tranquillity itself but anything could happen between Tooting and Streatham. "People knew they could do what they liked and they would get away with it. It only takes one idiot." Inspector Nick Roach, who is responsible for officers of the Transport Operational Command Unit (Tocu) in south-west London, said the initiative was a good use of police resources. "It has speeded up bus times, people feel safer and we are catching a lot of bad people. It is a win-win situation."The landscape along the 11-mile journey is certainly varied. At Streatham, where the outward journey begins, an elderly black man sat at the front and tucked his head inside a newspaper. "I only go short journeys so no one bothers me," he said. "But when things happen it is usually the kids who are responsible. You can't talk to them." James Hogben, a 23-year-old student, got on at Streatham. He steers clear of the bus most days, preferring to use his bike. "It's just less hassle. I was on the 57 one day when one guy decided that he didn't like his can of drink so he just threw it down the length of the bus. A lot of people were covered in drink and one man turned to have a go but it just made things worse. Most of the people on the top deck got up and went downstairs." He added: "On another occasion guys sat in the back of the bus throwing sweets. They were hard-boiled sweets so they might as well have been throwing stones. I tried to have a go but they carried on doing it. It is cheaper for me to use the bus but there is less chance of trouble on the bike." At Tooting Broadway, two of Tocu's police community support officers (PCSOs) joined the bus and sat at the back between a shrunken, balding white man sipping on a can of Special Brew and a brooding young black man who sat hunched forward, his face partly obscured by a grey flannel hood. "The drivers tell us they feel a lot more comfortable," said one PCSO. "I think we do a lot of good just by being here." From its staff of 950, Tocu has 129 officers deployed in south-west London - 61 police officers and 68 PCSOs. They have responsibility for six targeted routes in the area, and it is busy work. In September alone, 1,097 incidents were reported by bus drivers in the south-west area, 443 for antisocial behaviour and 161 involving road traffic offences which cause congestion, such as blocking bus lanes. There were 81 arrests that month. Across the capital the force made 540 arrests. Steve Burton, the deputy director of traffic policing and enforcement at Transport for London, said the Tocu initiative was earning its keep. "We think it has been really successful. All the evidence is that passengers and drivers and bus staff value the visibility." Dusk falls and the 57 makes its way back to Streatham. It is full of schoolchildren and students now and the noise level is appreciably higher. At Wimbledon Broadway, an ebullient female ticket inspector boards, accompanied by five police and support officers. She checks tickets and passes, and on finding that a doleful Asian youth has neither, leads him to the police. They smile and take him off the bus but his friends are remarkably untroubled. "Why are you all here?" demands one of them of the officers. "You should be glad," he says. "We're making sure you lot don't get beaten up."