Convictions in nine murder and manslaughter cases, including that of Lin and Megan Russell's killer Michael Stone, are being re-examined following criticism of the work of a former Home Office pathologist.The Criminal Cases Review Commission is reviewing the cases involving Dr Michael Heath to establish whether miscarriages of justice took place. He resigned from the Home Office in September after serious criticisms about aspects of his work were raised by a watchdog.The CCRC found five convictions that gave cause for concern and needed to be investigated in more detail. Four other cases were already being considered, including that of Stone.Michael Stone was convicted in 1998 of killing Lin Russell and her six-year-old daughter Megan in a hammer attack in Chillenden, Kent. Mrs Russell's other daughter, Josie, nine, survived the attack. His convictions were quashed three years later, but he was found guilty at a retrial and lost another appeal last year.Dr Heath, who was appointed to his role in 1991, resigned from the Home Office register in September after the Advisory Board for Forensic Pathology criticised his postmortem examination evidence in two separate murder cases. In both cases Dr Heath was adamant murder had taken place, but other pathologists fundamentally disagreed.The panel said Dr Heath's work in the cases had been based on "an unacceptable level of speculation". Other cases in which Dr Heath has been severely criticised include that of Victor Boreman, whose murder conviction was quashed this year after appeal court judges ruled the evidence given by Dr Heath was "discredited" and may have misled the jury.Among the cases causing concern as a result of the disciplinary judgment on Dr Heath is that of Simon Hall, 27, who was convicted in 2003 of killing Joan Albert, 79. The CCRC is examining his case. Mr Hall, an accountant from Capel St Mary, near Ipswich, has maintained his innocence since he was convicted in 2003 of stabbing Mrs Albert to death at her home in Capel St Mary. Mrs Albert was found dead by a neighbour at her home on December 16 2001. Mr Hall's alibi was that he was at a nightclub until the early hours.Mr Jessel said the CCRC was ready to consider any further cases where individuals felt they had been wrongfully convicted because of Dr Heath's evidence.Although the attorney general has ruled out a wholesale review of cases in which Dr Heath was the pathologist, the CCRC's own review of 54 convictions for murder or manslaughter in which he gave evidence identified the nine cases which need further examination.David Jessel, from the CCRC, said: "In many of the cases in which Dr Heath figures, his evidence is peripheral. But we have identified a handful in which he gives evidence of opinion which goes to the heart of the defence case. In those it is clearly sensible for us to take a fresh look at the case through the prism of what we now know about Dr Heath."In the light of Dr Heath's resignation the attorney general was asked to examine whether a full review should be undertaken into all the cases he was involved in. But a spokesman for Lord Goldsmith said: "The attorney general believes the normal appeal procedures, and where appropriate the involvement of the CCRC, should be sufficient."