Penalties for jamming GPS networks need to be co-ordinated worldwide as their importance grows, the technology’s chief architect says.Brad Parkinson, who led the project to create the global positioning system in the 1970s, has warned that increasing reliance on satellite navigation means the risk of damage caused by illegal or accidental jamming of the signals is unacceptably high.“We found a jamming system in place at Newark airport, where they were testing the latest GPS technology for the blind landing of airplanes,” the emeritus professor of aeronautics at Stanford University told the Guardian. “It involved the step of [ground-based] antennas, and unfortunately the New Jersey turnpike runs right by them. They would periodically, and always close to the same time of day, get jammed.“It took them three months to pinpoint a trucker. [He] had gone online and for less than $50 bought a little device that plugged into his cigarette lighter that he was trying to use to jam the GPS in his truck. He knew his boss was tracking him, and he was probably taking a digression to track his honey or something. But this device, its range was about a mile.“That incident, what I call Newark 2, happened on the 4 August 2012. They nabbed him, they said he is apparently liable for a forfeiture, not a fine, in the amount of $31,000.” But in Australia, he said, “the impact on you would be one heck of a lot worse. In Australia, if you cause interference likely to cause prejudice to the safe conduct of a vessel it’s five years in the jug [jail] and $850k.”Parkinson said: “I’m calling for the community of nations to move to the Aussie-type penalties.”GPS has become essential to daily life, forming the basis of smartphone and in-vehicle navigation for millions of people worldwide. It was initially controlled by the US military, and only accessible via a descrambling system, but President Bill Clinton unscrambled the signal in May 2000.In the UK and Germany it is illegal to sell or use GPS jammers – but it is legal to import or own them.GPS signals are easy to jam because the signals from the orbiting satellites is so weak - equivalent to a 25-watt light bulb seen from the ground. The signal has to be amplified to pick it out from background noise. A jammer with an output of about 2 watts can block out the signal from the satellites for some metres - and more powerful ones would work over kilometres.While the Newark incident presents an alarming prospect, the biggest issues caused by GPS jamming is likely to be in the maritime industry.“The aviation people are much better protected because they don’t depend on it,” says Bob Cockshott, director of Position, Navigation and Timing at the ICT Knowledge Transfer Network. “They do, perhaps to a worrying level, at sea, but not in the air. In aviation they’ve never become dependent on GPS, it’s always been an adjunct to the navigation system that they’ve already got, a lot of radio beacons in strategic points.“At sea, they’ve become very much more dependent on GPS, to the point where some shipping lines instruct the captain to stop if the GPS isn’t working. They say ‘don’t try and go anywhere, just stop and wait until it comes back’, because the crew isn’t used to operating without GPS.”On top of increasing the penalties for owning and using GPS jammers, Parkinson argues that manufacturers of receivers, particularly in the maritime industry, need to start toughening up their devices.One way is by simply looking at alternative signals, such as when Europe’s GPS alternative Galileo or Russia’s Glonass system. Another is by combining the GPS data with information derived from an inertial positioning system, which uses accelerometers and gyroscopes to attempt to discern how far the system has moved, and in what direction, from the last known location.“The point is if you combine all of these things, a good set should be able to fly within 1km of jammer with a 10km range,” says Parkinson. “That’s what I call toughening.”• Car thieves have used GPS jammers to defeat anti-theft systems