We’ve written before about the curious, sometimes alarming way people riding bikes can be discussed in the British media. I say “people riding bikes” rather than “cyclists”, as the latter infers a sense of commonality, of being defined by the act of cycling. And of course in the vast majority of cases a “cyclist” is just someone who sometimes uses a bike as one of many means of transport.So to Howard Jacobson. The author and critic is a columnist for the Independent, where he gave his thoughts on Saturday on the awful case of Andrew Young, who died after being punched on a street in Bournemouth, striking his head on the road as he fell.Lewis Gill, who punched Young, was jailed for four-and-a-half years earlier this week. The court had heard how Young, who had Asperger’s and found social interaction difficult, had previously told Gill’s friend he should not be cycling on the pavement.This was a grim and tragic episode raising several tangled issues for a columnist to unpick. And Jacobson duly delved into some of them, making a reasonably powerful argument for increased judicial penalties for such attacks, even if he seems a bit muddled about the reasons why Gill faced the particular charge he did.But to me any force was entirely undermined by the opening 150 or so words. Jacobson began with a very personal rant about cyclists. Yes, cyclists. It’s so strange as to merit quoting in full: The place could be any crowded city where the one-sided war between cyclists and pedestrians rages. You – the innocent party – are walking along the pavement minding your own business when you see the enemy coming towards you. Is he riding his bicycle at full pelt, or just doing semi-wheelies while in conversation with a friend? Not sure it matters. He and his bike just shouldn’t be here. You have already nearly been knocked down 15 times this morning by cyclists jumping red lights, weaving through traffic, haring in the wrong direction down one-way streets, showing you the finger, mounting the kerb rather than slowing down or stopping – for cyclists are on the devil’s errand and have no time to stop – and so you are not well disposed to them. “You shouldn’t be doing that,” you say. Perhaps you say it with more forthrightness than the cyclist – than any cyclist, puffed up with territorial aggression and an inflated sense of rectitude – can tolerate …This seem bizarre, even arguably a bit distasteful – to use the dreadful death of a vulnerable man as a platform for venting some half-baked personal prejudices. It’s so fundamentally strange an opening that the fact Gill wasn’t even riding a bike is almost an aside. Transport can be a catalyst for all sorts of unpleasant interactions, often connected to frustration and powerlessness. Certain people forcibly shove their way onto packed commuter trains to guarantee a seat; I’ve seen behaviour in queues to get on budget flights that would shame pre-schoolers. But it’s extremely unwise to read any wider lessons into such experiences beyond the individual unpleasantness of those involved. Over the past couple of days I’ve been sworn at while riding my bike by two separate people driving BMWs, once when I had my young son on the back of the bike. Should I rail against all BMW drivers? That would be ludicrous.The defining feature of the Gill case is, of course, thuggery and violence, as Jacobson discusses further down the article. That’s what makes the opening section so jarring.There’s two key points here, but before them must come some words of caveat and proportion. The absolute primary issue is the death of Andrew Young, and any lessons which can be learned from the case. All else is something of a sideshow. But it’s a sideshow that illustrates wider issues and is thus worth noting. Firstly, it shows how utterly marginalised is cycling in the British national consciousness. Jacobson would not dream of lumping together all BMW drivers or, say, Rotarians, or crown green bowlers, for invective.I will yet again point everyone to this article last year by the psychologist Dr Ian Walker explaining cyclists’ status as an “outgroup”, fair game for sweeping generalisations. That someone so erudite as Jacobson can fall into this trap shows how pervasive it is.Secondly – and again this is a point I’ve made several times before, so regular readers please bear with me – I worry about the incremental effect of such mass slurs.The BMW driver who very deliberately cut across me and my son on a quiet street in suburban south London yesterday before swearing at me most likely didn’t read Jacobson’s column. But he very possibly holds views about people on bikes which would be subtly, subliminally reinforced by Jacobson’s words.It is an incremental process almost impossible to objectively measure but my fear is that every time someone with a predisposition towards resenting or disliking cyclists reads a piece which presents them as an amorphous, anti-social, law-breaking mass - words like “the enemy”, “devil’s errand”, “aggression” and “rectitude” are powerful, especially in the skilled hands of a novelist – it plants the seed of a suggestion in their brain that they thus need take less care for the two wheeled when out on the road.And on behalf of myself and pretty much everyone else I know who sometimes uses a bike to get around, as well as being a pedestrian or a driver or a train, tube and bus user: thanks for nothing, Howard.