The trial of Mary Jane Furneaux and James Gething for the great personation frauds took place yesterday. Lord Chief Justice Coleridge, who had been bound over to appear as a witness, arrived soon after one o’clock. Furneaux betrayed considerable embarrassment on walking into the dock, and her face was diffused with a deep flush, which passed over as she regained her self-possession. Gething manifested a more confident air as he took his place beside the female prisoner. Both prisoners in an unhesitating tone pleaded “not guilty” to the two counts.Mr. Merewether, in opening the case for the prosecution, said he was afraid there would be a great many persons disappointed in the details of the case, because to his mind the case was wholly devoid of what people sometimes called interest. There was certainly something of a ridiculous nature in the statements made by the woman, and the absurd folly of the men who believed and acted upon documents and correspondence of such a preposterous kind. Mr. Merewether proceeded to detail the history of the case, commencing with the meeting of Furneaux and Gething at Aston, and their subsequent dealing with Beynon, and the latter’s advances of money to Furneaux on her representation that she was a nobleman in disguise. He then quoted from the female prisoner’s correspondence, laying particular stress upon the letters in which Lord Coleridge’s name had been forged. He should be able to show that all the letters were forgeries, and by means of them Furneaux had succeeded in obtaining from Beynon at least £700 or £800 of his own money. There was really no defence to the case. Edward Beynon was the first witness. Gething told him that a nobleman had taken apartments at his sister’s at Aston, and he had made his acquaintance. The nobleman was under Her Majesty’s displeasure, but ultimately would come into possession of his own estates. Gething said the nobleman was Lord Arthur Clinton, and was then appearing in female attire, though he (Gething) was sure he was a man. Some time afterwards witness had an interview with the “nobleman,” who was dressed as a female. Gething asked if he could assist the “nobleman” for a time, and witness replied that he had not much money, and he generally kept it at home for business purposes. Gething conveyed all the money he advanced to Furneaux. The “royal proclamation” reinstating Lord Clinton in his old position was read, and evoked roars of laughter in court. Witness, on being asked by the Judge if he believed it, replied in the affirmative. In 1878 witness accompanied Furneaux to Balmoral. They went first of all to London to get letters of introduction to Her Majesty from Lord Coleridge. Witness was taken ill at Ballater and Furneaux went on, as she said, to Balmoral Castle. In about three hours’ time Furneaux returned bringing with her a letter purporting to come from the Queen. (Laughter.) Witness had many conversations with Gething about Lord Arthur Clinton, and Gething always told him that Furneaux was a man. Witness had mortgaged his leasehold property and borrowed £400 in order to advance money to Furneaux.At the conclusion of Beynon’s evidence Furneaux had a consultation with her solicitor, and decided to plead guilty. Furneaux was sentenced to seven years’ penal servitude. Gething was acquitted.Lord Arthur Clinton was a Liberal MP in the 1860s. In 1870 he was living with Ernest Boulton, a cross-dresser and one half of notorious pair Fanny and Stella, when Boulton was arrested on suspicion of homosexuality. That June, a day after receiving a summons to appear at the trial, Clinton died; the official cause of death was scarlet fever but suicide was suspected.Mary Jane Furneaux convinced her victims that she was in fact Clinton disguised as a woman, that his reported death was a cover, and that he was living in exile until a time when the Queen would bring him into favour again.