The "death and devastation" resulting from Britain's gang and knife culture was condemned by a senior judge yesterday as he jailed a teenager for the murder of a street rival. Judge Gerald Gordon told the Old Bailey that there must be an end to families being torn apart by youth violence, often prompted by trivial disputes.Jailing gang leader Abu Sarpong, 18, for a minimum of 14 years, the judge said: "It is the carrying and use for minuscule motives of such a knife which is causing death and devastation to families and that has got to stop. Once again, the court has heard from a distraught relative that a family will never recover. That is the consequence in taking a life, particularly a young life."Kamondo Mulumba, the father of the 15-year-old victim, Alex Kamondo, told of his distress since the killing last June. In a statement read by the judge he said his son had just finished his GCSEs and was looking forward to college. "Oh the sorrow and the grief. What pain and shock he must have endured. Why my son? Why was such a young and upcoming child deserving of such a death? Would you wish such a death on your worst enemy?"The pain and loss can never go away. All my dreams for him have been cut short in the twinkling of an eye. Why was my son murdered with such venom and cold blood? Why him? What prompted such evil from such a young one?"The court heard that Sarpong used a large kitchen knife to murder Alex during a gang clash in Kennington, south-east London. The victim was one of a group from the Man Dem Crew, one of south London's most notorious gangs, whose members were confronted by the K Town Crew, including Sarpong, after a row about territory.Sarpong, who used the nickname Fame, denied murder but was convicted last June. Passing sentence, the judge accepted that he carried the knife for "perceived need". But he added: "Whatever the rights or wrongs [of the gang war] it pales into insignificance when compared with your conduct ... You deliberately stabbed him with a long kitchen knife. The blow must have been inflicted with severe force because it dissected one of his ribs, before entering his heart, and it broke the blade from the handle."Sarpong, of Kennington, left his fingerprints on a bloodied knife blade which was discarded as he fled the scene. He admitted being there but said he had merely struggled with someone when they tried to attack him. The defendant, who was picked out at a series of ID parades by members of the opposing gang, smirked at the gallery as he was led from the dock.The case highlighted the potency of gang culture and how it attracts young men who appear to have otherwise stable lives. In the hours before the confrontation, Sarpong had been to a Bible class. Mr Mulumba cast doubt on reports that his son had been involved in gang activity and released a picture of him dying on a ventilator in his hospital bed.But within 24 hours, photographs emerged of the teenager posing on a YouTube site and holding a shotgun.One of six children, Alex was born in Zaire, now the Democratic Republic of the Congo. He came to Britain aged four.