As Boris Johnson looks back on his first 100 days as mayor of London and surveys the spectacular views from his City Hall office, he could be forgiven for feeling smug that, apart from the embarrassing resignations of two key advisers, he is widely regarded as having settled in well to a role that Ken Livingstone had made his own. But while Johnson's early days have not been the disaster that some critics had naively predicted, he may only now be grasping the enormity of the task ahead of him if he is to deliver on key commitments including to make London safer.With 22 teenagers violently killed on London's streets already this year Johnson must quickly assess how he can best use his powers and influence. Having worked as the Greater London Authority's community safety policy manager until November 2007, a non-political role providing analysis and advice to the mayor on crime, I am convinced that the new administration needs a different approach to the old.Firstly, Johnson needs to show sustained enthusiasm and leadership. Despite his undoubted achievements, commitment to London and passion for transport, housing and climate change, crime just didn't do it for Livingstone. Even one of his closest advisers told me that apart from getting more police on the streets, Livingstone simply wasn't interested and that his views appeared to be based on watching Dixon of Dock Green as a child. Livingstone showed no appetite for understanding crime issues, had no interest in chairing the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA) and rarely challenged the Metropolitan Police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair. In contrast Johnson will chair the MPA and apparently also wants the right to hire and fire the commissioner. This could enable the mayor to hold the police to account in a way in which Livingstone was rarely able to. Johnson should also explore scope for more mayoral involvement across London's criminal justice service, including closer working with the well-regarded London Criminal Justice Board.It will be essential to adopt an evidence-based approach to crime to properly get to grips with what's happening on London's streets. This means taking a rigorous approach to data, using not just notoriously unreliable police crime figures but also British Crime Survey findings, hospital admissions data and public attitude surveys. Johnson should also invest in academically credible evidence, which Livingstone had little desire to. If Londoners gained more confidence in crime statistics this could reduce fear of crime. Fear of crime could also be eased by making public spaces more attractive and by responding more effectively to anti-social behaviour. The mayor should make more use of restorative and reparative justice, where offenders have to make amends to victims or payback to society. More long-term investment is also needed to prevent crime. Johnson must build on the excellent child poverty work that Livingstone supported and develop a social and economic programme to tackle inequality in London. Resources must be targeted in high-crime and deprived areas, but with community support. It will be critical to get the London Development Agency to operate in a far more strategic and accountable way and to attract private sector investment into areas most in need. Johnson must also build relationships across the children and young people's voluntary and community sector to develop preventative work and not risk accusations levelled at Livingstone's administration of using patronage to support a handful of organisations.This should all be accompanied by a radical overhaul and restructure at City Hall, which is hampered by bureaucracy and too many tiers of management. Johnson will need to get a new structure in place that delegates more responsibility to GLA officers, while also ensuring a clear and consistent political direction. He also needs to get to grips with the fragmented and complex world of London politics. This may not be easy for someone who was at Eton when Livingstone was already on the Greater London Council. However, having had a fairly solid first 100 days, Johnson will never have a better opportunity to make a difference. Londoners of all political persuasions must hope that he does not shirk from the challenges and the responsibility.