Clues to hundreds of unsolved crimes of killing and rape lie in a vast archive of evidence gathered over the years by the Forensic Science Service.But the future of the critical resource has not been secured, despite warnings by police and scientists that the evidence in it provides the only hope of solving cold cases dating back years right across the country. There is anger and frustration in criminal justice circles that, with the service closing in March, there has still not been a decision on who will take over and manage the archive. One scientific source said: "When it was announced last December, it was made very clear that the archive was a critical area of concern that needed to be thought through. Yet here we are in September and nothing has been done."Gathered from investigations that can date back decades, the forensic archive includes a vast array of items from crime scenes: clothing, shoes, hair, swabs of bodily fluid, tapings recording microscopic splatters of paint, each item of which could turn out to be the only hope for detectives trying to solve historic murder and rape cases. Most of these cases will only be cleared up as a result of breakthroughs in DNA testing that can create clearer profiles from material from the archive. If a DNA profile is achieved, it is run through the national DNA database to look for a direct or a familial match.One such case solved in this way was the rape and murder of Colette Aram, aged 16, in 1983. The killing was the first case ever to be featured on Crimewatch, but for 26 years remained unsolved. Her killer, Paul Hutchinson, was captured and finally convicted two years ago after what are known as low copy number DNA techniques were used on Aram's clothes and a letter sent to police. The techniques for the first time created a DNA profile, which led police to Hutchinson.A review of cold cases sponsored by the Home Office in 2004 highlighted shortcomings in police record-keeping that would have made some convictions impossible were it not for the archive. During the first phase of Operation Advance, the police had no record of, and no evidence from, 60% of cases identified by the service. The criminals convicted through the operation had committed more than 100 offences, many serious, since the original evidence had been taken. "The whole notion that the archive is about the past is wrong. These people who have archived material can continue to offend way into late life," one forensics specialist said.Scientists are gathering all the samples together in two locations in the Midlands and London as they wait for a decision on who will be running the resource. One proposal being considered is that the National Policing Improvement Agency take over the archive. But the agency is itself being closed down by the Home Office in December 2012.