A man was arrested on suspicion of murder today after a woman was run over while trying to stop her sports car being stolen.Lynda Hankey, 42, was hurled on to the bonnet of her car, suffering serious head injuries, when she confronted a man who was trying to steal it yesterday afternoon. Police said Ms Hankey had left the engine running while she went into her house momentarily and returned to find the man in the driver's seat of the yellow MG.She walked to the front of the car to try to stop him.The incident outside her home in Worsley Mesnes, Greater Manchester, was witnessed by her partner, Jamie Hudson, and his five-year-old son, police said.Ms Hankey was taken to Wigan royal infirmary but later died. Detective Chief Inspector Robert Tonge, of Greater Manchester police, said: "This is a shocking incident in which a car thief has deliberately driven at a woman."Whoever did this is clearly reckless and potentially dangerous so we need the public's help to catch him."The car was found abandoned in Leigh, Greater Manchester, this morning.One neighbour said: "She went out yesterday afternoon to start her car up and nipped back into her house to get something."We helped her out by lending her some de-icer the other day so maybe that's why she left the car running. When she came back there was somebody sat in her car so she went over and the man just drove into her."She was a very popular lady."The incident happened at about 4.20pm. It is understood the car mounted a grass verge near her address before it sped off. Officers were at the scene today taking photographs outside Ms Hankey's maisonette.Neighbour James Gaskell, 60, said : "We had not long been home when it happened. There was a huge commotion here – I just can't understand how the robber could drive into her and not stop. It's callous. The awful thing is that there is so much car crime and theft, it's been going on for years."He paid tribute to Ms Hankey: "She has lived around the corner from me for a few years with her partner. They are a lovely couple."