Just over a decade ago, a Conservative government produced a criminal justice bill with similar goals - a more rational and proportional sentencing system - to the bill published yesterday by Labour. The 1991 Criminal Justice Act, which aimed to divert non-violent offenders from prison to community schemes and halve the number of juveniles in prison, was billed at the time as the third biggest change to the criminal justice system in a century. One decade on, the number of juveniles in prison has almost doubled, the number in prison is up by 25,000 to a record 72,500, and the wide variety of community penalties have become alternatives to fines rather than prison.The first lesson of the last decade then is to be wary of ministerial claims. A second is that legislation can effect sentencing patterns. Douglas Hurd's 1991 act did initially cut the prison population by about 8,000. Ironically, the fall in the lead up to enactment was even greater than what followed. Ministerial messages had already been heard and taken on board by the judiciary. What went wrong was not the act, but the reversal of criminal justice policy by Hurd's successor, Michael "prison works" Howard. Where does this lead Labour's new sentencing strategy? In one respect it is in a better position. A one-third fall in crime is the largest and most sustained fall for a century. Sadly, ministers do not talk nearly enough about this trend. But it is in an even shakier position than Hurd's for another reason: it is built on, rather than in place of, the mandatory minimum sentences for burglary, drugs, sex and violent offences enacted by Howard, and unhappily implemented by Jack Straw for fear of Labour being seen to be soft. It coincides with even more punitive court attitudes: prison rising from 49% of all indictable convictions in the crown courts in 1993 to 64% today. Yesterday's bill emerged out of special reviews - Halliday on sentencing and Auld on courts - but Halliday was directed to include heavier sentences for persistent offenders. This leads to offenders being sentenced for who they are and what they might do, rather than what they have just done. It resurrects preventive detention, which led to grave injustices in the past. Some measures, like conditional cautions, will reduce imprisonment; some, like the new indeterminate sentence, will lengthen stays. The new supervision orders could go either way; but they need more resources. It is not just prisons that are overloaded; probation is too. The best proposal - in the hands of a liberal lord chief justice - is the new sentencing guidelines council. Overall, the bill is bedevilled by contradictory goals and inconsistent principles. Labour wants to divert non-violent offenders from prison, but it has six other goals, including rebuilding a sense of public security. This has led to tough talk - particularly from Downing Street - which will in turn encourage courts to impose tougher sentences. Worse still, are the bill's coercive changes to evidential and court rules - widening exemptions from double jeopardy to 32 offences, more access to previous convictions, more hearsay evidence - all of which must be resisted. Tony Blair talks about creating a victim justice system rather than a criminal justice system. The implication is that the system currently favours offenders. He ought to know better. The founding principles of a criminal justice system must be independence, objectivity and neutrality. A system favouring victims is as unacceptable, dangerous and potentially corrupting, as one favouring offenders. MPs must restore the fundamental principles.