The widow of a British yachtsman murdered by three Burmese fishermen today welcomed prison sentences for their "heinous" crime.Two men have been jailed for 25 years and a 17-year-old boy must remain in custody until he is 24 after pleading guilty to the attack on Malcolm Robertson, 64, who was bludgeoned and thrown overboard after they boarded the vessel he had been sailing with his wife Linda, 59, in March.She survived the ordeal but was tied up for about 10 hours during the raid that prompted an intensive week-long search for her husband's body. Linda Robertson, from St Leonards, East Sussex, said today: " I don't want to trivialise Malcolm's death but I don't think 25 years in a Thai prison is going to be pleasant for them."I do hope the time they spend in jail will help them reflect and realise the heinous crime they committed. I also believe they were victims themselves."I don't think they had any plan. The fact that they didn't kill me, which they could quite easily have done, shows some compassion for me."The Foreign Office in London earlier confirmed details of the sentences laid on them on Thursday at Satun provincial court for murdering Robertson.A spokesman said both adults had their sentences reduced by half to 25 years and eight months imprisonment because they had pleaded guilty.Robertson was semi-retired, after passing the running of his chain of coffee shops to his children. The couple, qualified yachtmasters who had been married 25 years, had been fulfilling Robertson's dream of spending the winter sailing in warmer climates. Their four children, two each from previous marriages, flew to Thailand to support Linda after the attack, but there were several false reports of Robertson's body being found before Thai fishermen discovered it 10 nautical miles north of Satun's Lipeh island.The Robertsons had been sailing from Phuket in Thailand to the Malaysian island of Langkawi. They were attacked when they were moored off Bintang island in Tarutao national marine park.Earlier reports of the March attack suggested Eksian Warapon, 19, an 18-year-old known as Aow and the 17-year-old known as Ko, had been stranded on the island after jumping from a Thai fishing ship. After finding little food and water there, they swam out to the mooring. Robertson was attacked as he tried to throw the amateur pirates off the 44-foot anchored yacht, called Mr Bean after his business. The trio were later arrested on a raft about half a mile away.Linda Robertson had minor injuries and detailed her ordeal in nearly 10 hours of testimony in Satun in March. She said the three had tied her hands and feet.She had heard her husband tell them: "Get off my boat."After they had killed him, they laughed, joked and behaved as they were having a picnic as they ate the couple's food. Yet the youngest attacker had stroked her feet and given her food and water. "He said sorry many times and gave me hope that I would live," she said.An inquest into Roberton's death is due to be held in Hastings on 9 December.