Maxine Carr is expected to be released in the next few days after serving a prison sentence for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Carr had given a false alibi to her former boyfriend Ian Huntley, who is serving two life sentences for the murder of the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman.On Monday, Carr pleaded guilty to 20 charges of deception relating to false benefit claims and lies on job application forms. She was given a three-year community rehabilitation. The Independent's Deborah Orr argued that these latest charges, far from being a "malicious attempt to punish Carr further", were in fact a "fiendishly clever attempt to protect her". Bringing Carr to trial had put a stop to "red-top tales about Maxine", which would have been in contempt of court. The result has been that Carr has been moved to an open prison, in preparation for her release, "with a bit of respite from the gaze of the press". But the Daily Star greeted her court appearance with the front-page splash: "Carr's gone for ever ... We'll never see her again. Good riddance." A blacked-out police van, it explained, had taken her away from court and to a new life and a new identity. For the Daily Express, she was either "feeble-minded or evil". In an editorial, it warned that Carr's presence in her home town of Grimsby "might incite violence". The Daily Telegraph's Philip Johnston objected to "a campaign of demonisation that seems only to have been designed to portray her as a participant in the brutal killings". Carr played "no part in the murders and should not be treated as though she did. Yet there seems to be an atavistic desire to replace the iconic 1960s photograph of Myra Hindley with that taken of Carr at the time of her arrest," he reckoned. "Far from being Huntley's accomplice," wrote Joan Smith in the Times, "there are reasons to think that Carr is a victim of this out-and-out misogynist who turned from rape to murder as his confidence grew." Smith argued that Carr's vulnerability had made her an "ideal target for a controlling man like Huntley". Carr, she concluded, is "an ordinary woman who made a disastrous mistake. Whether she can ever be forgiven is something she will find out over the next few months."