Police photographs show Gary Dobson and David Norris, the two men accused of killing Stephen Lawrence, meeting four days after the murder, a jury has heard.Opening its case last week, the crown said that Dobson told police in a taped interview in May 1993 that he had not met Norris. But the Old Bailey heard that, days before that interview, Dobson and Norris were photographed together by a police surveillance team.Alison Morgan, for the crown, said that at 7.54pm on 26 April 1993 the two were pictured outside the home of Neil and Jamie Acourt in Eltham, south-east London. The photograph shows Dobson, then 17, and Norris, then 16, by the side of a car.The court also heard that Dobson appeared nervous when seen by a police officer three days after the murder. Detective Constable Graham Cooke was conducting house-to-house inquiries when he called at Dobson's parents' home in Eltham, south-east London. Cooke told the jury that Dobson had denied being at the murder scene. Dobson said he had been at home studying, and was undertaking an IT course. Cooke said: "In my opinion, he was nervous at the time."Dobson told the detective he had been past the scene of Lawrence's killing five hours earlier as he returned home from a college in central London.Cooke, now retired, told the court: "Dobson said no, he was at home all night studying. He arrived home from college at 5.30pm, that his mother and father were indoors at the time. He said that he did not know the victim, he had heard about the incident from the papers."The jury heard that Lawrence's clothes were still wet with blood at least 10 hours after he was attacked by a racist gang.Eighteen-year-old Lawrence was stabbed twice in Eltham in April 1993 and died from his wounds.Former DC Steven Pye, who collected the teenager's clothes from a hospital resuscitation room, said many of the items were covered in blood.Dobson, 36, and Norris, 35, deny murder. The trial has heard that forensic evidence will be crucial to the case against them. Also crucial will be the question of whether key exhibits have been contaminated in the 18 years since the killing.Pye said he went to Brook hospital, where Lawrence had been taken, to collect the teenager's clothes in evidence bags after he died. Reading from notes he made 18 years ago, Pye said that many of Lawrence's clothes were bloodstained. He had been wearing five layers on his upper body on the night a gang of five white youths stabbed him after first shouting racial abuse.Among the bloodstained items were a black jacket, a blue jumper, a green bodywarmer, a red T-shirt, a white vest and a pair of green cord trousers.The items were placed in a brown paper evidence bag, but not sealed, Pye said. This was because they were so wet with blood they might have caused the bags to collapse. Pye said the bags were sent to dry in a special room at a police station.Tim Roberts QC for Dobson, in crossexamination, asked Pye: "Is the upshot of all of this, however it happened, that the clothing from Stephen Lawrence that was most heavily bloodstained, and therefore might contaminate other things, remained in unsealed packages whilst you dealt with it?"Pye replied: "The most heavily bloodstained would appear to have been placed in paper sacks and folded over, yes."Robert Crane, who was in charge of police exhibits in 1993, said that some bags of evidence were kept in a disused cell at Eltham police station. Crane insisted that bags from different scenes were kept apart.Questioned by Roberts,Crane accepted that police had not anticipated the scientific advances that would mean years on, minute particles of blood or fibres could be detected.Crane said: "The relevance of it, at that time, was not that significant. Science has moved on."The trial continues.