The former husband of one of two women convicted of the murder of Sadie Hartley has expressed guilt about the collapse of their marriage, which he said allowed her to be “groomed” by the other killer.Kevin Walsh said that Katrina Walsh had become “a completely different woman” under the influence of Sarah Williams. Both women were sentenced to life in prison on Wednesday for murdering the businesswoman in a planned killing of “barbaric savagery”.  Kevin Walsh, Katrina Walsh’s ex-husband. Photograph: PR Company HandoutKevin Walsh said: “I feel guilty for having left her all those years ago. If I had still been around, Sarah Williams would not have been able to groom and this would not have happened.“Kit was vulnerable after I left, but she would not have done something like this without someone leading her and I feel regret about that.”After Mr Walsh had an affair, the couple separated, and they divorced in 2008 after being married for 24 years. They remained close friends and Katrina Walsh attended her former mother-in-law’s 80th birthday party. In an interview with the Guardian, Mr Walsh said he was stunned by what had followed. “Kit has always lived in a bit of a fantasy world, but it was harmless stuff like dragons and that type of thing. What happened here absolutely baffles me and I don’t think I’ll ever be able to understand it.”Katrina Walsh, 56, stood trial for seven weeks alongside her friend Williams, 35, jointly accused of murdering Hartley in January.Hartley, 60, a communications director, was paralysed with a stun gun and repeatedly stabbed by Williams, who had wanted to resume an affair with Hartley’s long-term partner, Ian Johnston, a former firefighter. Sadie Hartley murder: two women jailed for act of 'barbaric savagery' Walsh had recorded their meticulous plans for committing the “perfect murder” in diaries. Williams was sentenced to a minimum of 30 years and Walsh will serve at least 25 years. It took the jury seven hours and nine minutes to return a guilty verdict.Since Walsh was arrested in January, she has exchanged around 20 letters with her former husband from her cell in New Hall prison, Wakefield. She also writes to her ex-husband’s current girlfriend.“With me she will discuss the case, but the letters to my girlfriend are more chatty, about our hens and various other things,” he said. “But the whole time, in all of the letters, she has always made out that she was innocent.”He said he planned to visit Walsh in prison next week, adding that he would confront her about the evidence that came out during the trial, which showed that she was a willing participant in the murder. “I do want answers because I have been lied to. Kit has obviously been more involved than she has let on to me. She could have been honest with me but the whole time she has lied,” he said. “Even in the last few letters, she said she wasn’t giving evidence because of her health, but never let on to me about her involvement in this murder and previous stalking stuff they did with Sarah’s other boyfriends.”A spiteful letter, a bouquet: the sinister prelude to Sadie Hartley's murder It also emerged during the trial that the two women were trying to recruit Mr Walsh to murder Hartley. In August 2015, he received a text message from his former wife saying Williams wanted to meet him. Williams then called him directly offering a job suiting his “particular key skill”, but said that she preferred to discuss it in person.The jury heard that Williams was using an untraceable, pay-as-you-go mobile phone, and Mr Walsh said “alarm bells were going off in my head” as he believed she was up to “something dodgy”. He said he had no idea why he was being contacted as he had not spoken to Williams for eight years.“I had had no contact with Sarah after I left and then, all of a sudden, she got in touch with me. She wanted to come up here and see me. She wouldn’t talk about it over the phone. I said I wasn’t interested because I have never trusted her,” he said.“She admitted that she was contacting me using a burner [untraceable phone]. So, funnily enough, alarm bells were going off at this stage. Whatever she wanted was something dodgy. She wanted to travel 150 miles to discuss something. “But after the conversation I thought, hang on – I have never trusted this girl. She has contacted me after eight years using a burner. No, just walk away now. So I didn’t bother getting back to her and then ignored her.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Sadie Hartley’s son: our lives have been destroyed – videoHe decided to block Williams’ number and cut off contact. In a diary entry, Walsh suggested that her ex had been sought out for his archery skills.Mr Walsh had first met Williams when she was 17 and “shy and affected” and with a lazy eye. She had started hanging around the stables where Walsh, then in her 30s, kept her horse.The teenage Williams was in a relationship with a man 40 years her senior – married “sugar-daddy” David Hardwick – and Mr Walsh said that he never trusted her, believing her to be manipulative.He said he felt he had been a “pawn” in the murder plot, because when he was called to give evidence in the trial Walsh kept him in the dark about her involvement. “I’m guessing she did that because she wanted me on her side and to come across to the jury like I believed she was innocent,” he said. “And up until that point, I did. I am annoyed, but I will continue to see her because she is just so vulnerable. I am completely baffled by what has happened but I feel a responsibility towards Kit.” 