The government's attempts to deal with antisocial behaviour are like building sandcastles to stop the tide coming in (Sinbins for problem families as Blair attacks yob culture, January 11). In this case, the tide is the effect of rising inequality: the government has still not begun to undo the increases in income inequality of the Thatcher and Major years. As my own and others' published research shows, there is now incontrovertible evidence that higher inequality is regularly accompanied by more violence, lower trust and poorer community relations. That Asbos can become status symbols shows the antagonism to authority which lies behind what is not simply asocial behaviour - resulting from boredom or whatever - but anti-social and inherently transgressive behaviour from those who feel excluded.Inequality increases status competition and the stresses of early childhood, especially among poorer families. Its effects are particularly clear among young adults who lose out: rates of violence among young men and teenage pregnancies among women are reliable markers of the social breakdown caused by greater inequality.Richard WilkinsonProfessor of social epidemiology, University of NottinghamSanctimonious moralising is the last resort of the scoundrel politician. The problem with respect is that it's a two-way street. When Tony Blair finally starts showing working-class kids and families some true respect then perhaps he will get it back. How can he expect it from potential voters when they live in communities all too often devoid of the decent basic amenities (clean, safe streets, youth clubs, community centres, medical centres, banks, decent schools and shops) that engender self-respect?Marcus PreeceEast Grinstead, W SussexSimon Jenkins might deride Asbos as "chaos" (Comment, January 11) but many people have felt the real benefits from these orders, as troublemakers, awful neighbours and gangs are held to account for their behaviour. Perhaps Jenkins should have spoken to one of the people at the Toothill community centre in Swindon whom the prime minister met when he launched his respect campaign. A single mother who met Blair there thanked him for introducing parenting lessons, which are part of the respect agenda, as they had helped her better control and live with her one-time tearaway son. Real lives are seeing real improvements through such policies.Tom SleighKettering, NorthantsAsbos are being used on people with mental-health or autistic conditions, where treatment or understanding would be more effective. It is possible that the respect agenda could reduce levels of hate crime and harassment against disabled people within their communities, but where Asbos are given for impairment-related behaviour there is an increased likelihood that these orders will be broken and individuals will in turn be "criminalised".Placing additional and growing powers in the hands of the community carries the risk of legitimising and reinforcing intolerance. We need to ensure this does not fall disproportionately on disabled residents.Agnes FletcherDisability Rights CommissionFor Tony Blair to attack yob culture is to admit that it needs attacking, it has gone beyond being talked to or reasoned with. Yobs today are as powerful and intimidating as suicide bombers, and the state, we believe, is about to jump all over them, using yob tactics to attack the yob culture, paying them off with their own kind.So where did yob culture come from? Was it bred in those temples of reactionary forces, the slot machine parlours and fuelled by kebabs? Blair and his brand of trial-and-error socialism created this blight and the simple answer to its challenge is to roll back the "reforms" which have promoted a once-containable blot on our society to a scourge that crosses all boundaries of decency, threatens all, has no natural opposition and spins off into racist violence.Malcolm TurnerAlsager, CheshireTony Blair says "spitting at an old lady on her way to the shops is and has always been a crime". He goes on to explain that, "in practice, the person who spits at the old lady is not prosecuted" and the crime goes unpunished by the criminal justice system. Similarly, I would suggest, the harm caused to others by over-consumption of fossil fuels and excessive emission of greenhouse gases is a crime that goes unpunished by the international justice system. It is vital for the well-being of the global community that we collectively demonstrate respect for the environment. The breakdown of order that will result from rapid and irreversible climate change demands this.To this end I propose the creation of Global Atmospheric Standard Balancing Orders, or Gasbos. These could function like a "sinbin" for countries whose emissions are out of control. Compliance would require immediate measures such as eviction of drivers from 4x4s and seizure of profits made without regard for environmental consequences.Dave CockcroftStroud, GlosExclusion can foster disaffected and intractable antisocial responses. Summary justice solutions, I would have thought, are more likely to engender further resentment than "respect".Dr Hartley DeanDepartment of Social Policy, LSERespect? Sounds like we're getting "back to basics" to me.Dean StroudCardiff