Two men who spent 14 years in prison for the murder of a drug dealer yesterday had their convictions quashed by the court of appeal, which ruled that police put misleading evidence before their trial.The court confirmed that Anthony Poole, 41, and Gary Mills, 43, should be freed, citing two reasons raised at earlier appeals. The men had been released on bail last week pending yesterday's announcement. They were jailed for life at Bristol crown court in January 1990 for the fatal stabbing of Hensley Wiltshire during a fight at a flat in Gloucester in January 1989. Mr Mills and Mr Poole, both from Gloucester, served the minimum 10-year tariff for their sentences but refused to be released on parole until their case was re-examined. Last year it was referred back to the court of appeal by the criminal cases review commission. At the royal courts of justice in London yesterday, Lord Justice Auld, Mr Justice Keith and Mr Justice Simon said their appeals were being allowed on two grounds: the prosecution withholding evidence that might have undermined the testimony of a witness, and a detective's misleading "hearsay" summary of an account given by another witness, Ian Juke, who did not attend the trial. Mr Mills and Mr Poole now plan to sue Gloucestershire police. "The judgment doesn't go nearly in depth as it should in damning the police," Mr Poole said after yesterday's hearing. "After 14 years, they say a few words and that's it." Mr Mills added: "I would rather the police were prosecuted than us having to sue them. Justice certainly hasn't been done." The men were alleged to have beaten Wiltshire with a crowbar and stabbed him 17 times. Mr Mills said he had acted in self-defence after being repeatedly attacked by Wiltshire, and Mr Poole denied taking part in the fight. At the centre of their battle to clear their names was the role of Detective Inspector Trevor Gladding, one of the police leading the inquiry. He sued the Channel 4 programme Trial and Error after it alleged he had warned Mr Juke, who saw the fight, not to attend a committal hearing. The jury upheld Channel 4's defence of justification. In its judgment yesterday the appeal court said: "DI Gladding incorrectly gave the impression that the prosecution had required [Mr Juke] to attend those proceedings ... This was dishonestly misleading evidence." One of the grounds of appeal was that the close examination in the libel trial of Det Insp Gladding's conduct in relation to Mr Juke "revealed a level of impropriety that tainted the whole police investigation". Gloucestershire police yesterday issued a statement saying it "respects the decision of the court", adding: "We will be examining the judgment in detail before deciding upon any further action ... We are pleased the court found that there was no evidence of systemic corruption or dishonesty."