A self-taught gunsmith who ran an illegal arms factory converting replica sub-machine guns into lethal weapons was sentenced to life imprisonment yesterday, with a minimum term of 11 years.At least eight people, including teenager Michael Dosunmu, were killed by weapons converted by Grant Wilkinson in a shed in Berkshire. Dosunmu was shot by mistake as he slept in his bed in Peckham, south London. Another weapon was used during the robbery in which PC Sharon Beshenivsky was murdered three years ago in Bradford.Passing sentence, Judge Zoe Smith told the 34-year-old: "The scale of this criminal enterprise is unprecedented in this country. The rollcall of deaths and injuries is horrific. Some 30 to 40 of these weapons are still unaccounted for and, regrettably but doubtlessly, the rollcall of death and serious injury will continue to rise."Wilkinson, of no fixed address, was convicted on Wednesday at Reading crown court of buying replica MAC-10 submachine guns and converting them into lethal weapons. Police said his operation was one of the largest they had ever discovered. They believe it produced 90 guns which were responsible for a fifth of shootings in London over two years.Detectives have offered a £10,000 reward for information to help find the weapons still on the streets. Wilkinson, who grew up in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire, was first arrested in his early teens for stealing a £100 pair of trainers from Lillywhites in London, and was in trouble with police regularly thereafter."Grant was expelled from Beaconsfield secondary school in the fourth year, probably age about 15, for persistent disruptive behaviour," a family friend said. "He never went back to school after that. He worked on building sites as a labourer, but became involved in drug dealing, which was what his first prison term was for, as well as more thieving." His convictions date back to 1995.In 1996 he was jailed for four years for inflicting grievous bodily harm with intent. In 2002, he received another three years in prison for possession of drugs with intent to supply.Wilkinson bought the replica guns claiming to be involved in the making of a James Bond film. Weapons and bullets linked to nine murder scenes came from his factory. He paid £500 for the replica MAC-10s, which are made in the UK. After conversion, they were sold for £2,500, including ammunition. It is believed middlemen sold them on to criminal gangs.Wilkinson bought the replicas from Sabre Defence Industries, which had supplied previous Bond movie productions. He converted the submachine guns into lethal weapons in two garden sheds behind a derelict property in Three Mile Cross, near Reading. Police were called in July 2007 after tenants in a nearby house accidentally came across the sheds.Officers discovered expensive industrial equipment used to smelt and cut metals. They also found 27,700 spent cartridges at one shed and another site.Wilkinson was convicted of a series of arms offences, including conspiracy to convert an imitation firearm into a firearm, conspiracy to sell or transfer firearms and ammunition, possession of a firearm with intent to enable another person to endanger life and possessing a prohibited firearm, namely a MAC-10 submachine gun. A second man, Garry Lewis, was cleared of all charges. Denis Burke, of the Crown Prosecution Service's complex case unit, said the racket "met the demand nationally of the criminal fraternity. The firearms have since been used in all of our big cities, especially London".Abdullah al-Yunusi, defending, said in mitigation that his client was "of low intelligence," having not only supplied drugs but used them. He said Wilkinson had no direct connection with the end users of the guns, as a complex supply chain had been involved.