The convoy of vans swung out of Chapeltown police station in Leeds shortly after 8.30am and within minutes Sergeant Mohammed "Mo" Guther's team was using a battering ram on a suspected drug-dealer's front door.Dozy from sleep, the man was led out in handcuffs while one of West Yorkshire police's sniffer spaniels bounded up the garden path in the opposite direction. Six hours later at a debriefing, Detective Chief Inspector Paul Langan listed the "takings" from the morning's work - a curtain raiser for Operation Crackdown which the government launched yesterday. The national drive against crack houses and open street-dealing is modelled on the success of Sergeant Mo and his colleagues in Chapeltown, where one of Britain's biggest open drug markets has been reduced in three months to disarray. "Five wraps of crack cocaine, 41 wraps of amphetamines, £250 cash and three arrests," said Mr Langan. Modest enough, but part of a relentless drive which has won almost universal local support. When the divisional commander, Chief Superintendent Howard Crowther, launched the drive in November, shopkeepers came out on to the streets to applaud as suspects were led away. The inner city area of Leeds, full of handsome old houses and home to a vibrant, mixed community, had been dogged for a decade by its national reputation as a place where you could do a class A drug street deal within minutes without local contacts. "Users just automatically thought, 'I'm off to Chapeltown'," said Mr Crowther, who decided in November that he had enough accurate information and community support to strike. Sixty people were targeted in a day of door-battering raids which netted 103. Crime in the month afterwards fell by nearly half.The force is using a softly-softly alternative to clumsy "van policing", which heightened tensions when false information led to the wrong targets. Outside the warrant raids, surviving street deals are now more likely to be broken up by PC Dave Brook and 11 colleagues on mountain bikes. "It's not just friendlier but more efficient because you can sneak up on them," said Mr Crowther. Initially sceptical, he went out on a bike for an afternoon and ended up making a drug arrest himself. Mr Crowther has a major caveat, however. If others don't now play their part, he said, the crack houses and open dealing will return. "We need the real regeneration and investment which will stop these people coming back."