For years they have brought terror to the streets of Britain, waging war with one another in a series of shootings, stabbings, bombings and brawls which have left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.But now, in a move which has prompted fresh concern from law enforcement sources, some of the UK's most feared criminal gangs have made peace with one another in order to concentrate on the business of making money. Many of the main ethnic gangs operating in the UK are believed to have formed an alliance and to have linked up with gangs of British criminals, to enable them all to work more efficiently while avoiding the attention of police. The new alliance is thought to be an extension of a gang known as the Black Cobras, whose members are mostly of Turkish, Albanian or Russian origin. The Cobras first appeared in Scandinavia and are believed to be spreading fast across the rest of Europe. As recently as last year, senior Scotland Yard officers were warning that many parts of Britain - and London in particular - were on the brink of a drugs war as crime families and ethnic gangs squared up against one another to battle for control of the heroin and cocaine trade. According to the National Criminal Intelligence Service, the gangs opted to work together because it made sound economic sense. 'The gangs have realised that fighting among themselves only draws police attention. What they really want to do is make money, and it makes much more sense for them to work together,' a spokesman told The Observer . 'In the past year or so, ethnicity has been much less of a factor. It used to be that the gangs worked within their own communities but increasingly that is no longer the case. These people will have met one another in prison or through activities connected with the people-smuggling business. They will have looked at the way each is operating, seen their strengths and weaknesses, and decided to find ways of working together.' According to NCIS, the gangs are increasingly sharing the risks of activities such as smuggling drugs across multiple borders, deferring responsibility for particular stages in the process to whichever gang has the greatest experience. This offers substantial benefits to the gangs and creates new challenges for police. In the past, arresting a group of individuals involved in organised crime would lead to the collapse of the entire network. Now, because the gangs are composed of multiple networks, a major strike can often have only a limited effect. Last year officers from the National Crime Squad smashed a drugs ring operating between Turkish gangsters in north London and criminals in Merseyside. Thomas Hudson, 62, from the Kensington area of Liverpool, was tracked making a number of visits to Amsterdam to meet Dutch organised crime figures, believed to be members of the Cobra gang. He later received supplies of heroin from two Turkish men living in Tottenham, north London.A few weeks later, drugs worth more than £2 million were seized when police raided a drugs ring which uncovered an alliance between Turkish heroin suppliers in London and Asian criminals based in the Midlands and the North of England. According to Europol, the pan-European law enforcement agency based in The Hague, the gangs are increasingly keen to work together better, to exploit new criminal opportunities when 10 new countries join the European Union later this year. In 2003 Europol identified 1,000 new organised crime groups, bringing the total number operating inside the EU to 4,000, with an estimated 40,000 members. Among these groups the Albanians - who form a large percentage of the membership of the Black Cobras - are considered to represent the greatest threat. They are heavily involved in drug and people trafficking and, as they consolidate their position, they have gradually taken control of certain criminal markets, notably the vice industry in Britain, while acting in concert with the Turkish heroin trade and acting as intermediaries for Colombian groups engaged in smuggling cocaine. A Europol report says Russian gangs remain among the most powerful and are well entrenched in Finland, Sweden, Denmark and the Baltic states. They specialise in financial crime, money-laundering and targeting fellow nationals in cases of extortion and illegal immigration. In Denmark the Black Cobras have been linked to a number of high-value robberies and are said to have taken over much of the cannabis trade after a series of battles with the Hells Angels and Bandidos biker gangs. Police in Copenhagen are concerned that the Cobras could upset the delicate balance of power that exists between the Angels and the Bandidos, who fought a three-year war in the mid-Nineties which left 12 dead and 70 seriously wounded. The fighting ended in 1997 with the signing of a treaty between the two biker gangs which apportioned control of the drugs trade in each town to one or other gang.