Tom Robinson's Sing If You're Glad to be Gay was in the charts in 1978, by which time Brian Paddick had been at the Metropolitan police for two years. Its lyrics attacked the harsh treatment that gay men received at the hands of the British police, who Robinson famously called "the best in the world". But the song made little impact on a young constable, who was to become the highest ranking openly gay police officer in the UK. At that time he was to all intents and purposes straight, and soon to be married. It was not until Jimmy Somerville sung about a young man having to leave home because he was gay that Paddick found a voice that he could relate to. "As a young police officer, I was able to identify with young people who were unable to be open about their sexuality in the situation they found themselves in," he says. His five-year marriage was "a genuine attempt to do what I, at the time, believed to be the right thing to do," he adds. Twenty years later, Paddick, now a deputy assistant commissioner at the Met, has become patron of Pace, a London-based counselling and information service for young lesbians, gay men and bisexuals that helps its clients deal with some of the issues he has experienced first hand. "This is something that is needed, that I feel strongly about," he says. "Pace supports people who are having problems at home or who are subject to homophobic bullying. I can identify with those sorts of issues, both from a personal and professional role." Perhaps surprisingly for such a high profile gay man, he has not been inundated with requests to support gay and lesbian causes. This is primarily, he thinks, because of the traditionally difficult relationship between what Paddick terms the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual) community and the police, which is perceived as a homophobic institution that enforces anti-gay laws. Last year buggery and gross indecency were finally decriminalised. So what possessed the secretly gay Paddick to join the Met? "I've no idea," he laughs. Then adds: "I have this thing about helping people. It's not altruism. I get a kick out of it." The son of a plastics' salesman and building society secretary from south London, he also wanted a job where you could get by on your merits. So has the Met proved to be a genuine meritocracy? "I've had my concerns from time to time," he says. "To be a deputy assistant commissioner in the Met with my track record of causing my bosses anxiety from time to time with my public statements is proof of the pudding." Those statements include saying on radical website Urban75.com that he found the idea of anarchism attractive. He was at the time in charge of Lambeth. It was the example of a junior officer in Lewisham, south London, when Paddick was an inspector, that made him think seriously about coming out. The young officer had been beaten up by his flatmate - another police officer - after bringing a male friend home, but the fact that he was living as a gay man and being an effective law enforcer led Paddick to leave his wife and start a new chapter in his private life. It was almost a decade later, however, before he was prepared to be open about his sexuality at work. Having achieved his initial career goal of becoming a borough commander, he felt it was time to "make a difference", as he calls it, even if that meant damaging further promotion. "The police service and society had changed out of all proportion since I'd joined 28 years before. A lot of people had made a lot of sacrifices to help me to be comfortably gay and it was time I was at the leading edge helping other people. "I felt it was important that gay and lesbian staff in the Met knew there was someone at a senior level that they could come to." He says he is not qualified to say if it is a good career move now for a low-ranking police officer to be openly gay or lesbian as he didn't come out until he was an inspector. What he says instead is: "Increasing numbers of people in the police service don't have issues with colleagues who are gay." He pauses, then adds: "There are still some." He agrees that the lack of recorded information about the sexual orientation of officers in the Met is hardly encouragement for more gays and lesbians to raise their head above the parapet or to join the force, as it is impossible to know whether they will be discriminated against in terms of salary or promotion. "I don't see how you can have an effective equalities' policy if there is no way of measuring if it's working," says Paddick. "I have seriously thought, though, about leaving the job because sometimes I have been treated inappropriately by line managers," he admits. Sitting in this office at New Scotland Yard, following his promotion earlier this year, it still pains him that he was not reinstated to his dream job, commander of Lambeth. Following an investigation into the false allegations by an ex-partner made in a tabloid newspaper that he had smoked cannabis, he was moved sideways before securing his current desk job. The tabloid story followed Paddick's groundbreaking cannabis pilot that encouraged officers to warn those caught with the drug for personal use, instead of arresting them. His removal from the frontline is a cruel irony, given that Paddick's decision to come out publicly when he got the top job at Lambeth was a damage limitation exercise. The Met press office believed it would prevent the tabloid press sensationalising his sexuality at a time when he was under most pressure. The cannabis initiative, which arguably influenced the government to reclassify the drug, is not Paddick's greatest professional achievement to date. Without a hesitation, he says it is "winning the support of the overwhelming majority of people, and the overwhelming majority of police officers and support staff at Lambeth".  And it is not hard to understand why the handsome commander was so popular with the public he is there to serve. His openness, lack of formality - everyone calls him Brian - and warm, friendly personality and self-deprecating humour make him more approachable than your average senior police officer. His south London accent is testimony to his roots. The legendary candid style is demonstrated by his views on his current position, which he describes as "a bit of a non-job". "There are some good deputy assistant commissioner jobs and some less good ones. Somebody has to have the less good ones and it's my turn at the moment." Asked if he is bored and frustrated, he responds: "To say I'm bored and frustrated is a pretty accurate interpretation." He laughs at the suggestion that he wants to be Met commissioner when Sir John Stevens shortly retires. Both the assistant commissioner and deputy commander posts are the next steps up the promotion ladder. "Maybe it is better not to be at the top of the tree, you a freer to speak out," he says. "There are issues that need to be talked about." Does being the highest ranking openly gay police officer give him more licence to speak his mind? "It is irrelevant to much of what I do," he says rather disingenuously. But it is true that he is concerned with much more than just gay rights. He is passionate about policing and race. On that, and many subjects, you can be sure we have not heard the last from the outspoken law enforcer. The CV Age  46  Status Divorced  Education 1983-1986: first class degree in politics, philosophy and economics, Oxford University; 1991-92: MBA, Warwick Business School; 2000-01: diploma in applied criminology and police studies, Cambridge University.  Career 1976: constable, Metropolitan police; 1980: sergeant; 1983: inspector; 1989: chief inspector; 1996: superintendent; 1997-2000: chief superintendent, Merton borough; 2001-02: commander, Lambeth borough; 2003: responsible for community safety and partnership issues; 2004: deputy assistant commissioner, responsible for territorial policing policy.  Interests Weight training,swimming, socialising and clubbing.