It would be insufferable to take issue with Frances Lawrence's anger and despair about the decision to allow her husband's killer to remain in the United Kingdom, if and when he is released on licence. This is especially the case when, 12 years after the stabbing in north London, Mrs Lawrence's feelings about the killer, Learco Chindamo, are still so manifestly and so understandably intense. Listening to her media interviews this week, the public's heart instinctively goes out to her. How could it possibly be otherwise?Yet it is not insufferable, though it may be unfashionable, to question whether Mrs Lawrence's feelings - and the natural public sympathy for her - should determine the justice that is meted out to her husband's killer. This is especially important given that Chindamo was, at the time of the murder, a young person and thus potentially more ripe for rehabilitation in custody than an adult offender might be. A bereaved victim's feelings are given more respect in court now than in the past, but those feelings still do not normally determine how the justice system operates. There are good, well-established reasons for this, which need to be defended against politicians and tabloid editors who piggy-back on the public mood in high-profile cases such as this one.This is particularly true as the possibility of Chindamo's release on licence draws nearer. This would be true even if English justice existed in complete isolation from the outside world. But it is made all the more necessary because so much of the British press is so hysterically prejudiced against the codes and directives that have emerged from international and EU law. There is a positive obligation to take robust issue with the opportunist illogic of the campaign that is being whipped up by some of Mrs Lawrence's many allies and admirers against the marginal role of the Human Rights Act in this week's tribunal ruling.Chindamo was caught and convicted of the killing of the London headteacher Philip Lawrence when he was 15. Though his father is Italian, Chindamo had lived in the UK since the age of six, spoke (and still speaks) little or no Italian and his family (now separated from his father) live in this country, not Italy. For the past 11 years, ever since his conviction, Chindamo has also perforce lived in this country too. Those personal circumstances would raise a host of important questions for the courts to consider about how Chindamo's release should best be handled, even if his record of behaviour in prison were not a good one.Yet Chindamo's record also appears to be very good. According to yesterday's leaked judgment, he has become genuinely contrite about his crime, has improved himself, has taken three GCSEs, was sufficiently trusted to be moved to an open prison, and responded maturely to tabloid harassment while he was there. All these factors are relevant - not merely in our opinion but under the law - to whether someone in Chindamo's position can be deported after serving his sentence.The leaked tribunal judgment is a reprimand to every politician, lobby group and commentator who took the ruling on Monday as an excuse merely to beat up the Human Rights Act's protection of the right to family life. As the judgment makes clear, the nub of the law is the EU citizens' directive of 2004, which protects citizens' rights - and prisoners are citizens too - within the single market. That directive rightly says that there must be compelling reasons of public security, not just the fact that a person has served a sentence, for deporting someone who is entitled to those protections. As the judgment says, there are no such public policy reasons in Chindamo's case. There is little to object to in the law. The logic of the tribunal's reasoning is also difficult to fault. But the emotions of the current public row allow little room for either logic or law.