Political leaders were given a pointed warning yesterday to choose their words with care when discussing the three Labour MPs charged with criminal offences, amid fears that a series of interventions over the weekend could damage their chances of a fair trial.As the Labour party withdrew the whip from the MPs, the Commons Speaker, John Bercow, raised the prospect of their trial being abandoned after cross-party attacks on attempts to invoke ancient parliamentary privileges.Bercow told MPs: "Once criminal proceedings are active by a charge having been made, cases before the courts shall not be referred to in any motion, debate or question. The house will be aware that charges have been made against three members of the house and that therefore the sub judice rule applies to their cases. The matter is therefore before the courts and the house and members would not wish to interfere with the judicial process, risk affecting the fairness of a criminal trial or, furthermore, prevent such a trial taking place."Bercow also announced that resettlement grants of up to £64,000 to the three MPs, who are all standing down at the election, would be suspended until legal proceedings have concluded. In a letter to Malcolm Jack, the Commons accounting officer, on behalf of the members' estimates committee, Bercow said: "I instruct you to suspend any payments which would otherwise be due … in any case where criminal proceedings are brought in relation to any claim for expenses until the criminal proceedings have been finally disposed of."The Speaker intervened after parliamentary lawyers were alarmed when Alan Johnson, the home secretary, used strong language to dismiss the attempt by the Labour MPs to invoke parliamentary privilege to avoid a criminal trial. Johnson told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show: "They're entitled to a fair trial. I think the public would be aghast if they thought that there was some special little get-out-of-jail card for parliamentarians."Johnson was speaking two days after David Chaytor, Jim Devine and Elliot Morley were charged with offences under the Theft Act. The MPs – plus the former Tory peer Lord Hanningfield, who was also charged – strongly deny the offences.Bercow issued his warning after his lawyers and Keir Starmer, the director of public prosecutions, raised fears about prejudicial comments. "It is fair to say that the lawyers are tearing their hair out in light of Alan Johnson's remarks," one source said. "He is not just a minister of the crown but also home secretary."David Cameron also spoke out about the MPs yesterday, but toned down his remarks. He had been due to say, in a mid-morning speech to the University of East London: "Look how [Gordon Brown] tolerates the disgusting sight of Labour MPs taking parliamentary privilege designed to help MPs fight for their constituents, for truth and justice, and abuse it in order to save their skins and avoid prosecution for fraud and wrongdoing."When he stood up at 11am, Cameron said: "For the last two days we have been saying: it is wrong for Labour MPs trying to use parliamentary privilege to avoid prosecution to keep the Labour whip."Tory sources said that Cameron changed his wording because shortly before his speech the Labour party announced that the whip had been withdrawn from the Labour MPs. The Tory whip was withdrawn from Lord Hanningfield soon after charges were laid against him on Friday.Cameron said: "In a humiliating change they have withdrawn the whip from all three MPs. They're now in a headlong retreat." Labour said that the suspensions came at the soonest possible point after consultations with its national executive committee over the weekend. The three had already been barred from standing as Labour candidates at the next election, are facing up to seven years in prison on theft offences and are now effectively barred from the parliamentary Labour party.The MPs hope to contest the charges of false accounting that involve "dishonestly claiming" mortgages, rent, stationery and cleaning services, and in, some cases, the use of allegedly false invoices. The three have employed Steel and Shamash, the Labour party lawyers, who are to argue that under parliamentary privilege rules, the three should be tried before parliament instead of a criminal court. Yesterday they issued a statement confirming that they are paying their own legal fees.Cameron used his speech to announce that a Conservative government would change the law to ensure that MPs cannot invoke parliamentary privilege to avoid a criminal trial in such cases. But Labour pointed out that Cameron had voted against a proposal last year to remove privilege as a defence to offences in the parliamentary standards bill, designed to avoid a repeat of the expenses scandal.Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, said she was "completely satisfied" that parliamentary privilege did not apply to cases like theft or fraud. "The criminal law applies to MPs just the same as it does to everyone else," she told the Today programme.