The boy looked 14, and was bleeding profusely as he was wheeled rapidly towards the operating room. With nurses and doctors shouting to keep him alive, it was ER for real. He looked up at Linda, the woman surgeon, as she cut open his T-shirt and said: 'I didn't know bullets hurt.'This was not New York or LA, but Portland, Oregon, a bucolic small city not known for gang warfare. Linda had spent three years at a hospital in Liverpool, where the worst she saw was glassing and knifing, even on Saturday nights. On her first weekend in Portland she treated six black teens with gunshot wounds. In America, a child under 16 died of a gunshot every two hours. That was five years ago. Today Britain apes things American yet again: the spread of guns in cities here is becoming all too common. We should have seen it coming. Many of the conditions are the same: US gun violence stemmed from the lethal cocktail of guns and drugs mixed with testosterone, all in ready supply for alienated teens. For black youth in depressed urban areas, the cocktail offers a quick route to excitement, high energy, easy money, status and danger. Guns also give them a powerful way to express their anger. This is Tiny, a 15-year-old gang member in south Boston: Yo check this fuckin' mission, I'm about to start hittin', Niggers better watch their back cause I'm not missin', I'm gonna have your mother singin' a fuckin' slow song, So get fuckin' ready, pack your fuckin' machete 'cause I'm coming up the kerb with the fuckin' heavy gauge (gun); Your ass is on the front page, lyin' next to the sidewalk/your body's outlined with chalk, So you're about to get finished, done in, Niggers better start runnin', Cause I'm gunnin' down/any clown who wants the showdown. That's a demand for attention and respect, both in short supply. These are youths with no hope, no ambition and fragile family ties. Often the gang becomes their family - the only adult male who pays attention to them is a drug dealer. An alarming number of British youths are showing the same signs of hopelessness and disengagement - and attraction to guns. As Linton, an inmate in our recent film Feltham Sings, put it: 'The way people are brought up nowadays, they grow up to be cold-hearted, scaring another person. Your morals, your instincts, your heart might tell you, that's not right, but some people, the way they grow up they become heartless, they become very icy inside.' Without hope or compassion, such youths are a serious danger to themselves and others in their vicinity. Add crack cocaine and you get heightened paranoia, less restraint and even poorer judgment. The Rev Eugene Rivers, whose church was shot up in south Boston and is himself an ex-gang member, blames 'a lack of respect for human life - most especially black life - among young blacks'. The task is to melt that ice in their hearts - no small challenge. But there is hope from the American experience as well. I spent much of the past decade looking at projects that work better than prison to steer young offenders away from guns, crime and drugs. To stop the killing, you first need to take the guns off the street. That's a short-term solution to an immediate danger. Longer sentences for possession deter only if there is a real danger of getting caught. This is unlikely for several reasons. First, fear of reprisals make witnesses unlikely to come forward or appear in court. Witness protection schemes involve a huge sacrifice on the part of witnesses. Even to make an arrest is hard because, like it or not, to many white coppers most youths - especially black and Asian - look alike unless they know them personally. The history of tension between ethnic communities and police does not help to promote trust. Boston dealt with this by creating a special Anti-Gang Task Force that pooled intelligence about gang members, working closely with probation officers. They also engaged with Street Workers, largely ex-gang members who have gone straight and are determined to help others stay alive. Paid for by the Mayor's office, they act as go-betweens between the youths on the street and the criminal justice system. They even go to court on behalf of their charges to assure judges they ensure conditions of curfews and drug rehab are honoured. When police, federal agents and prosecutors all cracked down on Boston gang members, Street Workers carried the message to places others could not reach. The killings stopped. The guns and drugs were coming up from South America along the East Coast, polluting every city along the way - just as they are now from the Balkans, up through Europe to Northern Ireland. To get the guns off the street without endangering witnesses, Reuben Greenberg, police chief of Charlotte, South Carolina, created a Guns Hotline. Anyone who saw a weapon being flashed around a school or club could ring the hotline anonymously. Police response was quick enough to get the weapon - with grounds for arrest and conviction at least for possession. We should try it here. New York City police chief William Bratton brought down the murder rate dramatically with an even more cunning plan: he posted cops at underground stations and caught hundreds dodging fares. This gave an opportunity to search for weapons and catch people wanted for more serious offences. Armed robbers also commit lesser crimes. But putting older brothers behind bars and getting guns off the street produces a truce, not lasting peace. It still leaves the long-term problem that makes guns and crime attractive: the lack of hope for a better future, the feeling of being condemned to live on the outside observing what media and politicians describe as the joys of normal and productive family life. Texas, of all places, views young offenders 'not as bad kids, but as potentially good kids who have done bad things', as Steve, a Fort Worth probation officer, told me. With that view, they have a wide spectrum of largely non-custodial programmes for offenders. The Youth Advocate Program (YAP) hires local people from the same patch as the offenders to supervise them for 30 hours a week - far more than any probation officer could manage. They take youngsters like 13-year-old Daniel, already a gang member convicted of threatening with a deadly weapon. Daniel was on an electronic tag with a home curfew, but his advocate took him to school, to court, to community service, helped him get a job and to enjoy himself safely without fear of being attacked by a rival gang. It's less than a third the cost of prison and three times as effective in stopping re-offending. Now YAP is established in Britain in 11 London boroughs and already showing good results. It is the sort of positive option Lord Woolf is urging on judges to keep the prison population down. Fear is the common denominator to both US and British experience: it drives youngsters to arm themselves, it drives the call for longer sentences, and it keeps us from engaging with aggressive youths whom we exclude from an early age, turning them towards crime, drugs and guns. It's a vicious cycle that can be broken only by dealing with all three challenges at once.  Roger Graef is a criminologist and film producer. His next series Rail Cops starts on BBC1 on 20 January at 10:35pm.