Four animal rights activists were found guilty today of blackmailing companies that supplied Huntingdon Life Sciences.Gerrah Selby, 20, Daniel Wadham, 21, Gavin Medd-Hall, 45, and Heather Nicholson, 41, orchestrated a campaign that ran between 2001 and 2007, Winchester crown court heard.The four, who were leading members of an organisation called Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (Shac), menaced men, women and children in England and Europe. The sole purpose of their organisation was to force HLS, an animal research laboratory founded in 1952, to shut down.The tactics were terrifying and intended to create a climate of fear to force a string of firms to sever their ties with one of the world's largest animal testing laboratories, Michael Bowes QC, prosecuting, told the court.Under the banner of the Animal Liberation Front (Alf), the campaign involved hoax bombs, night visits, nuisance phone calls and letters, criminal damage and threats of violence. One of the features of intimidation included sending used sanitary towels in the post, and managers of some companies targeted were falsely called paedophiles.The Crown Prosecuting Service reviewing lawyer, Alastair Nisbet, said outside court that the defendants were linked to criminal activity targeting companies in Europe and America, and the investigation involved law enforcement agencies and prosecutors in various countries."The victims were just carrying out their normal business but were nonetheless themselves described as criminals and subjected to a prolonged and sustained campaign of threats, intimidation and damage to their property," he said.The senior investigating officer, Detective Chief Inspector Andy Robbins, of Kent police, said the victims had suffered "relentless intimidation". Shac and the Animal Liberation Front were "one and the same" and cash donations were used to fund criminal activity, he said."There's no club and no rules of membership," said Robbins. "The Alf is simply a name given to criminal behaviour."The activists plotted their campaign from their headquarters, a country cottage near Hook in Hampshire, which was bugged by police. From there they used encrypted emails, spreadsheets and coded messages to organise the blackmail of the companies and individuals.The details of companies, including names and addresses of employees, were published on the Shac website. Details were removed when a firm capitulated to the threats and cut all links with HLS.In July 2005, Lancer UK, which supplied decontamination washing machines to HLS, was sent a suspect package, followed by six more. In December, the managing director received two threatening letters demanding that he sever links with HLS.After threatening his family and property with violence, one letter went on: "If you do not see sense you only have yourself to blame when we make you suffer. We are prepared and only have to bide our time. The screams of the animals are in our heads and we will not fail them. You will pay for their agony."Soon after the letters were received, Lancer sent an email to Shac announcing it was ending all dealings with HLS.Daiichi Sankyo, a Japanese pharmaceutical company, suffered four years of blackmail, the court heard. One communique read: "You have a choice. Sever your links or pay. We will not stop fighting. We have no limits."From 6 April 2003, the managing director was targeted. He was one of several victims to receive hoax bombs and to have false rumours that he was a paedophile spread among his neighbours.Nicholson, from Eversley in Hampshire, was a founder member of Shac and managed the campaigns against firms named on the group's website.Medd-Hall, from Croydon in south London, was a computer and research expert high up in Shac who uncovered company links with HLS.Wadham, from Bromley, south-east London, joined Shac in 2005 and regularly attended demonstrations against the firms and HLS.Selby, from Chiswick in west London, was a regular activist at demonstrations in the UK and Europe, including a violent event in Paris.The jury took more than 33 hours to reach its verdicts.Selby, Wadham and Medd-Hall were released on conditional bail, while Nicholson was remanded in custody.A fifth defendant, Trevor Holmes, 51, was cleared. Three other people – Gregg Avery, Natasha Avery and Daniel Amos – pleaded guilty to conspiracy to blackmail. Sentencing will take place on January 19.