An elderly couple died when arsonists set light to a mobility scooter parked in their porch, starting a fire that trapped them in their home, police said.Albert and Kath Adams, both 77, were asleep at their sheltered housing in Rugby, Warwickshire, when the fire took hold early on Saturday. Flames engulfed the house and the couple suffered severe smoke inhalation. Mr Adams died in hospital a few hours later and his wife died on Sunday afternoon.Yesterday a neighbour, Kevin White, 65, described them as a "lovely couple", adding: "It's just so sad, I can't believe it. It's a massive shock."Officers said they thought the people who caused the fire struck again in the early hours of today when a second mobility scooter, parked outside nearby flats, was set on fire.In the second attack two flats were evacuated and no one was injured.It emerged that minutes before she died, Mrs Adams asked if she was going to be near her husband without realising he had died.She told her sister-in-law, Maureen Jones, she would feel safe if she could be by his side in hospital. "After being rescued from the fire, Kath asked me, 'Am I going to the ward to see Jamie?' That was his middle name and her pet name for him. Then she said, 'I will be all right if I can be near him'. Ten minutes later, she sadly died."Yesterday one neighbour told reporters that the couple had previously tackled teenagers in the area who had been playing loud music and threatening elderly residents.One woman, in her 80s, said: "Over the last few weeks it's got really bad. I've been kept up awake at night with the noise. Gangs of them would shout abuse at people and play loud music at all hours. Kath and Albert were not the type of people to stand for it. They tried to tackle the yobs but they just got verbally abused by them."Warwickshire police and Rugby borough council said there was no evidence to link the arson attack to antisocial behaviour in the area.James Essex, the detective chief inspector leading the investigation, said: "No calls have been made to us to report incidents of this nature and no members of the public have come forward to us to confirm this supposed link."A spokesman for Rugby council said the area where the couple lived was not known to have a problem with antisocial behaviour.Steven Shanahan, head of housing, said council officers were working with the police to reassure residents. "Clearly this is a distressing time for them, so patrols by the police and the council's community safety wardens will focus on sheltered housing in the borough, and our wardens are working hard to reassure tenants."