Leeds university was under pressure last night to prevent one of its lecturers attacking the findings of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry at an extreme right conference in the United States.Frank Ellis, a lecturer in the Russian and Slavonic studies department, is due to appear this month at the American Renaissance conference, a biennial event described by anti-fascist campaigners as a "glorified three-day rally" bringing together the scientific racism movement. Previous conferences attracted prominent figures from overt white supremacist organisations, including the Ku Klux Klan and various US neo-nazi groupings. Mr Ellis's speech will attack what he terms the "racial hysteria" in Britain since publication of the Macpherson report on the bungled police inquiry into the black teenager's murder. His involvement, uncovered by the Guardian and the anti-fascist magazine Searchlight, caused astonishment from academics and students at Leeds, who condemned as highly offensive the subject and timing of his speech. Jude Corrigan, communications officer at Leeds student union, said: "The university has to take this matter seriously because the students, especially in the Russian department, will be appalled by these views, particularly considering our diverse student population." Although the conference is unrelated to Mr Ellis's teaching subject, it is being treated as a normal academic event, allowing him to make the trip on work time. In a statement last night the university said: "Although we do not know what Frank Ellis will say at the conference, we have asked him to make clear he is attending in his own right and that his views do not represent those of his colleagues or the university community. "It is custom and practice for academics attending conferences to rearrange their teaching schedule in order that student learning is not disrupted, and we will ensure this happens in this case." The statement added: "While the university has a moral and legal duty to uphold the principles of free speech, it should be pointed out that we are a multicultural organisation with a strong commitment to promoting anti-discriminatory policies to staff and students." Contacted by the Guardian yesterday, Mr Ellis said he did not have time to answer questions about his trip. An insight into the likely tone of his speech can be found in an article published last December in Right Now!, edited by a former National Front member Derek Turner. Under the heading Frank Ellis lashes out at egalitarian extremists, the article attacked what was claimed to be the hypocrisy of equal opportunity theory. Citing the Hollywood film White Men Can't Jump, Mr Ellis mused: "What, I wonder, would be the reaction of the equal opportunity commissars to a film with the title No Black Society has Ever Produced a Written Language or Mathematics?" He continued: "It is considered politically incorrect to say so, but were one to take the 'white' and the 'male' out of science and technology, one would have no science, just witchcraft, third world squalor, misery and mega-incompetence." American Renaissance is one of the most important publications on the American far right, using so-called scientific theories to oppose multiculturalism and justify racial inequality. Established in 1990, its basic premise is that blacks are genetically inferior and therefore incapable of becoming equal citizens. The leading American fascist website, Stormfront, which carries a link to American Renaissance, describes its supporters as "racially-conscious conservatives". Nick Lowles, editor of Searchlight, said: "The fact that Ellis is going during term time to speak on an issue completely unrelated to his post is outrageous. Supporters of American Renaissance like to hide behind a mask of scientific respectability, but they are still racists." Also on the platform at the conference, from March 31 to April 2 in a Sheraton hotel near Washington DC, will be Bruno Gollnisch of Jean Marie Le Pen's Front National and Sam Dickson, who helped organise a 1991 fundraising visit to the US by the British National Party's founder and former leader, John Tyndall.