Kevin Hutchinson-Foster, the man who had been found guilty after a retrial of supplying the firearm found at the scene of Mark Duggan's killing, was sentenced on Tuesday to 11 years' imprisonment. Hutchinson-Foster, who is currently serving a sentence for drug offences, was sentenced to seven years for supplying the gun to Duggan on the day of his death, 4 August 2011; and a further four years for two offences that happened just a week before, on 29 July, where he pleaded guilty to using the same firearm to "pistol whip" a man in a hairdresser's salon in Hackney, east London.Unsurprisingly, the media focused on Hutchinson-Foster's conviction for supplying the gun to Duggan. Publicity over the trial has helped to implant firmly in the public's mind that Duggan was armed and dangerous when shot in Tottenham, north London, by Metropolitan police officers. But some important facts have escaped scrutiny. For we now know that Peter Osadebay, Hutchinson-Foster's pistol-whipping victim, immediately informed Hackney police after he had been assaulted. His allegation was supported by CCTV footage, which clearly shows Hutchinson-Foster with a firearm intimidating and then assaulting Osadebay.I first became aware of this in late 2011 as a member of the community reference group when I met the Independent Police Complaints Commission for an update on its investigation into Duggan's death.It was the IPCC that discovered the forensic evidence that led to Hutchinson-Foster, whose fingerprints were found on the gun, along with Osadebay's DNA.So it is now clear that the police had a golden opportunity to remove an identified gunman and a firearm off of the streets but somehow managed not to do so. And this is all the more shocking because the police have a special unit, Trident, established specifically to deal with gun crime in the black community. Given that Hutchinson-Foster was a black man brandishing a gun in broad daylight in Hackney, a Trident "hotspot" borough with a long history of gun and gang activity, it's remarkable if Osadebay's assault claim was not followed up.In November 2011 the IPCC announced an investigation into two Hackney police officers. Yet the mystery deepens because the results of this investigation have been sitting on a shelf somewhere in the Crown Prosecution Service offices since its conclusion last May. Trident is also the unit that led the operation in which Duggan was shot and killed.If local officers had followed up and arrested Hutchinson-Foster, the gun might never have reached Mark Duggan, if indeed it did; he would still be alive today; and Tottenham, London, and cities across the country would not have exploded in flames that summer. Given the devastating consequences for so many, the IPCC should have made public its report a long time ago. Instead it appears, along with the CPS, to be shielding the police from proper public scrutiny.During the trial and retrial of Hutchinson-Foster we heard much about Mark Duggan yet there was nothing to suggest that the police could have avoided the entire incident. The IPCC says it deliberately held back the report until the conclusion of the Hutchinson-Foster trial, but to achieve true justice you need to look at the entire picture, and examine all relevant events before passing a meaningful judgment. And even now, four weeks after Hutchinson-Foster's conviction, the IPCC say they are "consulting with our community reference group and liaising with the Mark Duggan investigation team" and will give no date for publication of the report.Grieving families who rely on the independence and integrity of the IPCC can have little faith in the organisation as long as things remain as they are. Where is the independence to ensure the integrity of its investigation in all of this? The system, as it stands, is not designed to get at the truth, and cases like this reinforce the views of many, especially those who have long endured a poor relationship with the police, that the system is skewed against them.