One of the three people jailed over the death of Baby P won an appeal against his indefinite sentence today.Jason Owen, 37, was originally given an indeterminate sentence for public protection – with a minimum term of three years – at the Old Bailey in May. Three judges at the court of appeal in London allowed his appeal against the indefinite term of imprisonment, and replaced it with a sentence of six years' imprisonment.Owen, of Bromley, Kent, was jailed along with Baby Peter's mother, Tracey Connelly, 28, of Tottenham, north London, and her boyfriend Steven Barker, 33, for causing or allowing the death of the 17-month-old. Owen was not present in court for today's ruling.Owen – who is Barker's brother but changed his name after the child's death – had been staying at Peter's home with his 15-year-old girlfriend. His QC, Tim Roberts, argued that an indefinite sentence in Owen's case was "wrong in principle" as there was no evidence he posed a significant risk of future serious harm to members of the public.Lord Justice Hughes, quashing the indeterminate sentence, said: "His present offence is deeply unpleasant because a completely innocent child whom he could have protected was not protected by him against harm by others."He displays a willingness to deceive … which is unattractive, but to translate that into a significant risk that he will himself in the future commit offences involving death or serious personal injury to the public is … simply a step too far."Hughes said the important issue was "whether there was a demonstrated risk of future death or serious injury at his hands", which had to be shown to justify an indeterminate sentence.It emerged yesterday that Peter's mother, who was jailed indefinitely with a minimum term of five years, had dropped an appeal against her sentence which had been expected to be heard today along with Owen's.Peter Connelly was found dead in a cot in August 2007. He had more than 50 injuries, including fractured ribs and a broken back, despite being on the at-risk register and receiving 60 visits from social workers, doctors and police over eight months.A sentence of 12 years was imposed on Barker, who was told he had played a major role in Peter's death. He was also jailed for life with a minimum term of 10 years after being convicted of raping a two-year-old girl. His appeal against the rape conviction is due to be heard on 24 November.Barker and Owen were convicted by a jury of causing or allowing the death of a child at a trial last November. Connelly pleaded guilty to the charge. The 289 days Owen spent in custody on remand will count towards his sentence.