The home secretary, Jack Straw, yesterday saw off a high court challenge to his power to set minimum jail terms for murderers serving life.But the judges, who ruled that Mr Straw's powers to set tariffs was not inconsistent with the European convention on human rights, hinted that he might lose on appeal to the House of Lords. Two of the three judges indicated that they would have decided against him had they not been bound by earlier Lords rulings, which cannot be overturned by a lower court. The judges gave permission for the two lifers who brought the test case, Anthony Anderson and John Taylor, to bring an appeal. Lawyers for the pair said they hoped to take the case to the court of appeal next summer and on to the Lords if they lost there. If they succeed it could open the way for Myra Hindley and other murderers given a "whole life" tariff to regain their freedom. Anderson and Taylor had argued that to allow a politician rather than a judge to perform what was in effect a sentencing exercise was incompatible with the convention and in breach of the Human Rights Act. The court rejected the arguments because of earlier judgments from the House of Lords and the European court of human rights, which held that the home secretary's role in fixing tariffs was an administrative rather than a sentencing function. The pair's QC, Edward Fitzgerald, who also acts for Hindley, had applied for a declaration that judges, and not politicians, should set the minimum terms for mandatory lifers. The home secretary has already ceded the power to set tariffs for discretionary lifers - those sentenced to life for crimes other than murder - and for juvenile murderers sentenced to detention at her majesty's pleasure. In Anderson's and Taylor's cases, along with hundreds of others, tariffs recommended by the trial judge and the lord chief justice were increased by the home secretary. Dismissing their application for judicial review, Lord Justice Rose, sitting with Mr Justice Sullivan and Mr Justice Penry-Davey, said: "I conclude that parliament by primary legislation has conferred on the home secretary the power to fix the tariff for mandatory lifers." Lord Justice Rose said the tariff procedure had been approved by the House of Lords and the propriety of the procedures had never been successfully challenged under European or domestic law.