When my sister Julia Pemberton placed her trust in Thames Valley police, her fate was sealed. She told them that her estranged husband Alan had "coldly and chillingly" threatened to kill her and that she emphatically believed he would. This happened after Julia mentioned divorce, following years of abuse, and we repeatedly begged the police for help. But 14 months later, in November 2003, Alan shot his son, Will, and then killed Julia as she was making a desperate 999 call to the police.The story is one of abject system failure. The force had no domestic violence policy, neglected to undertake a risk assessment and ignored repeated and increasingly desperate pleas for help. They made basic policing errors, failed to share information between themselves, failed to supervise, had no procedures to join forces with other agencies and had a feckless firearms policy.The failures continued after the murders. The police withheld vital information from the family before and during the adversarial and ineffective inquest. The entire response was in breach of Article 2 of the European convention on human rights - on the "right to life".After Alan's initial death threats, Julia and I spent a whole weekend begging the police to intervene. The next day, a police officer recorded: "I have not come across such a cruel act ... I have flagged Julia's address ... any incidents to and from the house are to be treated urgently. This does not happen for every person I talk to ... I believe the perceived threat level to Julia has escalated." Several months later, the external locks of Julia's house were glued shut while she was away. The police failed to investigate despite us warning of continuing abuse. Alan Pemberton, the only suspect, was the subject of an injunction with power of arrest. After repeated requests the police promised to interview him. They never did. A few weeks later Alan posted more death threats through her letter box. Julia and I took them to the police, who again did nothing, except lose the evidence in the archives.On the night of the murders, during Julia's desperate, 16-minute 999 call, she was told to "stay hidden", that police officers were on their way "now" and that they were "trying to approach carefully with a loaded gun". But this assurance was not true. Thames Valley police instructed officers not to go to the house but to meet at a rendezvous point well away from it. They would take more than an hour to get to the house and waited a further six hours before entering. Julia should have been told the truth, which would have made fleeing the best option. The police misinformation ensured my sister was ensnared, and so facilitated her death.In March last year our then MP, Julia Drown, and Vera Baird QC MP, helped us win a homicide review of this case. These reviews should be invaluable opportunities to learn lessons and help prevent more of these most preventable murders. But the Home Office has configured what we believe will be a flawed and ineffectual review. The family's role has been relegated to that of spectators, yet we have unique insights into the case history. Reviews that draw upon the broadest input stand the best chance of providing new insights into preventing these deaths. Independent experts give a review actual and perceived credibility, but we have been offered a police officer and a Home Office employee. We also ask why the "would-be" chair of our review met with Thames Valley police before he was appointed.Homicide reviews should include the judiciary. Alan came before a judge several times and despite admitting threatening to kill Julia, she had to beg for an injunction. Coroners should also participate. My family walked out of our inquest after we heard Peter Bedford, the coroner, say "nothing it seems to me from the evidence I have heard could have prevented him doing what he did". That comment puts on notice any number of women and does not align with the law, which allows for a substantial custodial sentence for threats to kill.The state has an obligation to make this review compliant with Article 2 and with the help of Sandra Horley of Refuge and our MP, Anne Snelgrove, we are fighting to ensure it does something to prevent these murders. Our solicitor, John Latham, and barrister, Stephen Field, have secured a judicial review to challenge the Home Office in the high court. We do not accept the narrow, top-down process being imposed. Homicide reviews should have a wide-angle lens.· Visit the domestic violence charity Refuge's website: www.refuge.org.uk  fmullane@hotmail.com