The government's youth crime action plan has been eagerly awaited within youth justice circles, after the newly minted Brown government gave the Department for Children, Schools and Families joint custody of the policy area with the Ministry of Justice. As the new arrangement bedded in, it became apparent that the secretary of state for children, Ed Balls, recognised that any effective approach in tackling youth crime would have to involve more than simply the police, the youth offending teams (YOTs) and other criminal justice agencies.There were rumours of threatened punch-ups with his ministerial partner, Jack Straw, who has been more content of late to characterise children in prison as "not children" but large unpleasant thugs.Ed Balls was right, though. The Howard League for Penal Reform has a legal team which has represented hundreds of troubled children in jail. Our case files tell the stories of neglected and abused children, with chaotic family backgrounds and problems ranging from mental health needs to drug or alcohol addictions. Eventually these children end up committing crimes and are placed in prison, which is the worst place for them. When the time comes for these young people to leave custody, all too often they are treated as homeless adults by their local authorities and placed, with little or no support, in inadequate temporary accommodation such as B&Bs and hostels. It should be no surprise that over three-quarters of children leaving custody are reconvicted within a year of release.Polly Toynbee in yesterday's Guardian was correct to defend the youth crime action plan as promising to be more effective than embracing the exhausted refrain of yet more prison. That is not to deny the plan is also something of a disappointment. Announced last year when the Brown bounce was still in play, it is now published at a time when the government wrestles with gruesome unpopularity and the current panic over knife crime. There are welcome measures and funding for support and prevention (although the £100m made available pales in comparison to the £2bn+ being invested in new 2,500 place Titan jails), but the government has ducked out of more radical reform.There was much talk, for example, of moving the cost of youth custody to the Children's Trusts in a bid to incentivise local authorities to care for their children properly and to intervene to prevent crime. Money for prison would still be there, but it could also be used in other ways to divert children from custody. That particular proposal using the Children's Trusts wasn't particularly well thought out and fell by the wayside. None the less, the concept was essentially sound. Children's services in local authorities are far better placed to make the welfare interventions necessary to stop children ever getting to the stage where they begin criminal activity. All too often, criminal justice agencies are coming in at the wrong end of the problem, once crime has already been committed.When the government of the day opts for short-term measures, others must fill the policy gap. The Howard League has been working with the Local Government Association over the past two years with four pilot projects to explore how local government might work better with children in trouble with the law. Any change must not merely be structural but careful thought and consideration should be given to providing communities, led by local authorities, the means to deliver innovative solutions that prevent crime. Local flexibility and local budgets should be placed in a national framework of excellence, which could be determined by the Youth Justice Board – similar to the role of Nice in the health sector.If youth justice was devolved to local government, we would like to see every local authority set up a Children's Panel that would intervene when a child starts to come to the attention of the police or the YOT. Currently there is a division between children who are seen as needing protection who come under the auspices of children's services and those who commit crimes who come within the ambit of the YOT. This is a false dichotomy. The majority of children who are caught committing crimes are likely to be children in need and children's services should engage with them and their families to provide support. As Ed Balls knows, and even Jack Straw I suspect, that is the only way enduring solutions will be found. Andrew Neilson is assistant director and head of public affairs and policy at the Howard League for Penal ReformEd's note: a faulty link meant that when this article was originally published some of the text was missing. Apologies – this has now been resolved.