An armed police stake-out on a planned bank raid in Hampshire ended yesterday with one of the robbers shot dead at the scene and the other dying in hospital two hours later.The Independent Police Complaints Commission immediately announced it was investigating the shooting outside the HSBC branch in Chandler's Ford, a mainly residential area outside Eastleigh.The raiders' target was a routine security van delivery of cash at about 10am. Some witnesses said the shooting began after one of the robbers put a gun to a security guard's head and demanded money. Others reported seeing a third suspect running away, but police were unable to confirm this.Two guns were recovered from the scene, according to witnesses. The police operation was carried out by the Metropolitan police's Flying Squad and members of the CO19 firearms unit.The bank is in a small shopping precinct. According to some witnesses, up to four armed police rushed into the area after the shots rang out and ordered shocked shop workers to go indoors and lock their premises front and back.The police officers, armed with Glock 17 self-loading pistols and Heckler & Koch MP5 carbines, had been keeping watch in a nearby public toilet.Melanie Chase, who lives above the bank, said: "I was in the bath when I heard someone shouting 'Get down, Get down' and then I heard three shots. I looked out the window and saw blood everywhere on the floor. It was horrible."Sharon Harnett-Eyre, a 26-year-old hairdresser, said she and her staff ran out of the shop when they heard gunfire. "We heard gunshots, we ran out of the shop and then two unmarked police cars went flying down the road and they jumped out of the cars while they were still moving, obviously desperate to get out," she said. "We saw them resuscitate a man and we saw them move the guns and take them out of the way."Lynn Ward, who works at the Alexander Keen estate agent next door to the HSBC branch in Bournemouth Road, said: "I heard a loud bang ring out and initially thought it must be a traffic accident. But when I looked out of the window I saw a security van and two people on the floor with armed police stood over them. It was chaos and there was lots of shouting and screaming. Chandler's Ford is a rural town and you certainly do not expect this kind of thing to happen. We are all very shocked."Jamie Owens, 16, who also lives above the bank, described seeing the two men, one of mixed race and the other white, lying in the road. "Their clothes were stripped off them with tape on their chests as they tried to resuscitate them, but one wasn't moving at all," he said. He said neighbours told him of seeing the robber put a gun to the guard's head.A spokesman for HSBC said no customers or staff were hurt in the incident. He said: "We are obviously very grateful because this violent incident appears to have had the potential to have been much worse."Hampshire police confirmed that no police or bystanders were injured."The object of the operation was to prevent and apprehend those believed to be involved in an attempted armed robbery," the force said.