It's many a year since Unmesh Desai and I sat down for a proper chat. I was 18 then and the cub reporter on his local paper. Good of him to remind me of the long-gone Afro and my bottle-green combat jacket.He was the charismatic firebrand: running campaigns for racial attack victims: denouncing the inactivity of the police and local authorities. Now he is on the council and responsible for the official effort to stop young people in Newham, east London, drifting towards terrorism and extremism. Oh, and he is the election agent of Stephen Timms, the MP who became the first to face an assassination attempt for his endorsement of the war in Iraq. Roshonara Choudhry, the would-be assassin, attended a local school and sixth-form college. She was also his neighbour.You've been busy, I tell him. He says life will get busier yet.The story as you have read it seems straightforward enough. Islamic fanatic seeks to kill "warmonger" MP on behalf, she says, of fellow Muslims. But that isn't the half of it.Yes, Timms voted for the war, but that was seven years ago. He had been the subject of protests then, but all of it tempered by the fact that he was a well-liked MP. He faced protests but he never faced hatred. If anything, his East Ham constituency has more Muslims in it now than it did then. They make up a third of the electorate. And here's the thing. In May the MP who voted for the war in Iraq secured the biggest majority in the country.Choudhry didn't just plunge the knife, she shattered the consensus that existed between the MP and his Muslim constituents. For all the rancour evoked by the war, they had reached an equilibrium. What really worries Desai is that she did it by herself. A young woman with a computer, absorbing the internet provocations of a mad Svengali thousands of miles away. "Save for monitoring her internet usage, how could we have known about her?" he asks. "Is she a one off, or are there other Choudhrys out there radicalising themselves?" Impossible to even guess. Prepare for the worst; hope for the best.