Trials without juries should be considered in criminal cases based on complex scientific evidence, a committee of MPs argues today.The recommendation, by the Commons select committee on science and technology, follows calls last week for judges to sit without juries in complicated fraud cases after a £60m corruption case collapsed. The MPs call for the ban on research into jury deliberations to be lifted to allow research into how juries deal with scientific evidence. The government is already consulting on whether to permit research into how juries reach their decisions. The committee found "widespread acknowledgment" among its witnesses, including police, judges and prosecutors, that an expert's "charisma" can play a significant role in how juries respond to scientific testimony. It says there has been no action to address this problem and criticises the "complacent" attitude of the Crown Prosecution Service. "If key players in the criminal justice system, including the police and experienced expert witnesses, do not have faith in a jury's ability to distinguish between the strength of evidence and the personality of the expert witness presenting it, it is hard to see why anyone else should," say the MPs. The committee cites evidence given by the paediatrician Professor Sir Roy Meadow in the case of Sally Clark, who was convicted of murdering two of her babies but had her conviction quashed on a second appeal. Prof Meadow was not a statistical expert and his evidence that the chance of two cot deaths in a family like the Clarks was 73m to one was incorrect. But the court which heard and dismissed the first appeal refused to hear evidence from two statistical experts on the basis that it was "hardly rocket science". The committee says experts such as Prof Meadow have been vilified, with the result that the courts are finding it hard to find paediatricians to act as expert witnesses. Yet the judges and lawyers who should be alert to prevent miscarriages of justice have largely escaped public criticism. The MPs call for judges and lawyers to be trained in handling scientific evidence, and for a cadre to be developed of those with specialist understanding of forensic evidence. One judge admitted that most senior judges were "innumerate" when it came to DNA evidence. The committee says it is "entirely unsatisfactory" that there is no agreed test or protocol for validating scientific evidence before it is presented in court. It calls for a new Forensic Science Advisory Council, one of whose first tasks would be to develop a "gatekeeping" test for expert evidence. This would be based on the US system, which bans the use of any new scientific technique in court until it has been reviewed and accepted by the scientific community. The report recommends that a scientific review committee be set up within the Criminal Cases Review Commission, which identifies suspected miscarriages of justice to be sent back to the appeal court. It also wants a new Forum for Science and the Law, to allow ongoing scrutiny of expert evidence and to improve communication between scientists and lawyers. The committee's chairman, Ian Gibson, said: "The courts need to get their act together. When scientists have to deal with legal issues they get help from lawyers, but lawyers and judges seem to be happy to handle scientific evidence themselves."