It was a murder rooted in the ancient emotions of lust and greed but solved with 21st-century technology. Months after the killing, during a search of the drains near the scene of the crime, police chanced across the John Lewis kitchen knife used to inflict the single stab wound - 13cm-deep – from which the special constable Nisha Patel-Nasri bled to death.Sifting through CCTV images from a nearby camera, they found a few seconds of film during which a man got out of an Audi A4 and slipped an object into the drain.The Audi was the getaway car and had been recorded on film on the night of the murder, May 11 2006. Phone records – described in court as "ceaseless" - connected the passenger and killer Jason Jones, with Rodger Leslie, a London drug dealer, and Fadi Nasri, Patel-Nasri's husband.The couple had celebrated their third wedding anniversary the night before Patel-Nasri's death. But the Old Bailey jury heard this was just one part of his "double life". When not with Patel-Nasri, a hairdresser, he was engaged in a "passionate" affair with a Lithuanian prostitute.The court heard that Nasri, who ran an escort business before setting up a limousine firm with the help of his wife, began paying for sex with Laura Mockiene and it developed into a relationship three months before his wife's killing.They travelled to Egypt and Lithuania together and visited Ascot and Olympia, but when police asked about photographs showing Mockiene's legs on his mobile phone, Nasri denied knowing who she was. He later admitted lying.He sold the home they shared in Sudbury Avenue, Wembley, for £410,000. When police arrested Nasri in his new flat, Mockiene was living there with him."No sooner was she dead than through a solicitor he was claiming her half of the Rugby Road house [Patel-Nasri's family property and business]. He would soon be able to clear the indebtedness he had crept into," the prosecutor, Michael Worsley QC, told the court.Jurors heard that Nasri was the sole beneficiary of his wife's will and was further motivated by a desire to repay his £100,000 debts by cashing in a £350,000 life insurance policy.On the night of her death, Nasri went out to play snooker with a friend, giving him an alibi.Detective Chief Inspector Nick Scola, who led the investigation, said there was nothing in the early days to suggest that Nasri was anything other than a bereaved husband.The widower took part in a television appeal to find the killer during which he described his wife as having a good heart and calmly declared that "somebody has a guilty conscience".Although Nasri and Patel-Nasri appeared happy and affectionate, she had confided to a friend that she was considering divorcing him, the court heard. She wanted a baby and had stopped using contraception, but he was refusing her advances, claiming to be too tired to have sex.Mockiene was the police's first suspect. She was arrested on September 1 2006 and questioned over the theory that she was "madly in love" with her married lover and wanted his wife out of the way.But she said little to take the investigation forward when interviewed, and she was soon ruled out of the inquiry.Soon after, the murder weapon was found, CCTV images were analysed and the investigation took a different direction."Fadi Nasri did not become a suspect until months after the killing. But when it became apparent [from CCTV footage] that the men who killed Nisha had waited for more than an hour in the area until shortly after Nasri left before going in, and that he had made a phone call to one of them, it was clear that he was complicit in her murder," Scola said after today's verdict.Tony Emmanuel and Leslie were arrested on December 6. Emmanuel told police he had driven Jones to the address as part of a drugs deal. Jones was arrested two days later.Nasri broke down in tears when he was told about the arrests. He was arrested himself, on suspicion of dealing in drugs. But later searches showed no traces of drugs in the house or his vehicles.Scola said: "I thought, if anything, he was going to be a victim in this, at Rodger Leslie's hands. I thought he hadn't told us everything - but he had an alibi."Emmanuel said Jones told him he had been in the house and seen piles of cash in the front room, a fact that hadn't been released to the public. Until then, police believed that the killer had confronted Patel-Nasri outside the house following a disturbance, and that she had brought the knife out and been stabbed with it during a struggle.Now they thought that the killer had come into the property, disturbing the victim who was upstairs, barefoot and in her pyjamas.Meanwhile, Jones had gone into the kitchen at the back of the house, taken the knife, and when she came downstairs chased her to the front door and stabbed her once, fleeing as she screamed for help.The new account tallied with her terrified cry: "He's following me."It also meant the killer would have had to allow himself in, probably with a set of keys that were missing - pointing the finger of suspicion at Nasri.He was finally arrested on suspicion of his wife's murder in February last year, nine months after she was killed.