A grammar school pupil lured into a triad gang with a promise of women, money and parties has been jailed for his part in a murder.Jerome Castrillo dreamed of becoming a gangster despite achieving nine As in his GCSEs and having "the enormous privilege to have a good family".He was studying for A-levels in history, maths and media studies at a leading school in London when he was recruited by a gang.After the Old Bailey trial a senior police officer warned that triad gangs were targeting "bright, intelligent, well brought-up kids with qualifications and a future" at the school gates. On the day of the killing the teenager went with three of the gang members to teach Mick McGrath, 57, a lesson and give him a "punishment beating", the Old Bailey heard. McGrath was so badly attacked with a vase that shards of glass remained embedded in his skull.Castrillo, now 18, was convicted at the Old Bailey of McGrath's manslaughter and given four years' youth detention.Judge Martin Stephens told him: "You were doing well at school, you had the enormous privilege to have a good family, good friends and every prospect of a decent, happy and successful life. You allowed yourself to be seduced into joining a criminal organisation with the prospect of gaining finance from fraud."He said Castrillo had done a "terrible thing" in going along with the others knowing some violence would be used - but was young enough to pick up his life.Drug dealer Ryan Parker-Saunders, 23, of West Norwood, south London, driver Cho Wei Leong, 22, of Haringey, north London, and Yu Xiang Liu, 25, a Soho restaurant manager, were found guilty of murder. They were jailed for life with minimum terms of 16 years. Leong and Liu were recommended for deportation to China after serving their terms.Castrillo, a pupil at Latymer school in Enfield, north London, said he was recruited by boys in the upper sixth form. Within a year he was in the dock accused of killing McGrath, a former drug dealer.McGrath, a former multimillionaire, had fallen on hard times after being jailed for drug importation and becoming hooked on heroin in jail. It was after McGrath was found to be stealing drugs from a triad gang that Castrillo and other triads went in to punish him at his home in Charlton, south London. McGrath was found dead in November last year from head injuries. Castrillo told the court he had been lured into the gang a year ago by the promise of parties with girls and free drinks in Chinatown. He became initiated into the Wo Shing Wo, or SW, triad gang. Crispin Aylett QC, prosecuting, said it was hard to believe that Castrillo had gone off the rails. "He was a 17-year-old living with his parents and two younger brothers and in the sixth form studying for A-levels in maths, history and media studies," he said. Aylett said the accused were traced from DNA on cigarette butts in the flat, where £800 worth of drugs had gone missing. Castrillo had never been in trouble before.His mother worked in a school office and his stepfather in a post office. He said he agreed to join the gang because he thought he would have a good time.