The former police chief Ray "Robocop" Mallon made his long-awaited pitch yesterday for an American-style drive against crime, led from Britain's equivalent of city hall rather than the local police precinct. Promising to cut offences in Middlesbrough by 15% within a year, the town's mayor told a launch ceremony of Teesside businessmen and councillors: "For the first time in this country, the town hall is truly taking charge of affairs." A new "active intelligence mapping" system would create a law enforcement network to tackle the "context of crime" - litter, begging, dog-fouling and graffiti - that fell within the local authority's remit, he said. A force of 90 community wardens, increased dramatically from the current 14, would liaise with Cleveland police. "As a tide of litter, graffiti, yobs and muggers blight Britain's streets and public buildings, we in Middlesbrough say 'We have had enough'," said Mr Mallon, echoing the zero tolerance creed of one of his heroes, the former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani. "Active intelligence mapping will absorb information from over 80 different sources - at a touch of the button it will tell me, the mayor, what is going on in the town." The high profile approach has caused resentment among critics of Mr Mallon, who was disciplined by Cleveland police before his resignation earlier this year. He was cleared of drugs-for-information deals with criminals. He aroused similar antagonism in 1996 when as CID chief in Middlesbrough he promised to cut crime by 20% through zero tolerance, and did, earning a national reputation. Mr Mallon said: "Clean streets send out the message that a community cares about its environment and, by simply putting rubbish in a bin, the general public can take the first steps to saving our society." Middlesbrough's police chief, Superintendent Dave Lumb, welcomed the initiative: "The council recognises that some issues, such as anti-social behaviour, cannot be dealt with by the police alone and require significant investment from the local authority. We look forward to working closely together."