Two 15-year-old brothers admitted to other inmates and prison officers at Feltham young offenders' institution that they had killed Damilola Taylor, the Old Bailey heard today.The brothers burst out laughing after making their admission in February last year, a prison officer, Darren De'ath, told the court.The two, who were on remand for other offences, deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob.Damilola, 10, bled to death after he was stabbed with a broken bottle on a housing estate in Peckham, south London, in November 2000. The brothers, who are now 16, and a 15-year-old youth deny the charges against them.However, Mr De'ath told the court that the brothers had admitted during an induction session with other inmates that they had committed the murder.Mr De'ath said he asked the group if any of them were expecting long sentences. He said: "One of the brothers said 'possibly murder' and then laughed. One of the other boys asked 'Who did you murder?' and the other brother replied 'Damilola Taylor, but we didn't kill him. We just stabbed him in the legs. It was not our fault that he died."' Mr De'ath said he called the session to an end "due to the room getting heated". He was afraid that "an altercation" between the youths, other inmates and a second prison officer would lead to violence. He kept the brothers back and asked them whether they admitted killing Damilola. "Both of them laughed and they said 'Just hypothetically speaking, but we are not telling you any more because you are just interested in the £50,000 reward'," Mr De'ath said.Under cross-examination by the defence counsel, Courtenay Griffiths QC, Mr De'ath said that the boys may have made the claim to "big themselves up", making themselves seem tough to ward off bullying. He said: "My opinion at the time was that to admit you have committed an offence so high profile as this case would provoke bullying rather than stopping bullying."After saying that, what possibly they realised was that they had made a mistake and tried to back-pedal and tried to deny it."Another officer from the young offenders' institution, Gayle Bennett, said she too remembered one of the brothers admitting to the murder."One of the brothers said 'Yeah, we stabbed him'," she said.