English-speaking Greek police will lead a "softly, softly" approach to loutish behaviour by British holidaymakers at the Greek island town of Faliraki next summer, it was announced today.The Rhodes resort is getting its own police station with 20 police officers, most of whom will be English speakers, island authorities said. The Greek police have been taking tips from officers in Blackpool about dealing with late-night revellers.Strict rules will govern large, organised pub crawls, and bar and nightclub rules, including a midnight curfew on music in bars, will be enforced more rigidly. Images of young Britons consuming vast quantities of alcohol and engaging in public sex acts and loutish behaviour in Rhodes dominated the headlines during the summer after the stabbing death of 17-year-old Paddy Doran, from Leicestershire. Matters came to a head when the Greek authorities started to crack down on unruly behaviour. One teenager was jailed for baring her breasts and five holiday reps were arrested for allegedly taking people on unregistered bar crawls. Dozens of others were arrested for being drunk and disorderly and bar crawls were banned in the resort. In London today, John Latrides, mayor of the Kallithea region which includes Faliraki, outlined what he described as a "softly, softly" approach to avoiding a repeat of last summer's events. He said: "We have an obligation to ensure a safe and happy holiday for all of our visitors to Rhodes. These are not draconian measures. There's no question of there being a police crackdown. It's very much a softly, softly approach. We want young visitors to keep coming to Rhodes. We want them to have a great time." But he confirmed that they wanted to encourage responsible behaviour among young tourists - who make up 20% of British visitors to the island - the "vast majority" of whom have always been well behaved. More than 350,000 British visitors come to Rhodes annually, with 80% of them being families or couples. The island's tourism board is planning a promotional campaign targeting its core market but also encouraging visitors to come to the island for its unique history, culture, events, scenery, nature, walking and food and wine. The measures announced today included the following: 路 All police to be briefed to take a friendly, advisory approach 路 A further 10 municipal police officers with no power of arrest will be introduced 路 Organised, ticket-only bar crawls to have a maximum of 50 people and be limited to visiting a maximum of four establishments, one of which must be a restaurant. Groups can only visit establishments that have a signed an agreement with the organiser路 Bar crawl organisers to maintain a list of names and ages of participants, which must be lodged at the police station in Faliraki when the group arrives by coach. Members of the group will be given a set time at which their coach will leave Faliraki and organisers will have to give police the names of anyone missing it.