On Thursday Maxine Carr, the former girlfriend of the Soham murderer Ian Huntley, won an injunction granting her lifetime anonymity. The fact that she needed such an injunction, said theIndependent, was "a sad reflection on the viciousness of certain sections of British society".Ms Carr, whose crime had been to provide a false alibi for Huntley, sought the injunction because she "has good reason to believe that if her whereabouts are published, she will be hunted down by a lynch mob", said the Independent, and "populist newspapers must bear a heavy burden for this" because they turned her into a "national hate figure". "Her crime ultimately made no difference to the deaths of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman," pointed out the London  Evening Standard, which agreed that though the court ruling "will no doubt cause widespread outrage ... it is the right decision". At any rate, it said, she had "paid her own debt to society" and will "lead the rest of her life in the shadow of her wrongdoing". The  Daily Mirror  also felt Ms Carr had served her time and so "should be afforded the same rights and protections as any other member of a civilised society ... Our fairness is what makes us civilised and sets us above those who want to break the laws we set." The  Daily Star agreed she "may indeed need to be given the protection of a false identity". But it was not happy because of the "sinister edge to her personality", it said. "We can't help feeling uncomfortable about giving her the chance to go undercover." The  Daily Express , however, was simply outraged. "Ms Carr does not deserve our sympathy and she certainly does not deserve taxpayer-funded protection ... [Her] fate should now be in her hands, and hers alone. There is nothing stopping her changing her appearance and starting a new life abroad ... Then we could all breathe a sigh of relief." The  Sun  , too, was looking at the costs. The £100,000 of public money spent on the injunction hearing "would have paid for 108 cataract operations, 23 hip replacements, 20 knee operations or 16 heart bypass grafts. Or paid the wages of nine hospital cleaners for a year."