On August 9 1856, a large crowd gathered outside Dorchester prison for the hanging of Martha Brown. Just a month earlier, she had murdered her husband John after a violent row. He had come home drunk and, not for the first time, laid into her, on this occasion with a whip. She retaliated by bashing his head in with an axe.On the gallows she wore a long thin black dress and remained calm, even when the white hood was slipped over her head. Among the watching crowd was 16-year-old Thomas Hardy, who in a letter written 70 years later said he was "ashamed" to have been present, "my only excuse being that I was but a youth, and had to be in town at that time for other reasons ... I remember what a fine figure she showed against the sky as she hung in the misty rain, and how the tight black silk gown set off her shape as she wheeled half-round and back". The experience contributed to the writing of Tess of the D'Urbervilles, which ends with Tess being hanged for stabbing to death the man who ruined her.Because her husband had been violent, Martha Brown received much public sympathy and there was a campaign to have her reprieved. But even in mitigating circumstances, reprieves for murder were rare in those days. Ninety-nine years later, Ruth Ellis wasn't reprieved, and became the last woman in England to be hanged, though the man she shot, David Blakely had punched her in the stomach, causing her to miscarry.How would these women fare under current legislation? Neither would be hanged and both could enter a plea of provocation, not just because of their partners' violence but because they suspected them of infidelity; Ellis might still be found guilty of murder, however, since hers was a premeditated killing, whereas Brown's was an act of passion. Under changes being proposed by the Ministry of Justice, however (the first changes to the homicide law since 1957), Ellis would be the more likely to have her sentence reduced to manslaughter. That's because premeditated killings will no longer be considered murder where committed "in response to words and conduct which caused the defendant to have a justifiable sense of being seriously wronged", as Ellis surely was. Martha Brown would probably come off worse because the suddenness or otherwise of an attack will now be deemed irrelevant and "provocation" will no longer count as a partial defence, least of all where sexual infidelity is the cause. "The days of sexual jealousy as a defence are over," said Vera Baird QC, the solicitor general, when the proposals were unveiled this week.The Daily Mail was suitably outraged ("Go soft on the killer wives: women who kill in cold blood could escape murder") and has been pillorying Harriet Harman. But it's men who commit 86% of domestic murders. And it's right that the provocation pleas they've entered to win lesser sentences - she nagged me to distraction; she was shagging someone else - should be outlawed. Male violence towards women is less tolerated than it used to be (to see a man strike a woman, in some film from the 1960s or 70s, now seems shocking), but misogyny hasn't gone away. The discourse on porn sites, for example, isn't just abusive of women but presents the sexual act in violent terms - as a matter of banging, drilling, ramming, pounding and trashing. With such normalisation of violence, some men all too easily "see a red mist", as Les Humes claimed to in 1992 when he stabbed his wife 15 times in a fit of sexual jealousy; he wasn't convicted of murder. Most lawyers I spoke to agree that temporary loss of self-control should no longer constitute a defence. Still, its removal is quite a challenge to received ideas about culpability, which deem a crime passionel (Othello strangling Desdemona) more forgivable than a premeditated killing (Macbeth bumping off his rivals). "It was not until several weeks after he had decided to murder his wife that Dr Bickleigh took any active steps in the matter" run the opening lines of Francis Iles's classic crime novel Malice Aforethought. To plan ahead, like a Bickleigh or a Crippen, is usually seen as a mark of evil: cold cunning, methodical viciousness, level-headed malignity. But where someone has been the victim of sustained abuse, a decision to kill, followed by a delay in carrying it out, will no longer necessarily earn him or her a murder sentence.Despite her pioneering efforts on behalf of battered wives in the 1970s, Erin Pizzey has denounced the proposed reforms as "an affront to morality" and "downgrading of the abhorrence of murder". If a woman is being beaten up by her partner, she need only call the police or social services, Pizzey says. But such women are often cowed, isolated and too frightened to run away. Fear makes a covert killing (when he's asleep and can't hit back) seem the only option. In the 19th century, the preferred method was to poison your husband's food. That's what Florence Maybrick allegedly did in 1889, in what became known as the "English Dreyfus case". These days arsenic isn't so easily available. Sara Thornton, right, and Emma Humphreys used knives. Kiranjit Ahluwalia poured petrol over her husband's duvet and set it alight. All received murder sentences which were later reduced to manslaughter on appeal. It's cases like these that lie behind the consultation paper and its frankly feminist subtext. The aim is to get rid of patriarchal double standards and avoid what Oscar Wilde, in A Woman of No Importance, called "the ordinary ending. The woman suffers. The man goes free". The lawyers I spoke to, including John Gardner, professor of jurisprudence at Oxford, were broadly in favour. But Gardner also expressed concern at the imposition of transient governmental policy initiatives on the judiciary, and criminal lawyer Anthony Glass felt that judges and juries were applying the existing law perfectly sensibly - "and if it ain't broke, why fix it?" The new law will mean more murder convictions and longer sentences, and, as human rights lawyer Louise Christian points out, that's regrettable. We already have the largest prison population in Europe. And where a man or woman poses no threat to the public, lengthy confinement serves little purpose. We're not just locking up too many people, we're locking them up too early, with children as young as 10 convicted of murder. But raising the age of criminal responsibility is not a vote-winner and the report doesn't propose it. The impulse to be punitive remains.When the death penalty was abolished in 1969, after a campaign to which stories like Martha Brown's and Hardy's Tess lent credence, the quid pro quo was the mandatory life sentence for treason and murder, with judges allowed no discretion in setting tariffs - so that the mercy killer, terrorist, armed robber, jealous wife, child murderer, gangland assassin and traitor be treated the same. As Gardner says, the mandatory life sentence is "of tremendous symbolic importance". But in practice it's a nonsense, and any government worth its salt ought to abolish it. Harriet Harman has been accused of going too far with her murder reforms. On the contrary, she hasn't gone far enough.· Ian Jack is away