A nine-year-old boy has died and his sister is recovering in hospital after they were both stabbed at a house in West Yorkshire.Police were called to the house in the Wibsey area of Bradford at about 7.45pm last night.The boy, named as Jack Taylor, was taken to Bradford Royal infirmary, where he died from his injuries.His sister, 18, was also taken to hospital with a stab wound, but her condition is not life-threatening. It is understood she was injured on her hands and arm as she tried to protect her younger brother. Last night Daniel Taylor, 20, Jack's brother, was charged with Jack's murder and will appear at Bradford magistrates court today.Detectives are appealing for witnesses to the incident.Police said a postmortem examination had shown that the boy died from multiple stab wounds.Five houses between Rookes Avenue and Richardson Avenue were cordoned off and police said neighbourhood officers were in the area.A spokeswoman for Yorkshire Ambulance Service said a call was received at 7.42pm and a rapid response vehicle and ambulance were sent to the address. Trevor Bairstow, whose 10-year-old granddaughter Leah went to Wibsey primary school with Jack, said he was horrified."He was a normal little lad. I used to see him playing out and about. He never bothered us."What can you say? He's a nine-year-old boy who's been stabbed. It's shocking," he said.Dale Webster, 24, who lives across the road from where the stabbing took place, spoke of his shock.He described the victim as a "cute little lad" who came to collect sponsorship money from him a couple of months ago.Webster said: "That was the last time I saw him. He was a cute little lad. He was just a normal kid. I used to see him playing on his bike a lot. He came one day and asked me to sponsor him for school."He said the street was usually quiet and peaceful but he added: "I've seen police go into that house a lot in the past. "Darren Hyland, another neighbour, said his wife saw the boy's sister coming out of the house last night with her arm bandaged up."He was a fantastic little lad, he was so full of energy," said Hyland. "Everyone liked him and he was just a lovely, lovely lad. It is so sad."Police say they are not looking for anyone else in connection with the incident.