An investigation is under way after a police officer was captured on closed-circuit television repeatedly kicking a black man as he was held down on a pavement by other officers.The 20-minute footage appears to show an officer assaulting Delbo King, a former paratrooper, as he was held down in Manchester city centre. A minute after he was handcuffed, an officer is seen to kick Mr King, who is 5ft 10in and heavily built, on at least three occasions. It is particularly embarrass ing for Greater Manchester police because the force was criticised last year in a BBC documentary, The Secret Policeman, which exposed widespread racist attitudes at a police training centre in Cheshire. Six officers from the force later resigned as a result. Greater Manchester police said yesterday that an officer had been suspended from front-line duties pending an investigation into the incident. A file is being prepared for the Crown Prosecution Service. However, a spokeswoman denied there was a racial motive to the incident. Mr King, from Gorton, east Manchester, received bruising to his genitals and a broken tooth when he was arrested after a night out in the city last June. The video footage emerged after his arrest and was shown to Manchester magistrates when Mr King appeared on three minor charges. It shows up to four officers at a time attempting to restrain Mr King while another officer looks on. Mr King says he was sprayed with pepper gas and pulled to the ground. On film, an officer appears to swing his leg and repeatedly kick him as he lies handcuffed on the ground. Later, Mr King claims, he was banged against the door frame of a police van as he was detained. Mr King, 33, who served with the Paratroop regiment for six years until 1995, says he wants all five officers who were present during the incident to be brought to justice. "I am sickened about the whole affair and I intend to seek justice," he said. "I am not some scumbag drug dealer, I have served Queen and country. "I admit I was drunk, but I wasn't violent towards the police and after they cuffed me that should have been the end of the matter. They seemed to enjoy what they were doing and I was kicked several times in the head and face and twice in my testicles. "What would have happened if it was the other way round? How many years would somebody have got for doing that to a police officer? They should be judged under the same laws they are paid to uphold." He claimed the officers acted "like they were judge, jury and executioner". Mr King had been arrested in the early hours after he damaged a bus shelter in Piccadilly, central Manchester, showering two women with glass. On Thursday, he admitted criminal damage, disorderly behaviour and resisting an officer in the execution of his duty. Manchester magistrates court ordered him to pay £100 compensation for damaging a bus shelter and gave him one day's detention. His solicitor, Anthony O'Donnell, told the court: "My client accepts his behaviour was out of order, but he was the victim of gratuitous violence by the police. "After watching the video, you may think he has been punished enough. What happened to him was outrageous." Mr O'Donnell said he has faxed the complaints and discipline division at Greater Manchester police notifying them that criminal proceedings are at an end and that the complaint can now be investigated. Greater Manchester police's deputy chief constable, Alan Green, said he had seen the video footage and was concerned by what he had seen. "There will now be a criminal investigation so that the full evidence can be examined," he said yesterday. The case was referred to the Police Complaints Authority yesterday. "We are now in the process of considering whether we are taking on supervision of the inquiry," said a spokesman. The Commission for Racial Equality said it welcomed the investigation by Greater Manchester police into the incident.