The disgraced former Co-op bank chairman Paul Flowers has been ordered to pay £525 after pleading guilty to possession of cocaine, crystal meth and ketamine.The 63-year-old Methodist minister entered his guilty pleas at Leeds magistrates court on Wednesday.The prosecutor, Claire Stevens, told the court that Flowers, nicknamed the Crystal Methodist, had been secretly filmed handing over £300 in £20 notes in the back of a car in Leeds on 9 November last year.The footage was then handed to the Mail on Sunday and broadcast widely in the media, prompting an investigation by West Yorkshire police, she told the district judge David Kitson.Flowers was arrested on 21 November and straight away admitted to detectives that he was the man in the video, the court heard. "He said he had been a cocaine user for the past 18 months. He attributed the [drug use] to stress and caring for his terminally ill mother," said Stevens.The minister told police he was aware of the effects of cocaine from his time as a trustee of Lifeline, a drugs charity, and used it to "keep himself going", said Stevens.Flowers told officers that a man called Stuart Davies had sold the story to the Mail on Sunday, motivated by "greed", the court heard. Davies was arrested last year, but released without charge.Richard Wright QC, defending, told the judge that the case was exceptional. Flowers was remorseful, he said, and continued to seek professional help for his problems.He asked for his client to be given credit for pleading guilty at the earliest opportunity. He had "no relevant previous convictions" and ought to be treated as a man of good character, said Wright.The barrister said Flowers had "lost so much" as a result of the affair and was not currently working. His only income is a pension of £510 a month, said Wright, though the minister had access to other assets after inheriting his mother's estate following her death in 2012.A man at the back of the courtroom then coughed and shouted: "Liar," before being evicted.The judge sentenced Flowers to a £400 fine – £200 each for two charges of possession of the Class A drugs cocaine and methamphetamine (crystal meth) – but no fine for possession of ketamine, a Class C drug. He was also ordered to pay a £40 victim surcharge and £85 towards prosecution costs, making a total of £525, payable within 28 days.Another man, Gavin Woroniuk, appeared at Leeds magistrates court on Monday charged with four counts of intention to supply drugs to Flowers, and one charge of possessing criminal property, namely £1,000 in cash. He did not indicate a plea and his case has been sent to Leeds crown court, where he will appear on 21 May.After being sentenced, Flowers left court flanked by three minders wearing dark suits and ties. He refused to comment to the media, telling one reporter he had "clearly not been listening in court" after the journalist asked if he felt any remorse. He was then bundled into a waiting car.Flowers was the £132,000-a-year chairman of the "ethical" Co-op bank from 2010 until June last year when he stepped down after the full extent of the bank's financial troubles became apparent.After allegations of his drug use emerged in the media last year, the Co-op confirmed it was seeking to recover contractual payments totalling £31,000 made to Flowers amid reports that he was also the subject of an inquiry into "lavish" expense claims.Text messages obtained by the Mail on Sunday suggested Flowers was buying and taking drugs in the days surrounding his disastrous testimony to the Treasury committee on 6 November, when he was asked by MPs how his bank had managed to lose £700m in six months.One of the messages read "Have 2 bags of Charlie here and have ordered another 5....enough? Px"Another read: "This ket is superb! Hot lots of it too – when do you want some?"The night before he was due to present his crucial testimony to MPs, he texted a friend: "Am in London tomorrow for my appearance before the Treasury Committee and won't be back til after Midnight. Do you like ket?"After his grilling by MPs he headed back to Manchester to "get wasted" with friends.In another text, Flowers boasted how his plans for a party were "turning into a two-day, drug-fuelled gay orgy".Following the exposé, it emerged Flowers had a chequered past, leaving a number of organisations under a cloud. He resigned as a Labour councillor in Bradford in 2011 after "inappropriate but not illegal adult content" was found on his computer, and resigned as a trustee of Lifeline in 2004 after an investigation into his expenses. In 1990, he was convicted of drink-driving. A Methodist church disciplinary hearing was held, but he was allowed to continue his role in the ministry.