There will be murder in the bathroom next week, burglary in the lounge and computer fraud in the office, as Britain's first Cluedo house welcomes forensic science students.Littered with clues and red herrings, the converted terrace house is academia's latest classroom aid for would-be detectives studying for degrees in criminal investigation. Its 16 rooms in central Middlesbrough, previously used as student flats for Teesside University, have been converted into a 3D version of Cluedo, the board game which challenges players to name the killer, murder scene and choice of weapon. "There's not likely to be a blood-stained spanner or revolver lying around, next to Miss Scarlett or Professor Plum," said a spokesman for the university. "But the house offers a realistic set for crime scenes which our lecturers can arrange before inviting student detectives in." Rooms vary from an elderly patient's bedroom in a nursing home to a student bedsit, each with tricky places for finger prints or traces of evidence - such as hairs for DNA sampling - to lie hidden. Different furniture plans are designed to challenge trainee scene-of-crime photographers - one room has too much clutter to stand a camera tripod without risking disturbing evidence. "Crime scene examiners are often among the first to arrive at an incident and they need to know how to handle delicate situations," said Julie Mennell, assistant director of Teesside's school of science and technology which has funded the £26,000 conversion. The house's challenges - such as having to stretch across a bath to take prints from tiles without contaminating evidence in the bath - were much more realistic than dusting a section of tile in a classroom, she said. She and her colleagues will regularly turn upside down rooms selected as break-in or violent crime scenes, as well as enlisting other Teesside students to act as victims, relatives or journalists. The house has also been secured against genuine break-ins, to prevent the wrong sort of student picking up tips about the latest detection methods. Lecturers on the university's BSc courses in forensic investigation have also been issued with classroom equipment such as boxes of broken glass and a variety of stains for the murders which will take place inside.