Five child gang members who killed a pensioner by throwing stones at him while he played cricket with his teenage son were each given two years' youth detention yesterday.The boys, aged 12 to 14, spat and swore at 67-year-old Ernest Norton before throwing sticks and stones at him as he practised bowling with his son James on a tennis court beside Erith leisure centre in south-east London in February last year.Two stones, one the size of half a brick, struck the father of two on the temple and fractured his cheekbone. He then collapsed with a heart attack. The boys, one of whom was just 10 at the time, were convicted at the Old Bailey of manslaughter and violent disorder in August. Yesterday, some of them wept as they were sentenced.Judge Warwick McKinnon said their conduct was "utterly disgraceful and criminally irresponsible". Describing it as a "sorry and tragic case", he said: "This was a vicious, entirely unprovoked and sustained group attack involving a barrage of missiles."The trial heard how, before the attack, they had been smashing windows, confronting another group of children for a fight, and running amok in the leisure centre. "You had each hyped yourselves up by your earlier rowdy mischief and misbehaviour before you attacked the most unfortunate Ernest Norton, who just happened to be there enjoying a quiet Sunday afternoon in the park with his son."A child would realise your actions were dangerous, running the risk that injury would result. I am satisfied that each one of you were aware of that danger. No sentence can restore the human life that has been needlessly and senselessly lost by this display of mindless violence."The five were among about 20 youths who shouted insults at the Nortons as they played. Mr Norton shouted back at the boys, who then attacked him. A witness told the court he heard one of the boys brag: "I think I got him."A victim impact statement from Mr Norton's wife, Linda, said: "James is unable to find the words to describe his feelings and the huge change in his life." Outside court, Detective Inspector Clive Hayes said Mrs Norton "is satisfied that justice has been done".