The annual report from the Serious Organised Crime Agency, published yesterday, is a mix of self-congratulation and spectacular underachievement. While the rhetoric from politicians has been to get tough on organised crime, the reality is more humbling: we still don't have a clear idea of the scale and nature of the problem.This is partly because organised crime is an amorphous concept, an umbrella term for a huge range of activities such as drugs, human trafficking, fraud and sexual exploitation. And while the public may be aware of counterfeiting, especially the links between piracy and organised crime (by watching the trailers at the cinema), counterfeiting is far more widespread than the public thinks, and includes fake parts for aeroplanes and cars.Consider these facts: by the most conservative estimates, money-laundering comprises between 2% and 5% of global gross domestic product (GDP); the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (Unodc) estimates the global narcotics market at $322bn -equivalent to a GDP ranking of roughly 30th in the world, measured against national economies; and it is estimated that 50% of acquisitive crime in the UK - shoplifting, theft, vehicle crime and burglary - is committed by users of the class A drugs cocaine and heroin.Unlike some of the more public threats to the UK, such as terrorism, organised crime poses a real and sustained threat to the social fabric of communities and citizens across the UK, affecting the private sector and corrupting governments and law enforcement agencies worldwide.In the modern era, organised crime frequently uses the "sovereign-free" areas of the international system, where state control is weak or ineffective - such as war zones, cyberspace and private bank accounts - to operate. Organised crime reaches into every community, ruining lives, driving other crime and instilling fear. And, at its worst, it can blight our most vulnerable communities, driving out innocent residents and legitimate businesses.Given the very public nature of the challenge we face from organised crime, the decision by the senior management of Soca to operate under a veil of secrecy since its inception in 2006 has been not only misguided but potentially damaging. The tentacles of organised crime reach into cities, towns and villages across the UK. So managing the threat demands a public response and cannot rely solely on an intelligence-led approach, especially if that means sifting through a mass of old, useless intelligence.Unfortunately, one of the victims of the organisation's secrecy has been Soca itself. There were great expectations when it was launched in a blaze of publicity by Tony Blair two years ago. Recently, however, serious concerns have been raised about the organisation's ability to find and imprison crime lords, and the agency's £440m budget has been frozen. Whitehall departments are too busy concentrating on other issues to collaborate wholeheartedly with it, while the Home Office is focused on countering terrorism, and the MoD on operations abroad.To make matters worse, the Foreign Office has dropped organised crime from its list of priorities altogether. And the security service passed all of its casework to Soca in 2006 and will not pick it up again for the foreseeable future. Soca has become the orphan of Whitehall.Organised crime remains unseen, managed and delivered through networks in the shadow of globalisation. It affects us all. The government's white paper on organised crime (called One Step Ahead) must be updated, expanded and prioritised. The social fabric of society is too weak to allow the threat from organised crime to continue. Soca must come out of the shadows and prove its value.