Primrose Shipman, the widow of serial killer Harold Shipman, will receive a pension and lump sum reported to be more than £100,000 as a result of her husband's apparent suicide, the Department of Health has confirmed.The Times claims today that Shipman may have killed himself to ensure she would get the money, and quotes a probation officer who said Britain's most prolific serial killer had told him that it was a plan he had thought about. The newspaper speculated that the 57-year-old former GP may have taken his own life before he turned 60 to exploit a loophole which means his wife will receive a tax-free lump sum of more than £100,000 and an annual pension of £10,000.If he had lived beyond 60, she would have received only a half-pension of £5,000 a year and no lump sum on his eventual death, according to the newspaper.Shipman would not have received the money had he lived, as he has been stripped of his NHS pension. However, a Department of Health spokeswoman last night confirmed that following his death "Mrs Shipman will be entitled to a lump sum and continuing widow's pension from the NHS pension scheme."Under national health service pension scheme regulations, ministers directed that 100% of Shipman's personal benefits from the NHS pension scheme should be forfeited. However, Mrs Shipman is entitled to the relevant survivor benefits on his death."The spokeswoman would not comment on the details of the pension. The Times claimed that a probation officer had noted last April that Shipman had talked about suicide and referred to his pension but it was felt the strong bond with his wife meant he would not kill himself. He was not on suicide watch and was found hanging in his cell in Wakefield prison on Tuesday morning with a ligature made from bed sheets.Mrs Shipman, 54, visited the centre where her husband's body was being kept yesterday. Some relatives of his victims were said to be upset at hearing that she would be receiving the money. Ann Alexander, the lawyer representing relatives of many of Shipman's victims, said: "The families that I have spoken to are deeply uncomfortable with this. When Shipman was convicted we were told he had forfeited his pension altogether." An independent inquiry into the former GP's death has been launched. Shipman was jailed for life at Preston crown court in January 2000 for murdering 15 patients. Dame Janet Smith reported in 2002 that she believed Shipman had killed 215 patients and there was a "real suspicion" over another 45.