One of the government's newest anti-crime bodies has spent the past year trying to confiscate millions of pounds from a couple in Weybridge, Surrey. Neither is charged with any criminal offence, and neither has yet handed over the money.The Assets Recovery Agency's prolonged pursuit of Susan Szepietowski and her solicitor spouse John has been tracked by the Guardian. We have discovered an extraordinary saga, which explains why the new agency has run into big problems.The ARA, run by a former council chief executive, Jane Earl, claims Mr Szepietowski is a top underworld lawyer, who launders drug cash and uses his wife's name as a front. But the Szepietowskis, who have challenged the ARA every inch of the way, say they are being persecuted. Their friends call Jane Earl the new witch-finder general.Behind the legal battle in a smart Surrey suburb lie some big issues. Ministers have been accused of sweeping aside civil liberties with their much-trumpeted raft of anti-crime measures. These no longer require criminal convictions to seize assets, but only a civil standard of proof "on the balance of probabilities".In practice, the ARA is having difficulty actually seizing what it says is illicit money. Its original financial targets are proving unrealistic. Last year it spent £15m, but only collected £4m. The Szepietowski story explains why.The lifestyle of Mr Szepietowski himself, small, plump and balding, is not on the surface much like that of the seedy gangland "Mr Big" who the then home secretary David Blunkett promised would be the target of the state's new draconian powers.The colonnaded mansion in his wife's name is on St George's Hill, a wooded and security-guarded estate where Cliff Richard bought a £6m home. The area is regarded as among the most desirable and expensive in Britain. It is also footballers' wives territory: the nearby Cobham Hilton, which Mr Szepietowski uses for business meetings, is close to Chelsea's training-ground.The couple's children go to private schools and they have an Aston Martin and a Mercedes 320. One legal client was the Earl of Shannon, one time deputy speaker of the House of Lords and prominent freemason: another was a respectable international development charity, the Commonwealth Human Ecology Council.Tip offLast July the ARA descended on the Szepietowskis with a court order under the Proceeds of Crime Act. Following a tip-off from Surrey police, the ARA raided their mansion, seized computers, froze their property, took away the cars, obtained tax returns, and set accountants to pore through their books.The initial consequences were harsh. Mr Szepietowski has ceased to practice as a solicitor. The couple are unwilling to make public statements while their fight with the ARA continues, but a friend said: "They are not fraudsters or criminals. Yet their lives have been put under a microscope trying to find something. All their credit cards were cancelled. At first they couldn't get funds released to pay school fees or engage lawyers. The ARA was trying to bring them to their knees."Lord Shannon, who used Mr Szepietowski to help him sell off a portfolio of his own lucrative "lord of the manor" titles, said he was stunned by the ARA's move. He had always found the lawyer "very charming".At first the ARA appeared to make great strides. Allegations were detailed that the Surrey couple were using offshore companies to launder $2.4m for a rather more shadowy client, Eddie Soar, a wanted man using an alias, allegedly linked to a heroin trafficker in Turkey.The agency also discovered another UK property client was Gabriel Bivolaru, a Romanian politician since jailed for corruption. Mr Szepietowski also turned out to have been knowingly employing a convicted fraudster in his office to make deals.And the Law Society, it transpired, had fined the solicitor £7,000 in 2003 for allowing another Iranian businessman to use the firm's client account for worldwide cash transfers. They said this could have been used "to give respectability to dubious transactions".Porn magazinesMr Szepietowski was further discovered to be involved in publishing porn magazines such as Penthouse UK, with a former associate of newspaper magnate Richard Desmond. There were complaints from printers that they had problems getting paid. Most dramatically, the agency investigators unearthed a £19m property empire acquired by the couple across Surrey and west London. Their 33 houses and offices were worth at least £4m once the value of mortgages had been deducted. But only £71,000 income had been declared for tax at the time.The ARA obtained temporary freezing orders a year ago, on land, the houses and the bank account of a publishing firm, Q3 Media. But since then its moves have run into the sand. Instead of going on to obtain a successful high court confiscation, there have been delays, growing legal uncertainties, and a rising costs bill.The Szepietowskis say they are innocent, and they were unaware the alleged drug cash came from Turkey. They say their treatment is unjust, and the freeze should be lifted.One problem for the ARA is the laborious machinery devised by the Home Office when first setting up the agency. The ARA was required to hire outside accountants, in this case BDO Stoy Hayward, to act as court-appointed receivers. BDO, which is paid at commercial rates, did not report finally until last month. Its bill is already approaching £1m. Another problem is the clogged up courts. The ARA does not yet have a full hearing date to apply for confiscation of the first £1m of allegedly drug-related money.Fine detailThe Szepietowskis complained to their MP and repeatedly reappear in court. They revoked the power of attorney originally given to the receiver, until a judge ordered its reinstatement. Their lawyers are now bringing lengthy actions. The court was told last week "Mr Szepietowski argues in fine detail on every conceivable matter".An attempt was made to strike out one freeze order, by claiming the ARA had no right to use information gathered on one search to make fresh allegations. Another claim is that alleged tax cheating should not legally count as "unlawful conduct".Mr Szepietowski denies he committed mortgage fraud by misdeclaring his income, and says he has a settlement deal with the Inland Revenue.Finally, the ARA received a setback in another case this year, when it was ruled it could not seize money merely because a suspect's lifestyle apparently exceeded his or her declared income. Observers say the ARA may be forced into making an out of court deal with the Szepietowskis, to recoup its own expenses. This means the full facts would never come out in court.