Your newspaper has reported that the reductions in crime claimed by Bill Bratton have occurred across most of the western world and particularly here in the UK (American stakes his claim for top British police job, 15 August). Crime continues to fall in many US cities – not just Los Angeles – despite significant cuts in police spending. We do not believe we are "parochial" as he describes British police leaders: only in the past year, for instance, my own force has worked with San Francisco, New Orleans and Philadelphia police departments to share ideas. Much of this was funded by the US department of justice, interested in British police leadership development and our success in reducing gang-related shootings, now down to a 20-year low.  Illustration:Gary KempstonIn Manchester, Glasgow and Birmingham there are good examples of police dealing with organised crime groups and street gangs, working with local people, charities and local councils, but without the continuing US problem of the killing of large numbers of young black people and police officers being shot dead. Only last weekend the Moss Side Caribbean carnival in Manchester showed how that area has been transformed in terms of the drop in violence and the much-improved relations between police and local people. This has been brought about by innovative techniques including enforcement and rehabilitation and is a long-term, not knee-jerk, effort.British policing has always been open to new ideas and has had to learn some painful lessons over the past 30 years. But we resent being lectured at and prefer perhaps to work with US police chiefs who are a little more understated in the supposed power of their own personality.Peter FahyChief constable, Greater Manchester police• Since Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan, there has been a baleful tendency for conservative-minded British politicians (of all parties) to look to US conservatism for models of policy, rationale and rhetoric. The most recent example is Mr Cameron's statement asserting that urban violence in England arises from the supposed oppression of local initiative by the "big, bossy bureaucratic state", which has, he argues, "usurped local leadership with its endless Whitehall diktats".The emphasis on local authority challenging the oversight of the national government in the US (states' rights) has its origins in the southern states' resistance to the abolition of slavery after the civil war. It has since been used to bolster racial segregation, the denial of voting rights, the teaching of creationism, the disempowerment of employees, the metastasising of gun ownership and the denial of universal health insurance.It is the size of the US that has further encouraged this centrifugal tendency. The distances from Anchorage to Honolulu, or Seattle to Miami exceed 2,700 miles and cover a population of 309 million, dispersed over some 3,800,000 sq miles. In contrast, Britain's population is 20% and its area 2.5% of that of the US. In 1599, Shakespeare's clown Will Kempe could travel from London to Norwich entirely by Morris Dancing. With a population density 7.6 times that of the US, Britain is, despite differences of region and ethnicity, a far more closely connected nation and should not keep looking towards the ideological lobbyists of Washington for paradigms of national cohesion.Professor Andrew Horn Fellow, WEB Du Bois Institute, Harvard University• Hugh Orde, president of Acpo, is right to make a robust response to the PM's obsession with Bratton. If there is one UK police chief who understands policing public disorder, it's Orde after his time in Northern Ireland. When Bratton went to New York he had the benefit of increased resources. Coming here he would have Cameron's cuts to police numbers to contend with. It is simply insulting to our police for the PM to keep playing Bratton up and our police officers down. The polling evidence of the last week shows a huge majority don't want cuts to police numbers. What's the Cameron response to this? He proposes to waste, at a minimum, £150m on setting up US-style elected police commissioners. This spending is equivalent to the jobs of nearly 4,000 officers.Brian Greenslade Lib Dem, Association of Police Authorities• Britain has fallen prey to a new disease: OMC. To give it its full designation: outbreaks of mindless criminality. This, so we are told, explains why the riots occurred. The only other term allowed into this explanatory fold is that of "gangs". These are apparently on the rise and are responsible for OMC. It's all very convenient. By evoking OMC we are presented with an explanation that can never go beyond itself. Mindlessness, is simply what mindlessness does.Leaving aside the issue of whether gangs are solely to blame (they are not!), by making them responsible for OMC we are presented with a suitable scapegoat upon which social fury can be directed. In the meantime, complex events that have their origin firmly embedded in the fractured margins of our neoliberal order are rendered invisible. We do not see them because they have been translated instead into problems of law and order to which draconian and illiberal "solutions" like "zero-tolerance" inevitably follow. Professor Simon HallsworthLondon Metropolitan University• Is David Cameron's "war on gangs" going to be as successful as the recent triumphs that were the war on terror and the war on drugs? And shouldn't he appoint a gang tsar if he really wants this initiative to be effective?Michael WoodgateTiverton, Devon • If David Cameron is so in love with the American way of life, its policing and its health service (Letters, 15 August), perhaps he should move there instead of trying to inflict it on the British public.Dr John DaviesKirkby in Cleveland, North Yorkshire• It is said that the British police are considering adopting the so-called zero-tolerance policy that American police have found "useful". Though in some ways this is understandable, it would be a great mistake. America, you see, is a dying nation. It is a dysfunctional nation, given over entirely to encouraging the acquisitiveness, greed and self-indulgence which find expression in hyper-consumerism.Gone almost completely is the humanity that once held these forces in check. More and more prisons are being built while the schools that taught humanity are everywhere being closed down or taken over entirely by moneyed interests and their supporting political culture.The British people must rethink things. Do not go down the same road America has gone down. Those who rioted recently must be understood rather than punished. Though certainly some of those rioters were guilty of real crimes, it is important to differentiate between those few and the majority who had real grievances. You must solve your problems with tolerance and humanity not with zero-policy inhumanity. You must pay attention to the great British literary and intellectual heritage and the humanity it has fostered. Do otherwise and Britain will die as America is dying.Donald WoodNeptune, New Jersey, USA 