Police searching for missing chef Claudia Lawrence have warned several of her secret lovers to expect a "knock on the door" if they continue to hamper the investigation into her disappearance.Speaking to the Observer the police chief leading the inquiry strongly condemned a number of men who were refusing to help his inquiry for fear of their extramarital affairs or covert relationships with Claudia being exposed.Detective superintendent Ray Galloway said: "It inhibits the progress of the investigation. We have got to the point where there is definitely frustration in the investigation team as a result of some men who are less than candid when we approach them," he said.Galloway warned that anyone who refused to cooperate with the inquiry for various reasons, including fears of their affairs being exposed, ran the risk of being paid a house visit by detectives."The opportunity for people to meet us halfway is a perishable one and we have got to the point where we will just knock on the doors of people who won't come to us," he said.Galloway also revealed they had identified a mysterious "handful" of men that they urgently wanted to question in relation to her possible murder. Some people who knew Claudia had either vanished or had yet to come forward, he said. Detectives were aware of their nicknames and other personal details and that some might have been secret lovers of the missing 35-year-old.Galloway admitted they had found gaps in the complex "relationship chart" of Claudia who had a number of covert sexual relationships with men, some of whom were married or had girlfriends, before she disappeared on 18 March. "We have a very comprehensive picture of Claudia's life but it's not complete. There are still some we know by nickname or other means who we really need to identify.The missing men are in addition to a list of around 12 secret lovers who police have already identified or questioned.Claudia returned home on Wednesday 18 March after finishing her shift at a canteen in York University. She spoke to her parents in separate phone calls early that evening and received a text on her mobile from a friend in Cyprus shortly after 9pm. She was due to walk to work the next morning, but failed to arrive for her 6am shift. Officers believe the ex-public school girl was murdered, having found "no proof of life" during their seven-month investigation."There are many ways in which we leave a footprint in life now, a phone, a debit card, but yet here there is nothing," said Galloway.Her father Peter Lawrence, a solicitor from Malton in North Yorkshire, still hopes his daughter could be alive. On Friday he held a press conference in Edinburgh, handing out leaflets in the city during his first public appeal for information outside England.Criminal profilers suspect Claudia knew her attacker and remain adamant her personal life holds the clue to her disappearance. Motives including jealousy and revenge over a sexual relationship are among the "multiple" hypothetical theories being examined by detectives.Galloway, though, is unsure whether a possible attack on Claudia was planned or whether her disappearance followed a violent, but spontaneous, row. "It could just be a genuinely innocent liaison or meeting that goes wrong," he said.Since Claudia vanished, police have taken hundreds of witness statements, searched 240 properties, including a number during the last fortnight, and even flown to Cyprus, her favourite holiday destination. North Yorkshire Police have, however, ruled out returning to the Mediterranean island saying they are satisfied Claudia's disappearance is not connected to the destination.Aside from the individuals still to be tracked down, Galloway also admitted that detectives are still unsure whether she even left her home in Heworth, a suburb of York, on the morning she disappeared. Her walk to the university would have followed the "relatively busy" Melrosegate road. A couple seen arguing at 5.30am on her normal route to work have never been identified."My preferred hypothesis is that she probably did leave for work but I don't know whether she came to harm the night before," said Galloway.Detectives piecing together Claudia's life say they are surprised at how relatively "compartmentalised" her lifestyle appears, with her typical week revolving around work, nights at home and two or three nights in her local pub. "There was no Facebook or gym membership or other social elements that other people have," he said.Yet the most challenging facet of the inquiry was, according to Galloway, the absence of a crime scene or body which made the case "incredibly unusual".