Shoppers in Leeds generally warm to Kyle the beggar whose ambushes in Lands Lane would win him a job as a salesman.But his wit and charm haven't a hope against the heroin addiction which lost him his electrician's traineeship, his girlfriend and every go he's had at regular work for the past seven years. Kyle, 29, is typical of scores of street beggars in one of the north's richest cities, who now face £80 fines and compulsory drug treatment in David Blunkett's crackdown on anti-social behaviour. He dismisses the fine: "They've never caught me yet." But the treatment is something he's dreamed about for years. "Drugs took my life away," he says, looking back on the first, thoughtless smokes and pills he took as a teenager in York, too weak to resist pressure from friends. "I want it back. I've got seven GCSEs and I had a lot going for me. But how will they make this treatment work? Because it definitely isn't working now." The gaping hole in detox provision which threatens to undermine the Blunkett plan is highlighted by mates of Kyle who drift up to his patch by the Headrow to see what's going off. Ellen, also 29, and a prostitute for 10 years to pay for heroin, says: "Basically Kyle, you've got to be dying to get it. That's what's just happened to me. Otherwise it's two months for an appointment and three months before they get the treatment underway. What good is that?" Ellen was detoxed in time. "I've been clean for six weeks." But her vulnerable, agitated air underlines the need for long aftercare as well as immediate treatment. Dave Thompson, 40, sells the evening paper in Lands Lane. He got addicted to heroin in Israel, trying to cope with personal problems. He's a qualified engineer who speaks fluent Hebrew, Dutch and French. "I'm not criminally-minded, so I get my money selling these," he says, handing out another paper folded to show the headline £80 Fines for Street Yobs. "But it's getting off drugs that we all want. That's what Mr Blunkett has to tackle. It's just hopeless the time you have to wait." He is trying to raise £2,000 for private detox treatment. The Big Issue in the North spent £100,000 last year on private medicine for addicts. "It's no good talking about sweeping beggars off the streets if you don't consider why they're there in the first place," said Margaret Quinn at the magazine's office in Manchester. "And the government's got to make sure that effective medical treatment is ready for them."