At more than £2,000 a kilogram, caviar is becoming a money-spinner as lucrative as cocaine for the underworld. A recent investigation by the British authorities into caviar smuggled into the UK uncovered an illicit multi-million-pound trade linked to the Russian mafia.For the first time in Britain, Customs officers raided shops to seize illegal caviar. The swoop, on three shops in an exclusive London area, was part of Operation Ribbon, a crackdown on the illegal trade with the National Criminal Intelligence Service.Officers believe the haul from the raids in Kensington High Street was the tip of the iceberg of a trade linked to murder, extortion and corruption carried out by criminal gangs in three continents. It is a business that is driving a rare fish to extinction. Nearly all the world's supply of caviar - eggs taken from female sturgeon - comes from the Caspian Sea. Sturgeon can grow to 15ft long and live up to 25 years but are a highly vulnerable species. A female Beluga, the most highly prized variety of sturgeon, takes 15 to 25 years to mature and produce eggs - about £60,000 worth of caviar. Although sturgeon have survived since the age of the dinosaurs, the demand for their roe has brought the species to the brink of extinction. Stocks have fallen about 90 per cent since the 1970s, with only about 500,000 fish left. The species is now protected under an international treaty that strictly limits the trade in caviar. Yet, since the break-up of the Soviet Union, a once well-regulated trade has spiralled out of control and the Russian mafia, realising the riches to be made by supplying the exotic delicacy to wealthy diners in the West, moved in. For years there has been suspicion that the illegal trade was growing in the UK, but the authorities had little evidence. Most of the international investigation of the activities of the caviar mafia focused on North America. But last year, when the National Wildlife Crime Intelligence Unit was created, it saw the illegal caviar trade and its links to organised crime as one of its priorities.Through Operation Ribbon, officers received information about illegal caviar being sold in stores on Kensington High Street. Customs and Excise officers raided three shops in September, seizing 200 tins of caviar. These were labelled as Iranian Sevruga, Osietra and Beluga, but analysis revealed that it was illegally smugged caviar from Russia. None of the shopowners has been prosecuted, as it is accepted that they purchased the caviar without knowing it was illegally sourced. The manager of Super Bahar, one of the raided shops, told The Observer he bought his caviar from a Russian supplier in London. Over the last five years, customs have made 67 seizures of illegal caviar totalling 1.5 tonnes or £3 million, mainly at airports and other points of entry into the country. Experts estimate £30m of illegal caviar has come into the UK since 1998. The largest haul seized by Customs in the UK was 450kg, worth almost £1m, at Manchester Airport last year. antony.barnett@observer.co.uk