The next stage for many of the families of the victims of the serial killer Harold Shipman will be the inquests on 24 of his patients who died in suspicious circumstances, following on from the 15 he was convicted of murdering a year ago.The inquests will be held at Tameside magistrates court by the South Manchester coroner John Pollard. The first hearing will take place on Tuesday. Since Shipman's conviction Mr Pollard has already held inquests on a further three elderly patients of the former GP The coroner ruled that three patients - Alice Kitchen, Elizabeth Mellor and Sarah Ashworth - had been unlawfully killed by Shipman. Inquests into the deaths of a further 24 patients include the first suspected male victim of the serial killer, Charles Killan, who died aged 90. Yesterday, the coroner said if additional cases were presented to him by concerned families, he would look at all the evidence placed before him before deciding whether to hold an inquest. "I will make a decision about whether there is sufficient evidence to hold an inquest," said Mr Pollard. "If there is a body, then I would consider whether or not to hold an exhumation. If, as is more likely, there has been a cremation, then I would consider submitting evidence before the home secretary asking him to make an order so that an inquest can take place." Emma Smith, a spokeswoman for the solicitors Alexander Harris, who are representing 150 relatives of Shipman's victims, said: "The only proper thing now is for inquests to be held on every single suspected victim - where the family requests it. "The situation cannot be left as it is. Relatives of suspected victims have been left in the dark and they are very upset and very unhappy. These families are heartbroken and need answers." A public inquiry into the activities of Shipman, headed by Dame Janet Smith, a high court judge, will be held next month. It is expected to take at least 18 months and will probably be held at Manchester town hall. Dame Janet, who has wide experience in medical negligence cases, will be asked to find out how the doctor remained undetected for so long. The decision to hold the inquiry in public represented a victory for the relatives of Shipman's victims, who won a judicial review to halt an earlier closed inquiry.