Youths who taunted a suicidal boy seconds before he jumped from the top floor of a Derby car park were partly responsible for his death, a coroner said yesterday.As negotiators tried for two hours to coax 17-year-old Shaun Dykes down from the top of the Westfield shopping centre car park in September last year, youths below shouted taunts, telling him to "get on with it" and "stop wasting taxpayers' money", the inquest heard. Others filmed his ordeal on mobile phones, and later uploaded clips on YouTube and Facebook.Their behaviour was despicable, said the assistant deputy coroner for Derby, Louise Pinder, recording a suicide verdict. "I am quite sure police officers were taken by surprise by the despicable people taunting Shaun," she said. "It's inconceivable that, while negotiators were talking with Shaun, these mindless people were behaving with such insensitivity and without any apparent concern for a human being's safety. "The individuals who were taunting Shaun at that time, whose identities remain unknown, are responsible, at least in part, for his death."The inquest heard that Shaun suffered from depression and had split up with his boyfriend five days before his death. The break-up had left him homeless and he was staying with his grandmother. On the day he died, Shaun, from Kilburn, Derbyshire, was seen in a distressed state. After writing a number of letters, he took the bus to Derby. His mother, Tina, found the letters and rang her son, pleading with him to come home. But she heard nothing until she was contacted by police, informing her that Shaun had killed himself. The court heard that officers spent two hours trying to persuade the teenager to abandon his suicide attempt and were close to succeeding. Moments before he jumped he almost touched an officer's hand but was distracted by the taunts. He then counted down from 10 and hurled himself off the sixth floor of the car park. The inquest had heard that police could not arrest those tormenting Shaun because it would have meant taking officers away from the cordon.