Britain's police forces are among the least effective in the developed world, according to new research which blames the decline on the breakdown of the traditional family and the disappearance of the beat bobby.The United States, France and Germany have all been more successful at combating crime than Britain, says the study carried out by right-wing think tank Civitas. The claims provoked outrage last night among chief constables and criminologists. The report, called Cultures and Crimes: Policing in Four Nations, challenges Home Office claims that crime is at historically low levels by comparing recent police-recorded crime figures with rates of crime before the 1960s. In 1955 fewer than 500,000 crimes were recorded, but by the end of the 1960s the figure had tripled, hitting 2.7 million by the end of the 1970s. Norman Dennis and George Erdos, authors of the study and both psychologists from Newcastle University, argue that current crime-fighting methods in Britain betray the published principles of the 19th-century founder of modern policing Sir Robert Peel, the first of which was 'the prevention of crime and disorder'. This, they say, has been replaced by an emphasis on the detection of crime. Dennis said that the police needed to return to genuine community policing with 'bobbies on the beat' and that recent crime prevention measures such as anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos) were a sideshow. 'Asbos make a small, small dent in the system,' said Dennis. 'The police need to be visible to stop people committing crimes, not driving around in cars. In the 1950s crime wasn't a problem. Unfortunately England slept while crime got out of control.' Dennis added that the public was no longer fooled by Home Office assurances that crime levels are falling. Dennis and Erdos argue that the British police need to adopt zero tolerance policies from American cities such as New York, where crime rates plummeted at the end of the 1990s. Criminologists have criticised the report for failing to take into account the rise in population, improvements in police recording methods and the rise in public reporting of crime. It is also dependent on recorded crime figures, which are generally seen as less reliable than the British Crime Survey, which asks people about their real experience of crime. The BCS has seen a steady drop in burglary and vehicle incidents.Professor Mike Hough, director of Criminal Policy Research at King's College, London, said: 'This is nonsense. Academics mostly agree that crime in the UK rose in the early 1990s, peaked around 1995 and has been falling ever since.' The Association of Chief Police Officers reacted with fury to the report. 'It is disappointing to see the headlines of a report that has used conflicting evidence to draw simplistic conclusions,' said Acpo president Chris Fox. 'While it accepts that police officers now have 20 times the workload that officers previously had and also accepts society has changed dramatically, it reaches a conclusion about the quality of policing that does not reflect the reality of the service's achievements.' A Home Office spokeswoman said: 'Crime has fallen by 30 per cent since 1997. Latest figures show the risk of being a victim is at its lowest since records began and fear of crime is falling.'