The man accused of abducting and murdering five-year-old April Jones has been remanded in custody after a brief court appearance before magistrates.Mark Bridger, 46, is also accused of the unlawful disposal and concealment of her body with intent to pervert the course of justice.  April Jones. Photograph: ReutersBridger cried as he spoke to confirm his name, age and address. He also confirmed he understood the charges. Bridger appeared on the verge of tears throughout the hearing, which lasted around four minutes.His appearance at Aberystwyth magistrates court on Monday morning was the first time he has been seen in public since being arrested on Tuesday last week.He will next appear at Caernarfon crown court on Wednesday.The court clerk read out each charge individually, asking Bridger if he understood.When the murder charge was read out he answered "yes" with a trembling voice and tears in his eyes. He answered "yes" twice more to confirm he had understood each charge.When his name was read out, he said: "That is correct." He answered "correct" to confirm that his date of birth was 6 November 1965, and said the same for his Mount Pleasant farmhouse address at the village of Ceinws.  Bridger appears in court flanked by two officersBridger was brought into court wearing a blue jumper. His faced looked red and flushed and he was unshaven. He gazed down at the floor of the dock, which was enclosed in protective glass. He did not make eye contact with anyone.At the end of the hearing Betty Griffiths, the chairman of magistrates, told Bridger he would be remanded in custody and would next appear at Caernarfon crown court on Wednesday.John Hedgecoe was defending Bridger. Iwan Jenkins, district crown prosecutor, was prosecuting. Neither were called upon to speak during the brief hearing.Also sitting at the rear of the court was Superintendent Ian John, who has led the search for April.  A police officer restrains a man as the van believed to be carrying Bridger leaves court. Photograph: Paul Ellis/AFP/Getty ImagesThere was a huge media presence at the court, close to the marina. As the van carrying Bridger arrived, a few members of the public shouted abuse. One man threw a bottle of energy drink at the vehicle.Outside the modern building, John said the search for April, who went missing last Monday as she played near her home in Machynlleth, mid-Wales, would continue.Extra specialist search police officers were arriving in the town and police were moving their operation from the leisure centre to a nearby hall, partly to give the community some more space.John asked the media to consider if it was time for them to think about withdrawing.  People walk through Machynlleth to honour April Jones. Photograph: PAOn Sunday hundreds of friends and neighbours of April gathered on the estate where she was last seen playing with friends, and walked through the town to a special church service.The bishop of Bangor, Andy John, told the congregation that April was in the "strong arms of God". He said the community faced a journey as it tried to recover from what had happened, but that its people would walk together.John praised the efforts of those who have been looking for April and thanked people from across the world for their messages of support and compassion.Mountain rescue teams have been stood down but the number of specialist police searchers has grown to about 100 officers, who continue to focus on the area around the town and the Dyfi river.A police spokesman said: "We will see a change in resourcing but not in intensity as we move forward with the search. We are maintaining the momentum and we remain totally focused and committed to finding April."