Britain's insulated and ineffective police should be made directly accountable to mayors and council leaders on the model of the US, the Tory thinktank Policy Exchange proposes today.The ideas, including police forces funded from local taxation and new powers to fire chief constables, are likely to be welcomed by the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, if not endorsed in detail. The Tory party has been examining radical ideas to decentralise power from Whitehall and the proposals are the most far-reaching and detailed to emerge from any wing of the Tory party since the second landslide defeat in 2001. Historically, the party of law and order has been loth to criticise the police as opposed to the criminal justice system. But supporters of the proposals claim they would give the Tories clear political space in which to attack what the pamphlet describes as the centralising tendencies of the Home Office under David Blunkett. The party has also been searching for radical ways to revive local government. Polling conducted by Policy Exchange in the summer showed the electorate far more willing to vote if their local council ran key local services including the appointment of the chief constable. The report, from what is seen as the modernising wing of the party, also proposes that chief constables' independence be restricted, arguing that current conventions provide police chiefs with a shield against pressure from local communities and politicians. Local referendums should determine whether the police force is made accountable to a district or county council. In areas where there is a unitary authority, the police should be accountable to the mayor, or leader of the council. In an attempt to make the po lice more responsive to community needs, funding of the police should come from local taxes, and the police budget set by the mayor or council leader. Examining the best US police departments, the report concludes that the localised nature of policing in the US liberates police forces to develop policy as they see fit. The report admits that local control leads to variations in performance: "The best innovate; the worst stagnate". Overall, the report argues, standards rise. The report sharply criticises Mr Blunkett's national policing plan and his police standards unit, arguing they are part of a 40-year centralising tendency in British policing which has left the public more fearful of crime and more convinced that the police are withdrawing from local streets. On the basis of interviews with five police forces, the report finds that the introduction of a swath of new and often perverse performance tar gets for the police has not only undermined operational independence of the police, but also drained police time in form filling. The chief constables, the report finds, deeply resent Mr Blunkett's establishment of the police standards unit since it focuses on the basic command unit rather than the county force, so undermining the line of accountability of the chief constable. Recent legislation shied away from giving greater power to police authorities, on which local councillors sit. But the report describes the police authorities as powerless ciphers and found many police leaders remarkably open to radical solutions such as direct accountability to mayors. The Home Office last night derided some of the report's figures as "nonsense". "There were over 1,600 fewer offences in September 2002 than there had been in April and reductions were achieved in nine out of 10 force areas."