Two upmarket jewellers at the Westfield shopping centre in London have been targeted by smash-and-grab raiders, as the recession and soaring gold prices lead to an increase in attacks on jewellery retailers across Britain.Goods thought to be worth hundreds of thousands of pounds were snatched after a 10-strong gang wearing balaclavas used a sledgehammer to break down a fire door at the west London mall and then broke into branches of De Beers and Tiffany & Co early today morningThe attacks are the latest in a series of raids in the capital with goods worth more than £4m taken. Watches of Switzerland, Cartier, Dolce & Gabbana, Tiffany & Co, Mozafarian and Tateossian stores have all been hit.Across England, the last month has seen armed robberies at two jewellery shops in Bradford, West Yorkshire, one in Dudley, West Midlands, where a shot was fired, and smash-and-grab thefts at high-street retailers in Tilehurst, Berkshire, and Marlow, Buckinghamshire.In the Westfield raid, the first at Europe's largest urban mall since it opened in October 2008, the gang escaped in three stolen vehicles.Incidents of jewellery raids have been rising since 2007, with gangs of thieves often riding stolen mopeds and carrying heavy tools to smash shop fronts.In London, Metropolitan police figures show Westminster, Islington and Camden among the worst hit, with figures for these areas showing smash-and-grab robberies, including on jewellers, rising from 108 in 2006 to 165 in 2008.Robert Read, art and jewellery expert at the insurer Hiscox, said the rise was linked to the recession, and the current very high price of gold, which made the break-up value of stolen items "pretty decent"."Gold and platinum can be melted. Big stones can be recut," he said.High-end jewellery was likely to be exported to the main diamond cutting centres of Antwerp, Mumbai, Tel Aviv, and cities in China, where stones could be cut and cleaned of identifying marks by "a dodgy diamantaire" then re-imported to Britain as "kosher" stones, he said.Smaller items could be laundered through the many shops springing up in the UK's high streets offering to buy gold jewellery."If you're a smash-and-grab raider on the high street and you're taking a small amount, it could be easily done without anyone picking up on it. If you're offered a gold pendant, what are you going to do?" he said.Raids on jewellers "run in cycles", he said. "What happens is you get a spate of them, then you get copycats if it proves to be successful. Coupled with the recession you tend to see a rise."Then jewellers start beefing up their security, put tougher glass in the windows, bollards in front of shops to prevent ram-raiding, and criminals move on to softer targets."Then, about seven or eight years later as the jewellers get more comfortable with their security they again become an easier target. So, it's a continuous battle.""At the moment, jewellers are in vogue again".He said recent high-profile raids should force upmarket shops to rethink their strategy: "I don't think they will be able to continue to display those whopping, very attractive stones in their showcases. I think they will all have to be sold privately from some secure premises, and showrooms will just have to carry lower values. Because there is too much of a temptation at the moment.""So we will see lower value in the showroom, and the bigger items being sold privately from secure non-high street locations. Because if you have controlled entry and exit, and you are on the first floor, it's a much trickier proposition."The trouble is for a jeweller, you want to put your baubles on show because that attracts the customers. They have to get this balance between being conservative, and how dramatically they show their goods."For the lower-end retailer, with much smaller stock, the cost of enhanced security was not always economically viable, he said.Staff at the Westfield shops were yesterday compiling an inventory of what had been taken. A police spokesman said the gang escaped in three stolen cars, one of which was followed by police for a short distance before officers lost sight of it. No one was injured during the raid.François Delage, chief executive of De Beers, said: "This is an unfortunate incident, but is yet another reminder of the timeless allure of diamonds."