The release of Sally Clark, whose convictions for murdering her two baby sons were quashed by the court of appeal on Wednesday, has given hope to other mothers jailed after their babies have died suddenly, it was claimed yesterday.Mrs Clark vowed to fight for others, including Angela Cannings, a prisoner in the same jail. Terry Cannings, whose wife was jailed for life for murder last year after their two babies died suddenly, said Mrs Clark's release yesterday would give them hope. Mr Cannings said: "I was so pleased for Sally and her family and I'm not ashamed to admit I cried as well. "I suppose the truth is that I don't cope, for what is now 37 months I have not enjoyed any of my days. I just get up in the morning and go to bed at night hoping there is a light at the end of the tunnel." Mrs Cannings, 38, from Salisbury, Wilts, was sentenced to life last month at Winchester crown court for the murder of seven-week-old Jason in June 1991 and 18-week-old Matthew in November 1999. She has appealed but is still waiting for a decision as to whether it will be allowed. It is thought the case of Sally Clark will strengthen the Cannings' and others' cases.Mrs Clark, a solicitor, was released from her life sentence after serving three years in jail. The appeal court ruled her convictions for murdering the babies were unsafe. Christopher, 11 weeks old, died in December 1996, and Harry, eight weeks old, died 13 months later, in January 1998. Mike Mackey, Mrs Clark's solicitor, talking on GMTV yesterday, called for an inquiry into the affair. "I think there should be an investigation into exactly what has gone on. "There are obviously questions to be asked." He said Mrs Clark and her husband were probably still coming to terms with the events of the past 24 hours. "She's a very resilient lady. Obviously, she had times when she was down but she got through. I think probably the enormity of what's happened has not quite sunk in. I expect Sally wants to go back to being a mother. "They are a couple obviously devoted to each other."