A timely piece about the murder of Meredith Kercher in the Daily Mail today ahead of tonight's TV documentary on Channel 4. Tom Rawstorne's article not only asks all the right questions. He has picked his way through the so-called clues and has clearly interviewed almost everyone connected to the mystery.By coincidence, the case was the subject of a debate at last week's Perugia journalism festival. Journalists have to wonder whether their faithful reporting of leaks from the Italian police - plus a little speculation of their own - was really justified. Could the allegedly guilty be innocent after all?And why do we now call it a mystery? Surely, from the beginning, this was an open-and-shut case. Meredith's throat had been slit after she had refused to take part in a drug-fuelled sex orgy, had she not? And the culprits were obvious. Within days of her body being found an American student, Amanda Knox, was arrested along with her boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito. Knox reportedly made several confessions to the police in Perugia. One of these - leaked to the press - led to the arrest of a Congolese immigrant Patrick Lumumba. But he was released because he had an alibi and there was no evidence he had been at the blood-spattered house where Meredith's body had been found.Then fingerprints found at the scene suggested that a basketball player from the Ivory Coast, Rudy Hermann Guede, had been at the scene. The 20-year-old was traced to Germany and soon extradited.Newspapers in Britain, the United States and Italy ran loads of detailed material about the case throughout November and December last year. But the case gradually vanished from the media. After an initial statement, Meredith's parents (her father, John, is a journalist) kept silent as they waited for the law to take its course.But it now appears that the cast-iron evidence against the three suspects is anything but conclusive. Aside from Knox's contradictory statements, the police do not seem able to mount a convincing case.According to Rawstorne, Knox's parents "have orchestrated a media offensive [in the US] to swing public opinion back in their daughter's favour" and "have launched a no-holds-barred attack on the Italian police."It's a fascinating case. As Rawstorne concludes: "After all these months and a tortuous trail of accusation, confession and denial, Meredith's parents must wonder if they will ever discover who was to blame for their daughter's death." Indeed.