Location makes all the difference: there are lines in Measure for Measure that have extra resonance when declaimed by convicted inmates within a prison."We must not make a scarecrow of the law... 'tis one thing to be tempted, another thing to fall," says Angelo on sentencing Claudio to death for having sex outside marriage, not realising that he himself is soon to be tempted into making a mockery of his own ruling.Later, as Claudio's sister Isabella pleads with Angelo for his life, she makes the case that, "authority makes mistakes. Go to your heart, knock there, and ask your heart what it does know that's like my brother's fault."We're in the light, airy chapel in Cardiff prison, where inmates are rehearsing intensively for this year's Christmas production. It's the first time most of these men have read a Shakespeare play, let alone acted in one. They've had to deal with the scoffing of other inmates and prison officers when they disappear to attend rehearsals. Then there's the sheer level of persuasion required to get top management to allow prisoners to spend large chunks of time together relatively freely. Prison life runs to a strict timetable, and creativity, of its very essence, doesn't.Helping the cast dig deep to find, and then allow themselves to express, the many emotional shifts contained in the play has been one of the most rewarding aspects of directing this production, says Bridget Keehan, writer in residence."What this process does without them always realising it is extend their ability to empathise and imagine themselves into somebody else's shoes," says Keehan.This is Keehan's fourth production at the prison. She chose Measure for Measure for its themes exploring the difficulties of dispensing justice, the conflicts between state and religious justice, questions around who has the moral right to condemn, and forgiveness.Four prison staff are taking part in the play, including Mike Morris, the good-humoured prison officer who is supervising the rehearsals.George, who's sitting beside him, is the powerhouse behind the prison newspaper and has adapted Measure for Measure for this production. He is passionate about writing and determined that he will make his life in prison a preparation for his future. Getting agreement has involved a lot of blood, sweat and tears for both of them, but Morris knows why he does it. "One word. Community," he says. "A lot of the time these guys get ostracised. And they have to have ways back into a community."Many of the cast are nodding. The young man who plays Angelo is suddenly passionate. "What do we get out of it? Jail is a lonely place, and you always feel like you're being forgotten. It's the chance to entertain people who are coming in. It's exciting, you're learning, and it's something you can be proud of."Mark (the Provost) agrees with him. "I've told my family I'm doing this, and they laughed at me. They think I'm doing it to get something. But it's about building my self-esteem. And they're all coming to see it."Quite apart from what they're learning about acting, Mark says that involvement in the play is helping him learn how to survive the experience of prison, and develop new skills for when he leaves. "When you come into prison you've got to put a kind of front on or people will prey on you," he explains. "Since I've been doing this, whatever people say to me goes over my head. I'm not putting on a front any more, I'm more confident because I'm just who I am, and on the wing, staff and inmates are seeing that."