A racist gang of white teenagers taunted a British Asian taxi driver as they clubbed him to death with fence posts, a court heard today.Mohammed Parvaiz, 41 and a father of three, was caught up in a vicious feud between white and British Asian neighbours in the village of Golcar, near Huddersfield.A jury at Leeds crown court was told that six youths plotted the lethal ambush after a scooter belonging to one of them was damaged when Mr Mohammed dropped off a group of British Asian passengers on a callout to Golcar five weeks earlier.There had previously been violent threats to a local white woman who was forced to leave her house after going out with a British Asian boyfriend. Mr Mohammad's passengers were allegedly involved in trying to get revenge."The attack on Parvaiz Mohammed was not something that happened on the spur of the moment. It was part of a plan," said Adrian Waterman QC, prosecuting.Mr Mohammed's widow, Naheed, sat in tears in the public gallery as the court heard details of the ferocious attack.The six had phoned with a fake pick-up address in a dead-end street where they attacked the Mercedes taxi with bricks, stones and the posts. The teenagers swore repeatedly at their defenceless victim as they broke his skull, and showed no remorse afterwards.Mr Waterman said that they fled when a neighbour shouted that she had called police, but were soon boasting to friends about what they had done. One had said: "I wonder if I have got Paki juice on the bottom of my shoes" and they had shared out £80, a watch and jewellery taken from the dead man's pockets."During and after the attack the defendants displayed racist attitudes. Racist language was used and some very ugly racist language," said Mr Waterman. "Their apparent racism towards the deceased made it easy in the defendants' own minds to do what they did."Christopher Murphy, 18, Michael Hand, 19, Graeme Slavin, 18, and two 17-year-olds and a 16-year-old who cannot be named for legal reasons, deny murdering Mr Mohammed in July this year.Hand, Slavin, and both 17-year-olds admit violent disorder. Murphy and the 16-year-old have pleaded not guilty to violent disorder.Mr Waterman admitted that five weeks earlier, the taxi driver had taken the British Asian men to Golcar, where they had hurled bottles at Murphy's flat before damaging his scooter."Mr Parvaiz had driven them there and driven them away," he said. "But he seems to have been frightened about what was going on and drove away from the trouble. On any view he was acting merely as a taxi driver."The hearing continues.