A 27-year-old man has died after being stabbed during a confrontation with a group of men who were trying to steal his moped. Ricky Hayden, a council worker who also worked as a security guard, was attacked, along with his father, Paul, 46, outside their house in Chadwell Heath, east London, shortly before 1.30am on Tuesday.He died from his wounds in hospital on Wednesday morning. His father, who was also stabbed, remains in hospital but his injuries are not life-threatening, Scotland Yard said. The pair had rushed outside after being woken by a noise and saw up to four men attempting to steal the moped. The group eventually fled without the vehicle. Police are questioning two men who were arrested on suspicion of murder on Wednesday.Neighbour Bella Tasci, 34, said there were cries of “get off him” as Hayden and his father confronted the men, who she saw make their getaway on two motorbikes.Tasci said they were a “lovely” family and that Hayden had built the bike with his younger brother Perry. She said the thieves also slashed the family dog in the attack.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ricky Hayden (left), who also worked as a security guard, at the wedding of footballer Peter Crouch and Abbey Clancy. Photograph: Rui Vieria/PAHayden was a member of the highways maintenance team at Havering council and also worked as a security guard, including at the wedding of footballer Peter Crouch and model Abbey Clancy. He also worked with his father on the security team for ITV’s This Morning and at bars in nightclubs in London.Paul Clarke, who works in ITV’s security team, told the Evening Standard: “I’ve worked with Paul for many years and with Ricky since he started in the security industry.“He was a pleasure to work with and very well respected by the This Morning team. He was also a good laugh and will be sadly missed by many people at ITV.”Tracy Aubrey, 50, who has known Hayden since he was young, described him as “the nicest boy you could ever meet, he was always joking and absolutely lovely”. She said her daughter went to school with him and was “in pieces” at the news. “Nobody would have a bad word to say about him,” she said. Havering council’s chief executive, Andrew Blake-Herbert, said everyone at the local authority was “devastated by the news of this horrendous, senseless crime. “Our condolences and thoughts are with Ricky’s family and friends, our prayers are also with his father who remains in hospital. “Ricky was a well liked team member and of course we will be offering support to his friends and colleagues in the council who will be feeling this loss very deeply.” The Metropolitan police appealed for any witnesses to contact them. DCI Andrew Packer said: “Gibbfield Close is a residential street and while there would not have been many people out and about at the time of this attack, it was a warm night and people would have had their windows open. “I am appealing to anyone who heard, or subsequently saw, anything suspicious to come forward and speak to police.” 