✒At the end of our cruise round the Baltic on the good ship Island Sky, we stopped for 36 hours in Stockholm, a sensationally beautiful city. It's a cliche that Sweden is expensive, but honestly: £44 for a bottle of Jacob's Creek?The main tourist sight in the city is the Vasa, a warship built in 1626-8, and recovered in 1961, hull largely intact, from the sea where it sank. It was a vast floating castle, designed to terrify nations with smaller ships and to assert Swedish power over the whole region.But it sank on its maiden voyage, before it had travelled a single mile. It was appallingly designed, was carrying too little ballast, and the king had insisted on two rows of cannon on each side, so it was hugely top-heavy.A puff of wind sent it keeling over in one direction, and water began to pour in through gun holes. So in a panic they started shifting the cannon to the other side, which simply worsened the problem, and in the end it sank like a lead weight.What a perfect metaphor for the world economic crisis! The egomania, the arrogant belief that defeat and destruction could never happen, the ignorant stupidity of the monarch's demands, and the resulting panic at anything more dangerous than a zephyr! Our economic future is in the hands of the Vasa's builders and crew, know-nothings who think they know it all, masters of the universe who panic as quickly as an old lady seeing a mouse in her skirting board.✒Normally I would have scoffed at David Cameron's notion that the police can hunt down looters using CCTV cameras. But the technology really is advanced these days. Coming home the other day we found ourselves in one of those endless lines waiting for immigration. But a TV screen told us that, as they had little camera logos on the front, we possessed e-passports and could jump the queue.So I stood at the gate, pushed my passport on to the scanner, and waited for a minute or so while brilliant lights shone in my face.And, having satisfied itself that the ugly mug in front of it was the same as the grumpy individual on the passport, the machine let me into the UK. So it can work.✒There is still a rudimentary "peace camp" opposite the Houses of Parliament, in the place where the late Brian Haw lived and fulminated. Now a peace organisation has put up a sign saying: "Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori". Isn't that the exact opposite of the message they are trying to put over?✒On my way across a field in Oxfordshire to celebrate the wedding of my colleague Allegra Stratton to James Forsyth of the Spectator – a very grand and very jolly affair, attended by lots of famous people. Beep beep! It's my mobile phone with a text from Labour MP Steve Pound: "My parents laughed at me when I said I wanted to be a top scientist. But I invented the Cloak of Invisibility. If they could see me now!"✒After a month, we return to your sheaves of wacky labels, plus other interesting things you've spotted. At the height of the phone-hacking row, Mike Bott reread his Shelley and found the poet's definition of the devil: "A bard bartering rhymes for sack, a statesman spinning crimes, a thief who cometh in the night … like a slop-merchant from Wapping."More labels and announcements: Graham Birtwhistle was channel-flipping on satellite TV: "Channel 45 does not exist. Do you want to remove it?" which has a neat, metaphysical ring to it.Ian Sissling bought a pack of Waitrose shrimps, with the inevitable warning, "allergy note – contains crustaceans". Roger Kershaw got a 2.25 litre box of Sainsbury's côtes du rhone that solemnly instructed: "Security protected. Remove all packaging before microwaving."Joan Grant was relieved when she took her M&S muffins home to find they were "ready to eat". And naturally the pack of RSPB birdseed Gabriel Brodestsky bought informed him that it "may contain nuts". What do they expect? A lawyer's letter?"Our client, who suffers from a nut allergy, bought a packet of your birdseed as a cocktail party snack. She was disgusted to discover …"Some are just mystifying. Elsie Galbraith saw something for sale on eBay: "Ladybird poppies. Papaver continuum. 33+ seeds. Used."Many people find instructions far fuller than anyone could possibly need. Such as on the pack of Mysore Sandal soap acquired by Ian Leslie: "Moisten face and body with water. Apply soap, pour water, and wash."Magie Jordan was startled to find on her new Tefal pan: "Do not overheat to avoid fumes that could be dangerous for small animals with particularly sensitive respiratory systems, such as birds." Didn't miners once take canaries down the pit to warn about dangerous fumes? Are these pans as lethal as marsh gas?Linda Moran bought a washing-up bowl at Tesco. "Clean bowl before first use, and regularly thereafter with warm, soapy water. Please retain this information for future reference."But the most bewildering instructions came on a till receipt John Banbury was given when he went to an Aldi supermarket in France. "To preserve the quality of printing, we ask you to keep this out of direct sunlight, away from heat, not under excess pressure and out of contact with chemicals, oils and fats, and also surfaces containing plastifiers. Keep at normal temperature and out of direct lighting."It does sound like the kind of instructions you would need if you happened to acquire, say, a Shakespeare first folio. But on a till receipt?As Mr Banbury wonderingly asks: "Are we supposed to archive Aldi receipts? Will they be valuable one day?"• This article was amended on 17 August 2011. The original said that the Vasa was recently recovered, largely intact, from the sea where it sank. This has been corrected.