In the last letter Jane received from her son, he wrote: "You must understand that one of my beliefs, at a deep level, is that the world is a dangerous and malevolent place - this is common with my illness ... As a result, I do assume that everyone is out to get me, and it does not help when everyone is."By the time Jane read those words, in early July 2004, her only son, Sean, had died a lonely and comfortless death by his own hand in the segregation unit at Strangeways prison.At her house, Jane relates how it was that a brilliant, funny, creative but tortured soul - a diagnosed schizophrenic with a long history of attempted suicides - came to end his own life.On the table is a pile of letters, neatly filed: remarkable, confessional, painstakingly handwritten missives from an imprisoned Sean to his mother and sister, charting moments of humour and resilience, but ultimately his fall into the ether.Sean was a brilliant astrophysicist, working with quantum and chaos theories, and curved space-time - the fields that preoccupied Albert Einstein. And his letters, some of which even try to define his mental illness in terms of his work, constitute an extraordinary testimony of the avoidable self-destruction - and destruction by the prison system - of this difficult but highly intelligent young man.By the age of 20, Sean had a first-class degree in physics from Manchester University, and in 1990 he enrolled for a PhD.Just as Sean's studies approached a crucial stage, says Jane, "it started to go wrong, with alcohol and then cannabis". A "serious depression" followed, and an attempt to set fire to himself.In 1991, Sean was diagnosed as a schizophrenic. He began to hear hallucinatory voices; but, says Jane, "it is a treatable condition. And for 14 years the paperwork existed for the treatment of someone who was ill and who knew he was ill."That treatment was long and sporadic, mostly in Newcastle upon Tyne, where Sean had decided to live. Psychiatrists put him through an assortment of medication - Olanzapine, Clozapine - and social workers a range of half-way programmes.Sean's life was a commute between periods under section and permanent supervision, and "in the community" where, says Jane, "he received very little support. There'd be visits from the community psychiatric nurse or social worker, but otherwise he was left to his own worse devices, and for someone of Sean's intellect, that was never going to work."In 1995, after good progress in Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary, he was released to live alone in a block of flats Jane calls "the sink". She recalls: "It took just 17 days for the drug dealers to spot him, and he was back on drink, cannabis, God knows what, and so ill he had to be locked up again for another 18 months. Some people may be all right living like that, but not Sean - 'community care' failed him utterly. He would turn to drink and drugs as self-medication, which for him were a big black hole."However, Jane says, "he always wanted to finish his PhD". He also painted a great deal. But against this creative urge, a destructive one played: there had been some 35 suicide attempts. "They were cries for help," says Jane. "I don't think he really intended to die."In 2001, Sean found a haven: a rehabilitation centre at Castle Craig in Scotland, where he was treated for 14 months under the supervision of a doctor, Alasdair Young. In a letter of April 3, 2004 - weeks before his suicide - Sean would describe Young as "a man for whom I have mountains of respect". "They were brilliant at Castle Craig," says Jane. "He was a different person there." In a subsequent report, Young wrote that "during the time spent at Castle Craig, when Sean was free from illicit substances and alcohol for a significant period of time, there was no evidence of enduring serious mental illness or abnormality of personality".Back in Newcastle, Sean had met a woman inmate, and in 1995 they married in a psychiatric hospital. Sean later visited her and, a year into their marriage, they had a son. She has now vanished, and the boy is fostered. Sean was also, admits Jane, "obsessed with guns", and in summer 2003 he bought a replica pistol. He called his sister one night, threatening to shoot himself. She immediately called the police in Newcastle who, knowing his history, promptly arrived at Sean's flat, disarmed him and took him to hospital. In October 2003, Sean again called his sister with the same tortured message.But this was from Manchester - where Sean was not known to the police - and they reacted very differently. Caroline told the police very clearly that her brother "had a 10-year record of mental illness", and secured their word when she asked "if they would please call back to let us know the outcome".For three days, that word never came. Inquiries by Jane and her daughter - to the police and to hospitals in Manchester - met with silence. Sean had disappeared.What had happened, it seems, was a scuffle with the police, during which Sean discharged his air pistol. He was arrested, charged under section 17 (2) of the Firearms Act, and assigned a duty solicitor, who advised him to plead guilty. Sean was remanded in Strangeways prison - the place where he would spend the little that was left of his life. "It was as though he was already a criminal," says Jane. "He just didn't fit in that place and should never have been put there - not before he was sentenced or after. All the signs were there: attempted suicide, years of depression and mental illness. Middle-class, clever - he stuck out like a sore thumb. He simply couldn't cope, and they should have known he wouldn't cope. That's why I say the system killed him."Sean died a lonely death in Strangeways, yet in the landscape of Britain's prison system he is by no means alone. Suicide by mentally ill people in prison has increased dramatically in the past decade, from an average of 75 to about 95 suicides a year. A national study by the Prison Reform Trust (PRT) published last year showed that 72% of those who commit suicide in prison have a history of mental disorder. It found that 28% of men in prison with evidence of psychosis spend more than 23 hours a day in their cells - more than twice the proportion of those inmates without mental health problems. "Prison regimes," says the report,"do little to address the mental health needs of prisoners."Juliet Lyon, director of the PRT, says: "Most of those who self-harm and take their own lives in prison simply should not be there. There are even people in prison for trying to take their own lives - usually by setting fire to themselves."In 2005, the European Joint Committee on Human Rights concluded that "detentions of already very vulnerable people confront an ill-resourced and overcrowded prison service with a formidable task in ensuring prisoners' safety. Ensuring prisoners' safety is a fundamental responsibility of the state ... It is difficult to see how this is being upheld when the state continues the bad practice of sending such vulnerable people to prison for minor offences." The committee condemned a "grave failure by the state to fulfil its positive obligations under the European convention on human rights".According to the PRT, research has identified links between mental distress, the prison setting and suicide. Lyon says: "Sean was schizophrenic, and if you put someone who is that ill into prison - let alone into a segregation unit - you put them into the starkest place, where psychiatric staffing levels are nothing compared to the health service, and where prison officers on comparatively low pay have no training in looking after people like Sean."Although segregation accounts for a tiny proportion of the prison population, a high ratio of suicides are committed there; 10 out of the 72 suicides last year were committed "on seg"."Most people who are mentally ill are far more dangerous to themselves than to anyone else," Lyon adds. "Segregation is an institutional failure to realise who people like Sean are. If you had to devise an environment designed to make someone mentally ill go over the edge, this would be it. It fuels paranoia, it is a place of accumulated distress and [there is] plenty of time to contemplate your own distress."From Strangeways, Sean despatched letters to his mother and sister. In his first, he recalls: "I pointed the gun and was promptly removed ... I am covered in bruises. Prison is noisy and frightening."No sharp edgesA third letter, dated November 16 2003, informs that "the prison psychiatrist has put me on a self-harm watch", and by November 19, inexplicably, "owing to a setback I had yesterday, I am in a cell of my own with no sharp edges". On November 26, Sean says: "I don't much like the psychiatrist here because he ignores my claim that I could not cope on a main wing."On December 4, he writes: "The first rule of jail is, don't trust anyone. I hope this place doesn't mark me for life. The majority of inmates here are either schizophrenic or busy pretending to be schizophrenic ... I am only buying into the regime here because my self-worth is so low that I feel I deserve to be punished." He says of his son: "I wish [he] was a bit older so I could tell him I'm in jail instead of hiding away."On Christmas Day, Jane recalls, Sean telephoned home to joke, characteristically: "Don't worry mum, I've got a Christmas pudding with a file in it!" But suddenly, to his sister, Sean writes on Boxing Day from the segregation unit: "As you can tell by the slightly modified address, I have some bad news." He had got "irritable and angry" on Christmas Day and "submitted a letter threatening to kill the governor of Strangeways". Accordingly, "I was moved down the block, ie, taken into segregation ... I am also in solitary confinement, and the blankets have holes in them." On January 7, Sean appears in court; his case is adjourned pending psychiatric reports. Next day, he is back on A-wing, telling his sister: "What you see is a man with little hope of making the best of legalised torture."On January 21, he ponders: "Why do they tell kids there are no monsters? They keep loads of them on K-wing, and D-wing is even worse . . . This is a fallen world. Prison, an atmosphere of fear and hate bathed in 24-hour electric light, is the closest thing on Earth to Hades itself. However, again, there are little touches of joy and truth ... my Father in heaven takes care of me." On January 28, Sean says: "I am classified as 'violent and vulnerable', even though I am neither violent nor treated as a vulnerable prisoner."Relations with other prisoners are difficult and dangerous. Sean borrows money for cigarettes and "if I do not repay what I have borrowed I am liable to be victimised and/or assaulted". He has, he says, "a reputation on the wing because of my mental illness".Throughout her son's time in Strangeways, Jane made trips to Manchester to see him. "We would usually laugh all through my visits," she recalls. "He would take off all the other prisoners, and mimic the wardens." But on March 6, Sean resolves: "I am prepared to do virtually anything to get out of this hell hole."After a second court hearing, on March 26, is adjourned pending further reports, Jane approaches the PRT and considers appointing a lawyer with experience of mental illness. "I started writing letters, like mad, to everyone," she says.In early April, Sean, apparently on his own, is still trying to procure his records from inside prison. "Newcastle are barely willing to acknowledge my existence and Manchester do not know me," he writes. He is "particularly hurt" by a named social worker's "failure to reply to my letters". But it is clear what Sean wanted: to return to Castle Craig. He even offers his remaining £1,000 to start treatment there. His solicitor procures a report from Young, which would later be presented to court. But a further hearing on April 16 adjourns the case again, pending yet more reports.For a week at the end of April, Jane recalls, Sean was transferred to a psychiatric ward in Wythenshawe hospital. Jane remembers it as "absolutely dreadful. They gave him a very high level of medication in order to control him. He was supposed to stay there a month, but he was so badly behaved they sent him back to prison."It was over this period of time that Sean writes his most extraordinary document. It comprises some 64 handwritten pages, and is a remarkable attempt to define the immateriality of his own sanity in terms of the immateriality of the astrophysical world with which he worked. It is, frankly, a document of genius bordering on madness, or vice versa, or both.On May 11, in an eerily prescient letter, Sean writes: "The protracted 'not knowing' is extremely stressful ... and not particularly conducive to good behaviour ... I am caught between the poles of prison and medicine with a fair dislike of both ... I have run out of humour because it is difficult to see a positive aspect to what is happening to me ... I don't have peace of mind and my future appears bleak. I feel isolated in an almost supernatural way."The night Sean finished this letter, Jane was already in Manchester. Next day, May 12, Sean appeared before the judge for the last time. The judge had before him a letter prepared specially for the court in March by Young, who had come to Strangeways to visit Sean.Young's letter stated: "I would suggest consideration be given to a further, fairly lengthy, period of time in an abstinence orientated therapeutic community such as Castle Craig." Thereafter, a "planned transition" into a "sheltered half-way house within the community". He ends by saying that, subject to Sean's and the court's agreement, "we would be pleased to offer Sean a place at Castle Craig hospital for treatment". A Wythenshawe doctor also filed a document to the court.The judge sentenced Sean to five years' imprisonment.Two days into his sentence, Sean writes: "As you are aware, I have been sentenced to five years. I am on G-wing with no property and a cup with no handles. I have had no meds since 10am on Wednesday. I didn't sleep properly last night, and I feel sick and tired and lonely. I am not surprised they concluded I am psycho/ sociopathic, but in fact I am borderline, the most tragic personality of them all. Before we die I will tell you everything."On June 6, Jane reads how Sean "felt intimidated and under pressure on G-wing and so I self-harmed and refused to lock up. I clung to the bars and the screws had to take me down to the block" - segregation, again. "I am on long bang-up. It makes you very unfit, and for five days I had no telly or stereo. On top of this, Clopixol makes you feel dry and tired."On June 15, he is still "locked up", and "feeling dreadful moments of clarity. I look up through the bars and ask myself, 'Is this it?'". There are two hours' association with inmates who "lead a life of crime, indiscriminately mugging and robbing".At the end of the month, Sean sends Jane a copy of a book he has completed as part of the prison social sciences course he has enrolled in. It describes "a far-right English revolution". His mother calls it "the essay that killed him". It is a revolting document, containing such observations as: "It remains a fact that all great thinkers are white," and "There should be no difficulty or emotional obstacle to imagining or realising Afro-Caribbeans to be rather more similar to the monkey than to the white superior."Sean had referred to politics in earlier letters. On April 3: "Dad was a mild fascist and so am I, but I have the wisdom to see that fascism was a mistake, historically."Dreadful mistakeIn his last letter of July 2 - the one that Jane received after his death - he writes: "I am in the block, and I am in big trouble. Very big trouble." Following the discovery of the text of the book, he had received two death threats. "One Irishman said (paraphrase): 'I'm in for murder, watch your back', and a black man said (paraphrase): 'I will cut your throat if you voice these views again' ... The race relations officer came to see me this morning and we agreed I had made a dreadful mistake. It was agreed I should be moved into the segregation unit for my own protection ... You can see that I am in a terrible situation, segregated, hated by the entire jail it seems ... I hate this kind of life, and I have considered actual suicide." Yet Sean assures her: "You will be pleased to hear that another of my deep-rooted beliefs is that of self-preservation. I am unlikely to kill myself directly, unless I deteriorate or am subjected to more, continuous fear."That night, Sean suffocated himself with a plastic bag. An inquest is planned, but could take years.Jane says: "He was a vulnerable person, a difficult person, a different person, with a terrible disease. He found it hard to cope with life, and certainly couldn't cope with life in prison. I cannot understand how and why a system puts someone like that in prison. My last memory of Sean was when I went to visit him, of him hugging me and saying: 'Don't worry mum, everything is going to be all right.' That was three days before he died." · Sean, Jane and Caroline's names have been changed.