A teenager was stabbed to death in a fight outside a bar in Kent following an altercation in which three other men suffered serious stab wounds early today.Rob Knox, an 18-year-old who acted in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, was fatally wounded outside the Metro Bar in Sidcup, Scotland Yard said. The teenager, who played the character of Marcus Belby, a Ravenclaw student, is the 10th to die from stab wounds in London so far this year.He was taken to the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Woolwich, south-east London, where he was pronounced dead at around 1am.Two 21-year-old men and a 16-year-old youth were being treated in hospital. One of the men suffered stab wounds to the neck and the other serious wounds to his hand, while the teenager had knife injuries to the chest.A 21-year-old man who suffered facial injuries in the fight was arrested on suspicion of murder after being discharged from hospital. He is being held in custody.Friends gathered at the site where Knox was killed to lay floral tributes.Tom Hopkins, 18, said he had pinned down a man armed with a knife outside the bar with the help of friend and was stabbed in the head."Rob was just trying to help out," he said. "He was like that. I grabbed the knife - I didn't know at the time that he had another knife. It was just chaos."Friends said there had been a row over a phone last week, and believe this could have been a revenge attack.Vicky May, 16, Robert's cousin was on a night out when she was told he had been killed."You never think it will happen to you," she said. "Rob wasn't a thug, it wasn't gang related. "Everyone loved him. He was more like a brother, he would always look out for me. He was friends with so many people."A Warner Bros spokeswoman said: "We are deeply saddened and shocked by this news, and at this time our sympathies are with his family."Earlier this month, Jimmy Mizen, a 16-year-old schoolboy, was killed outside a bakery close to his home when his throat was slashed.Another man was killed on Oxford Street, central London, in broad daylight.The most recent fatality came as the children's commissioner, Sir Al Aynsley-Green, warned that new measures to tackle knife crime could alienate young people.Under the public order act, police can search people for knives and guns without reasonable suspicion that they are carrying a weapon.Aynsley-Green said stopping and searching could create further hostility and has called for further research into increased powers.''There is a balance here," he told the BBC. "On the one hand, for young people to feel safer by having the presence of the police, but on the other hand making sure the powers don't create further antagonism by increased stopping and searching."These are very contentious, and I certainly support the case for much more research on the effects of these policies on them.''The police said the powers were aimed at keeping young people safe rather than victimising them."The work we are doing in London in particular is working alongside communities to do robust stop and search operations ... where intelligence tells us that there is the most likelihood that people are carrying knives and weapons," the Metropolitan police deputy commissioner, Rose Fitzpatrick, said.