It was no great surprise for many of their neighbours when the four teenagers who were put on trial for the murder of Damilola Taylor were arrested.The four, two brothers and two of their close friends, were regarded as the "bad boys" of the area and were alleged to be members of a street gang. Though they have been cleared of involvement in Damilola's death, their stories remain important because they shine a light on the lives of disaffected young men who live on inner city estates across the UK. The four, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, have a number of common traits. They are from broken homes and were known to police before Damilola's death. They had inadequate schooling and felt they had few prospects. They had little interest in bettering themselves and preferred to waste their days hanging around the estate. Detective Superintendent Trevor Shepherd, who led the Damilola investigation, said of all four: "We did not find one father on the scene. They were setting their own agendas, their own moral boundaries." The brothers, now 16, are very much products of the poor south London estate where they grew up. They have always lived in a flat in Peckham and their parents are of Mediterranean origin. The couple were separated when the boys' father left to do military service. After his return to the UK he left home and was to remarry. The brothers, who have three siblings, grew increasingly rebellious as they grew older. Their mother struggled to cope. At first they were themselves bullied and like so many young victims, turned into bullies themselves, hitting back by sticking closely together. Mr Shepherd said: "These two have a dynamic when they are together. They become stronger than their two halves." The brothers had plenty of time to roam Peckham for they were irregular and unwilling pupils. They were expelled from mainstream schools and were sent to separate special centres. By the time of Damilola's death, one of the brothers, Boy A, was attending an education centre two days a week. The other, Boy B, was attending a different centre. He should have been there on the day of Damilola's death but, as so often, did not show up. Even their barristers admitted to the jury that the brothers were unpleasant characters. Ann Mallalieu, for Boy B, characterised his behaviour as "deeply unattractive but all too familiar". She said: "We are dealing with boys who regularly bunked off school and got up to no good day after day." Courtenay Griffiths, for Boy A, said he was not asking the jury to like the boys while the judge, Mr Justice Hooper, said the brothers - one of whom has fathered a child - behaved like "young louts, young yobs". Boy C, who is eight months older than the brothers, had an even less secure early life. He had been abandoned by his family and by November 2000 was squatting with the brothers in their cramped bedroom. Like the brothers, his education had been sporadic. Boy D, who was only 14 at the time of Damilola's death and less than 5ft tall, was born in Birmingham. His mother and father were unmarried and lived in neighbouring council blocks. They did not make a go of their relationship and the mother moved to Peckham because she had relatives in south London. The family - Boy D has several siblings - were housed in a terrace house. The prosecution alleged that the four boys were members of a street gang, a loose collective of yobs. One 14-year-old friend of Damilola's described in court how gang members would demand money. "They were the hard boys in the area," he said. "When I didn't have any money they used to kick or punch me. I used to be too scared to go out. I hated them." Image was all important to the gang members. They dressed in the sports clothes, baseball caps and chunky gold jewellery favoured by American "gangstas". They demanded "respect". They were not afraid to arm themselves. When members of the gang were arrested by the Damilola team, an axe and baseball bat were among the weapons found. "Jooking" - stabbing a victim in the leg with the intention of terrorising rather than killing, as the prosecution case claimed happened to Damilola - was a cruel trend in the area. Members of the gang also ran drugs for adult gangs and were sometimes rewarded with drugs or alcohol. Whether or not they were gang members, the brothers became all too well-known to police. Mr Griffiths, for Boy A, conceded they were seen as the estate's "bad boys". They were often reported and brought before the youth court time and time again but the sentences they were given clearly did not stop them. One person who knew them said: "Every time the police caught them a judge would let them back on to the streets." In 2000 Boy A was convicted of four offences and Boy B of five. The offences included taking a vehicle without consent and going equipped for theft. The other two were not so familiar though Boy D had a conviction for assault. All three had been accused of a string of other offences but the prosecutions had, as in the Damilola case, failed. The most serious case against the brothers and Boy D - before the Damilola trial - came after two girls, aged 12 and 13, were attacked in Peckham almost exactly a year before Damilola died. Five youths allegedly pinned the girls down and indecently assaulted them. One of the girls claims that as the attackers ran off, one of them turned round and said: "You can't touch us, we're the untouchables." The brothers, Boy D and two other boys were arrested. The crown prosecution service be lieved the attack was so serious that it pushed for the case to be heard at the Old Bailey rather than a youth court. But when the case reached the Old Bailey a judge said it should have stayed in the youth court and dismissed the case, to the disgust of the girls' families. Many Peckham residents express anger at what they see as a failure on the part of police, the courts and other agencies to bring difficult youths under control. Such errors reinforce a view commonly heard on the estate that the authorities' approach is often too slapdash. It is still unclear exactly what will happen to Boys A, B, C and D. They stand to make a bit of money - some newspapers have bid for their stories - and there is a good chance that they will sue the police for wrongful arrest. It may be difficult for them to return to Peckham. Though they cannot be identified in the media, many local people know who they are and they could become targets.