Jack Straw's decision to set free Ronnie Biggs is a victory for common sense certainly. But for the Justice Minister to say that the release was "compassionate" is a warped interpretation of the English language if ever there was one.There is no denying that, due to his age and poor health, Biggs has had a harder time in prison than most. There have been many complaints from a number of quarters about the conditions under which he has had to live inside. Having suffered a number of strokes and now pneumonia, his health is so poor that he is not expected to survive beyond a few weeks, or even days.But prison officers hear complaints from people in prison all the time. Cold food, late mail, mattress too hard, etc, yet rarely are such grumbles greeted with a sympathetic ear. "You committed a crime," reminds the more public spirited, though perhaps less enlightened officer. "You chose to come here. No good complaining now." For the average con, who may not have realised that he or she was making an informed and educated, perfectly rational free will choice to go to prison if caught at the moment of wrong doing, it's a head scratcher. But for Ronnie Biggs, the Great Train Robber, now free but not so great and fading fast in a hospital bed in Norwich, the issue is a little clearer: Biggs chose prison.In 2001 when he knew his health was failing, the choice he made was unambiguous and made of his own free will. He decided that after almost four decades living as a fugitive, mainly in Brazil, he was going to come home and face the music – or, more accurately, come home and enjoy free, relatively high-quality medical assistance. He knew there would be a particular cost. But it was a cost I think he vastly underestimated.Perhaps it was the way tourists and rock stars fawned over him and flattered him over the years whenever they met him in his Rio hideaway that persuaded him that the Great British Public would not want him to suffer unduly. No government surely would want to inflict serious punishment on such an amiable and charming "legendary folk hero". After all he was a cheeky chappie, a lovable rogue, a wily rascal, who posed for pictures and sang with the Sex Pistols.And anyway, the crime – the robbery of the Glasgow-to-London mail train in August 1963 – was such a long time ago. Many of the central players in the drama – fellow robbers, policemen and train driver Jack Mills, whose coshing cost him his health – were long dead (but not forgotten – especially Mills). Biggs may not have personally assaulted Mills, but every member of the gang bore equal responsibility for the attack and the injuries he was left with. It was for that reason, as well as the fact that it was the largest cash haul of any armed robbery in history, that most of the gang members who were caught were sentenced to then-record terms of 30 years apiece.Biggs decided he didn't like Wandsworth prison, and no one can blame him for that. But instead of staying and doing his time he chose to clamber over the wall and spend the next 38 years evading British justice. Nobody forced him to return.There had been a couple of attempts: one by Jack "Slipper of the Yard" Slipper, the senior detective who had been involved in the original train robbery investigation, and one by a band of bounty hunters. Both failed. Other than morally, Biggs was under no obligation to hand himself over to the British authorities. But he did. And if he really thought he would spend only a token period behind bars before being released and given a travel warrant to Margate to collect his pint of warm beer, he was being naive in the extreme.The fact is Ronnie Biggs has very little to complain about – other than the dubious machinations of Jack Straw. Blocking Biggs's parole board-recommended release last month on the grounds that the dying robber was "unrepentant" was absurd and arguably unlawful. To describe the turnaround as, "compassionate", however, is perverse.Compassion is a quality of grace and mercy and would have been the last thing on Straw's mind when considering the various submissions on Biggs's behalf this week. A true act of mercy and compassion would have been to release Ronnie Biggs months ago.