A woman caused a fatal car crash that killed her husband by pulling on the handbrake at 60mph during a row, a jury heard on Monday.Caroline Meeking, 45, allegedly caused the rear wheels of the silver Ford Escort to lock after husband Alan, 49, called her a "slut" and said he was leaving her. The car span across the road and smashed into an oncoming vehicle, killing Alan Meeking instantly.Passing motorists found Meeking weeping over her husband's body, screaming, "I'm so sorry, Alan. Don't leave me," the jury was told. She was later charged with manslaughter.Ian Dixie, prosecuting, told Bristol crown court she did not intend to kill her husband, who died of multiple injuries, but knew her actions were dangerous. "Witnesses who arrived at the scene described Mrs Meeking as being obviously extremely concerned about her husband and upset about what had occurred," he said."One witness recalled her as saying, 'I am sorry, I am sorry. It is all my fault. That is my husband. It is all my fault – we were having an argument. He said he don't want me any more, and I just pulled the handbrake.'"The crash happened at 10.22pm on 30 August 2010 as the Meekings drove home to Ilminster, Somerset, along the unlit A3088. They had been on a day trip to Bridport, Dorset, where they drank two bottles of rosé wine at a 2pm lunch before heading to a nearby pub at 4pm.The pair spent a few hours drinking pints with a couple they had just met before driving home – both "clearly over the limit", the court heard.Hotel worker Mary Ellis was driving her husband's Rover along the A3088 near Yeovil when she saw the side of the Meekings' car appear 6ft (1.8 metres) in front of her.She told the court: "The first thing I heard was a loud skidding noise. All I saw was the side view of the silver car. I was moving towards it. My life just flashed in front of me. All I did was apply my brakes and hope for the best."After the smash, she went over to the car to check on the couple and saw Mrs Meeking crouched over her husband of nine years. Ellis said: "She kept saying that she had killed him and it was all her fault. She said, 'Call an ambulance. Don't leave me, Alan. Call an ambulance. Don't leave me, Alan. It is all my fault.'"Alan Meeking was found to be twice over the drink-drive limit, the court heard. Dixie told the court that in police interviews Caroline Meeking confessed she did not believe she was in danger or that her husband was going to hurt her.Dixie said: "It is perfectly obvious that if you do something like jamming on the handbrake of the car when it is going along that it is likely to be dangerous."Meeking denies manslaughter. The trial continues.