What has happened to merrie England? Where once the sound of leather on willow echoed across the village green and rosy-faced English boys threw their grammar school caps in the air to celebrate their opponent's half-century, now the snarling gangs of hooded muggers stalk the graffitied concrete subways that have become jungle Britain.To read the papers this week, you would think that our society is on the brink of collapse from a chavalanche of scary teenagers. Tony Blair announced yesterday that one of the priorities of his third term would be to reverse the lack of respect in today's society, although it was hard to hear his exact words over all the shouts of "Bugger off!" coming from his backbenchers. Labour is set to tackle yob culture, and anyone who disagrees with this idea will get a dead leg from John Prescott.One of the surprisingly old-fashioned traits of this government has been its disciplinarian attitude to yobs, graffiti and antisocial behaviour. Who can forget the press conference when this was revealed? "I really think the time has come to do something about nuisance neighbours," said Tony Blair."Hmmm ..." said all the political cartoonists. "There must be an angle in there somewhere.""What I'm saying is that I, Tony Blair, who lives at 10 Downing Street, want to do something about having problem next-door neighbours.""Nope, beats me ..." said all the humorists, scratching their heads and staring at a blank sketchpad."I mean Gordon Brown, who lives at 11 Downing Street, will probably disagree with me again, but it's time for me to take him, I mean them on."And the cartoonists gave up trying to find a satirical angle and went back to doing Mrs Thatcher as a mad cow again.The issue has been forced to the top of the political agenda by the unlikeliest of social commentators. Bluewater shopping centre decided it was time to face the Muzak. They have banned the wearing of hooded tops and baseball caps anywhere inside their private retail park. Can there be any greater punishment than being banned from one of Europe's largest shopping malls? What sort of existence is it when you are not allowed to go into Clinton Cards and browse through the Garfield fridge magnets?Of course you'll still be able to buy baseball caps and hooded tops in Bluewater, it's just that if you say, "No, I don't need a bag, I think I'll keep it on," you'll be wrestled to the ground by security guards the moment you walk out of the shop.Why hooded sweatshirts should be the most offensive item of clothing I don't understand. I'd ban those mustard-coloured corduroys that Sloanes wear with stripy blue shirts and tweed jackets. And no businessman should be allowed to appear in public with a zany tie: "Look at me, I'm a little bit unconventional; I've got a tie with brightly coloured Disney characters on it. And look, my cufflinks are miniature rugby balls! I'm mad, me!"One attempted solution to our apparent yob culture has been the introduction of the Asbo. The hope was that once they had received an antisocial behaviour order, foul-mouthed drunken yobs would revert to wearing blazers and grey flannel shorts as they kneeled by the fireplace completing wooden jigsaws of the old English counties.Of course middle-class communities suffer from intimidating residents as well. The sort of people that tut at you for getting the wheelie bins mixed up. But the real victims of antisocial behaviour, of crime and intimidation, are the poor. And it's bad enough working long hours for no thanks and very little money without being slapped in the face and having the incident recorded on a video mobile for broadcast on Bravo's new reality TV show.So while it might come across as illiberal to talk about yobs and discipline and respect, there is an issue out there that needs tackling, even if the prime minister is mad to think that Labour can suddenly bring about a major shift in social attitudes. Unless he thought he'd make this impossible promise before retiring and leaving it for Gordon to sort out. Now that's what I call an antisocial neighbour.· John O'Farrell's new novel May Contain Nuts has just been published by Doubleday