Start here Black Information Link Comprehensive site covering issues of race and ethnicity. BLINK offers interactive forms to enable responses to the Stephen Lawrence inquiry and carries full transcripts of the first part of the Stephen Lawrence trial. Maintained by the 1990 Trust charity and funded by the National Lottery Charities Board.  Stephen Lawrence   The Stephen Lawrence Family Campaign  The official family campaign, carried by BLINK's website. Includes submissions to the second part of the public inquiry.   The Institute of Race Relations (IRR)  Charity specialising in the research and analysis of the struggle for racial justice. It's Lawrence pages include submissions to the Lawrence inquiry. It recommends that public funding for local racial attack and police monitoring groups in the black community should be immediately restored.   Campaign Against Racism and Fascism  CARF on the Stephen Lawrence inquiry.   Movement for Justice  Campaigning against police racism. Includes submissions to the Stephen Lawrence inquiry, letters of protest and details of a national civil rights march on February 6, 1999.  Police documents  Metropolitan Police  Index contains Metropolitan Police submissions to the Lawrence inquiry.  Metropolitan Police plans Metropolitan Police plans how to build an anti-racist police service.   Police Complaints Authority Database of press releases from 1995-1998, including those on the Lawrence inquiry.  General Resources  Racist murders since 1991  The IRR's list of police responses and convictions relating to racist murders since 1991.  Incidences of racial violence  Statistics carried by the IRR.  Statewatch  Searchable database monitoring the state and civil liberties in the European Union, including race issues.  General anti-racist organisations  Commission for Racial Equality  The official body charged with monitoring racial equality in Britain.   The 1990 Trust  A national Black charity promoting good race relations. Funds BLINK.   Artists Against Racism  Uses popular artists to pursue its mission "to build an understanding of all peoples."  European Research Centre on Migration and Ethnic Relations  Seeks to promote the scientific study of migration, racism and ethnicity. 