A "cold and calculating" killer carried out two double shotgun murders in a remote corner of Wales in the 1980s for "pitiful financial gain", a jury heard.Farm labourer John Cooper, a prolific burglar, is accused of murdering tourists Peter and Gwenda Dixon as they walked a coastal path in Pembrokeshire in 1989.Cooper, 66, also allegedly murdered millionaire farmer Richard Thomas and his sister, Helen, in 1985 before setting fire to their mansion. In addition, Cooper is accused of rape, indecent assault and attempted robbery on a group of five teenagers in 1996.Gerard Elias QC said Cooper's home at Letterston, near Fishguard, was at the "epicentre" of the crimes. He said: "All the victims were subjected to the most terrifying of ordeals. They were for pitiful financial gain and sexual gratification."These three events all happened in a tiny quarter of south-west Wales. Each involved the use of cold and calculating violence and in two cases the merciless execution of four people."It may well have been that the teenagers were spared because there were too many to deal with by execution."Cooper denies four murders, rape, indecent assault and attempted robbery.Swansea crown court heard that Peter Dixon, 51, and his wife Gwenda, 52, from Oxfordshire, were walking on the Pembrokeshire coastal path in the summer of 1989 on the last day of their holiday when Cooper ambushed them with his double-barrelled shotgun.Elias said: "He held them up with his shotgun before tying Mr Dixon's hands behind his back and sexually assaulting Mrs Dixon."Cooper is accused of forcing marketing manager Dixon to reveal his bank card pin number before shooting the couple, from Oxfordshire, and hiding their bodies in undergrowth.Elias said: "Mr Dixon had been shot three times and his wife twice."The bodies of the Dixons were found near the village of Little Haven, a few miles from the scene of the unsolved murders of Richard and Helen Thomas, 58 and 54.They were found gagged and shot three days before Christmas in 1985 at Scoveston Park manor. After the killings, a fire was started to destroy evidence, the jury heard.Thomas's body was found on a first floor landing of the gutted mansion while his sister's body had fallen through to the ground the floor and was found covered in debris.The jury was told Cooper had targeted Scoveston Park because he thought Helen Thomas would be alone.But during the alleged robbery her brother Richard arrived. Elias said: "Cooper took him to an outbuilding and shot him and killed his sister to avoid being identified. Before he escaped Cooper used diesel to fuel a fire and Scoveston Park burned to the ground."The jury heard that in 1996 Cooper allegedly carried out a double sex attack after finding a group of teenagers in a field near his home at night."A young group of teenagers were out walking when they were approached by someone shining a lamp into their eyes," Elias said."They realised it was a man wearing gloves, a balaclava mask and carrying a double-barrelled, sawn-off shotgun. The man raped one of the girls. He pulled her away from the group by the back of her hair and made her lay on her back. He produced a knife and waved it around her face, telling her to stop making a noise."The jury was told Cooper sexually assaulted another girl in the group and told her: "I know who you are and will come to kill you if you tell anybody."Elias said Cooper was a local man who knew the area "like the back of his hand". He said: "He had hideaways and cross-country escape routes."Cooper was jailed for 16 years in 1998 for 30 burglaries and a violent robbery. He served 10 years before being released.Elias said: "He used hedgerows as others would use safes at home — to stash the proceeds of crimes knowing they would be far from his home but unlikely to be stumbled upon."The trial continues.