Police hunting the man who abducted a six-year-old girl from her bath and left her naked in the street after a sexual assault said yesterday that they were building up a detailed picture of the attacker.The detective leading the inquiry, which has been inundated with information from people on North Tyneside, said that officers were "getting ever closer" to the middle-aged suspect seen hanging around and acting suspiciously before the snatch in icy weather on Tuesday evening. Detective Chief Inspector Jim Napier made a direct appeal to the man, who has been described as "extremely dangerous", to give himself up. He said: "Come forward now and get this off your chest before we find you. I have a team of highly trained, experienced detectives who are working with the sole aim of finding you."The girl, who has described a "nasty man" to her family and specially trained police investigators, is believed to have made it clear that she did not recognise her attacker. But lines of inquiry are thought to include casual acquaintances of the girl's mother and her gay partner, or people who knew about access through an unlocked back door.Northumbria police said yesterday that they were taking legal advice about photographs of the girl, disguised by pixellation, which were published in the Daily Mail and the Sun yesterday. The pictures were obtained from the family before the child's father, a former soldier, arrived at the house and demanded other copies back. He has lived apart from the family since the mother met her new partner in an internet chatroom.The force's press officer, Barbara Brewis, said: "The pictures could quite clearly lead to her being identified and were used despite a warning issued to the media. There is an obligation not to publish anything which could lead to the identity of this victim being revealed, as she is both a juvenile and the victim of a sexually motivated assault."Mr Napier said the girl, who has an 18-month-old brother, was safe and well back with her family. She was found screaming and shivering in a back lane about 15 minutes after her mother found the ground floor bathroom empty.The child's grandmother, who lives in County Durham, said: "She seems to be coping well, though you never know what is going on underneath. As well as the nasty man who took her away from the house, she's been talking about the nice man who found her crying."She has been to hospital twice and been interviewed by the police, who've said that we should let her talk if she wants to but not to make a big thing of it. There are so many questions in my head and her dad's head but it is clear from what the police have said that she doesn't know this man at all."The man who rescued the girl, after neighbours joined a search of the small grid of streets near the Tyne tunnel entrance, said yesterday he and his wife had been left devastated by the experience.Geoff Brown said he ran over to the child standing naked in the cold shortly after 7pm and asked what had happened. She told him between sobs that she had been taken from her bath."I couldn't understand what had happened, so I just picked her up in my arms and brought her in the house," he said.Police believe from the girl's account, and minor injuries she suffered, that a sexual assault occurred, possibly in a car which was seen driving erratically in the area shortly before the attack. Police have described a man in dark clothing and wearing dark gloves who may have been in the car and was also seen on foot by children playing in another alley.Police are expected to question the girl further today. They are working through known paedophiles from the area's register of sex offenders to check their whereabouts on Tuesday evening.Regular patrols have also been increased.