A coroner charged with investigating the deaths of 12 patients of a retired GP who was this week cleared of murdering three men today said he may examine even more cases. County Durham coroner Andrew Tweddle said the police and the Department of Health were checking through the medical records of Dr Howard Martin, who was this week acquitted of killing three seriously ill men with morphine overdoses, to establish whether any further "potentially unnatural deaths" should be brought to his attention.Dr Martin, 71, was cleared of the murder of Frank Moss, 59, Stanley Weldon and Harry Gittins, both 74, following an eight-week trial at Teesside crown court. But Durham police said yesterday they would still pass 12 more files of patient deaths where morphine may have been a significant factor to Mr Tweddle.At his office in Crook, County Durham, Mr Tweddle said: "It is possible that when I have had opportunity to consider in detail these various files, that I may require further inquiries to be carried out."The coroner said he could have the information handed to him before Christmas. He added that he was unsure how many of these cases would result in inquests taking place.He said: "People may be concerned as to when any inquests may be heard. I regret that at the moment I cannot give any indication as to when my inquiries will be complete - timings will depend on a number of factors, not all of which are under my control. I wish to undertake a thorough inquiry and thoroughness does not always sit easily with rapidity."The coroner added that Dr Martin's trial could provoke more people to come forward to the police with complaints.The legal team of Dr Martin, from Penmaenmawr, Gwynedd, North Wales, team said yesterday they did not believe fresh charges would be brought against him, despite the police announcement that the coroner would investigate more deaths.Mr Tweddle said he would consider whether to review full inquests into the deaths of Mr Moss, Mr Weldon and Mr Gittins, whom the GP was cleared of murdering. He said he would resume the inquest into the death of 85-year-old William Kerr, another patient of Dr Martin whose body was exhumed by police. Dr Martin was never charged with his murder. The jury unanimously cleared the former army officer of killing his patients by injecting them with morphine. He said after the trial he had been doing his duty as a GP by caring for them.