A youth worker, dubbed the Fulham Strangler, who attacked women walking home late at night in west London yesterday admitted carrying out a series of vicious sex offences.Lee Kilty, 20, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to assaults on three young women, all in their 20s, over a seven-week period between April and June last year. In each case the victim was overpowered by Kilty who then tried to strangle them with his hands. All of the attacks took place not far from where he lived in Fulham. Kilty admitted attempting to murder and attempting to rape a 26-year-old woman on April 18 last year as well as attempting to strangle a 29-year-old on June 1 and a 21-year-old woman six days later, with intent to commit a sexual offence. His first victim feared she was about to die after Kilty strangled her, stripped off her clothes, hurled her down steps and slammed her head against concrete. He ran off, leaving her suffering a brain haemorrhage, severe bruising, cuts and a swollen throat, Michael Worsley QC, prosecuting, said. "Kilty did not speak at all throughout," he added. "He was strangling her - strongly applying pressure to the neck. She had difficulty in breathing and started to lose consciousness. He pushed her down stairs - she went head first." In a statement later the victim recalled: "He slammed my head really hard in the concrete twice. I knew I was alive but very close to death. I blacked out. When I came round I hurt. I was sore and alone. I knew I had to get help. I saw headlights and then blacked out again." The woman was treated in hospital for 13 days and had surgery to repair a fractured eye socket, the court heard. Kilty's other two victims were not so seriously injured. The second told police that Kilty had threatened to kill her: "He was on top of me. He then started to squeeze my neck. I became weaker and weaker. I felt he was going to rape me. "All his attention was on me - on strangling me. He seemed so crazy. The last thing I remember him saying was, 'I am going to kill you.' " She was saved by two passing builders who chased away the attacker. Kilty's third victim, a student, had been to a restaurant when she heard footsteps behind her. She stopped by a parked car, ostensibly looking for keys. But he caught her from behind. "I screamed loudly and tried to remove his arms from my neck," she later told the police. "I felt dizzy. I felt he would rape me or kill me." A man opened a window nearby and shouted at Kilty to let her go. He later identified Kilty to police. Kilty was also trapped by DNA matches which connected him to his victims. Blood from the first attack was found on his shoes and his blood was discovered on the second woman's keys. He is due to be sentenced at a later date. He had no previous convictions and worked with disabled children in Notting Hill.