A former soldier smothered his terminally ill 10-year-old son with a pillow as the boy slept, a court was told yesterday. Andrew Wragg had "looked into his eyes and seen that he had no future", the prosecutor said. Mr Wragg killed his son Jacob in July last year after asking his wife Mary to leave their house in a quiet cul-de-sac in Worthing, West Sussex, and take their other young son, George, with her. After the killing Mr Wragg dialled 999 and allegedly told the operator he had murdered Jacob, the prosecution said. When the police arrived he held out his hands and asked them to arrest him. He allegedly told them: "This was a mercy killing. My son wanted me to do it because he had a terminal illness." Paramedics tried to treat Jacob, who suffered from the incurable degenerative disorder Hunter Syndrome, but he was later pronounced dead in hospital. Mr Wragg, 37, a former soldier who had recently worked in Iraq in private security, pleads not guilty to murder, but admits manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. At the opening of the trial at Lewes crown court, Philip Katz QC outlined the prosecution case that Mr Wragg was a heavy drinker who had neglected Jacob before his death. He told the court: "Mr Wragg was drinking too much and spending time away from home. This defendant had distanced himself from Jacob and we say that this was a selfish killing, done in drink, possibly as a perceived way out of the situation that he found too difficult to cope with." Mr Katz painted a picture of a turbulent marriage in which Mr and Mrs Wragg frequently broke up and got back together. He told the jury of nine men and three women that on the day of Jacob's death, Mr Wragg had been drinking heavily with friends. He was later found to be three times over the legal limit for driving. He denied that Mrs Wragg, who is a witness for the prosecution, had been complicit in the killing, and alleged that Mr Wragg had previously implied to her that he would kill Jacob. He said that a few months after Jacob was diagnosed, Mr Wragg had allegedly told the mother of another severely disabled child that he would rather put a pillow over his son's face than let him suffer. After smothering the child on 24 July 2004, Mr Wragg had telephoned his wife and told her: "I've done it", Mr Katz told the court. She returned to the house after dropping their other son at her mother's to find Mr Wragg cuddling Jacob. Later, Mr Wragg had toasted Jacob with a drink, the prosecutor alleged. He had allegedly referred to a foetus that the couple had aborted after learning that it too had Hunter Syndrome, saying: "He's with Henry now; he's at peace." Jacob was diagnosed with Hunter Syndrome at the age of 19 months. The condition is passed from mother to son and impairs growth, mental and physical development and causes a stiffening of the joints, progressive deafness and skin lesions. If affects one in 150,000 boys. Giving evidence, Dr James Wraith, consultant paediatrician at the Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, told the court that Jacob would probably not have lived for more than a few years. He would eventually have been deaf, dumb, incontinent and would have suffered problems with his sight, breathing and movement, "ending up with a situation where he couldn't walk". It was likely he would at the very end have lost awareness of his surroundings and have entered a vegetative state. But Mr Katz said: "Whilst Mr Wragg may have been feeling disappointment, sadness, loss, fear and anger, they were not a mental illness. He was not suffering from any abnormality of mind as would substantially impair his responsibility for his actions." Mr Wragg had returned from Iraq shortly before Jacob's death. He had previously served in the merchant navy and been part of the QE2 crew. Two post-mortem examinations established that Jacob had signs of asphyxiation, and that, because of his condition, it would not have taken much force to suffocate him. On the day he died, Jacob, his mother, grandmother and George, now seven, had been for a walk on the beach. Mr Katz told the court: "On the day, Jacob was happy, active and as well as he could be." The case continues.