As celebrity themed reality TV goes, it's a long way from making them eat bugs. One of the cornerstones of BBC2's new year schedule will aim to meticulously recreate a high-profile rape trial using top lawyers and following 12 celebrity jurors as they reach their verdict.But the inclusion on the jury of the likes of former MP turned perjurer, Jeffrey Archer, and Stan Collymore, the former footballer involved in well-publicised domestic violence and "dogging" incidents, has already sparked concern about the motives of the programme-makers from rape charities and support groups.The Verdict's diverse lineup also includes So Solid Crew rapper Megaman, real name Dwayne Vincent, who was recently acquitted of murder at the Old Bailey after three trials and 18 months on remand, as well as former soap actress Patsy Palmer, the chief executive of Ann Summers, Jacqueline Gold, and Sara Payne, whose eight-year-old daughter, Sarah, was murdered by a convicted paedophile, and who has since campaigned for the so-called Sarah's Law.They will be charged with determining if two fictional footballers gang-raped an imaginary 19-year-old young woman in a London hotel suite."It sounds quite sensational," said Cliona Saidlear, the policy coordinator at Rape Crisis Networks Ireland. "Rather than 12 ordinary people, they've turned to celebrities and instead of taking a standard rape trial, they've used a celebrity case. They've pitched it at such an extreme, sensational level you have to question their objectives. The celebrities are probably going into it with the best of intentions but why not 12 people from the street?" she said.But the programme-makers insist it is a serious attempt to lift the lid on the usually unseen deliberations of the jury room. They said they were taken aback by the extent to which the celebrity jurors treated the concocted scenario as real.Stephen Lambert, chief creative officer at Wife Swap and Faking It producer RDF, who came up with the idea, said there was a public interest defence. "Barristers and, I guess, the rest of us, really want to get an insight into how juries make up their mind in such cases. Wearing my public service hat, I'd say it's a great way of showing how a court and a trial work."BBC2 controller, Roly Keating, also defended his motives. "It's an ambitious project that is attempting to bring the law and the jury system to life in a new way. It's an extremely complex, finely balanced case derived from case law but fictitious in its detail."The Verdict will be screened over four nights in February on BBC2. After each programme, viewers will be encouraged to switch to BBC3 where they can watch footage of the jury debating the day's evidence over dinner at the five-star Conrad Hotel in Chelsea, where they stayed after being whisked from Kingston county court in Surrey in a fleet of black Lincoln limousines equipped with champagne chilling in buckets. Viewers will be invited to make their own minds up using background material, witness interviews and documentary evidence available on the BBC2 website.The programme also features a number of celebrity lawyers, including retired judge Lord Dennison. Prosecuting counsel is Joanna Greenberg QC, while the two fictional footballers are represented by real-life QCs Jane Humphreys and George Carter-Stephenson.Mr Carter-Stephenson, whose notable cases have included the first Damilola Taylor murder trial and the Millennium Dome diamond robbery, said he had been wary at first but was reassured by the lengths to which the programme makers went to make the programme realistic. "I was surprised by just how good the actors were. It was just like being in court, except the lights were a bit brighter," he said. "It gives the public a chance to see how barristers work and to show that we are not so removed from reality as they sometimes believe."The other members of the jury are Jennifer Ellison, a dancer, singer and former Brookside actor; Michael Portillo, the former Tory leadership contender turned media commentator; Alex James, the bassist in Blur; Dominic McVeigh, a teenage millionaire who made his money from importing scooters from China, the actor Honor Blackman and TV presenter Chris Tarrant's estranged wife, Ingrid.It is their role to cross-examine a group of actors who improvise their responses as the alleged rape victim, the two footballers, the alleged victim's girlfriend who sold the story to the tabloids, and others."We thought first of all about a sexual harassment case, and then a murder case, but then went with rape because it's so clearly two interpretations of reality. It's a hotly debated crime in the legal world," said Mr Lambert.The case dramatises issues of notoriety, alcohol, race, money and the ethics of selling possibly concocted stories of sexual dalliances with celebrities to the tabloids. The case involves a young woman called Anna Crane from Epsom, who goes to see the musical Chicago with her best friend in London.After the show they wind up in a hotel cocktail bar where the friend spots celebrity footballer Damien Scott and his friend, a less successful player called James Greer. They retire to Scott's suite where one of two things happens to Anna Crane: either she has consensual sex with Scott or she is gang-raped. Both defendants plead not guilty.Crane decides not to go to the police. Instead, her best friend sells the story of her alleged rape to a Sunday newspaper for £30,000 and covertly tapes Anna describing the assaults. This tape was played in court to the celebrity jury who have to make up their minds as to whether it is a harrowing confession or a fake tape concocted by two money-grabbing girls.Archer's appearance is likely to be the first of several in reality TV shows as he seeks to work his way back into the public eye following his four-year jail sentence in 2001 for perjury and perverting the course of justice. He has already agreed to take part in new ITV1 show Fortune, in which he will be filmed giving away his own money to members of the public, and is rumoured to be part of the cast list for the next series of Channel 4's Celebrity Big Brother in January.Twelve famous faces: Millionaires, musicians and former MPs1. Dominic McVey21-year-old entrepreneur who made his first million by the age of 15 importing micro-scooters. Has diversified into other business interests and has a fortune estimated at £7m2. Ingrid TarrantEstranged wife of Chris and mother of four. Successful fashion designer and retailer who met her husband working as a reporter at TV-am in 1981. They married in 1991 but separated this year3. Jennifer Ellison23-year-old former international ballet champion who found fame at 14 in Brookside. Won reality TV show Hell's Kitchen and regularly appears in men's magazines. Currently touring the country as Roxie Hart in Chicago4. Michael PortilloElected to the Commons in November 1984 as MP for Enfield Southgate and went on to be defence secretary. Since his shock defeat in 1997 he has made TV documentaries and is a regular pundit on TV show This Week and is theatre critic for the New Statesman5. Jeffrey Archer66-year-old Lord Archer of Weston-Super-Mare is a bestselling novelist and former deputy chair of the Conservative party. He was jailed for four years in 2001 for perjury and perverting the course of justice. Signed by ITV to star in new reality show Fortune and recently secured a publishing contract with Macmillan worth £12m6. Patsy PalmerBorn Julie Harris, the 34-year old former Grange Hill actor became famous for her six-year stint as Bianca in EastEnders. Appeared on BBC's Strictly Come Dancing in 20047. Dwayne Vincent AKA Megaman27-year-old co-founder of So Solid Crew, cleared of the murder of Colin Scarlett - who was shot on a street in Tooting in 2004 - in September this year after three Old Bailey trials8. Alex JamesBass player with Blur, aged 38, who has written for the Independent and the Observer. Owns a 200-acre farm in the Cotswolds and recently landed a job as presenter of the Sunday morning series On Your Farm on Radio 49. Stan CollymoreFormer Liverpool, Aston Villa and England striker who retired in 2001. He was vilified by the press in 1998 after punching then-girlfriend Ulrika Jonsson in a bar. In 2004 he was caught "dogging" and was fired from his commentating job on Radio 5 Live. Has appeared in Five's reality show The Farm and Basic Instinct 210. Honor BlackmanBest known for the roles of Judo expert Dr Cathy Gale in The Avengers and as Bond girl Pussy Galore in Goldfinger. Declined a CBE in 2002 and has been a prominent supporter of the Liberal Democrats. Currently fronting a campaign for Sure deodorant, chosen to represent busy women through the generations11. Jacqueline GoldJoined the family business at 19 and transformed Ann Summers from two low-key shops into a multimillion pound concern. Six years ago she took over lingerie chain Knickerbox. The 46-year-old is the subject of several documentaries. Her father co-owns Birmingham City football club12. Sara PayneMother of Sarah, eight, who was found dead two weeks after being abducted from a cornfield by convicted paedophile Roy Whiting in 2000. Campaigns for the introduction of "Sarah's Law", which would give local parents the right to know the addresses of convicted paedophiles and has published an autobiography Linda MacDonald