A 47-year-old man who was wanted over the death of a clergyman at his vicarage has been arrested on suspicion of murder. Stephen Farrow was detained at a property in Folkestone at 4.20am on Sunday after officers received information on his whereabouts from a member of the public, Kent police said.Police launched a nationwide manhunt after the Rev John Suddards, 59, was found stabbed to death at his vicarage in the south Gloucestershire town of Thornbury on Tuesday.Officers from Avon and Somerset police, in conjunction with Kent police, went to an address in Black Bull Road where Farrow was arrested on suspicion of murder and taken into police custody. A Kent police spokesman said he was detained "without incident" and no one was injured. His arrest came after Sussex police said he was spotted on Saturday night in the Hastings and Rother area of East Sussex. A 43-year-old man who was arrested on Tuesday in connection with Suddards's murder has been freed on bail. The alarm was raised by workmen who arrived at the vicarage next to St Mary's Church and found it was locked. The news of Suddards's death sent shockwaves through the clergy and the close-knit community about 11 miles north of Bristol. Detectives are trying to put together a picture of Suddards's personal and social life and are believed to have contacted clergy at his former parish. The St Mary's vicar took up his post last July, having come from the diocese of Chelmsford in Essex. A former barrister, Suddards moved to the area after serving at St Nicolas Church in Witham, Essex, since 2001 and before that at Great Yeldham parish, 20 miles away in Essex. Police seized a white Citroen van from a property in Knapp Road a few hours after the man who had been released on bail was first arrested. It is believed a man in his 40s had been sleeping in the van. Officers have also appealed for information about a man, of average build and wearing dark clothing, who was sitting on the pavement outside St Mary's Church on Monday evening between 6pm and 8pm.