A boy who murdered a pizza shop worker by stabbing him after a dispute over a £1 special offer was given a life sentence yesterday.Old Bailey Judge Gerald Gordon told 14-year-old Hakeem Johnson that he and other boys who carry knives would receive no mercy from the courts. He would be held at Her Majesty's pleasure in youth custody and would not be able to apply for release for eight-and-a-half years. Judge Gordon said: "You carried a knife as a weapon because it was what you chose to do, like too many young people these days. Young men or boys who choose to carry knives as weapons can expect no mercy from the courts." He lifted a ban on identifying Johnson, of Highbury, north London, saying that he hoped the case would deter others from carrying knives. Johnson, who wore a black suit and shirt with a pink tie, was hugged and kissed by his mother in the dock before being led away. He was 13 last September when he stabbed Noor Kasimi, 32, outside the Twin Star shop in Holloway Road. Johnson and two friends had entered the shop shortly after 7pm and asked for a £1 pizza, a special offer which ended at 6pm. When it was refused, he began to shout and swear and demand a free pizza. One of his friends warned the staff: "Don't try to fuck with him, he has got a knife in his pocket". Johnson was asked to leave, but hit out at the shop's owner, then pulled a knife from his pocket and tried to stab him. Staff tried to defend themselves with a broom and a stool and force the boy and his friends out of the shop. Mr Kasimi had only been working at the pizza shop for five days. He was trying to drive Johnson backwards when the broom he was using to defend himself broke and he suffered a single stab wound to the chest. He died six days later in hospital. Johnson surrendered to police the day after the attack and claimed he had acted in self-defence. In a statement to police he said: "I was acting to defend myself as I was being attacked by three men with sticks and poles." Johnson had been excluded from the Homerton College of Technology, east London, after threatening a teacher with a hammer last May.