More than 120 courts and tribunals across England and Wales could close, relocate or amalgamate under an economy drive proposed by the Ministry of Justice.The programme is aimed at saving money by closing down underused courtrooms, exploiting video conferencing and transforming some preliminary hearings into online exchanges.The closures were anticipated by the new justice secretary, Michael Gove, in his first appearance before the justice select committee on Wednesday, but the extent of the changes may be larger than many expected.In a written parliamentary statement, Shailesh Vara, the minister for courts and legal aid, said that 122 out of the existing 460 courts and tribunal centres could be affected by the reforms. Magistrates courts, county courts – which deal with family and civil claims – and crown courts are all affected. The courts earmarked for closure, however, are the smaller ones that are occupied less frequently. The MoJ said the buildings being consulted on represent only 16% of hearing rooms which are, on average, used for only a third of their available time.This is the second major court-closure programme the government has embarked on since 2010. Falling crimes figures have reduced the numbers of defendants being brought before magistrates and crown courts. In his statement, Vara explained: “There is a broad consensus that the current system is unsustainable and that we have an opportunity to create a modern, more user-focused and efficient service. “Increased use of technology such as video, telephone and online conferencing will help drive these improvements. Straightforward, transactional matters, such as paying a fine and obtaining probate can be dealt with using digital technology to make the processes as straightforward as filing a tax return. Many straightforward cases do not need face-to-face hearings, which should be reserved for the most sensitive or complex cases.” He added: “I am today announcing a consultation on the closure of 91 courts and tribunals in England and Wales. I am also announcing the integration of 31 courts and tribunals.“Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service operates 460 courts and tribunal hearing centres. The estate costs taxpayers around half a billion pounds each year and, at present, it is underused. Last year, over a third of all courts and tribunals were empty for more than 50% of their available hearing time.” Even after the changes, Vara said, more than 95% of citizens would be able to reach “their required court within an hour by car”. In the countryside, courts may be moved into other civic buildings such as town halls.