Since smoking in cars with children was made illegal in October last year, the Metropolitan police have prosecuted a total of zero drivers for it. The news emerges from a freedom of information request by the Telegraph, which describes it as “a blow to ministers”. But is it? The police say that they are allowing an informal period of “education” before they start handing out penalties, following advice from the NSPCC and the Department of Health. Who knows, maybe these figures, which are echoed in the West Midlands, Warwickshire and North Wales, are simply evidence of people obeying the new rules. It is, after all, quite common for some laws to be enforced very patchily, if they are enforced at all. These ones, for example.SpeedingTechnically, the legal speed limit is the legal speed limit, whether it is 20mph or 70mph, but the enlightened view of the Association of Chief Police Officers is that Britain would be more dangerous if drivers were watching their speedometers more than the road. They therefore suggest that forces allow a 10% margin of error before prosecuting. Nor are all speed guns perfectly accurate, so Acpo allow a further 2mph benefit of the doubt. In reality, this means that police won’t normally fine people until they drive at 24mph, 35mph, 46mph, 57mph, 68mph or 79mph. But – beware – they doesn’t mean they can’t.Being drunk in a pubYou might think this is what pubs are for, but the Licensing Act of 1872 is having none of it. “Every person found drunk … on any licensed premises, shall be liable to a penalty,” it says. Furthermore, the Licensing Act of 2003 reaffirms that it is an offence to sell alcohol to a drunk person, and to buy alcohol for a drunk person. You can see what these laws are getting at, even if they are broken in more or less every pub in Britain more or less every day.Carrying a plank along a pavementThere is a lot of claptrap around about crazy laws that supposedly still apply, but this one actually does, at least in London and its environs. It is part of a list of street nuisances described in the Metropolitan Police Act of 1839, which also bans singing indecent songs, sliding on ice, ringing doorbells and running away, and beating a rug or doormat after 8am.Defacing banknotesThose jottings you sometimes see on money – they’re illegal. The Currency and Banknotes Act of 1928 made it an offence to deface a banknote in any way. Strangely, it is not illegal to destroy a banknote altogether, although, according to the Coinage Act of 1971, it is an offence – if you can manage it – to destroy a coin (that was minted after 1969).Queue jumpingMany people would love to see this banned nationally, perhaps with hanging reintroduced as punishment, but for now it is only a Transport for London bylaw, provided there is a sign up. “Any person directed by a notice to queue or asked to queue by an authorised person shall join the rear of the queue and obey the reasonable instructions,” the rules say. TfL also prohibits people from using London’s public transport while “unfit as a result of being drunk or under the influence of controlled drugs”. Few Londoners, I’m sure, have ever unknowingly disobeyed that.Handling salmon in suspicious circumstancesOne from the 1986 Salmon Act, proving that Britain’s modern politicians can still make zany laws. Essentially, it is a fish version of handling stolen goods, where it can be proven that someone either received, looked after or got rid of what they had reason to suspect was a dodgy salmon. It should be explained that in this context, dodgy doesn’t mean it is beginning to smell, just that it was caught illegally. Whether there is currently an epidemic of salmon-handling in Britain, we cannot say.