One of Britain's most notorious conmen has been jailed for three years after posing as the director of public prosecutions in order to target vulnerable women.Paul Bint was found guilty last week of five counts including fraud, theft and driving while disqualified.The court heard that the 47-year-old, known as King Con, had an "appalling record" of similar offences stretching back 30 years.Bint's latest crime spree saw him pose as the DPP, Keir Starmer QC, and as a junior criminal barrister, Jonathan Rees, in order to meet women through the lonely hearts section of a newspaper and the internet.He told victims he was friends with the singer Robbie Williams, had socialised with actor Pierce Brosnan and had at one point been married to actor Sarah Alexander.Bint promised one woman a Caribbean holiday before becoming jealous of a love rival. He then scrawled "bitch" on the side of her home, blaming his adversary, and claimed the man had repeatedly assaulted an ex-girlfriend, before convincing the woman to dump him.By the time Bint's victims realised who he was, the fraudster had misused a credit card belonging to one woman and stolen a bracelet from another.Sentencing him, Judge Deborah Taylor said Bint had misled two women by giving wholly false details about himself."To Miss Penelope Edwards you pretended to be the director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer, and to Miss Vivian Walsh, a barrister called Jonathan Rees," Taylor said."You had all the props for a barrister – a wig, a gown, a bag and court papers. You stole from Miss Walsh – a woman you described in evidence as a lovely person – a most prized piece of jewellery she had bought with insurance money from a fire. You then gave it to Miss Edwards to impress her. You also stole a number of DVDs from Miss Walsh and used Miss Edwards's debit card on one occasion."Police were alerted to Bint's latest use of aliases when he hailed a taxi in his guise as Starmer and told the driver his wallet had been stolen. He promised to pay the next day, but never did. The irate driver went to the offices of the DPP to confront the real Starmer and had to be placated by his secretary.Southwark crown court heard that Bint, of no fixed address, had previously used a variety of false professions and identities – hotelier, aristocrat, ballet dancer, banker, doctor, playboy, police officer and property magnate – had been convicted of 155 offences, and asked for nearly 350 others to be considered.Among Bint's crimes were 44 frauds and kindred crimes, 81 thefts or similar misdemeanours, offences against the person and property, brushes with the law relating to police, courts and prisons, and various miscellaneous matters."You have an appalling record for offences of a very similar nature," Taylor said. "You are clearly a very plausible liar and, as a result, a menace to anyone who comes into contact with you. It may be you do have some will to change, but there has been little sign of it during this trial. Your claims as to your identity have become more grandiose."