In what one Tory MP declared would be "the most important speech on crime in a decade", William Hague called yesterday for a honest debate on law 'n' order. He then proceeded to string together a breathtaking collection of dishonest facts, misrepresentations and plain lies. In his desperation to cash in, he even fouled up his figures and later had to correct them. His most insidious claim was the suggestion that the Macpherson report on the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence had "branded" every Metropolitan police officer a racist. The tabloids - and the Daily Telegraph - will love it. As in earlier moments when he has run into trouble, Mr Hague adopted the tabloids' agenda and then sat back awaiting their adulation. He did not even have to wait for the Sun's. Leaks of the speech ensured that the Sun was salivating even before it was delivered.As yesterday's leaks predicted, Mr Hague zeroed in on Macpherson's conclusion that the Met was suffering from "institutional racism". This, he claimed, had "contributed directly to a collapse of police morale and recruitment". There was no excuse for branding every officer a racist. But as Mr Hague must know, institutional racism means no such thing. There are three forms of racism: overt and intentional; disguised but deliberate; unintentional but adverse. Institutional racism is as much to do with the third as with the first two. This was clearly explained by Macpherson. Only the mischievous would misinterpret it. Next came a dishonest link between the fall in stop and searches in London and the rise in street robberies in the country. Long before Macpherson, the Met was concerned by the disproportionate use of stops of black people - five times the rate for whites. Even before the report's publication, the Met had introduced more effective pilot schemes that reduced the number of black searches. The idea that searches stop street robberies is absurd. Certainly they pick up petty drug users - 60% of all stops find cannabis - but there is no way they can disclose what is in a suspect's mind. As for the impact on arrests, they only account for 10%. Then came the stale old police numbers game. True, police numbers have gone down under Labour, but the start of the dip began - and continued for four years - under the Tories. And as yesterday's Home Office statistics show, they have started to climb again. Thankfully, there never was a golden era of a bobby on every corner. That would have been a waste of manpower. They would have had to wait 35 years to catch a burglar. Numbers at present are 25% higher than 25 years ago. But much more important than crude numbers is police efficiency. Belatedly, this is improving. Mr Hague made no reference to the huge drop in burglary (21%) and car crime (16%) achieved by better locks and bars. To his credit, Charles Clarke, the police minister, conceded yesterday that Macpherson had affected morale. Which service would not have been hurt by such a damning indictment? But the police have moved on. The Met has accepted Macpherson. The chief police officers have accepted it. In the words of their 1998 chairman: racism is like alcoholism -"you can't do anything about your problem until you acknowledge it". On the day Macpherson was published , Mr Hague seemed to have accepted the report with his ringing declaration: "We must all learn the lessons of what went wrong." But since then the Telegraph and tabloids have mounted a backlash. Mr Hague's cave-in before them is a testimony to his weakness.