The chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, today renewed her calls to remove women and girls suffering from severe mental illnesses from the prison system, after finding that yet another jail was unable to provide the help they need.In her report on New Hall prison and young offenders institute, near Wakefield, West Yorkshire, Ms Owers said that staff were doing their best but were unable to provide the right environment for some "very damaged individuals", including women and girls who self-harm.Ms Owers said that prison was likely to increase the vulnerability and distress of those inmates suffering from mental illnesses, sometimes with tragic consequences. Caring for these prisoners meant that prison staff had insufficient time to provide help and support to the less damaged women and girls at the jail. Her inspection, carried out last November, found there had been 124 incidents of self-harm at the jail in the month leading up to the visit. An average of 75 suicide watch forms were opened each month. Over 2002-2003 there were four self-inflicted deaths in the prison, with inspectors witnessing other occasions when staff vigilance had prevented further lives from being lost.Ms Owers said: "New Hall, like other women's prisons inspected recently, is holding girls and women who should not be there. They include those who are seriously mentally ill, as well as some women and girls with high levels of self-harm, linked to abuse, including substance abuse. "Staff at New Hall were doing their best to provide a stable and safe environment but were unable to do more than contain the level of need of some very damaged individuals." "There is an urgent need to provide alternative, therapeutic environments where appropriate treatment and support can be offered."Despite these problems, the inspection found that staff-prisoner relationships were "excellent", with many examples of high quality care identified. Three quarters of prisoners reported that they never felt unsafe.New Hall has the largest number of girls under 18 years old of any prison in England and Wales. Phil Wheatley, director general of the Prison Service, said he welcomed the inspection's praise for prison staff. He said: "As the chief inspector reports, New Hall is a complex prison, which must cope with some very disturbed and demanding prisoners. The report clearly demonstrates why New Hall is one of the best female prisons in the Prison Service." Earlier this week, the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced plans to move all teenage girl prisoners out of adult jails and into specialist units by 2006. Mr Wheatley added that the new units should address many of the problems raised by Ms Ower's report.