A young mother is in a critical condition after being stabbed in the neck as she pushed her two-year-old son in a buggy in a quiet suburban street, police said today.The 26-year-old woman was walking along a private residential street in Little Bookham, Surrey, at about 4.15pm yesterday when a man approached her and attacked her. She was discovered by someone who lived nearby who heard a scream. She was then taken to St George's Hospital in Tooting, south London, where she remains in a critical condition, Surrey police said. The victim has not been named by the police. Her father-in-law, Dr James Witchalls, told Sky News that she was paralysed from the neck down after the attack, although it is not known if this is permanent.Dr Witchalls said: "It was a stab wound that went straight through the vertebrae. We don't know the extent of the injury. She is in a very critical condition."He said she was walking on land that borders common land when a man "confronted her and wanted money". Dr Witchalls said: "There was a commotion and she was stabbed." He said she was not in a condition to say what had happened to her when she was found. The woman's two-year-old son, who was unhurt, is currently being looked after by relatives. The victim's husband is understood to be at St George's hospital with other family members. The police would not comment on a report that they were treating the attack as attempted murder. Officers are appealing for help from the public in tracing the attacker. They do not have a confirmed description, but he is believed to be a white man. Officers are searching the area for a weapon but nothing has yet been found.Chief Superintendent Rob Price, divisional commander for East Surrey, said: "This is obviously a very quiet, suburban, affluent area. This type of serious incident is very, very rare indeed. However, Surrey police are determined to find the offender who committed this crime." Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, who is leading the investigation, said that the street where the attack happened is relatively secluded but that there may have been dog walkers around. He said: "I would like to reassure the local community that this type of attack is extremely rare to this area and there have been no other similar incidents. "We are committing considerable resources to this investigation and extra officers will be in patrol in the area during the day. We are determined to find the person responsible for this horrific incident." The woman, who is from the Bookham area, was wearing a multi-coloured striped top, brown corduroy trousers and grey moccasin shoes when she was attacked. She has brown shoulder-length hair. The buggy was a blue and silver-coloured "Graco" model with a blue hood, two front wheels and one rear wheel. Today, the lane, which leads to three private houses, was sealed off. One resident, Douglas Tribe said the neighbours were very worried and were "all shocked, absolutely shocked".Another local, Anthony Farino said: "I think it's very much a one-off situation which could happen anywhere. We have been here 27 years without such an incident." Anyone with information, particularly those who may have been in the area of Burnhams Road and the adjoining road, Little Bookham Street, or walking in nearby Oaken Wood between 3.30pm and 5pm yesterday, is urged to call Surrey police on 08451 252222.