A two-year-old girl was killed by her mother and boyfriend who left her with fractures to all her limbs, a jury decided today.Sanam Navsarka had sustained 107 "horrific" injuries to her body in a month of violence before her death in May last year, Bradford crown court heard.The toddler's mother, Zahbeena Navsarka, and her boyfriend, Subhan Anwar, both 21, told police they thought she had drowned in the bath after they left her playing alone.Today, Navsarka was jailed for nine years for manslaughter, while Anwar was given a life sentence for Sanam's murder and told he would serve a minimum of 23 years. Navsarka was cleared of murder. At the beginning of the trial she pleaded guilty to failing to protect her daughter.The court heard how "vulnerable and defenceless" Sanam deteriorated over four weeks and died in severe pain, but to avoid being found out the defendants did not seek medical help. "Humanity has let her down," said the judge, Peter Thornton QC, adding that the "deliberate cruelty" of the two defendants was "beyond belief".Sanam was hit with a metal rod and had aftershave squirted on her open nappy-rash wounds in an attempt to stop them bleeding, the jury was told. She was left in agony – unable to walk, use her hands properly or breathe normally. If she cried, she was punished and left in a cupboard without a light on, the court heard. At one point a metal pole was used to shatter her leg.The judge, Peter Thornton QC, today said Navsarka knew what was being done to her child but "you did nothing, absolutely nothing. That is unbelievable. It is also incredibly cruel. This was a gross abuse of trust by you as a mother. You selfishly put yourself and relationship with Anwar before your child."During the trial, the jury watched a mobile phone video, taken by Anwar, of the child on 7 May last year, the day before she died. She was shown lying listless on the floor, her arms shaking constantly by the side of her head.The jury of six men and six women were told how, on the day of Sanam's death, the defendants left her alone and dying in their house while they went to register with their GP. Tiny handprints and bloodstains were found inside cupboards at the home in Huddersfield and also at a former property on Howley Walk, Batley, West Yorkshire.Anwar, who was not Sanam's father, admitted to police after his arrest that he put the girl in the cupboard as punishment and said Navsarka punished her in the same way.When the couple were interviewed by police after Sanam's death, they blamed each other for the injuries. Each claimed to be frightened of the other.Sanam had 107 separate external injuries when she died. Both her thigh bones had been fractured, causing fatty deposits to enter her bloodstream and kill her. She had fractures to both her arms.The couple claimed Sanam had stopped breathing after they left her alone in the bath for 10 minutes and returned to find her under the water. But a pathologist who conducted a postmortem examination on Sanam ruled out drowning.The court heard that Sanam was a healthy, happy child until shortly before her death. A former social worker, Sarah Lazenby-Wood, told the trial she visited Sanam's home nine months before her death and did not see any injuries.Other council employees working in care or health departments said they saw Sanam as a normal little girl with no problems. Sally Scott, from the Looked After Children team, told the court of a meeting with the family on 18 April last year: "There was nothing in the child's behaviour that made me think she was in physical discomfort."Julian Goose QC, prosecuting, told the jury: "Sanam had been in a great deal of pain and distress over a long period leading up to her death. Her pain and discomfort would have been obvious to anyone who saw her, let alone who lived with her."No doubt Sanam, as a two-year-old child, looked to both defendants … to help her and to protect her. Neither defendant did anything to assist or save Sanam from the horrific injuries that she received. Those injuries were not caused during a brief and singular episode of violence by an adult upon a small child."