An 18-year-old who was stabbed yards from his home has become the 21st teenager to be killed in London this year.Frederick Moody was knifed in the stomach on Thursday evening, and though he managed to stumble down the road, he collapsed from his wounds and later died in hospital.Moody is the fifth teenager to die in a knife attack in the capital in less than a month and news of his killing came as the funeral of one of the other victims, Ben Kinsella, took place a few miles away.Friends of Kinsella, who died last month during a night out celebrating the end of his GCSEs, wore fancy dress and T-shirts bearing anti-knife crime slogans to the funeral and his sister, former EastEnders star Brooke Kinsella, appealed for an end to teenage violence. "Do something now to make sure your brother, sister, son or best friend's life doesn't end the same awful way," she said. "The problem is far worse than imagined. It's why we have to act so quickly. We have to inform youngsters and parents of the brutal truth and work hard, right now, to get rid of this menace."The first set of statistics concerning knife crime released this week showed that there were more than 22,000 knife attacks in the past year - one every 24 minutes. Close to one in five of all violent attacks is carried out with a knife, and the figure excludes the numbers of offenders found in possession of a knife. More than 55% of gun and knife attacks happened in inner-city areas of London, Birmingham and Manchester.Yesterday detectives investigating Moody's death said they had arrested a 16-year-old boy in Brixton.Moody, who lived with his parents Mary and Kofi and three-year-old sister Tamara, was found with stab wounds just after 7pm on Thursday. He was taken to St Thomas' hospital but died an hour later. Vida Oblitey, 52, who described Moody as like a son to her, said she had been with his mother when he died. She said: "Freddy was a very handsome boy, a lovely boy, and whoever has done this has taken the only son away from a very happy family. His mother was like a sister to me and he was like a son to me. It is the most unbelievable loss. You hear about these attacks on the news, but until it happens to you no one can understand what it is like."Detectives said up to eight men wearing hooded tops were involved in the attack. One teenager, who claimed to have been at the scene shortly before the attack took place, said a large number of teenagers had been involved in a play water fight.Moody dropped out of a one-year BTec first diploma course in business studies at Kingston college last November, and yesterday friends and fellow students posted tributes on social networking websites. Courtney Mathurin, 18, wrote: "Damn Freddy, it's hard to hear about what's happened, it's like a bullet to the heart. U were an all around kool guy, why did they have to take ur life? know 1 thing we will always remember you, look over us & remember what i said we will be friends till the end no matter what." The site carried a picture of Moody posing in front of a car with a bottle of vodka. It was headed: "In memory of Freddy. We all miss you, no one will ever forget you, you're in a better place now. Look after us from above. We all love you, may you rest in peace. Love from everyone."