Around 500 protesters marched through the town of Bideford, north Devon to "reclaim" it from antisocial behaviour. Friends and supporters of a man who remains in hospital after he was seriously assaulted last month led the demonstration.Two men have been arrested in connection with the attack on 26-year-old Steven Cloak, who was left with serious head injuries.Local people rallied to the march after wellwishers set up a Facebook group called "Reclaim Bideford for Steven Cloak". A banner held aloft by participants read: "Say This Escalating Violence Stops Now For Steven."Relatives of Cloak say that some people are frightened to walk the streets at night. The large procession began in Victoria Park and was completed in under an hour without incident, said Devon and Cornwall police. Several people wore T-shirts bearing a picture of Cloak's face to complete the walk, which also took in the street where he was attacked.Sarah Ure, one of the organisers, wrote on Facebook after the march: "I would like to personally thank everyone that made it today, we are so grateful for all of the support and will keep you all up to date on any progress made that comes from talks with the council and police."Another supporter, Michael Syvret, wrote: "What a spectacle – I am proud to be a Bidefordian."The march through Bideford went smoothly, the weather payed respect to all attending. Everyone was smiling, chatting and happy to be a part of "Reclaiming Bideford for Steven Cloak". "Hopefully you/we/all have been heard."Sergeant Kevin Connar of Devon and Cornwall Police said: "Local police support the spirit of the march and support the event entirely."We are looking at ways to increase people's confidence surrounding the use of the night-time economy. Bideford is still an incredibly safe place to live but attacks are never, ever to be tolerated."Marchers gathering beforehand were addressed by Inspector Sean Keneally of Bideford police. He told the BBC earlier the town had seen four attacks in the town in the past month but none as serious as the attack on Cloak.Cloak underwent surgery following the assault in the early hours of February 27 in which he suffered a skull fracture. After he was found unconscious at the scene of the assault, in the Pitt Lane area of Bideford, he was taken to North Devon District Hospital but was then immediately transferred to intensive care at Derriford Hospital in Plymouth. His stepfather said that on the evening of the attack he had been out to a friend's house to play cards.