The new wing of Somerset House in London is almost certain to be earmarked as the home for the new UK supreme court if reforms establishing the court get through parliament.Yesterday a committee of peers set up to examine the constitutional reform package said it had been unable to agree on whether a supreme court should be created in place of the House of Lords appellate committee as the UK's highest court.The 16-strong select committee - the first to be set up to examine a government bill since 1975 - also failed to reach agreement on the other central plank of the package, the abolition of the historic office of lord chancellor. But the committee agreed more than 400 amendments to the constitutional reform bill, which will go to a committee of the whole house on July 13. The constitutional affairs secretary, Lord Falconer, pledged yesterday to "pursue these reforms fully". But Lord Howe, the former Conservative chancellor and foreign secretary, and a member of the select committee, predicted that the government would face "a very serious struggle to get it through". Somerset House on the Strand in central London is the building favoured by Lord Bingham, the senior law lord, who opposes the only other live option, Middlesex Guildhall on Parliament Square. It has emerged that the main stumbling block to the conversion of the new wing at Somerset House - the refusal of the Inland Revenue chairman, Sir Nicholas Montague, to move staff housed there - has been removed by his recent retirement. A merger between the Inland Revenue and Customs & Excise, with resulting staff cuts, will also ease pressure on office space. The committee was also unable to reach a consensus on whether the setting up of the supreme court should be delayed until permanent premises were ready. A likely solution would be to pass the legislation setting up the court but delay bringing it into effect. The peers did agree on the need for a new independent judicial appointments commission to select judges. They have amended to bill to provide that a selection committee should put forward only one name when a vacancy arises for a supreme court judge, not between two and five names as the government proposed. Lord Richard, who chaired the select committee, said the peers had "cleared the way" for the establishment of the supreme court. "We have been through an awful lot of the mechanics of how it will work, its membership and how the Scots will fit in." The Labour peer, a former leader of the House of Lords, refused to speculate on the reaction the bill would receive. The committee comprised five Labour peers, including Lord Falconer, five Tories, three Liberal Democrats and three crossbenchers, including Lord Lloyd of Berwick, a former law lord. The Commission for Judicial Appointments, the watchdog which oversees the current appointments system, criticised the peers' failure to insist that the new process for selecting judges should be audited. Its head, Sir Colin Campbell, said: "While we welcome the creation of an independent judicial appointments commission, the current proposals are flawed. We are most disappointed at the decision not to allow for auditing oversight of the judicial appointments process."