A long-awaited second inquest opened today into the deaths of 13 black youngsters in a house fire more than 20 years ago.The first inquest into the deaths returned open verdicts but the circumstances surrounding the cause of the blaze have never been fully established and it has been suggested that it may have been arson.Relatives of the victims crowded into a small courtroom for the hearing after fighting a lengthy campaign for a fresh investigation. They had been attending a joint birthday party at a house in New Cross Road, Deptford, south-east London, on January 18 1981 when the fire broke out. At the start of the hearing at Inner London crown court, the coroner's officer read the names of the 13 victims. The youngest person who died was just 14, with most others in their teens.Retired judge Gerald Butler QC then began his opening statement detailing the background of the case.Judge Butler, who has been appointed the deputy coroner especially for the inquest, told the court that the 13 young black men and women died when a fire broke out at 439 New Cross Road in south-east London in the early hours of January 18 1981 at the end of birthday celebrations that began the evening before. He referred to a 14th death - Anthony Berbeck - whom he described as dying "following the trauma brought on by the fire". The coroner said the first inquest - which began on April 21 1981 and ended the following month - returned an open verdict. He said one attempt through the high court to obtain a second inquest was rejected but a second application was granted later on. "It was said that there was important new scientific evidence that should be investigated," he said. He added: "It was said that the interest of justice demanded there be a new inquest." The open verdicts from the first inquest were greeted with widespread concern. At one stage the blaze was blamed on racists, but this claim was discounted by the police and some of the relatives of the dead.Police now believe the fire started in an armchair in the living room of the house but it is not clear whether it was accidental or deliberately started. The tiny courtroom, filled with up to 50 relatives of the deceased, was lined with numerous blue box files of documents relating to the case. The lengthy inquest, expected to last three months, is believed to be set to feature more than 100 witnesses.Earlier today, Lewisham Deptford Labour MP Joan Ruddock, who has long campaigned for a fresh inquest, said the families of those who died still felt a deep sense of injustice over the official response to the tragedy. "It is very important that this inquest is held," she told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme. "They know that somebody or some people know the truth about what happened on that fateful day and they want the truth to come out."