For the first time in English criminal history, a miscarriage of justice was yesterday resolved when a defendant pleaded guilty to murder.At Cardiff crown court Jeffrey Gafoor, 37, admitted killing Lynette White in 1988 after DNA evidence linked him to the crime. The judge, Mr Justice Royce, sentenced him to life imprisonment. Tony Paris, Yusef Abdullahi and Stephen Miller, known as the Cardiff Three, had been convicted of the murder. Never before have the real perpetrators of a crime been tried and convicted after a previous miscarriage of justice. It is unlikely that this case would have been reopened without the persistence of Satish Sekar, a legal journalist and the author of Fitted In, a book about the case. He realised that the forensic science work was misleading and that sufficient DNA material remained for further tests to be carried out. But it was not until January 2002, after the development of the SGM+ test (giving a 10- point DNA profile), that Angela Gallop, of Forensic Alliance (who had not been involved with the original case), was able to obtain a crime-scene DNA profile. In February 2003 this was partially matched with the profile of a 14-year-old boy on the national DNA database. It was realised that the murderer was a close relative of the boy and, after fresh investigations by South Wales police, Gafoor was charged. He had not been a suspect. Yesterday Gafoor's former landlord spoke of the lengths the murderer had gone to in the years after the crime to avoid company. He worked as a security guard at night, and in the day was very private. Barrie James, who rented a flat in Cardiff to Gafoor for three years until 2000, described him as "a loner who seemed a bit tormented. He would only speak to you out of necessity. "My front door was only three metres away, but he would never dream of coming round to pay the rent personally; he preferred to get in his car and drive almost a mile to the nearest letter box and post it to me instead," Mr James said. The case will now focus attention on the shortcomings of the original investigation and trial process, in which the court of appeal found there were serious failings at every stage. The crown prosecution service ignored many of its own guidelines in allowing the case to proceed to trial. The two trial judges then admitted inadmissible evidence. At the time the Cardiff Three were released in December 1992 the then lord chief justice, Lord Taylor, said that "it was hard to conceive of a more hostile or intimidating approach by officers to a suspect. It is impossible to convey on the printed page the pace, force and menace of the officers' delivery." Lord Taylor went on to say that one of the convicted men had been "bullied and hectored" until he confessed. "In my opinion this crime was unsolvable at the time," said Mr Sekar. "It needed the development of fresh DNA systems. "Had it remained unsolved originally it would have been better for the Cardiff Three, the victim's family and the people of south Wales. "Although South Wales police did a thorough job in this re-investigation, that doesn't excuse the previous investigation and the criminal justice system as a whole for failing to prevent this debacle." Mr Paris said outside the court: "I'm happy that South Wales police have done their job second time around. We were set up by the police, who got people to lie to put us in jail. "Now the world knows we were right and we never did anything. Are the original officers going to be allowed to retire and enjoy their pensions?" Chief Supt Wynne Phillips, head of South Wales serious crime squad, said: "Clearly there is some work to do now in terms of looking back at the original trial. The inquiry into that trial which is being carried out in conjunction with the crown prosecution service is ongoing and, for that reason, it would be inappropriate to discuss the matter further. "However, we must not forget that this has been an excellent piece of detective work which has led to the conviction today."