Danielle Beccan's mother, Paula Platt, 32, has spent the last year attempting to come to terms with her daughter's death. She described her as "bright, bubbly, very intelligent and very capable of moving on and achieving great things"."I don't want to paint a picture of a perfect child: but she was beautiful," she said. "She was the girl next door that everyone knows - a friendly, happy girl."There's not a day goes past - not even an hour goes past - when I don't think of Danielle. The simplest things remind me of her."It could be when she is in a supermarket and sees a carton of yoghurt Danielle used to like, or walking down the road behind a young girl that resembles her. She has broken down twice while out shopping. "There's just this enormous sense of loss - a cloud that comes over you," she said.The family has left St Ann's. Ms Platt said she had wanted to move long before the murder, but couldn't get on the property ladder."We wanted to raise our children in an environment that was less problematic," she said. "We didn't want them to think it was normal to see people being chased by the police every day or drug dealers on the corner of the street. I didn't want them thinking that was normal life. That was why we had to get away."Living in St Ann's, we used to see a lot of teenagers with no hope. They had absolutely no expectation for the future. The thought of going to college or university was totally alien to them."She said she wanted Danielle's killing to shock the community into a realisation that life can be too short, but more recently they had become complacent again. The gangs are back on the streets."I hoped Danielle would be the last - but I knew she wouldn't be and I was proved right. As a Christian, I'm supposed to be able to forgive. Again, that is something I find very difficult to do. But I believe in justice, not revenge."A month after the murder, thousands of people across Nottingham observed a minute's silence in memory of Danielle, and a poster campaign - Not In My City - was launched urging people to turn their backs on gun crime.In recent years, Nottingham has gained a reputation for gun crime after the shooting of the jeweller Marion Bates, followed by the murders of John and Joan Stirland, who had escaped the city and were shot dead while hiding in Lincolnshire.The last fatal shooting was in March when Paul Thomas was killed: three men have been charged with murder.The killings have fuelled fears that the city has been blighted with 'super thugs', criminals who command minions to do their bidding while plundering millions of pounds from narcotics.Jamaican Yardies, many who repeatedly thwart deportation attempts, also have a strong foothold in the city's heroin and crack cocaine market.Detective Superintendent Kevin Flint, who led the investigation, said it was "horrendous" that a 14-year-old girl had been shot and killed on the streets of the city. He praised the young witnesses for their bravery in speaking to the police despite peer pressure not to.Emphasising that Danielle had done nothing wrong, he said: "She went to the Goose Fair with a group of friends and never came back. It is pure speculation on my part at the moment as to why the offenders did what they did. I have no evidence to suggest that Danielle was a specific target.""Words cannot explain what sort of person would fire at young people, reckless to the carnage that might cause. The people that have done this have no respect for life and the consequences of their actions, none whatsoever. They have never shown any remorse, they have made no admissions as to their involvement."The one thing that sticks in my mind is the picture of Danielle as a young girl - perhaps 14 or 12 - the picture of innocence. She is not here anymore. The people who carried out this offence had no regard for cutting off the life of a young girl."