The following correction was published in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Friday December 14 2007Only one member of the Metropolitan police authority is appointed directly by the home secretary, contrary to the impression we gave in the article below. The remaining six independent members are appointed by the authority after a selection process that includes consultation with the Home Office.Sir Ian Blair yesterday insisted he was not a "lame duck" commissioner after the Metropolitan police authority voted down a motion to fire him despite Conservative and Lib Dem opposition.The 23 members of authority spent nearly five hours debating the future of the commissioner, with Blair present as he was both praised and savaged.The MPA voted by 15 votes to seven against a no-confidence motion. The Conservative and Liberal Democrat majority of the elected members voted for Blair's dismissal. He was saved by Labour and independent and magistrate members appointed by the government.Blair and his allies hope the vote will allow him to get on with his job free from the frenetic atmosphere that has dogged the commissioner since the Met was found guilty earlier this month of catastrophic failings that led to it killing Jean Charles de Menezes, who was shot on July 22 2005 at Stockwell underground station after being mistaken for a suicide bomber who had tried to attack the capital's transport network the previous day.The vote does not end Blair's troubles. One person who voted for him, magistrate member Rachel Whittaker, said he should "search his conscience" as to whether he had the full support of his frontline officers and senior managers.A senior Met insider said it was embarrassing that the commissioner had to face such a vote, and that a third of the authority believed he should go. Blair's allies accept that his next blunder will see his commissionership terminated.It was also revealed yesterday that the full cost of Blair's decision to fight the health and safety charge the Met faced over De Menezes's death was £1.2m.After it became clear he would win the vote, Blair said: "I am not a lame duck commissioner. I am not in the position of being in office but not in power."A fortnight ago Blair said he had given up reading the newspapers. Referring to one which claimed he lacked any honour, Blair said: "I am a man of honour. If I believed what had happened in this case was appropriate for the resignation of the commissioner, I would have gone. I would not have offered my resignation. I would have resigned."Bob Neill, a Tory, backed the no-confidence motion, saying: "Sometimes an incident happens that is so grave and catastrophic that it can only be adequately recognised, particularly as a corporate failing, by the person at the top taking responsibility."The MPA could have dismissed Blair only if the home secretary had agreed.De Menezes's cousin Erionaldo da Silva said: "We believe Ian Blair's position is untenable and we have no confidence in him. We do not believe that this vote resolves the main issues on this case." The family now wants the inquest into De Menezes's death held as soon as possible.A fortnight ago the London assembly, with a Liberal Democrat and Tory majority, voted for Blair's removal.