Rape conviction rates are at an all-time low despite efforts by the government, police and prosecutors to improve performance, according to Home Office research.A long-awaited study into the attrition rates, whereby reported rape cases are lost from the legal process, in England and Wales was published yesterday revealing there has been no improvement in the record of low convictions. Around 6% of reported rape offences resulted in a conviction in a sample of 676 cases from eight police forces in 2003-04.The report points out that taking into account convictions for lesser offences, such as indecent assault, lifts the conviction rate to 13%. But for rape convictions the 6% figure is little changed from the record low of 5.5% conviction rate published two years ago by the Home Office.This compares with conviction rates of up to 32% in the 1970s. The lack of improvement in the past two years is despite efforts by the government, police and prosecutors to examine why conviction rates are so low. In January it was announced that a nationwide network of specialist rape prosecutors was to be set up in response to a report which revealed that victims had only a one in 20 chance of seeing their attacker convicted.In the latest study, which took in cases from eight police forces, three of which had a record of high detection rates and two of low detection rates, it emerged that as well as the low conviction rate there is a huge attrition rate. Most cases are lost from the criminal justice system between the report of the crime and the charge. The most common reasons the report found for the failure to charge were insufficient evidence - in 40% of cases - and the victim withdrawing her complaint, in 35% of cases.Where the victim withdrew support for the process the most common reasons were not wishing to go through with the investigative or court process and the victim wanting to move on.Just under one-quarter of offences reached crown court and fewer than six in 10 of these resulted in conviction. The report has been long awaited after a study two years ago, A Gap or a Chasm, by researchers at London Metropolitan University, revealed that rape conviction rates had reached an all-time low because of a culture of scepticism among the police.In the latest report of the original sample of 676 cases 15% were "no crimed", 8% because police established the allegations were false, primarily through the victim's own admission. The report says that improved victim care, better communication and addressing concerns of fear and reprisal, would help to minimise the number of cases which were dropped.The report was commissioned to address concerns about the reduction in detection rates for all sexual offences since 1997. As detection rates have fallen reports of rapes have risen dramatically, partly as a result of high-profile campaigns to encourage victims to come forward. Recorded rapes of women rose from 6,281 in 1997 to 12,354 in 2003-04.Of the sample of 676 cases women aged between 16 and 25 accounted for the largest single group. Stranger rapes accounted for 14%, with a quarter of cases committed by acquaintances. One-fifth involved assaults by partners or ex-partners and more than two-thirds took place in victims' homes.