The family of nursery teacher Sabrina Moss have spoken of their heartache and emptiness after she was shot dead while celebrating her 24th birthday."Words can't describe my pain and this pain is with me forever," her partner, Arron, said.A week before Moss was shot in Kilburn, north London, on 24 August, the couple had moved into a new home with their young son."Sabrina was loved by everyone but for me and my son it was beyond love and words, she was our life," her partner said. "She was our world and now it's empty and always will be for the rest of our lives."Sabrina and I went through so much together from a young age but we always used to tell each other no matter what happens we will build that perfect family for our son and for all her dreams to be taken away at such a young age kills me every day."Moss was shot in the chest and another woman, Sabrina Gachette, also 24, remains in hospital with a gunshot wound. Her condition is not life-threatening.Police believe the pair were in the wrong place at the wrong time when they were injured.Moss was described as a wonderful mother, partner, daughter and sister by her family in a statement."We miss her every day and we would love to have her back. Her son was her world and he has been left without a mummy. She will not be there for his first day at school, his first school play and his first girlfriend. But he will know that mummy loved him very much."The family added: "It was her birthday and she was having a good time. She did not deserve to die. I urge anyone to come forward with any information no matter how big or small it is. We can't get her back but we can tell her son that the right thing has been done."She was very caring and would do anything for those she loved and cared about."Sabrina was very fun loving and she had great plans for the future. She wanted to have a career in youth work and wanted to help those who didn't think they had a future."I will miss the Valentine's Day tweets - where she would say happy Valentine's Day sis. I'm going to miss the pictures of her pulling silly faces and I'm going to miss her pranks."She had a great sense of humour and we are going to miss every aspect of her honesty and her fun."Martell Warren, 22, has appeared at Highbury Corner magistrates court charged with murder. He was remanded in custody and will appear at the Old Bailey on a date to be fixed.