A body found yesterday in a Hampshire wood is almost certainly that of missing teenager Amanda "Milly" Dowler, detectives said this evening.Hampshire and Surrey police said dental records examined by a forensic expert had confirmed their "worst fears" for the missing 13-year-old schoolgirl. "We can now confirm the results of the examination show that [the remains] are almost certainly those of missing Amanda," Detective Superintendent Alan Betts said.Family liaison officers informed Milly's parents, Bob and Sally Dowler, of the findings half an hour before police broke the news to reporters. The teenager's decomposed remains were discovered yesterday by passersby at Yateley Heath Forest, near Fleet. Hampshire police have now handed over the investigation to detectives in Surrey, who have been searching for Milly since she disappeared on her way home from school on March 21. Detective Chief Superintendent Craig Denholm, of Surrey police, said: "Our thoughts and sympathies are with Milly's family at this difficult time. They've been kept fully informed of developments."Our worst fears have been confirmed, and I can now tell you the search for Milly has changed from a missing person inquiry to a murder investigation," he said."My team and I remain committed, as we always have been, to finding what exactly happened to Milly. We are now much closer to discovering that and to bringing the person or persons to justice," Det Ch Supt Denholm added. In a television interview due to be broadcast today, Ms Dowler said she believed her daughter had been killed."I know she's been abducted and murdered. I've been through every possible scenario and played them through time and time again. But that's the only one I end up at," she told the Tonight with Trevor McDonald programme.Det Supt Betts, a senior investigating officer with Hampshire police, said earlier today that a full forensic examination of the scene and the surrounding area will be carried out to recover any evidence. Earlier police closed the road next to the site where the remains were found. A large number of police officers were at the site, either guarding access or involved in searches.After this evening's press conference, Det Supt Betts said no further police activity would take place at the site today.