Judges could give killers longer jail sentences after hearing about the impact of their crimes, Harriet Harman, the constitutional affairs minister, said yesterday as she published a consultation paper on allowing bereaved relatives to have their say in court.Senior police officials and the families of murder and manslaughter victims welcomed the consultation and pilot scheme, which would allow relatives to explain how the crime has affected them.Ms Harman conceded that the costs were unclear at a time when legal aid budgets are already under severe pressure.Under the new scheme, relatives would be able to speak to the judge after the conviction of the killer, but before the sentencing.A lawyer or another representative could read their comments if they preferred.A similar scheme exists in the United States, where relatives of murder victims are able to read out a prepared statement in court before sentencing.Written victim impact statements can already be submitted in England and Wales. But families complain that lawyers and judges do not always refer to the documents."Bereaved relatives sometimes feel they are completely excluded from the system," said Ms Harman.Asked whether the comments would affect sentences, she said: "It might do."She added: "If it means the sentence is higher on a manslaughter than it might otherwise have been in the first instance without hearing from the victim's relatives, I think that would be a good thing and that would be right."Ms Harman continued: "Judges are well used to dealing with circumstances where, because of the seriousness of the crime, emotions run high, and we have every confidence that they will be able to handle this modest proposal."But the minister said that the primary impact of the scheme would be to help relatives feel included. "It's not a legal or technical issue, but a human issue."The pilot scheme, which will operate in five areas, will apply to the families of murder and manslaughter victims, but not to the relatives of those killed by dangerous drivers or to rape victims.Ms Harman pointed out that victims of other crimes were usually witnesses in cases and stressed the scheme could be extended. She highlighted other measures introduced to support victims of rape.Rose Dixon, from the Home Office-funded Support After Murder and Manslaughter (Samm) group, said members embraced the plans.But Victim Support, which broadly welcomed the move, said that it would be concerned if statements were able to influence the length of sentence.Janet Paraskeva, chief executive of the Law Society, questioned whether the scheme was appropriate or necessary and how it would be paid for.'What I say is: you don't deserve to live'· BTK killer Dennis Rader received 10 life sentences in August. Victims' families spoke at the sentencing hearing.Beverly Plapp, sister of Nancy Fox: "As far as I'm concerned, Dennis Rader does not deserve to live. I want him to suffer as much as he made his victims suffer. Nancy's death is a like a deep wound that will never, ever heal. This man needs to be thrown in a deep, dark hole and left to rot. He should never, ever see the light of day."Kevin Bright, brother of victim Kathryn Bright: "No remorse, no compassion - he had no mercy. I think that's what he ought to receive."Jeffrey Davis, son of Delores Davis: "This world would have been much better off had your mother aborted your demon soul."Carmen Otero Montoya, whose parents, sister and brother died: "My mother against your gun, you are such a coward. Rader is an appropriate name for you, as in one who invades, a surprise attack. That is nothing to be proud of."· Scott Peterson was sentenced to death in March for killing his wife Laci and unborn son Conner in 2002.Sharon Rocha, Laci's mother, said: "I miss her. I want to know my grandson. I want Laci to be a mother. I want to hear her called 'Mom'. On the first Mother's Day after she was killed, I laid on the floor and cried most of the day. Because she should have been there, and should have been a mother also. She gave me a picture of the sonogram; it's the only picture I have of the baby."I'll never meet my grandson. I'm left to wonder what costume would Laci get him for his first Halloween? Would he cry when he got his picture taken with Santa?"[Speaking as Laci] "I trusted you, I believed in you, you promised to take care of me. I want to be your wife and the mother of your baby. Scott, I want to live. I don't want to die. Please stop, please stop, I don't want to die."[Speaking as Conner] "Daddy, why are you killing Mommy and me? I don't know you yet, but I love you."Katy Heslop