Labour will try to shore up its law and order credentials tomorrow when it promises extra cash to help schools reduce truancy by introducing electronic registration and extra police around schools.Downing Street has been struck by the clear links between schools suffering high levels of truancy and 33 crime hot spots. The money will be spent on three schools in each of these crime areas. The £90m cash, announced in outline in the budget, will be devoted to those local education authorities with above average levels of truancy. Police liaison officers in each of the 99 secondary schools would try to prevent crime by youngsters, especially straight after school hours and during lunch breaks.The money will also be used to increase the number of pupil referral places, amid fears that the government might not be able to meet its pledge to ensure all excluded children get an education. Electronic registration schemes will allow schools to keep track of pupils, not just at the start of the day, but also between classes. Ministers have already set aside £11m from the capital modernisation fund to develop electronic registration. Schools with lower than average levels of attendance are also being asked to agree targets with local education authorities for the next two years. And summer training programmes and education for those excluded for short periods will prevent pupils being pushed on to the street.Local education authorities can already impose school attendance orders. A pilot scheme involving extra police, supported by David Blunkett, the home secretary, has been running in some secondary schools in Southwark, south London, where 10 year-old Damilola Taylor was allegedly murdered. Attacks on pupils at the Church of England comprehensive Archbishop Michael Ramsey Technology College, in Camberwell, south London, fell after the secondary school got a permanent police officer last year. In the first three months after the officer's arrival, staff had to call the emergency services only twice for assaults on pupils - down from nearly 40 times during the previous four months. Local education authorities can already impose school attendance orders, which are served on the parents. The police also have the power to do truancy sweeps. Research shows that children who do not go to school regularly are four times more likely to turn to crime. The Metropolitan police have been warning that there are inner city school-age children, many of whom have suffered violence or sexual abuse, who are without parental control and often excluded from school. Separate research for the youth justice board shows there has been no surge in offending by 11 to 16-year-olds who are in school. But for children excluded from school, offending is increasing. The board has warned of "worrying levels of crime", not only in schools but also en route to and from school. As many as 60% of children surveyed were worried about physical intimidation. The government has mounted several initiatives to crack down on youth crime, using tagging as well as intensive supervision and surveillance programmes whereby youths are tagged, live at home under curfew and get organised activities and classes. Currently 95 of the most serious teenage offenders in London are subject to this programme with its 30 hours of supervision a week.