The prisoner on remand who died in her cell last month wrote to her family to say she had been sexually assaulted while receiving treatment at a secure mental health unit. Sarah Reed, 32, was charged with grievous bodily harm with intent over the incident in 2014 after striking back at her alleged abuser. She was bailed and under the care of a community mental health team while her trial was heard. But in October 2015 she was unexpectedly placed on remand at Holloway prison, north London, where she was found dead on 11 January.Reed’s family, who she wrote to from jail, insist that she was acting in self defence. Campaigners have said that Reed should never have been kept in custody because of her mental health issues and experience of police brutality. The slowly emerging details of the case have raised questions about how people with mental health problems are treated by the justice system. Reed had suffered serious mental illness since the death of a child in 2003 and had been in and out of secure mental health units.She had also been at the centre of a police brutality case, in which a Metropolitan police constable grabbed her hair and beat her around the head with his fist. He was later found guilty of assault, sacked from the force and sentenced to community service over the incident in 2012.In the days following her arrest last October, Reed sent a handwritten letter to her family in which she said she had suffered a sexual assault while detained under Section 3 of the Mental Health Act at the Maudsley hospital in south London.Woman assaulted by PC who lost his job found dead in Holloway cell According to Lee Jasper, the civil rights campaigner who is acting as a media liaison for the family, Reed said she had been grabbed by a “dirty pervert”, an elderly white man who was also a patient at the unit. She says she struck back in retaliation and was arrested on 12 October.Reed was charged with GBH with intent over the incident. She subsequently appeared at Camberwell Green magistrates court where she was remanded in custody at Holloway ahead of her trial at Inner London crown court.It is understood the decision to transfer her from hospital to prison would have been taken by a medical expert from the local health authority, rather than a judge or prison service official.Reed’s case was ongoing when she was found unresponsive in her cell on 11 January. “Prison staff attempted CPR, but she was pronounced dead shortly after,” a prison service spokesperson said, adding that the case was now under investigation by the independent Prisons and Probation Ombudsman.The prison service have declined to comment on the case while the investigation is ongoing. A spokeswoman for the Maudsley said she would neither confirm nor deny whether Reed was a patient there.Campaigners are now asking why a woman who had been in and out of secure mental health units found herself in a prison notorious for overcrowding and self-harm among inmates. Deborah Coles, director of Inquest, the deaths in custody charity working with Reed’s family, said: “This death is a damning indictment of a criminal justice system that imprisons an extremely vulnerable black women with mental health problems and fails to keep her safe.“The courts, police and mental health services must be held to account for why Sarah as a victim of abuse, bereavement and police brutality ever ended up in prison in the first place.“The persistent theme running though Inquest’s work with the families of women who have died in prison is the lamentable failure to divert women from prison and into community alternatives.“Jasper said the treatment of Reed was a just an example of discrimination that people of colour face when they find themselves involved with mental health services.He said: “There is a crisis within the criminal justice system in the way institutionalised discrimination impacts upon those suffering with mental ill-health.“Government, the National Health Service and the Ministry of Justice really do need to do much more to tackle the scandal of inappropriate mental health detention in prisons. Sarah’s tragic story shows how a vulnerable person can become profoundly victimised as a consequence of institutional racism and neglect.”Writing for the Guardian on Thursday, Frances Crook of the Howard League for Penal Reform said: “Sarah Reed was let down by the police, the courts and the prison system. But there will be no official review that covers all of these threads of responsibility.“There will be an inquest that will only look at the circumstances around her death. There will be an investigation by the prisons and probation ombudsman that will look at how she died in prison. No one will look beyond that at the downward spiral of events that led to this tragedy.”The subheading of this article was amended on 5 February 2016. Reed died in prison, not in police custody. This has been corrected.• This article was amended on 17 February 2016. An earlier version said that Sarah Reed was charged with grievous bodily harm with intent in October [2015]. It also said that “rather than being released back into a secure hospital, she was held on remand in Holloway prison”. This has been corrected.