A boy who knifed a takeaway worker after being refused a £1 pizza one hour after a special offer ended was yesterday found guilty of murder at the Old Bailey.The boy, who was 13 when he stabbed Noor Kasimi, 32, outside a fast food shop in north London, claimed he was acting in self-defence after a row about toppings and a discounted pizza. Mr Kasimi had worked in the shop in Holloway Road for only five days.Now 14, the boy, who cannot be named because of his age, was unanimously convicted by the jury, who heard that he and two friends had entered the Twin Star takeaway and aggressively demanded the special offer. He will be sentenced at a later date.It was revealed after the judgment that the boy had committed a number of violent crimes with knives and other weapons. He had been found guilty of common assault in 2003, was expelled from school after attacking his teacher with a hammer and a handsaw, and was arrested five times in the months before the murder in connection with knifepoint robberies of mobile phones.Sallie Bennett-Jenkins, prosecuting, said the boy had entered the shop last September with two friends shortly after 7pm. The special offer had ended at 6pm. "Within moments of being in the pizza shop trouble was being caused. He wanted the special offer. Understandably, you may think, the owner said 'no'."He then said he wanted a free pizza. He was told 'no'. He began to shout and swear. He threatened to stab the owner."One of his friends warned the staff: "Don't try to fuck with him, he has got a knife in his pocket."The boy was asked to leave, but hit out at the owner, then pulled the knife from his pocket and tried to stab him. The staff tried to defend themselves by grabbing a stool and a broom and forcing the boy and his friends from the shop."Mr Kasimi, the man who was killed, understandably and bravely tried to help, and between them the pizza shop employees tried to drive the defendant backwards," Ms Bennett-Jenkins said.On the street Mr Kasimi lost his grip on the broom when the handle broke. "It was at that stage that the defendant struck him in the chest with the knife," she said. He died from the single stab wound, six days later, in hospital.The boy surrendered to the police the next day, claiming he had acted in self-defence. In a statement to police he said: "I was acting in self-defence to defend myself as I was being attacked by three men with sticks and poles."He told the court Mr Kasimi was stabbed accidentally when he ran on to the knife.Judge Gerald Gordon said: "The sentence for murder is detention during Her Majesty's pleasure."