PC Danny Morgan was not looking for trouble when he walked into the village pub, but he had a funny feeling he would find it anyway.A group of Gypsies had been drinking in the London Inn, and their rowdy behaviour was disturbing the locals. The landlord sent for Danny, who lived with his wife and daughter in the police house close by. Minutes later PC Morgan was confronting the ringleader. "I think you'd better leave now, don't you?" said Danny. The Gypsy, a heavily-built amateur boxer, sneered. "I have no reason to respect you," he replied. "You wouldn't dare talk to me like that if you weren't wearing that uniform." PC Morgan realised he was in a spot of bother. There was no way he could call for reinforcements. Othery in Somerset is seven miles from the nearest town. The villagers in the pub that night were elderly, so back-up seemed unlikely. PC Morgan was, however, a proud local bobby, and he knew the community looked to him for leadership. Taking off his helmet and unbuttoning his tunic, he politely asked the man to leave again. Again, he refused. They stood toe to toe. Then...mayhem. Against the odds, PC Morgan, a muscular Welshman who played schoolboy international rugby, held his own. Eventually they separated. The Gypsy was the first to speak. He promised PC Morgan he would not cause any more trouble. "I respect you now." The scrap is part of folklore in Othery, a village which dates back to Saxon times. The story is told with affection and probably some embellishment by Mervyn Winslade, who has lived in the village all his life. Mr Winslade, chairman of the parish council and churchwarden for 30 years, is trying to make a point. He has seen the character of the village change since PC Morgan was on patrol in the 1950s and 60s. It is a more nervous, untrusting place. Things, he says dolefully, are not what they used to be. The village policeman is now a policewoman, PC Rachael Cooke. She does not live in Othery - the police house was sold off several years ago. She is not even a beat bobby: Avon and Somerset has named its community officers "beat managers". PC Morgan rode a bicycle around his four parishes, covering between 10 and 15 miles a day. PC Cooke, 31, has a car to patrol 12 parishes. She drives up to 100 miles every day. "She does her best, bless her heart," said Mr Winslade, 57, a farmer who sold his dairy herd last year. "She's a lovely woman, and very efficient. But the area she covers is just too big for one person. When Danny lived in the village you could get hold of him day or night. He knew everyone by their first name. He was a deterrent to crime. I miss the sheer physical presence." Like everyone else in Othery, Mr Winslade yearns for a return to the way things were. But he is realistic enough to admit it will never happen because Othery is not a "hot spot". In policing terms, it is not even lukewarm. According to PC Cooke and her supervisor, Sergeant Steve Crago, there were only 30 reported crimes in Othery between June last year and May - no major incidents and only two burglaries. The figure was a big increase on the previous year, when 21 were reported. But 1998/99 was a blip. Crime rates, it seems, have been constant over the past decade. Sgt Crago says more than a quarter of crimes in Othery are solved, the highest detection rate of the surrounding rural areas. Move from CID  PC Cooke moved from the rough and tumble of CID five months ago after having a child. She struggled to think of any significant crimes. Land Rover thefts and the occasional assault - one every four months or so - were as bad as it got. There had been no robberies, but she had chased a flock of runaway sheep off the A39. "I'm not being facetious, but this is a community where kids kicking the heads off begonias is considered a serious matter." PC Cooke and Sgt Crago do not want to play down the importance of country crime, but they believe it has to be put in context. "The fear of crime in a place like Othery is huge, but the number of crimes committed is really very small," said PC Cooke. "The two are out of all proportion. The villagers fear they are isolated, and that if anything happens, the police will not be able to get to them quick enough. I can understand that. There isn't a bobby living in the village any more, that's true. But if there was a 999 emergency, the force could get someone out from Bridgwater very swiftly." She said she spent most of her time advising villagers about crime prevention. "If you are going to do the flowers in your back garden, don't leave the windows open at the front, because that's asking for trouble. Lock your front door when you go out. It sounds obvious to people who live in the city, but in Othery people have grown up with a different way of life. They think differently. They need reassurance, as much as anything else." Mr Winslade did not accept that fear of crime was all in the mind. Crime rates, he said, were much higher than the police thought. "Many villagers won't report petty thefts. They can't see the point. They don't want to bother Rachael with minor things when they know she is so busy." Tonya Maisey, 39, who runs the village bakery, agreed. The shop had been broken into twice in recent months, but she reported it only once. Then her daughter Ellanor's car was vandalised. "Let's face it, we are easy pickings for criminals who come from town centres." The 12th century church, St Michael's, is closed during the day, following thefts; the last straw was the disappearance of a brass ewer. When the organist started looking for it during a spring clean, she found £25 and a note of apology from the thief - proof the village is not just a target for teenagers. And there are crimes that hardly register on a graph at police headquarters, but are devastating to the victim and the spirit of the community. May Tottle was a widower who had lived in the village all her life. When a girl knocked on her door and asked for help to find a 50p she had lost, May, who was in her 70s, went out to help. Meanwhile, an accomplice sneaked inside, and stole her pension money and her jewellery. May was unhurt, but heartbroken. She died in hospital soon after. At the moment, the village is in a state of mild panic about the newcomers living at Peppard's Cottage, a thatched house on the high street. At first, the late vicar told everyone he thought students from a nearby farming college had moved in. After some cars went missing and a boy was spotted perched dangerously on the roof, the parish council became suspicious. Neighbours discovered the cottage was owned by an organisation called Families Care Ltd, which provides foster and residential care for young people, including youths with criminal records. "You can imagine the fuss this caused!" howled Mrs Maisey. "Most of the elderly people who live here feel more vulnerable than ever." Fifty people went to last month's parish council meeting to protest, one of the highest turnouts in years. "Normally, we don't get a soul," said Mr Winslade. By law, Families Care had no obligation to tell the village what it was doing, but secrecy made things worse. "We tend to get blamed for everything now, which is quite unfair," said its spokesman, Roger Perry.  Fear of crime The police accept the fear of crime in places like Othery is genuine. They also think they may have a solution. Deputy Chief Constable Ken Jones is coordinating Avon and Somerset's effort to win a £250,000 government grant to start a "neighbourhood warden" scheme in the village this autumn. The warden would not be a police officer but would work alongside PC Cooke to provide the high profile presence Othery wants. If the money is granted, the parish council will work with the police to ap point a warden on an 18-month contract at £12,000 to £16,000 a year. The warden will have a police radio, uniform and a car. "It will probably be an old police car of some sort, but without the flashing blue lights and sirens," said Mr Jones. "We'll give them on-the-job training. What the warden needs most, though, is a suitcase full of commonsense." He promised the warden would not replace the beat manager. "The resources for community policing are ring-fenced. Hopefully, the wardens will be the eyes and ears of the local officers. They will be able to do lots of the pastoral work that our beat managers have to do at the moment, like visiting schools." The wardens would be ordered not to "have a go" if they came across a serious crime. "Emergency calls are the work of the police," said Mr Jones. "We don't want them chasing around the countryside doing anything silly." Othery Population:  600  Police officers:  one, shared with 12 other parishes  Reported crimes last year:  30  Detection rate:  26 %