On the village streets and white sandy beaches of Britain's most northerly island, crime has rarely been given much thought. Yet for the residents of Unst, law and order is suddenly causing unexpected disquiet.When Andy Thomas, the policeman on the Shetland island, leaves to take up a new job on Orkney, there will be no one to replace him at the makeshift police station. Should a crime wave suddenly take hold, Unst islanders will have to hope police officers can make it in time across often stormy waters from the island of Yell - and they are none too happy about it. Although the Northern Constabulary said no decision had been made, and they were simply reviewing the policing requirements of Unst, the remote island community has begun a determined fight to keep its local policeman. They said if Unst's policeman went, it was not just Mr Thomas and his young family who would be lost, but a linchpin for an isolated community finding it ever harder to survive. "Losing the policeman, and that's what a review must mean, would be another huge blow to Unst," says Mark Ritch, councillor for Unst and Fetlar. On the face of it, the 650 residents of Unst would appear to have little case for keeping their policeman. In the world of crime league tables, Unst would not even make it into the fourth division. While mainland officers fill out hundreds of crime reports each year, Mr Thomas, on a bad year, may fill out a dozen or so. Unst, though, is not immune to an occasional felony. "The volume is not the same, but the work is the same as any community policeman," said Mr Thomas. "The policeman here has got a special place. Small communities look to key people like their doctor, their headmaster and their policeman." The one man posting at Unst is perhaps the most isolated in Britain. There are no longer any flights to the island's tiny airport. Visitors must first fly or take the long ferry journey to the Shetland mainland, then drive northwards to Toft and take a ferry across to Yell. They must then drive north across Yell until they reach Gutcher and, finally, take the ferry to Unst. The journey however, is worth the effort.Ultramarine seas thrash against cliffs which tower 170m from the shoreline. Each year 25,000 pairs of puffins and 100,000 breeding sea birds make their home on the island. Three nature reserves can be found across its 60 square miles. Visitors can also sample some of the best seafood in Scotland. Even if Mr Thomas is not replaced, the lack of crime will no doubt remain a draw. "We have no crime here, it's the sort of place where you can leave your keys in the car and your purse on the seat and they'll both still be there days later," said one islander. "But losing Andy means losing his family as well and we need young families to survive." For all its natural beauty, Unst has been hit hard in recent years. Its population has fallen by a third as the RAF has wound down the base which was, for years, a cold war early warning centre. Young families are a rarity; they leave to find work elsewhere. Losing one more job and service is of great significance in a place like Unst.