Clinical psychologist Dr Charlie Howard worked in NHS child and adolescent mental health for several years until 2008, when she realised some children were missing from the services she provided. “Those in most need, with high levels of deprivation, never crossed the door,” she says. “We had to find new ways of offering help. I didn’t know what they were, but I knew young people themselves would.”For six months, Howard, 34, spent her evenings standing outside a fish and chip shop in Camden, north London, getting to know members of local gangs. “They had to eat! A white middle-class woman, I stuck out like a sore thumb,” she smiles. Gradually, Howard drew the young people into a project, proposed by the youngsters themselves, built around music. They called it Music and Change. That project became the award-winning MAC-UK, a charity that now works with 40 to 50 young people a year, aged 16 to 25, in four pilot schemes in London.One of the Guardian and Observer’s nine Christmas appeal charities, MAC-UK’s work is aimed at the 5% of young offenders, many in gangs, who commit 50% of all youth crime and who resist engaging with mainstream services.Within a year, using precarious funding and her own savings, Howard had resigned from her health service post and recruited other NHS staff as volunteers to help build the organisation. An estimated one in three young offenders have unmet mental health needs. MAC-UK, like the best innovations, is simple in its thinking, direct in its delivery and strikingly effective in what it achieves. It helps to reduce offending while pulling young people into a support network on which they can rely. Members of the music project, who had multiple needs, such as trauma, poor literacy and no documentation, subsequently moved into work, education or training; many became employees in the organisation.One is Mark Moubarak Chentite, 28, a principal street therapy practitioner. His involvement started out of curiosity in 2008, at the chip shop, because he had heard there was “a rich white woman and I wanted to manipulate the situation”. He now heads a seven-strong team, called “peers by experience”, who take practical and therapeutic support to wherever a young person chooses to be, whether in a cafe, on a stairwell, or a park bench. MAC-UK has helped him step up from serious offending and chronic anger to a role in the organisation and a more stable life. He’s a married man and, by his own testimony, “in a good place”.The “peers by experience” provide a vital bridge to a team of mental health workers and other services. They gain the trust of youngsters who recognise that they speak with firsthand knowledge. “Young people know if I can change, so can they,” Moubarak Chentite says. “They understand we’ve been where they’ve been.”MAC-UK’s “streetherapy” is delivered for two to four years. “Any longer and we become part of the problem that stops a person moving on,” explains psychologist Sally Zlotowitz, the charity’s clinical lead.One approach is called AMBIT (Adolescent Mentalisation-Based Integrative Treatment). The aim is to encourage a young person to develop the skills to make sense of their own situation, to develop capabilities and confidence, and to address their own practical needs.Project support worker, Kiaron, 21, is a MAC-UK “graduate”. When he was eight, his father left home. “It was me, my mum and my little brother. So I started to rob to pay the electricity bill. I’d leave money on the floor for my mum to find. I was unstoppable.” Four years ago, living in a hostel, and in and out of prison, he decided: “This isn’t the person I want to be.” Now, he says, “I tell my little brother, I’ve gone through everything so you don’t have to. Listen to me.”Kiaron has applied for funding for a new MAC-UK project with fellow “expert by experience” Tommy, 22, an ex-offender, who was expelled from school at 13, and is a rapper of local renown. The project is aimed at an overlooked group: 12- to 14-year-old boys who generally have less access to early intervention help than girls. Called PAE (Positive Adolescent Engagement) the pilot, if it receives financial support, will run workshops covering topics such as growing up in a single household, respecting the opposite sex and changing how you think about yourself.Tommy says: “I tell them [young boys] don’t say, ‘Bitch’. When I was 15, girls wanted ‘bad boys’ but once they are older, they want men of intelligence,” Tommy grins. “That’s why I’m off to the library.”Howard is now advising a government taskforce examining how to redesign child and adolescent mental health services. In addition, she has set up a social enterprise, The Integrate Movement, that shares with local authorities, charities and NHS trusts the lessons learned from MAC-UK’s successful six years. “We don’t say [to partners], ‘This is how you do it’. We encourage them to use our experience to understand better what might work with their young people,” Howard says.She adds: “We want all mental health services to be accessible to the excluded. We want that concept to be so central to the way professionals work with young people, that there’s no longer any need for MAC-UK. We want to do ourselves out of a job.”Help for a young person at MAC-UK costs around £3,000 per head, compared with the hundreds of thousands of pounds, for instance, that prison requires. As Mark, Kiaron and Tommy testify, the chance of a fresh beginning is beyond price.