The government is fighting to save its controversial proposals to scrap jury trial for the most complex fraud cases after withdrawing a motion it expected to lose in the House of Lords next Tuesday.The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, acknowledged yesterday that Liberal Democrat and Conservative opposition meant the "arithmetic" was against the government in the Lords, but insisted he was committed to trial without juries for the most difficult cases. The proposals are the latest plank of government's legislative programme to run into trouble in parliament. The measure allowing judge-alone trial in serious fraud cases was enacted in the Criminal Justice Act 2003. But as a result of a last-minute deal to get it through, it cannot be brought into force without an affirmative resolution by both houses of parliament.Lord Goldsmith acknowledged that withdrawing the order from the Lords would delay implementation by several months. It was due to come into force on January 1, and prosecutors are thought to have been holding off laying charges in some complex frauds.Asked if the change could now be delayed until 2007 Lord Goldsmith said: "I don't agree that that is necessarily the timetable. We may be talking about months." Yesterday the Law Society and Bar Council called for the plans to be dropped "once and for all" and jury trials retained for all cases.Lord Goldsmith said he had accepted offers from the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats to seek a compromise. Justice was being damaged because so many such cases could not be put fully before juries due to their complexity, he said.He cited the views of senior judges, including the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips, who agreed that simplifying cases for juries was not the answer because that meant the full picture of criminality could not be put before the jury.Lord Goldsmith insisted he would not agree to the retention of jury trial for the most complex cases but would be open to considering other options, including a panel of three judges, a single judge sitting with two magistrates, or a single judge sitting with two expert assessors with financial experience. The fraud bill, currently before Parliament, could be amended to bring in the changes, he suggested. "I'm certainly not shelving these proposals at all," he said. "In the last week or so we have finally had the start of discussions with the opposition parties constructively saying they want to look at alternatives."The Liberal Democrat criminal justice spokesman, Lord Thomas of Gresford QC, said: "The abolition of the lay jury is just not acceptable." He said his party was willing to discuss having smaller juries and improved procedures such as allowing the jury time to read a core bundle of documents before the trial started.