The government should continue highlighting the low proportion of reported rapes that end in a successful prosecution on the full charge of rape, despite a review's claim that focusing on the 6% rate was detrimental to victims, the solicitor general, Vera Baird, said today.Baroness Stern's independent report into how rape complaints are handled called for politicians and campaigners to stop quoting the 6% figure. Stern said the way it had been used was "extremely unhelpful" and misleading, because it suggested there was little chance of attackers being found guilty in court. It was more relevant, Stern said, that of the cases reaching court, 58% resulted in a successful prosecution. (The 58% is for cases reaching court on a range of charges, from rape to lesser sexual assault charges.)Campaigners accused her of missing the point that many rape complaints never get to court, often because of problems with the police and prosecution system. Baird said she too thought the reports-to-convictions rate remained important."I do have reservations about ceasing to refer to the widely used 6% figure, which reflects the percentage of reports that produce a conviction [on a full charge of rape]," she said. "Although we don't count any other offence in this way, it is particularly meaningful as it reflects the high number of rape victims who drop out before they get to court. We really need to focus on that group, as Baroness Stern herself says."Baird said more needed to be made of the 58% figure, which had increased by more than half since 1997. The government's interim response said it agreed with Stern that the way statistics were reported too often did not reflect the reality of what happened in the courtroom.The Stern review was commissioned by the government last year in response to concerns over the conviction rate. Baird said at the time that the report should offer answers on how to drive the rate up.The crossbench peer instead came back with a report that called for a broader measure of success to be adopted, with support to victims to be given equal priority. She criticised the focus on the 6% figure, saying it remained important but was "not the be all and end all".She said the 14% estimated proportion of reported rapes that end in a conviction for the crime of rape or another related offence, such as sexual assault, was "not dramatically low" compared to other crimes."The 58% figure was never going to be considerably higher under the current legal system," she said. "We have probably put so much emphasis on the criminal justice process ... that the needs of the human being who's suffered this appalling violation come second."Some campaigners said the recommendation let the criminal justice system off the hook, when women were still receiving "shocking" treatment. "What she's proposing is to cover up what's happening in the criminal justice system, just at the time when women are finally getting the truth out," said Ruth Hall, of Women Against Rape.The 6% figure most accurately represented the situation women faced when reporting rape, she said. "To move away from that is to hide what women are really up against."Rape Crisis said it still considered the conviction rate, when taken as a proportion of rapes reported to the police, to be "extremely low". Ceri Goddard, the chief executive of the Fawcett Society, which campaigns for an increase in conviction rates, said: "While we welcome Stern's call for greater focus on supporting victims of rape, we would caution that this should be alongside more, not less, efforts on increasing conviction rates."In future, Stern proposed, police and prosecutors should be rated on how well victims are treated, as well as clear-up rates. Independent sexual violence advisors (ISVAs), who support victims throughout the process, should be an intrinsic part of the system and available to every complainant. There are currently only 43 ISVAs in England and Wales, with 13,000 rapes reported last year. Stern believes that sufficient ISVAs could be provided at a cost of £1m a year.The report found problems persisted in the criminal justice system, and that implementation of policies for improvement were "patchy". But Stern said she believed that most people were treated well by the police.The government said it would consider the findings carefully. Yesterday it said it would be announcing this week grants for ISVAs and rape crisis centres worth more than £3m, but it was swiftly forced to admit that this money had been announced previously.• This article was amended on 14 March 2012 because the original did not make clear enough that "the 6% conviction rate" for reported rapes pertains to conviction on a full charge of rape.