There will be a full public inquiry into the crimes of Harold Shipman, the doctor convicted of murdering 15 of his patients by lethal injection, the health secretary Alan Milburn said yesterday.The high court had ordered Mr Milburn to reconsider his decision to hold the inquiry in private and it is likely that the hearing - expected to take months - will be held in Manchester later this year. A chairman has yet to be appointed after Lord Laming, who would have chaired a private hearing, stood down. The families of Shipman's victims and eight national newspapers successfully ar gued that there should be a judicial review of Mr Milburn's decision and in July, Lord Justice Kennedy ruled that holding the inquiry in private would breach section 10 of the European convention on human rights. The health secretary was asked to reconsider. The Department of Health said yesterday the inquiry would be held under the 1921 Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence) Act which gives the chairman legal powers to compel witnesses to appear and recover any documents. Similar hearings were held following the Aberfan and Dunblane disasters.It will look at how Shipman was able to murder patients undetected for years, how he obtained drugs and how he was able to cover his tracks by altering medical records and ensuring patients were cremated without postmortem examinations. Ann Alexander, the solicitor representing 150 families, said she was confident the inquiry would be able to investigate the background to Shipman's murders with the rigour needed to ensure questions were answered and that lessons were learned. But it is unlikely that Shipman, serving 15 life sentences in Frankland Prison, Durham, will be invited to attend the hearing. In January, Shipman, a former GP in Hyde, Greater Manchester, was convicted of the murder of 15 patients by lethal diamorphine injections. Inquests into the deaths of two more patients have recorded verdicts of unlawful killings. A third inquest into the death of Elizabeth Mellor will take place next week. The death toll from Shipman's killing spree could be as high as 200. Ms Alexander said the outcome of the inquiry could have widespread implications for family doctors, coroners and for the police. "The health secretary has obviously taken the sensible course of action and we will make absolutely sure that no stone will be left unturned," she said. "The inquiry will establish how he was able to get away with killing so many of his patients for so long. It will look at the systems GPs operate within - what controls are in place and how they get hold of drugs." She added that the public inquiry would also look at how Shipman was able to kill three more women after an initial police investigation in March 1998 had cleared him of any wrongdoing. Ms Alexander said the relatives of all of the former doctor's victims wanted to hear for themselves what those involved in the Shipman case had to say. She added that she felt sorry for the families who had been through a long criminal trial, then had to wait almost a year before getting a public inquiry. Jane Ashton-Hibbert, whose grandmother Hilda Hibbert, 81, died at her home in Hyde while being treated by Shipman in 1996, said she was delighted with the news. "I am very pleased and I am glad it is going to be a 1921 Act inquiry," she said. "It is going to be very thorough - it's going to have teeth. I think we feel that if it is in the open, people are more inclined to speak freely." Helen Blackwell, whose mother Bertha Moss, 68, died five years ago, said the public inquiry was vital. "We need to get it out in the open and to know what went wrong."