The driver of a black taxi drugged and raped a female passenger and sexually assaulted at least five others, after cruising the streets of London late at night looking for drunk women to attack, a court heard yesterday.John Worboys coaxed or intimidated women he had picked up in his cab into drinking alcohol laced with over-the-counter and prescription sedatives, Croydon crown court was told, before assaulting them while they were incapacitated in the back of his taxi. He is charged with raping one woman, using a vibrator to forcibly penetrate another, sexually assaulting four others, and drugging yet more with the intent of assaulting them. In total he is accused of 23 offences against 14 women. He denies all the charges.Johannah Cutts, QC, prosecuting, told the jury each of the women had got into the defendant's cab intending no more than to get home. She said: "Mr Worboys's intent in picking them up in his cab was, we say, wholly different. His primary purpose had nothing to do with taking them home. His intent was to ensure they were completely at his mercy and then to sexually molest them."At one point, the jury of seven women and five men was told, Worboys was arrested after one of his alleged victims reported her assault to the police. But he was released on bail and no further action was taken. Seven further women were allegedly attacked before he was re-arrested and charged in February last year, after five women had reported assaults to the police. The remainder of the women came forward after seeing publicity over his arrest.The court heard that Worboys, 51, from Rotherhithe, south-east London, had picked up the women outside nightclubs in central or west London, selecting victims who were, or appeared to be, drunk. Most of them were told a version of an "utterly bogus story", in which he claimed to have won a large amount of money in a casino or in the lottery. He would offer them a celebratory glass of champagne or other alcohol which, the prosecution said, had been drugged.Some of the women were happy to have the drink, Cutts said, "others felt it would have been rude to refuse. "Some did all they could to avoid drinking it, while pretending they were. Some did not drink at all.""The defendant would watch each girl. In many cases he asked if they would mind if he stopped the cab and got into the back with them so that he too could have a drink. Once there he could engage them in conversation, often sexual in nature, wait and watch," she said.The QC said many of the women recalled feeling drowsy, but most had little recollection of what happened next. One victim, she said, came round to find Worboys raping her. The following day, the QC said, Worboys put an envelope through her door containing £10 and a note wishing her a happy Christmas.Another alleged victim had a flashback to the defendant forcing a tablet into her mouth. When she awoke the following day in her bed, the tampon she had been wearing the previous evening had been removed, Cutts said.Several of the women who had been drugged were unable to say whether they had been sexually assaulted or not, Cutts said. "What can only be described as this defendant's tool kit", including bottles of champagne and glasses, plastic gloves, sedatives, condoms and a vibrator, had been found in his car, she added.Cutts said trace elements of the drugs had been found in several of the victims' urine. In addition, a notebook had been found at the accused's home containing the home addresses of a number of the alleged victims, she said.The trial is expected to last up to 10 weeks.