Police reform is now high on the political agenda: the Conservatives have published plans to bring in directly elected police commissioners and the home secretary has today pledged to cut police red tape and give elected representatives greater control of policing in their areas.One might ask why police reform is required at all? Overall crime as measured by the British Crime Survey (BCS) – the most reliable measure – has fallen by 39% since Labour came to power. Indeed figures out today show that overall crime fell by 10% in the last year and, although you wouldn't know it from recent headlines, violent crime fell by 12%. So, why the rush to reform the police service? If we dig below the overall crime figures, the evidence on police performance is more mixed. While crime has fallen significantly over the last decade, much of that reduction has been due to a strong economy. In addition police performance on key measures has not improved. Detection rates, for example, actually fell between 1998 and 2002 and are only recently approaching 1998 levels, with around 24% of recorded crimes being "cleared up" in 2007 compared with 29% in 1998/99. Public confidence in the police has fallen: the proportion of people saying that the police do a "good or excellent" job fell from 64% in 1996 to 48% in 2004/5. This is despite record increases in public spending on the police (up by 21% in real terms since 1997) and the fact that we now have more police officers than at any time in our history (up by 11% or 14,000 officers since 1997). Central to the reform agenda of both main parties is the issue of accountability, and for good reason. We know that the decline in public satisfaction with the police is linked to a perceived decline in responsiveness. Large majorities of the public believe the police do not spend enough time out on the beat and are not focusing on the crimes that matter most to local communities.The government's response until now has been to introduce neighbourhood policing, with each local area having a dedicated team of constables and police community support officers (PCSOs), out on regular patrol and taking a "problem solving" approach to tackling crime. But having more "bobbies on the beat" is only part of the solution: the fact is that local policing priorities continue to be set several steps removed from local people. Today's green paper is a step in the right direction. Especially welcome is the decision to scrap the plethora of central targets imposed on police forces from Whitehall, which had led to officers handing out cautions for minor drugs offences simply to tick government boxes and which had introduced an extraordinary degree of inflexibility into policing. Now there will be a single target to increase the public's confidence in the ability of the police to reduce crime.There is also action to increase local accountability through direct elections for police authorities. The government is right to reject the proposal to directly elect a police commissioner for each force: some police forces are so large that such a person would be far too remote from local people's concerns. Instead they propose to elect a representative for each borough or district, who would chair a local policing board and represent the area on the local police authority.This is a more locally responsive option and would increase the democratic legitimacy of police authorities. However, the key to delivering greater local accountability is how much power these local boards and representatives would have at their disposal. For instance, it seems they would not control the mainstream budget for neighbourhood policing in their area nor would the elected representative have a role in appointing and appraising local police commanders. Without the right mix of powers and resources these new representatives will lack the clout to get things done. A New Beat. Options for More Accountable Policing by Rick Muir and Guy Lodge, an institute for Public Policy Research report on police accountability can be downloaded for free  here.