Last Friday a petition was presented to justice secretary Jack Straw demanding that posthumous pardons be granted to the hundreds of women and men who were executed in Britain between the 16th and the 18th centuries for allegedly practising witchcraft. At first I thought that the petition was nothing more than a Halloween stunt – it was, after all, sponsored by Angels, the theatrical costumiers who, according to the petition, are "the UK's largest Halloween retailer". But apparently it isn't. Messrs Angels are serious. "We were gobsmacked," Emma Angel declared, "to discover that though the law was changed hundreds of years ago [1735] and society had moved on, the victims were never officially pardoned."Well of course "society" is always "moving on." What my forebears – and I daresay yours – regarded as "right" may now be considered very wrong – capital punishment, for instance, or the criminalisation of homosexual activity, or even the smoking of cigars. But the past cannot be rewritten. Nor should the power of the state be invoked to attempt to rewrite it.Angels' Halloween initiative is but the latest twist in a very sinister trend, whereby the state is being asked to impose a particular interpretation or re-interpretation of history. The origins of this trend are to be found in the undoubtedly good intentions of those who sought posthumous pardons for men and women hanged for murders they certainly did not commit – Timothy Evans (executed in 1950 on the perjured evidence of the necrophiliac ex-policeman, John Christie) is a case in point. I can just about remember the Evans case. The arguments for a pardon, granted in 1966, were overwhelming at that time. They would not be so now, more than a half-century later.The trend to invoke the power of the state to rewrite history was accelerated by the campaigns conducted by relatives of those men who were executed for cowardice during the first world war. Two years ago the government pushed through a most ill-conceived piece of legislation designed to grant posthumous pardons to 306 British soldiers who were sentenced to execution by firing squad for cowardice and other military offences during the first world war. Some of these unfortunates were undoubtedly suffering from psychiatric conditions ("shell shock") that we would now describe as forms of post-traumatic stress. But others were not. The "statutory group pardon" that parliament was persuaded to grant to all the British soldiers executed for military offences during the first world war applied equally to deliberate deserters – genuine cowards.Even if we agree that some of those executed were in fact suffering from stress-related disorders, to pardon them now was to apply the standards of 2006 to the circumstances of 1916. It may well be that some of those executed for witchcraft 400 and more years ago were indeed simply marginalised individuals upon whom Elizabethan and Stuart society sought vengeance for natural disasters, such as crop failures. To pardon them now is to apply the standards of 2008 to the circumstances of 1588. We have no right to do this.And why restrict this re-writing of the past to military personnel and witches? At his own trial John Christie pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity, a plea that the Old Bailey jury rejected. But today the plea might well be accepted. So what about a royal pardon for John Christie?And why stop with Christie? Why not examine every case in which the death penalty was carried out, and grant pardons as necessary? And why stop with the death penalty? In 1895 Oscar Wilde was famously sentenced to two years' imprisonment for having had a homosexual affair with Lord Alfred Douglas. Such a trial would never be held today. So what about a pardon for Oscar? And for all the other male homosexuals convicted of acts which today are not criminal offences at all?And what about Charles I? Mary Queen of Scots? Joan of Arc? Each of these, it might be argued, deserves what we might interpret as "justice". Why not devote the resources of the state to re-examining all these cases – and no doubt hundreds if not thousands of others – and granting pardons as necessary?The answer is that we cannot, in a liberal state, rewrite the past, however much we may be annoyed and upset by the actions of our forebears. The pardons that parliament approved two years ago for British soldiers militarily executed in the first world war amounted to the use of the law to rewrite history. As such I found them profoundly distasteful. I am equally appalled that the state is now being asked to pardon those executed for witchcraft.But I derive some comfort from knowing that a pardon is not an exoneration. The vast majority of British servicemen who fought in the first world war did not desert their posts. Those executed for desertion remain guilty as charged. And the witches so beloved of Messrs Angels will, whatever the outcome of the petition invoked on their behalf, remain, in historical terms, as guilty as hell.