The number of people being killed in accidents following police chases has more than tripled in the past four years because officers have "continued to engage in too many pursuits that endanger public safety", a report said yesterday.Most of the accidents took place at the weekend, after dark, on roads with a 30mph speed limit that were either quiet or deserted. A study by the police complaints authority concluded that risky decisions were being taken by police drivers rather than control room managers and said chases involving convoys of police cars, or unmarked vehicles, were "not acceptable and should be prohibited". According to the PCA, 30 people were killed in police-related crashes in the nine months to January 2002, compared with nine deaths in the whole of year 1997-98. In the 85 collisions since 1998, 91 people have died. Publishing its 50 page Fatal Pursuit report yesterday, the PCA said there had been a 489% increase in the number of deaths resulting from police chases in the past five years, despite demands by the authority's chairman, Sir Alistair Graham, that forces should take "urgent steps to meet the rising tide of public concern". "The trend is sufficiently dramatic and the numbers sufficiently large that close scrutiny is required and remedial action urgently needed," the report said. Looking at 85 cases between 1998 and 2002, the authority's researchers, led by David Best, discovered that officers were not giving adequate assessment to the risks of pursuit. In one incident, police followed a Reliant Robin because the driver was not wearing a seatbelt, then chased the car when it jumped a set of traffic lights. The Reliant driver lost control of the car at 90mph and died in the crash. Later, officers discovered the victim was 14 years old. "Officers should not engage in chases without a clear, centrally agreed strategy for attempting to stop the fleeing vehicle safely," the study said. "Police drivers' discretion to chase should be reduced and central management and control of incidents increased." The report added: "The police continue to engage in too many pursuits that endanger public safety ... many of these incidents are potentially preventable, either by changes in force policy or by proactive measures designed to bring out safe and effective resolution of such incidents." The report said forces may have to consider disciplining officers "who fail to pull over when instructed to by the control room". Launching the report yesterday, Sir Alistair said that "far too many people have died as a result of crashes following police pursuits. We must make every effort to minimise the risk of collision, injury or death in these circumstances. I am most concerned that the numbers of fatalities have continued to grow and there is no sign of them levelling off. If anything, the rate is accelerating." The Association of Chief Police Officers admitted it was perplexed by the increase in deaths. Its spokesman on police driving, the north Wales deputy chief constable Bill Brereton, said there had been heavy investment in training and equipment in recent years. But the Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers, claimed that many forces had failed to adopt national driver training guidelines. "Driver and pursuit training is still implemented in an ad hoc way, which is totally unsatisfactory," said Jan Berry, the federation's chairwoman.