A woman told Oxford crown court yesterday how a letter bomb she opened in the post room at the DVLA centre in Swansea scarred her chest and left her with permanent tinnitus. The bomb was one of seven sent by Miles Cooper to offices around the country in January and February this year. People were injured when the bombs, which were filled with glass or nails, exploded.Cooper, 27, of Cherry Hinton, Cambridge, admits he sent the bombs but denies eight charges of causing bodily injury by means of an explosive substance, two charges of using an explosive substance with intent to disable, and making and possessing an explosive substance.Karen Andrews opened a padded envelope at the DVLA on February 7, several days after other bombs had been discovered. She said she had suffered post-traumatic stress disorder since the incident, and had been blamed by colleagues for the injuries they received.Mrs Andrews said that as she opened the envelope she joked: "Do we think this is suspicious?" She added: "I was just joking. It was because it was a Jiffy bag and because of what had been on the news."She described how she broke the seal on an envelope contained within the original package and saw a bright flash and heard a very loud bang. She told the court that she has only returned to work intermittently. "I've been forced out of my department because some colleagues refuse to work with me. One manager even wanted me to apologise to people for what I did."Susan Parker, a counsellor who offered support to DVLA employees after the blast, said in a statement that Mrs Andrews "feels guilty and blames herself for opening the letter and feels responsible for the injuries other people received".The court also heard from a colleague, Chris Phillips, who was sitting next to her when the explosion happened. He told the jury Mrs Andrews was "playing around" with the envelope and feeling it, saying she could feel wires. He said that as the envelope was tapped on a box it exploded.Richard Gorringe, who works at the accountancy firm Vantis, in Wokingham, Berkshire, told the court he opened a letter sent to Speed Check, a company involved in the manufacture of safety cameras. He said: "I opened the inside envelope but then things got a bit blurry for me. When I pulled it out, I assume that's when it exploded and I think I blacked out a bit."The jury was told that officers had found "basically a bomb factory" when they raided the Cambridge house in the early hours. Fireworks, matches, party poppers and other bomb-making equipment were seized from the home the defendant shared with his mother and sister.When police burst into his bedroom he told them there was sulphuric acid in the cupboard and "what you would call incendiary devices", the court heard. But he told officers: "They're OK, they won't hurt anyone unless they pull the string."The trial continues.