The head of the government agency set up to seize the assets of criminals yesterday admitted a series of high court challenges had frustrated much of its work as new figures showed the money it had recovered was dwarfed by its running costs.Jane Earl, director of the Assets Recovery Agency, said she accepted that initial predictions for the length of time taken for cases to be completed were overoptimistic and as a result it had failed to meet its targets. Figures yesterday showed that in 2005 the running costs of the ARA came to more than four times the amount in criminal assets it seized. The amount recovered in 2004-05 was £4.4m, about £15m a year less than the £19.8m the agency cost to run.When Tony Blair launched the agency, with its powers to seize criminals' houses, cars and yachts on a civil standard of proof, he promised it would double the cash seized by police and customs.Ms Earl said it had managed to freeze more than £85.7m worth of assets but they could not yet be seized because of outstanding legal challenges. "Although we have been frustrated by legal process delays in moving as many existing cases as we had planned through to a conclusion, we have used our resources flexibly and restrained over £85.7m of assets in new cases."She said she accepted that initial targets were overoptimistic and said the agency was working closely with the Home Office and law officers to speed up cases.But Grant Shapps, the Conservative MP for Welwyn Hatfield, who uncovered the problem by putting down Commons written questions, said freezing assets was not the same as seizing them. "Applying a freezing order is one thing - selling off the proceeds of crime for the benefit of the public is quite another. What we have is an Assets Recovery Agency announced with a fanfare of publicity by the prime minister, yet the reality is that it is costing us £19m to run, while it is only recovering £4m a year."Ms Earl said the ARA had been taking difficult cases through the courts in an entirely new area of the law and, Mr Shapps was wrong to dismiss the £85m in frozen assets. "That's not money that has gone away. That is all money that is being litigated through the courts. We are fighting off every legal challenge that is put to us and so far I am delighted to say that we have won all of those, but they do take time in the normal civil system."The ARA itself only obtained 23 confiscation orders last year, with a value of £7.2m. The remainder, £75.5m in frozen criminal assets, followed direct action by police and customs.The agency has also been engaged in a high-level training programme, with 644 financial investigators graduating from its courses.