 Times  Editorial, April 22"The horrific stabbing of a young woman in a Surrey village and the shocking shooting of a man as part of an apparent attempt to steal his car from his driveway have done more to highlight crime in this election than any speech by any politician from any party. That these events came to light as the party leaders were arguing about the meaning of the competing crime statistics released yesterday illustrates the imperfect value of any of these figures. The principal issue facing ministers, the police and the public today is not the number of crimes committed but the changing character of criminality. It is on this matter that the parties should be pressed ... "The consequences of the new character of crime are huge. There is a vast difference between a 30-year-old returning to his car to discover a radio has disappeared and a 15-year-old having his mobile phone seized at knifepoint or worse. The debate on crime figures has gone on for long enough. The political obfuscation on this issue now verges on the criminal."  Sun  Editorial, April 22  "Two tragic and frightening cases ... show why Britain lives in fear. How ironic that they come as government figures purport to show that violent crime is down. The police say their records show violent offences are up 9% in a year. But the Home Office says the British Crime Survey shows these offences are down by 10%. This contradiction is straight out of the pages of Alice in Wonderland."These two sets of statistics ... are guaranteed to confuse the public. People can be excused for thinking that's what politicians want. What the public wants is more police, tough sentences and more jails."  Daily Mirror  Editorial, April 22   "Each one of the crime statistics released yesterday represents a real offence committed against a real person, sometimes with terrible consequences. Even though there is disagreement over the figures, there is no disputing that there is far too much crime and it is causing untold misery. "It shouldn't be a plaything of party politics, though it sadly is. If only the politicians could reach some agreement on how to deal with this enormous problem, the tidal wave might be turned. And Abigail Witchalls [who was attacked on Thursday] and others like her would not have their lives wrecked."  Daily Mail  Editorial, April 22   "The truth can't be disguised: a million violent offences a year under New Labour, gun crime doubled, yobbery up and a police clear-up rate at its lowest for 25 years. And still Tony Blair resorts to stunts. He claims all crime, including violence, is down. Yet at the same time he announces another of his notorious 'targets', aiming to cut crime by 15%. But if the present system is working so wonderfully, why is a new approach needed? ... "There are now 500 victims of violence an hour. Fear blights whole communities. A survey by Royal & Sun Alliance reveals one in three companies have been hit by yobbery and suggests that 10,000 firms have moved premises as a result. This is the real world - not the rhetoric so beloved of Mr Blair in his fantasy land."  Daily Star Editorial, April 22   "Violent crime has surged again, the latest police figures show ... With the election a fortnight away, these disturbing figures couldn't come at a worse time for Mr Blair. "Tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime used to be his favourite catchphrase. Now he's too embarrassed to even utter those words. Instead he recalls a mythical past of gentlemanly villains with hearts of gold ... On law and order, Mr Blair's reputation is now criminally damaged beyond repair."  Daily Express  Editorial, April 22   "The prime minister is living in a make-believe world if he can look back nostalgically to the sinister crime gangs of the 1950s, run by the likes of the Kray twins ... Such a rose-tinted view of Britain's underworld from the man in charge of the country is dangerous ... We do not need a fantasist in power. We need someone who sees the crime problem for what it really is. And does something about it."  Daily Telegraph  Editorial, April 22  "The fight against crime today is characterised by two fortresses. One is the home, now triple-bolted, alarmed and window-locked against intruders. The other is the police station, whence officers make occasional sallies to round up drivers or follow up a crime identified by the CCTV operators. Between the two are the streets, where the criminals too often hold sway. "Ten years ago, New York had a similar problem. The celebrated fall in crime there - down 60% - was not simply the consequence of recruiting more officers. It was the consequence of rigorous local accountability ... Alone among the three parties, the Conservative party has adopted a similar policy to New York's ... There still remains, however, the antediluvian labour force that the police commissioner will rule over ... "As home secretary, Michael Howard made a heroic but unsuccessful attempt to modernise working practices. To make his policy even better, he should recall this attempt and seek a mandate to see it through."