When a lifetime of potential is blown away in an instant, the horror defies comprehension. In the case of Manchester teenager Jessie James, who was gunned down last September, that horror is heightened. For it arose after he shunned violence. In the view of his mother, who gave evidence to the inquiry into his death this week, Jessie was murdered for refusing to join a gang. The whole structure of the hearing reflects the intimidation street gangs can cause. In a move without precedent, the coroner is sitting in a crown court (where protection is greater) and hearing much of the evidence by video link. Fearful witnesses' faces can thus be scrambled to keep their identities secret. Yesterday came news that the police were set to make two arrests on the suspicion of the murder, after a new witness emerged at the hearing: that new witness is known only as XY.Terrible as it is, the James murder is not an everyday occurrence, and it must be considered in context. Gun crime fell 13% last year, and overall homicides are at an eight-year low. But within that encouraging picture there are pockets where the cancer of gang culture is spreading, blighting young lives in particular. The Metropolitan Police Authority suggests the average age of victims of gang and group offending fell from 24 in 2004 to 19 in 2006. Perpetrators of such crimes - whose ages have fallen in tandem - are frequently victims too. As the Guardian reports today, Bedfordshire University research into East London suggests 30%-40% of gang members are ambivalent or reluctant about being so.The overlap between victims and offenders has implications for the racial dimension of gang violence. Pointing the finger at the black community is too easy, when the MPA suggests that while 50% of gangs come from African or Caribbean communities, 75% of shooting victims do so. Gang violence is less a problem flowing from black Britain than a problem confronting it. But the overrepresentation of black people in gangs does demand a specific response. The question, however, is how the distant world of Whitehall can develop a realistic idea of what is required.Today's independent REACH project report, published by the communities department, is a welcome acknowledgement that the starting point must be to listen. Hundreds of young black men in five British cities were interviewed, to shed light on stilted aspirations. One unsurprising finding was that participants were pleased that time had been taken to listen to them. Many of the issues emerging, such as family breakdown, are far from being purely black problems. But REACH will also address the question of role models. When black faces appear on the news pages, all too often it is in connection with crime. That sends a terrible signal. That problem is a tough one for ministers to fix: responsibility lies with the media.For all Tony Blair's talk about the causes of crime, in power he gave the impression that punishment was what mattered. But when it comes to tackling the gangs, housing - on which Gordon Brown has placed new emphasis - is every bit as important. Shelter suggests that black and minority ethnic households are more than twice as likely to be homeless, and six times more likely to be overcrowded. Consequently, black people are overrepresented on a housing list which, in England alone, stretches to 1.6 million families. The long wait means that when a house finally arrives, families do not have much scope to move out of it. In stagnant communities, school exclusion and high drop-out rates leave bored youths with time on their hands. Add to that the sense of being stuck in such a small area, which encourages the territorial mindset on which gang culture relies, and the gang problem begins to make sense. Instead of lectures about getting its house in order, the black community could use help in getting its housing problem put right.