Memories of the Soham murders seem especially bitter in the days before Christmas. The crime that robbed the parents of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman of their daughters was both unthinkable and preventable, and the systemic faults that allowed Ian Huntley to work with children must be eradicated. But first the caveat. The terrible events at Soham are not a signal of a nation descending from a golden age of childhood into moral degeneracy. Nor do they indicate that children are at great risk from malign outsiders.Six children are abducted by strangers every year, in comparison with the one or two a week who are murdered by a relative or friend in their own homes. Recent figures from Sussex police show that, in a three-month period in 2000, forces in England and Wales dealt with 492 cases, more than three a week, in which children under 10 had been killed or seriously injured by their parents. The conviction rate was 27 per cent, as opposed to 90 per cent for murder by a stranger. The singularity of the Soham killings should militate against kneejerk solutions, undertaken in the wish that such a crime should never happen again. Even so, the need for reform is urgent. The lapses that allowed the nine accusations of rape or sexual assault - five of them involving underage girls, one as young as 11 - to disappear from Ian Huntley's record were due not to a loophole in the law but a failure in its application. Contrary to the claim by the Chief Constable of Humberside, the 1984 Data Protection Act does not oblige the deletion of untested charges. Even allowing for a need to clarify the Act, neither Humberside nor Cambridgeshire police emerge with credit. The Criminal Records Bureau, set up since Huntley was vetted for his caretaker's job, depends on local forces being systematic in logging intelligence on the police national computer. The 280 analysts hired by the Home Office will need to help improve the performance of police forces. The Home Secretary, as we report today, would prefer a more centralised system. But we already have a national criminal intelligence service and a national crime squad. Local policing, with its specialist knowledge, remains the preferable model, as long as internal rigour and outside scrutiny prevent slipshod systems. It is vital, too, that a careful balance between privacy and disclosure is maintained, so that men do not have their careers and lives ruined by malicious complaints. Huntley was never in that position. The real question is why none of the grave complaints against him, all reported to police or social services, ever reached court. One problem is a justice system that fails young people, both complainants and defendants. Our daunting, adversarial process deters children who cannot face the ordeal. Keeping the same burden of proof but sparing them the torment of a trial designed to wring the truth from adults is regarded as a basic human right elsewhere in Europe. We should follow that example forthwith. In condemning the flaws that allowed Huntley to prey, unchecked, on children, it is proper, too, to praise others involved in the justice process: Mr Justice Moses, for his measured assessment of both Huntley and Maxine Carr; the jury, whose verdicts reflected careful deliberation and fairness; the public, free of lynch-mob tendencies, and the parents of Holly and Jessica, who behaved throughout with exemplary and extraordinary dignity. But the equity of the trial should not eclipse a scandalous double failure - of bureaucracy and of a justice system still primed to protect abusers above children. In the wake of Soham, it is possible, and mandatory, to remedy both defects.