In her day-to-day work as a constituency MP in Bristol, Baroness (Jean) Corston would come across women who'd got themselves into trouble with the law. But it was a visit to the mother and baby unit at Holloway prison, north London, while on home affairs select committee business ten years ago, that really opened her eyes to the issue of vulnerable women inmates. "You've only got to see babies in prison to be shocked," she says.Three years ago, she chaired a parliamentary joint committee on human rights inquiry into deaths in custody. It asked why so many people died while locked up, and concluded unequivocally that "the imprisonment of vulnerable people is at the root of the problem".That report also described the incarceration of highly vulnerable women as "senseless", so you might be forgiven for expecting Corston to be all guns blazing when it comes to her latest role: undertaking a review for the government of vulnerable women in the criminal justice system. Yet the Labour peer is circumspect about saying anything too partisan about the review, which reports in December. The home secretary, Charles Clarke, admitted at the launch of the Fawcett Society's Commission on Women and the Criminal Justice System last month that "you only have to look at the reoffending rates to realise that prison doesn't work". But Corston will say only that the review is a "unique opportunity - with the home secretary committed to the agenda and two home office ministers, Baroness Patricia Scotland and Fiona Mactaggart, passionate about the issue - to ask what are the best mechanisms for dealing with these [vulnerable] women".She adds: "The review's not going to say all women shouldn't be in prison. It's saying that a significant number of women in prison aren't a risk to the public and are much more likely than women outside prison to be mentally ill, substance abusers, to have experienced child or adult sexual abuse or violence; and sometimes a combination of all of those contributes to a huge risk of self-harm. So we have this opportunity to say what's a better way of dealing with these issues."So these women should not be locked up? "If a lot of women in prison are mentally ill, it begs the question should they be in prison," she says.But that is not the same as saying she would like to see fewer women being given custodial sentences. "I don't think if someone is severely mentally ill that [imprisonment] is the best thing to do with them - but I'm not going to prejudice the findings of the review. It would be stupid for me to do so. I just want to understand all the factors."According to research, two in three women prisoners have mental health problems, at least half report being victims of childhood abuse or domestic violence, and 40% have tried to kill themselves. Since 1993, 75 have succeeded. When Labour came to power in 1997, the female prison population in England and Wales was 2,675. At the time of going to press it stands at 4,392, although there has been no corresponding rise in the number of women committing more serious crime. Nine out of 10 women are convicted of non-violent offences, and most women in prison are mothers.Part of the review, Corston says, is to establish the points in the criminal justice system - at police stations, the court, on remand, and sentencing - where there could be alternatives to putting women behind bars. Corston points to two women's projects, in Calderdale and Worcester, that deal with offending behaviour in the community by developing their clients' confidence and self-esteem.But isn't it the case that judges see community programmes as a soft option? "People are blaming the judges," she says. "They [say] they are responding to public opinion. If there is such a thing as an unvirtuous circle, that's what it is."Provision of Calderdale-type schemes is patchy, she says. But she draws attention to £9.15m of government money earmarked to expand schemes for women at risk of offending or to rehabilitate women prisoners after their release, when 65% go on to reoffend. Her human rights committee inquiry into deaths in custody says: "It is incumbent on the government to devise alternatives to custodial sentences ... which can prevent the senseless incarceration of highly vulnerable individuals." It was the inquiry report's uncompromising stance that has persuaded vocal critics of the government's penal policies to join Corston's advisory committee, which had its second meeting last week. They include Juliet Lyons, chief executive of the Prison Reform Trust, and Deborah Coles, co-director of the charity Inquest. "This is not an independent review, but I've been assured that families' views will be properly heard and reflected," says Coles.Among these will be Pauline Campbell, whose daughter, Sarah, aged 18, was the youngest of six women to die from self-inflicted injuries in a 12-month period at Styal prison in Cheshire. Campbell, who has spent the past three years campaigning against the imprisonment of women convicted of non-violent offences, says she is willing to cooperate with the review team if it agrees to answer some questions about the investigation into Sarah's death.Inquest has been lobbying the home secretary for a public inquiry into the six deaths at Styal, which is due to become the largest women's prison in Europe. "The home secretary decided that instead of a public inquiry focusing on those deaths, which was looking backwards in my opinion, it would be better to widen it to have a look at vulnerable women in the criminal justice system," Corston says. "So you could say that Styal was the motor for this review."There have been reports that, at Styal, pregnant prisoners were transported in "sweatboxes" (steel compartments measuring 860mm by 620mm (34in by 24in) in cellular vehicles), that segregation units are still being used for punitive purposes and that there is insufficient support for prisoners with drug misuse and mental health problems. But Corston brushes aside claims that the prison service fails to uphold its duty of care and to rehabilitate vulnerable women. "Talking about failure is pointless," she argues. "Turning around an organisation is very difficult. It's important to try to support people who are bringing about changes."Asked if there could be cost implications from the review - more prison detoxification units and community support programmes require investment -she answers that money is not the issue. "It's about taking a different approach, such as the way you treat women prisoners with drug problems."Corston is determined her review will not reinvent the wheel but will pull together research already available - a vast proportion of which says that most women don't need to be in prison. "We'd be irresponsible if we didn't consider that."Asked what would she like the review to achieve, she says: "I don't want to second guess the outcome." How about no more self-inflicted death in women's prisons? "You could never be in a situation where you could say there would be no suicides in prison but, yes, I do want to see the number crashing down." Curriculum VitaeAge: 63. Status: Married, with two children, five stepchildren and six grandchildren. Lives: Tortworth, south Gloucestershire. Education: Yeovil Girls high (left at 16), Somerset; Inns of Court School of Law (at 40), City University London; London School of Economics. Career: 1992-2005: MP for Bristol East, including 2002-2005: chaired the parliamentary joint committee on human rights which held an inquiry into deaths in custody; 2001-2005: chair of the parliamentary Labour party; 1997-2001: private parliamentary secretary to the education minister; 1995-1997: member of the home affairs select committee into the management of prisons; 1990-1992: barrister, St John's Chambers, Bristol, specialising in family law; 1975-1985: Bristol Labour party organiser. Interests: Tap dancing, tapestry, gardening.