Scotland Yard is transforming the way suspicious baby deaths are investigated in response to miscarriages of justice involving mothers wrongly accused of killing their children, the Guardian has learned.Detectives from the Met's child protection unit will lead future murder investigations where parents or carers are suspected of killing babies, removing the cases from the remit of general homicide squads. It is hoped the strategy will reduce the number of mis-carriages of justice involving parents and other relatives, and also improve the poor conviction rate against mothers and fathers who do kill their children by providing more robust evidence for a criminal court. Police are pre-empting a government inquiry into baby deaths by Lady Kennedy of Shaw, which is expected to report shortly. Senior detectives say they are responding to criticism of failings in infant death investigations after the cases of the wrongly accused mothers Angela Cannings, Sally Clark and Trupti Patel. They want the new strategy to become a blueprint for change across the country. Detective Superintendent Alastair Jeffrey from the child protection unit said the move had been prompted by the need to improve the quality of investigations. "This is something we have been looking at for some time," he said. "Because of the focus on the issue and because of the need to get it absolutely right, these investigations are something which need expertise and particular skills. "Up until now when a suspected child murder took place it went to one of 29 homicide teams in the force. The expertise, the liaison with medical experts, all the things we need to concentrate on were spread far and wide. But by bringing suspicious infant deaths under the command of the child protection unit we can concentrate all that expertise here." Initially, the investigation teams will investigate cases involving infant deaths which are immediately suspicious. But they hope to take over inquiries into all sudden infant deaths, of which there are around 50 a year in London and approximately 300 nationwide, a minority of which turn out to involve deliberate shaking or suffocation by a parent. Mr Jeffrey said the detectives under his command had access to experts in the field of infant deaths, and had worked closely with the only paediatric forensic pathologist in the country, Professor Tony Risdon, who is attached to Great Ormond Street hospital. "Investigating a child death is not more complex but it is a different type of investigation." he said. "Firstly, it is not always clear at first whether there has been a murder. Secondly, if it is a suspicious death one difficulty is that generally speaking the perpetrator is going to be a member of the family, a mum or dad. "Yet at the same time we have to balance that suspicion against the need to support the family." Liz Atkins, the NSPCC head of policy and public affairs, said: "Improving the way suspicious child deaths are investigated will help increase our understanding of how they died and help professionals identify what needs to be done to prevent such tragedies in the future."