The policing watchdog yesterday castigated officers for the "totally unacceptable" death toll caused by police car chases.Twenty-seven people have been killed as a result of police pursuits in England and Wales since last April 1, accounting for more than 1% of all traffic fatalities, and compared with just eight deaths in 1997-98. An inquest this week provides a graphic example of a death involving a police chase. Paul Bowen, 19, died when the car he was driving went over a 175ft cliff at Alum Bay, on the Isle of Wight, while being pursued by police, although it appears he may have drowned rather than died from injuries sustained in the fall. A study by the Police Complaints Authority found there was no consistent policy across the 43 English and Welsh forces on how to deal with pursuits, which led to 50 cases of death or serious injury a year on average. David Best, the PCA's head of research, said: "Each of these deaths results in a significant investigation yet lessons simply aren't being learned. Many forces' policies are so weak and limited it is impossible to tell if they are being adhered to or not." The PCA report, into 86 cases which led to 63 deaths and 78 serious injuries in 2001 and 2002, said those on motorcycles were particularly at risk as there was no safe way for police to stop them. Some police drivers taking part in chases had little or no more training than any civilian motorist, and no force the researchers spoke to could put any kind of accurate measure on the success of pursuits. In a separate PCA review of 344 pursuits by the four Welsh forces in 2002-03, arrests were made in just over 40% of incidents, but while the longer and faster the chase the higher rate of arrest, so too the higher the probability of injury and death. Only one in seven drivers being chased stopped voluntarily. The most common outcome was the vehicle being chased getting away or the occupants abandoning the vehicle. Mr Best said the PCA was not suggesting the police should not be allowed to use their discretion as to whether or not to pursue suspected criminals, but they had to weigh up whether there was a realistic prospect of a safe resolution. He said it was misleading to assume that everyone killed in a crash involving a police chase was a criminal. Of 63 fatalities he examined, 21 people were in vehicles unconnected to the pursuit while eight were pedestrians. Also, many of those being pursued could be under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or be very inexperienced drivers, and so were unlikely to respond rationally. The PCA report and recommendations, which it would like to see adopted by the Home Office, were endorsed by the Association of Chief Police Officers, which yesterday published similar guidelines, calling for a consistent nationwide policy on police pursuits, more training and better risk analysis. Both organisations also want more emphasis on technological alternatives to police car chases - at present these appear limited to helicopters and stingers, metal devices thrown across the road to puncture tyres. They also want tactical advisers whom police drivers can call for instant advice on their particular situation. Richard Brunstrom, the North Wales chief constable and Acpo spokesman on road policing issues, said: "The figures are not acceptable and we are going to do something about it. Every one of these deaths is a tragedy and there needs to be a significant culture change on the part of the police."