A schoolgirl told a court today how her teacher repeatedly masturbated in front of her and classmates during exams. The teenager claimed Shay Kernaghan would first "prepare himself" by putting chairs either side of his desk in a bid to hide what he was doing. "But it was obvious," said the sixth-form student. "When he was masturbating he goes all pink and then he starts shaking his hand underneath (his desk). "I was sitting right next to him. It was disgusting," she told London's Southwark crown court. Mr Kernaghan, 27, who has since left the London school for Muslim children to live in County Tyrone, denies eight charges. Four allege he "abused a position of trust" by "engaging in sexual activity other than sexual intercourse", between October 1 and December 12 2003. A similar number of alternative counts claim he "committed an act of a lewd, obscene and disgusting nature, outraging public decency." The court has heard that the business studies teacher's alleged activities became a "hot topic" for discussion among pupils. Guy Ladenburg, prosecuting, has told the six-man, six-woman jury trying the case that even when the defendant realised he could be seen, he continued to gratify himself. "It was clear he was excited by the knowledge that the girls knew exactly what he was up to," the barrister claimed. "Their presence in the class so close to what he was doing on these occasions was an added thrill. "Otherwise there would be no point in taking an enormous risk of doing that in a class so early on in his teaching career." The teenager - 16 at the time and one of four alleged victims due to give evidence - said she could recall four separate occasions when Mr Kernaghan abused himself in class. After the first, the youngster, who cannot be named for legal reasons, waited until he had left the room after the lesson and then went with several classmates to look at the red chair he had been sitting on. "It was disgusting," she told jurors. The next time it happened she remembered holding her head in her hands and thinking "Oh my God. Shit. I can't take it any more. I'm going to tell." But "everyone stopped me". That, she said, was also the occasion when another girl burst out laughing at the spectacle and was promptly ordered to leave the room by Mr Kernaghan. She also recalled a third incident when one of her friends decided to interrupt what he was allegedly doing by asking for a piece of paper. Normally he would get up and give it to her. "But he had his trousers undone... and he told her to come and get it herself." The girl said she finally decided she could stay quiet no longer. After discussing the matter with several of her friends, they approached the sixth-form's deputy head. Cross-examined by John Burrow, defending, the teenager denied "exaggerating" things and "jumping to conclusions". She also rejected a suggestion that any movements Mr Kernaghan may have appeared to make under his desk were simply him reaching into his trouser pockets to retrieve some cream for a cold sore on his lip. The court has heard that two of the chairs Mr Kernaghan used to sit on were later examined forensically. Tests, together with DNA profiling, backed up the accounts the various girls involved had given police, said Mr Ladenburg. He told the court that, when first interviewed, the teacher suggested the residues could have been left when he changed clothes for the gym. But when informed of the lab results, he explained to officers he had actually been having sex on the school premises with "an adult female".