Two corrupt police officers who fed information to suspected criminals about high profile investigations were jailed today.Charles Fletcher, a former trainee detective with Nottinghamshire Police, supplied details of police investigations, including the murder of Nottingham jeweller Marian Bates, for a two-and-a-half-year period, until June last year. In return for his services, the 25-year-old received discounts on designer suits from a Nottingham fashion store, Birmingham Crown Court heard. He was jailed for seven years after admitting conspiracy to commit misconduct in a public office and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. His co-defendant Philip Parr, 40, a former police constable with the same force, was sentenced to 12 months in jail after pleading guilty to conspiracy to commit misconduct in a public office, between November 2004 and August 2005. The court heard he leaked details of a burglary suspect and ran a background check on a woman at the request of her partner, who was a suspected criminal. Passing sentence, Judge John Saunders QC said Fletcher's activities put the lives of vital witnesses and informants at risk, damaged the morale of the Nottinghamshire police force and undermined the trust placed in the police by members of the public. He added: "Corrupt police officers do untold damage to the criminal justice system."The court heard that Fletcher, who joined the police force in 1999, sought out specific information at the request of Jason Grocock, 33, the manager of Limey's clothing store in Nottingham. Included in the information were details about the investigation into the murder of Mrs Bates, who was shot dead during a raid on her jewellery shop in 2003, and the double murder of Joan and John Stirland, who were killed at their bungalow in Trusthorpe, Lincolnshire, in August 2004. Luckily, the court was told, the information Fletcher gleaned from his colleagues about the two cases was of "limited significance". "Because Fletcher was not involved in those inquiries and because, for at least part of the Stirland inquiry, he was under surveillance by brother officers, the nature of the information he was able to pass on was of limited significance," Judge Saunders said. "But he was prepared to pass on what he could find and advise as to the evidential value of what the police had found." Grocock, who forwarded the information on to suspected criminals - paying for the details with designer clothes - was jailed for four-and-a-half years.