Detectives looking for the missing chef Claudia Lawrence said today that her disappearance was now being treated as suspected murder.The move came within hours of the charity Crimestoppers putting up a £10,000 reward for information about the 35-year-old, an unusual step for a missing person case.Police in North Yorkshire believe Lawrence, who was last seen leaving her work at York University on 18 March, may have come to serious harm after meeting someone she knew. Detectives are working on descriptions of men seen at or near her home in York, as well as a couple seen arguing by a car near the university early on the morning after she vanished.Crimestoppers said the "enhanced reward" had been agreed because of the level of interest in the case. David Hunter, the charity's regional manager for the north-east, said: "We hope this will generate specific information relating to Claudia which can help police with their inquiries."The head of the inquiry, Detective Superintendent Ray Galloway, said this morning: "At the moment we have no proof of Claudia's death. However, five weeks on from her disappearance we also have no proof of her life. The investigation is now being formally classified as one of suspected murder."Police have searched 270 houses and other properties as well as 1,000 student rooms at the university, where Lawrence worked in the kitchens of Goodricke college. Detectives have also taken 900 phone calls offering information and 868 statements from potential witnesses.Galloway said the level of the inquiry remained intense, with a further fingertip search yesterday in undergrowth near a York cycle track. Officers took away items in plastic bags to add to forensic evidence already gathered at the university and Lawrence's home.Martin Dales, a friend and spokesman for Lawrence's family, asked students coming back to York for the summer term to think back to the time Lawrence disappeared. Appeals have been extended to students at the city's other university, York St John's, because many live in residences close to her home.Lawrence's father, Peter, said he and his wife had left new messages on their daughter's mobile phone. He made a direct appeal to her: "Claudia, it's five weeks since you disappeared without any trace at all. It's just so unusual for you not to be in contact that we just don't know what is happening."Despite many appeals, nobody's heard from you, and we're obviously extremely worried. Your mum and I have this morning each left a message on your mobile phone, just in case you are able still to listen to messages."Please, please listen to these messages and if you're able to, please send just a quick text or make a quick call. You may not be able to do this but we just hope there's that possibility that you can."There's absolutely nothing for you to worry about in terms of getting in contact, you're not in trouble with anybody, we just miss you, we just want to know that you're safe."Galloway said two other significant sightings had been reported to police of a man and woman walking together near the university between 6am and 6.30am on 17 and 19 March. One witness described the man as wearing a dark hooded top with the hood up and smoking a cigarette using his left hand.