Victims of miscarriages of justice will have to wait longer for their cases to be examined because of annual cuts of £300,000 in the budget of the organisation that investigates them, it emerged yesterday. Staff at the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the body that examines suspect convictions, are "angry and dispirited", and the budget cuts are threatening to damage their work, according to their chairman, Prof Graham Zellick. His pessimistic assessment comes in the foreword to his annual report as campaigners claim there are now more victims of miscarriages of justice in jail than there were in the days of the Birmingham Six and Guildford Four. The commission's budget shows a cut of about £300,000 a year, allowing for inflation, over the next three years. The total budget for the past year was £6.7m. This puts the body's work at risk, according to Zellick, who praises his staff and regrets that Treasury guidelines have been imposed on incomes. "It is easy to see why we feel frustrated and the staff feel angry and dispirited," said Zellick.The number of case review managers dropped by nearly 10% over the past year and more staff cuts are inevitable. "There is now minimal scope for savings which will not damage the quality and efficiency of our work," concluded Zellick, who is stepping down from the post. His successor would face "melancholic challenges which spring from proposed reductions to our budget ... which would be as damaging in practice as they are demoralising in prospect", he said.While 1,087 cases were completed in the past year 450 remained under review, the report says. Some of these cases have been with the organisation for more than a year, and a further 194 cases are still not allocated. Twenty-seven of the cases reviewed were referred to the appeal court, compared with 38 the previous year, the report says. Of the cases referred back by the commission, 65% of convictions were quashed. Campaigners yesterday criticised the budget cuts. "There always seems to be the money available to convict people," said John McManus, of the Miscarriages of Justice Organisation."What is shocking is that there is no money ... to review the cases of all the innocent people in prison. We believe that there are more innocent people incarcerated than there were at the time of the Birmingham Six. "Paddy Hill [of the Birmingham Six] said that when he was convicted, there were 20,000 people in jail in England and Wales, when he came out there were 40,000, and now there are 80,000, and there will be the same percentage of innocent people. They should be spending more money to look at those cases," he said.The Ministry of Justice said the commission had sufficient funds for its work."We believe that the commission is properly funded for the important work that it does," it said. "Like all publicly-funded bodies, the commission must continue to look for efficiency gains to meet its budget. Like all government departments, the commission's staff are subject to Treasury guidelines on pay." The commission was founded 11 years ago to examine alleged miscarriage of justice cases. It has the power to refer cases about which there are doubts back to the court of appeal. The equivalent body, the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission, was founded in 1999. This body also published its annual review this month and noted that the case of the man convicted of the Lockerbie bomb, Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi, which has been referred back to the high court in Edinburgh, was the "most difficult and complex case" it had had to review. The SCCRC concluded reviews of 98 cases last year.