A Chinese con man who stole into the ramshackle £4m home of a reclusive pensioner and battered him to death was sentenced to a minimum of 20 years in prison today.  Murder victim Allan Chappelow, 86. Photograph: Metropolitan Police/PAWang Yam killed the eccentric author Allan Chappelow, 86, in his home in Hamsptead, north London, in order to steal his identity and perpetrate fraud. The body of his victim – who had written two biographies of George Bernard Shaw – was found under a metre-high pile of papers in a room filled with rotting furniture.Yam, also of Hampstead, who had been posing as a multimillionaire, denied the killing as well as stealing cheques and bank cards. But a jury at the Old Bailey found him guilty earlier this month of killing Chappelow. Yam had spent a month cloning Chappelow's identity using documents from the house but attempts to get cash failed when his Chinese accent alerted bank staff.The defence case was held in camera for national security reasons and to ensure the administration of justice. A court order bans speculation about the matters heard in private.Chappelow was battered over the head in May 2006 after returning from a trip to the US. The writer seldom left the house he had lived in since he was 14. Interested in photography from a young age, he badgered George Bernard Shaw to let him capture what became the last-known image of the playwright.Sentencing him to life, Mr Justice Ouseley said Yam should serve a minimum jail term of 20 years, giving him concurrent sentences of up to four-and-a-half years for offences of burglary, dishonestly obtaining two bank transfers for £20,000, dishonestly handling four stolen cheques, and theft.Chappelow had been struck five times on the head and received further blows to his neck and body, said the judge."They were inflicted on a defenceless man who was semi-conscious at times during the assault. His body was concealed under nearly half a tonne of papers," he said, adding that the murder was committed in the course of a burglary during which Yam was stealing mail. He accepted that Yam believed the property was unoccupied and was surprised to be confronted by an angry Chappelow.Geoffrey Cox QC, defending, told the judge that Yam was a mild-mannered man who had reacted uncharacteristically. "The defendant was under financial pressures and strains at the time. There must have been a serious of other personal pressures which drove him to the mail theft."Yam came to Britain "under a well-founded fear of persecution" after leading the life of a respected academic in China, said Cox.Officers broke into the derelict Georgian property after being contacted by Chappelow's bank. Staff there had grown concerned when more than £10,000 was withdrawn from his account and when he failed to make his usual weekly deposit.Yam, who claimed to have fled China for Hong Kong following threats after the Tiananmen Square uprising, broke down in the witness box as he denied killing Chappelow.The court went into closed session after he said that after he sought asylum in the UK in 1992, he criticised the Chinese regime on internet blogs. He spent years tricking members of the Chinese community out of money with fake mortgage and insurance deals but victims had not wanted police involved because of their immigration status or belated offers of restitution from Yam.