Tens of thousands of criminals are to be released from Britain's crumbling and overcrowded jails in the most radical shake-up of the prison system since the Victorian period.In a landmark admission published in today's Observer, Home Secretary David Blunkett admits that Britain locks up too many people and that, for the majority, prison does not work. At the end of a week in which crime was forced to the top of the political agenda by Lord Chief Justice Woolf's comments urging tougher sentences for mobile phone thieves and a devastating report on Dartmoor prison, Blunkett's comments will be viewed as marking a sea change in thinking about punishment and rehabilitation. It comes as the number of people in jail reaches record levels. Blunkett will draw fierce criticism from the law and order lobby by creating a series of European-style 'light-touch' options, including weekend prisons to allow offenders to keep their jobs, semi-secure urban hostels for non-violent offenders and a vast extension of tagging. Shattering the traditional Home Office 'prison works' mantra, Blunkett will outline plans for a 'third way' between jail and community sentences to the prison service's annual conference tomorrow. Offenders and remand prisoners would be locked up at evenings and weekends, with strict curfews and tagging to keep track of them, but released during the day to work, do community service or maintain relationships with families. 'We need to be radical. We send more people to prison than almost any other European country, yet reconviction rates are too high,' Blunkett writes. 'I want to change that. We need to provide a genuine third option to custody and community punishment.' The Conservative home affairs spokesman Humfrey Malins said weekend jails were not a solution to rising crime, which should be the Government's priority. 'It is not true that huge numbers of people are going to prison who do not deserve to - all judges try very hard to avoid sending people to prison,' said Malins, who sits as a part-time judge. 'And where are these hostels going to be? The whole point about prisons is that they have to be secure. If you are going to have open prisons in the middle of communities you have to be very careful.' Blunkett's ideas come amid concern in the Home Office that a large rise in the jail population and the cost of the fight against terrorism could scupper the Government's programme of reform of the criminal justice system. A memo at the Home Office shows Ministers believe there could be a record 73,000 people in prison by July - almost 10,000 over capacity and a rise of 8,000 in two years. The expense of housing the new prisoners - estimated at more than £200 million - and the spiralling costs of security after 11 September mean that Ministers can no longer afford to introduce reforms outlined in Lord Justice Auld's report on the court system and the Halliday report on sentencing. The Home Office is braced for opposition from residents surrounding the hostels as well as the charge - after Britain's first carjacking murder last week - of being 'soft on crime'. But Blunkett will stress that dangerous, violent or sex offenders would remain in jail, with rigorous risk assessments carried out on burglars and petty offenders who could be eligible. Prisoners who failed to comply with curfews or absconded would risk being sent to a traditional prison. Blunkett's speech is inspired by the Carter report on prison reform, commissioned by his predecessor at the Home Office, Jack Straw, which is expected to focus on tackling re-offending. One option expected to be recommended in the report is 'cam pus prisons', involving a traditional jail, a hostel and other related services all within the same perimeter to minimise local objections. Women with children are priority candidates, with Blunkett known to be concerned at the harsh effects on children of imprisoning their mothers for minor offences. Two-thirds of female prisoners have children under 18. Serving prisoners judged to be locked up unnecessarily could be downgraded to the hostel scheme - although some sentenced to community service could find themselves upgraded to the tougher hostel regime. The hostels - modelled on experiments in Germany - are also regarded as more economical. Keeping an offender in prison costs up to £36,000 a year, roughly twice as much as hostels. Critics of the prisons policy fear the announcement may be a smoke screen to hide the Government's intention to shelve plans to tackle the problem of 'revolving door' prisoners serving short sentences. These prisoners, who are responsible for an estimated £10 billion of crime, receive no supervision on release and most reconvict within a short time. 'Shelving plans for the rehabilitation of short-term prisoners will be disastrous. Diverting money to cope with the spiralling prison population will not cut crime, it will increase it,' said Harry Fletcher of the probation union Napo.