A neighbourhood support officer has told a court how a woman had walked into her police station and said: "I've killed my children".Fiona Mepham initially thought Fiona Donnison was drunk when she entered Heathfield police station in East Sussex because she was pale and swaying from side to side. Mepham said Donnison was mumbling incoherently at first but then told her: "I've come to hand myself in."She asked her why and Donnison replied that she had killed her children, with "no emotion, just one tone" in her voice.Donnison, 45, denies the murder of three-year-old Harry and two-year-old Elise Donnison.Mepham told jurors on the second day of the trial at Lewes crown court that she noticed Donnison had blood on her palms and a cut across her left wrist when she came into the small station at about 10.45am on 27 January 2010.Mepham said she asked Donnison how many children she had. "She answered 'two... three... four...' with a space in between," the officer said, adding that the former City worker went "floppy" and collapsed in a heap before going on to say her children, whom she could not name, were at her friend's house in nearby Punnetts Town.Mepham said Donnison, who was later found to have taken a large quantity of sleeping tablets, then "grabbed her stomach very tightly and screwed her face up and then let out the most horrific noise".She said: "At one stage, she was unconscious but then her eyes opened and were just rolling."Jurors previously heard that police officers searched the local area for the children, before finding their bodies zipped up in two holdalls locked in the boot of Donnison's Nissan car parked a few streets away.Prosecutor Christine Laing QC, opening the case, described how postmortem examinations on the two children found they died of suffocation, probably the evening before. It is most likely that they had been suffocated with pillows, the court was told.Laing told jurors the trial would look closely at events in the 12 days leading up to the deaths in January 2010.Twelve days earlier, the defendant and the children's father, Paul Donnison, had finally decided to end their relationship after living separately since September 2009 when she suddenly left him. Attempts at a reconciliation had failed and they decided to put the former family home, Meadowside in Heathfield, on the market. She had moved to a rented house in Lightwater, Surrey.Laing said that on 18 January, Fiona Donnison made a complaint to police that her estranged partner had assaulted her. He was arrested and released on bail, with a condition that he was to reside at Meadowside and not contact his former partner.Laing said Fiona Donnison continued to go to Meadowside without warning on numerous occasions in the days leading up to the children's deaths and, on 24 January, Paul Donnison called police. She then armed herself with two kitchen knives in an attempt to kill her partner and blame him for the death of their children, it was alleged. But he did not return to the house that night.The next day, she handed herself in to police saying she had killed her children.The prosecution earlier claimed she was "a controlling narcissist" who wanted to make her partner's life "as miserable as possible" to the extent that she "used her children as the ultimate and final weapon".The trial continues.