Police tend to divide the world into two kinds of people - those who are for them and those who are against them. They decide quickly, and it's often hard to shake their judgment. I have spent the past six months with Thames Valley police. It is a return visit. Twenty years ago, with a film crew, I spent nine months at Reading station making the original Police series for the BBC. This time I've gone back to see how things have changed.Some innovations are immediately obvious. Walking the corridors, you see the names of the new specialist services: Pro-Active Crime Squads, Family Protection Unit, Victim Support... There are many more civilians about, doing jobs once done by uniform. Unpaid volunteers run ID parades and lost property. Among the officers, I could soon see that standards have risen in recruitment and training. There is far less rote learning and square bashing, and far more concern for officers using their initiative and judgment.But some things haven't changed: the embattled mistrust of outsiders remains. The new face of policing sounds modern with its jargon of multi-agency working, community race relations training, restorative justice conferencing, youth offending teams and the like. But to be effective, it all requires old-fashioned qualities: good communication and mutual trust. And the fact is, the recent riots on the streets of Bradford and other northern towns remind us that many groups in our complex, multi-ethnic society still do not trust the police. In Thames Valley in recent years, police have battled with protesters at Greenham Common, the Newbury bypass and Huntingdon Life Sciences, the animal testing facility, in long-running conflicts. We filmed an animal rights march through Oxford this summer: despite negotiations beforehand, the sense of lingering mutual mistrust between police and protesters was palpable, and soon led to misunderstanding and violence. After peace was restored, both sides vowed not to trust the other again. The old suspicious attitudes are passed on almost instantly, along with the uniform. One senior officer in Hampshire told me how new recruits spend two days in a station in their first fortnight to acclimatise. "When they return, it's clear which station they've attended. If it's Winchester or Alton, they come back acting normally. If it's Portsmouth, they move differently, and they're full of snap negative judgments about the public - minority groups especially. "Even graduates have already got the aggressive body language of the canteen - after just two days! When we confront them with how they've changed, most admit it and go back to how they were. But when they get posted there for real, the culture takes them over. There's nothing we can do." It is easy to forget how the police's sense of embattled isolation began. We do not readily recall that 20 years ago some parts of this country were engaged in a mini-civil war - and not only in Northern Ireland. Violence exploded in unexpected places in riots and demonstrations that pitted the police against sections of the public. Conflict on the streets in inner city areas created a gulf of mutual suspicion that even now hinders dealings between both sides. "We hate everybody," a PC told me 20 years ago. "Lezzies, pinkos, students, travellers, rich people, coons [sic], foreigners, poofs, journalists, strikers - you name it, we hate everyone." That hostility, apparently buried, still informs the sudden outbreaks of violence against police in places such as Burnley and Oldham. Their names join Brixton, Toxteth, Moss Side and Tottenham as bywords for deep intractable problems. Yet these are the same police that the public - especially in inner cities - want to see more of on the beat. In less deprived areas, this demand reflects wishful thinking: the phrase "bobby on the beat" evokes a gentle, Major-esque past of fading sunlight, with the local constable cycling past a cricket match on the green. In this myth, he (it's always a he) reports to Sgt George Dixon that someone's lad has been nicking apples, but that he gave them a cuff on the ear and nothing more need be done about it. However, one superintendent told me, "I am always being told how people were cuffed by their local bobby for stealing an apple, and how much they miss the good old days. But I have never met a single bobby who remembers doing that. People would rather not know the truth. It's a myth that keeps them warm." During our filming this year, we heard complaints that echoed that myth: people from all walks of life - on both sides of the law - wanted a local bobby they knew personally, to help them with a variety of problems, not just crime. That's what police find hardest to deliver: the comfort of the past. Dixon, the fictional hero of the TV series Dixon Of Dock Green, which ran from the mid-1950s, may not have existed, but a trust between police and their community did. Although police always gave people on the wrong side of the law a rough time, that was before television - and out of sight meant out of mind. Affection for Dixon's avuncular persona reflected approval of the police by a huge majority of postwar Britain. But as the 1960s wore on, isolated scandals began to tarnish the public image of the police. In 1962, a rhino whip was discovered in a locker that had been used on a suspect in Sheffield. Leeds detectives were caught in a child porn ring. In 1965, a detective inspector with the Met was found to have planted a brick on protesters. Most damaging of all, in 1969, Times reporters tape recorded CID men from the Met offering colleagues a bribe to fix a case. Senior officers rejected these complaints, or claimed that they related to just a "few bad apples". Critics were dismissed as "politically motivated" - which meant leftwing. A sense grew among all ranks that the press, and then the public, were becoming unfairly hostile, and using isolated cases to attack the police as a whole. The scandals did not go away, however. As they spread to the flying squad, and to the porn, vice and drugs squads in London, it slowly emerged that there was a "firm within the firm" of bent detectives in Scotland Yard. In 1968, aggressive policing of anti-Vietnam war protests in Grosvenor Square was shown on television screens across the world. The consensus of public approval began to come apart. I was there in Grosvenor Square. I can still recall the surge of panic in what seemed a peaceful crowd when the horses charged us. Police linked arms and pinned us to the iron railings while demanding that we clear the square. It seemed utterly gratuitous - violence of the kind that police often complain is directed against them. I later met an officer who had guarded the steps of the US embassy. He was outraged by my criticism. He said that his men and their horses had been kicked and attacked with stones and ball bearings by protesters at the front. That's why they cleared the square. Like the blind men feeling different ends of an elephant, we could not agree on the shape of those events. Both were true from our perspectives. In the years to follow, that sense of separate histories developed. As each successive scandal about the cause of riots, or deaths in custody, or "fitting up" suspects hit the media, police canteens soon spread an alternative account that blamed the victim or the public or both. The media were always blamed for not telling the police side of the story. Senior officers were always blamed for not defending the lower ranks. While most policing still passed without incident, the tension between protesters and police grew. In 1974, a student, Kevin Gately, was killed in the melee at a protest against a National Front rally in Red Lion Square, London. In 1976, aggressive policing of the picket line at the Grunwick strike turned the Met's Special Patrol Group into a national symbol of the new kind of policing. Two years later, at a protest against a National Front march in Southall, teacher Blair Peach was struck by an SPG radio and died from the blow. Gately and Peach became martyrs of the left. That the police were seen as "defending"' the National Front fed the growing accusations of police racism - a view still fuelling violence on the streets of Bradford and Leeds. From the police perspective, such chaotic occasions were hellish ordeals, with demonstrators' attacks on police ignored by their critics among the media and Labour MPs. The fortress mentality was growing behind the Thin Blue Line. Their sense of separation became more acute from the early 1970s when bobbies on the beat were given panda cars, and radios instead of whistles to call for help. This was intended to promote efficiency and prompt responses - goals that still drive much police policy. But it is now acknowledged to have fatally severed bonds with local people. In the past, a bobby was bound to "walk slowly to a fight", and deal with its aftermath alone. With a radio, and help quickly available in cars, anxious officers would turn too soon for extra manpower, and would often escalate the incident just by doing so. Dixon had given way to would-be Starskys and Hutches, who never closed car doors but slammed them, who never walked but ran. As society became more violent, so did the police. "Soft" policing - Dixon-style - became a term of abuse, and hard-drinking, foul-mouthed canteen cowboys gained ascendancy. By the late 1970s, police pay and morale were low. Experienced men were quitting in large numbers - just as they are again today. Police were desperate to make up the numbers. "We would take anyone," a superintendent told me, "so long as they had two eyes, two arms and two legs." When police pay suddenly improved in the wake of a government commission in 1978, it attracted tough, streetwise youth with the prejudices of their own white, working-class culture. "Society gets the police force it deserves. I was at the training school in 1978-79, watching them come in. When the money went up, 60 a week were joining. We were taking a particularly aggressive type of person. I don't know why. But when you look outside, there was crowd violence and gang fights. It seemed to me that society was venting its spleen." These young recruits, without older, more experienced PCs to restrain them, engaged in turf wars with local youth. They used their powers almost arbitrarily. They were still only a minority, but they often set the tone on the street, and confirmed the worst fears and stereotypes of the black community in particular. "They go out on the street like bears with a broken bottle up their backside, looking for trouble - unintentionally, maybe - but they're going out wound up. That frightens me." This view was from a sergeant in East Anglia, but it caught the mood spreading across Britain. Other young PCs , unused to violence, were too insecure or unconfident to challenge their colleagues' bad behaviour. The hostile attitude of black youth also formed long-lasting negative impressions that made easy, low-key contact even harder. There was a climate of suspicion in which each side expected trouble. Black youths were the primary target of the infamous "sus" laws which gave police powers to stop and search anyone they suspected might be up to something (the debate about the key role of stop and search in fighting crime still goes on today). The uniform ensured who would win - until the riots of the 1980s turned the tables. They began in Bristol in April 1980, when detectives raided the only black cafe, The Black Cat, in the St Paul's district of the city. Detectives were looking for drugs, but had failed to warn either local uniform police or community leaders. Police met such violent resistance that they were forced to withdraw entirely for several hours. Nineteen officers were wounded. No one was ever prosecuted. It was a humiliation that police were determined would not happen again. After Bristol, the use of force on both sides soon escalated. Sudden outbreaks of trouble don't happen in a vacuum. They are fed by memory. A year later, the Brixton riot in March 1981 was prompted by just such history: it was a response to police rescuing an injured man. The crowd thought he was being beaten by the officers themselves. "Brixton was a nightmare, an absolute copper-bottomed fucking nightmare," one Met officer told me. "The orange smoke, the hysteria on the radio, the hail of bricks and bottles. It was like driving into world war three." Lord Scarman's report into the causes of the Brixton riot concluded that it happened after years of police rough treatment, and a breakdown of communication between police and community leaders. The violence broke out during three weeks of "saturation policing" by the Special Patrol Group, targeting street robberies. Operation Swamp, as it was called, continued during and after the rioting, as if the two were unconnected. A thousand youths were stopped; a hundred were arrested - largely for resisting the police. Only 10 were charged with robbery. The riots lasted three days, and a third of the rioters were white. The damage cost nearly £5 million; 50 rioters and 400 officers were injured. Along with the other riots that broke out that summer, their impact on police and public perceptions was enormous. Four months later, it was Toxteth. "There are some things you should never see. I don't know how you can describe the smoke and the flames and the terror, the absolute terror. You're confined to a little space, you're stood behind a shield, there's petrol bombs flying through the air and every now and then someone's on fire who's in the same line as you. Or your shoes are on fire. It went on for so long, I was dreaming about it. I had to see a psychiatrist. "I had a dream about all of us, about the section going round in a car. We were in plain clothes and we were indiscriminately murdering everyone in the daytime that was causing us so much trouble at night. I have never enjoyed a dream so much in my life." Those were the words of a Greater Manchester PC who was 25 when sent to help Merseyside police in Toxteth in 1981. He went on to police a racially mixed area. That was the rub: over the years, we have expected the same officers who've been on the front line in public order operations to be avuncular bobbies on the beat when they're back on the streets - the very next day - to do "community policing". "When it happened again, we were ready for them, at least more so. You have to make the first move, use your vehicles, drive the Land Rovers straight at the bastards. Then they scatter. You deal with the rest with your sticks. No problem. I don't give a fuck about the kids who got hurt. What were they doing on the streets in the first place in the middle of the night?" This from a Merseyside PC who was 24 when the Toxteth riots happened in July 1981. Reinforcements arrived from many outside forces. Accounts of their personal experiences soon spread. "Out of 12 men I went in with, 11 went to hospital. It was like that for everyone. There were policemen and women, even doctors and nurses crying. Everywhere you looked it was carnage. There are some who have never worked since." This PC took his memories of the fighting back to the streets of Leeds. Officers from peaceful places who faced the fury were utterly unprepared for the hatred of police on display. They had no idea what their colleagues might have done to provoke it. Over ensuing years, it informed their view of black youth and their own communities as hostile territories. The place names that have lived on since those days are Toxteth, Tottenham and Brixton. But riots against the police - for that is what they were, not race riots as claimed at the time - broke out in many towns and cities across Britain, in places as diverse as Manchester and Cirencester, Hull, Halifax and Sheffield, Blackpool, Huddersfield, Birmingham and Wolverhampton. A Met inspector, who was on duty during the riots of 1981 and witnessed attacks on his men with machetes, soon abandoned a brilliant career, unable to cope with what he had seen. It wasn't just the violence against police. He was equally shocked by the violence against black people in a London station, of the "blood on the walls, the way suspects would be beaten, and their heads stuck down the toilet. I couldn't forget it. But I couldn't talk about it to anyone." Like corruption, that racist violence was never publicly acknowledged, though it went on in many stations around Britain. It left the many officers who behaved honestly and with courtesy in a deeply damaging predicament. In this embattled atmosphere of the early 1980s, with trouble on the streets, in the stations and in the media, confusion grew among the rank and file about what was expected of them. Lord Scarman called for more "sensitive policing". More efforts began to return officers to the beat - a demand which has pulled police in that direction to this day. Meanwhile, old guard officers echoed Conservative politicians' calls for tougher action against crime and violence on the street. The miners' strike provided the ideal fighting ground for these Action Men. Kitted out in semi-military boiler suits, they patrolled whole counties in what became the largest movement of men in peacetime. Miles from home, anonymous behind their shields and helmets, they could lose themselves in the mass of blue uniforms, no longer inhibited by the personal responsibility of the beat. As the months wore on, tens of thousands of bobbies were sent from their homes and local duties to spend weeks far away to experience extraordinary degrees of violence and hostility in the service of a cause many did not believe in. Police tactics against the picketing miners and the legally dubious practice of stopping cars on the motorway many miles before they reached the strike seemed to confirm the Marxist view that police were working-class people hired by the state to put down the rest of the working class. But many officers were unhappy about their role as "piggy in the middle" between Thatcher's government and the miners. (They felt even more uncomfortable one year later, holding the ring between Rupert Murdoch and the print unions in the long dispute at Wapping.) "There was lots of violence, but on both sides. And it got nastier and nastier. Now you've got 120,000 anti-police people, just on the mining side. Then you've got their wives and families. We've got enough enemies out there now - political enemies, coloureds, youngsters. We don't need the working class as well." The Met sergeant who told me this resigned as a result. The return home from the striking coalfields let the police down in many ways. Hardened by the fighting, even gentler officers returned aggressive and suspicious - ill equipped to go back on the beat. "I used to approach people on the street very pleasantly, without fear. After the strike, if I saw any kind of crowd, I became apprehensive and moved to the other side of the road. I'd expect trouble, and was more likely to find it even if it wasn't there before." That graduate PC from Somerset soon left the force. Many officers were no longer happy to work on their own - an issue even now preventing single crewing of police cars. No matter that the problem needed more careful handling; squads of eager policemen would cruise the streets - much as they still do today. Police impressions that the public were against them were fatally confirmed in 1985, in the Tottenham riots in which PC Keith Blakelock was hacked to death with machetes. Although violence broke out again in Toxteth and Moss Side, Blakelock's death lives on in police memories like Culloden in Celtic folklore. But police tend to forget that the Tottenham riots began with the death of Cynthia Jarrett when officers crashed through her house looking for her son. Local people still remember, though. That PC Blakelock was a popular local bobby was an irony that fed police cynicism about "soft" policing. In another prefiguring of current dilemmas, officers were asked to look the other way when coming across black youth smoking cannabis, to avoid provoking yet another riot. They called it "bending over blackwards". The growing erosion of the trust between public and police showed in other ways, too. The 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act, in response to past scandals and the Scarman report, limited the "sus" powers to stop and search, established custody suites with a dedicated sergeant in control, and permitted random visits by lay visitors. It also set up the Police Complaints Authority. Police were stripped of the right to prosecute when the Crown Prosecution Service was established. The loss was more than symbolic, creating yet another difficult relationship that further feeds the police sense that they alone are champions of justice. And all the while, demands were being made to improve police performance against a tide of rising crime. Police felt caught in a double bind - asked to do more while, in their own vivid phrase, "one hand is tied behind our back". In fact, police were improving their performance. But their refusal to acknowledge their own misdeeds meant they could not claim the credit for their efforts to deal with them. This created deep resentment among communities who suffered from police abuses. Meanwhile, police rank and file waited vainly for a robust defence of their integrity. That pointed up another problem: leaders on both sides were unwilling to acknowledge or apologise for the wrongs done by their peers. Without that acknowledgement, both sides were reinforced in their anger and suspicions. Yet such denial creates further problems for morale. It obliges intelligent, caring police to cover up for actions they privately disparage. Policing is all about confidence. It takes courage to wade into a fight when outnumbered, and trust that your uniform, your baton and your common sense will win the day. The riots of the 1980s shattered that confidence and the consequences have only been revealed many years later. Carrying the wounds and secret shame of the past makes officers less than open to hearing current complaints. Last year, when the Macpherson report into the death of Stephen Lawrence was published, many officers around the country felt personally attacked by the term "institutional racism", and found it hard to recognise the stories that surfaced at the time. One officer I had interviewed on street patrol 20 years ago now works in the Inspectorate, assessing force performance: "In those days, our sense of community was knackered. It was not good. Even now it is not very good. What we get are liaison groups full of big shots in the minority communities, people with agendas. But there is no real contact with the street. And what happens there is still not reaching the local commander." So, while the philosophy of policing has swung back to backing the "softer" approach, the legacy of conflict threatens to undermine it. Community policing may get equal billing with the war on crime and the war on drugs, but resources are still drawn away from it - reinforcing local suspicions that the commitment to community is merely lip service, not a fundamental change in attitude. Ironically, the false distinction between fighting crime and local beat policing ignores the fact that most crime is solved by the public themselves. Putting bobbies to work building trust increases the chance that more intelligence will come their way. And that should lead to more arrests, and more witnesses willing to make statements and even go to court - yet another factor governed by the degree of local trust in their police. Moreover, many people who were young members of ethnic minorities or student activists, or were involved in other protests where they faced past police hostility, are now in positions of responsibility. They sit on the bench as magistrates, or in government. They sit on police authorities, independent advisory groups or the Police Complaints Authority. One of the most outspoken critics, Lee Jasper, is now police adviser to the mayor of London. Some have now moved rightwards, but their mistrust of police still informs their efforts to control them. Other veterans of those years now work in the CPS, social services, probation, or in the media. Many are now asked to collaborate with or sit in judgment on police actions. They are asked to believe their evidence or approve their requests for funding; to give them the right to close roads, obtain a warrant to search a house, tap a phone, or proceed with a prosecution. And when these people express scepticism or reluctance, when they acquit or abandon a case or refuse a request, or simply criticise a police decision, it reinforces the sense among police that they are alone in seeking justice in an increasingly fragmented and chaotic society. One among many Thames Valley PCs echoed the sentiments expressed to me down the years: "The justice system is letting us down. We do all the leg work, arrest the criminals, and charge them. But the courts pass a mediocre sentence, and they're soon back at it. Drugs cause 90% of the crime around here. But they're very hard to police because you've got to catch them at it. We caught this guy red-handed carrying heroin. But the court didn't examine the evidence, we weren't called, and the case was dismissed. God knows why. We get the blame, but what happens in court is not up to us. "We put our lives at risk, for what? Me and my partner spotted a car with local criminals and tried to stop it, but as I approached them they ran over me. We managed to find them - the main guy has been arrested and released six times since. I still see him driving around. It's demoralising." It is not surprising that so many officers take time off for sickness, or take early retirement. And the major ailment is stress. Thames Valley is just one area where low morale and high cost of living is driving many older officers to quit, leaving younger ones to cope with increasingly complicated challenges. In Reading, now a 24-hour city with all the attendant social problems, no less that 70% of the officers going out on shifts every day are probationers. Meanwhile, police paperwork has increased exponentially. Busy PCs on shift often have to do more writing every day than the average lawyer who tries to tear their statements to pieces in court. Any one of the 35 forms attached to a simple theft by a juvenile may jeopardise the outcome of a prosecution. That anxiety keeps half of every shift inside the station for up to five hours at a time, according to a new Home Office report. Having observed police at all ranks for two decades, I think they have a broader, justifiable complaint to make. Much good policing never attracts praise or attention from outside, or even from their supervisors. Instead, we make increasing demands that are often conflicting in ways that we fail to recognise. We want the police to catch more criminals, while also preventing more crime. We want them to deal with any kind of emergency from a lost child to a rail crash to terrorism, yet all the while we want more bobbies on the beat. In so doing, we build failure into their job description - without acknowledging it to them or to ourselves. We want them to provide reassurance. But we do precious little to reassure them. Yet perhaps the greatest difficulty the police face is that, even when they succeed, we do not feel reassured. The latest British Crime Survey confirms the police's own less trusted figures that burglary, car crime, even crimes of violence are falling. But even so, those same survey respondents feel that crime is still rising, and they are just as fearful as ever. Indeed, Ann Widdecombe, who should know better, announced recently to millions on Radio 4's Today programme that crime was "spiralling out of control", and that we need more bobbies on the beat. With friends like that, who needs enemies? 