After enduring 14 years of attacks at the hands of racists at his shop on a council estate in Lancaster, Mal Hussain has finally sold up and moved out of the area.Mr Hussain and Linda Livingstone bought the Ryelands Mini Market in 1991, and within days they were subjected to racist attacks after a man walked into the shop and demanded: "Get out of your chair, you fucking black monkey, and give me 20 cigarettes." Over the years, Mr Hussain has recorded more than 4,000 separate incidents, including a firebomb and being shot at with live bullets on two occasions. One bonfire night, a petrol-soaked mattress blocked the shop door. His shop was wrapped in razor wire and barricaded with grilles and steel shutters. He announced his intention to quit the Mini Market in August last year, but it has taken this long to reach a settlement. During the 1990s, Craig Wareing, a notorious local racist, was jailed for terrorising Mr Hussain. He was later banned from entering Lancaster for life. Mr Hussain said: "It has been 14 years of hell for both Linda and I. I have always stated that I would not be driven away from my successful business, built through sheer determination and despite all the attempts by racists to undermine it and force us to leave Ryelands. "I feel betrayed and failed by the institutions who are supposed to protect those who suffer in the hands of racists. "I relentlessly campaigned against the attacks I have experienced because racists cannot be allowed to get away with their acts of violence and harassment. "This is a sad day for us, because we feel we have been pushed into a corner and options removed from us." Lee Jasper, secretary of the National Assembly Against Racism, said: "In the last year, Mal has been looking for ways of leaving Ryelands, having come to the end of his tether with the constant nature of harassment he has been experiencing. "However, despite reaching a settlement, Mal has had to sell the Mini Market at a cutdown price. "This case represents one of the most serious and sustained acts of racist violence in recent history." At a court case in March 1996, the defence solicitor for an individual who had been alleged to have been harassing Mr Hussain said: "If one is abused occasionally, one can take offence. "But if one is abused for four to five years, one becomes immune to it. It is like water off a duck's back." The estate agent selling the Mini Market said the shop had weekly takings of between £4,000 and £6,800 with an average 25% mark-up on wholesale. Mr Jasper said the details of the settlement could not be disclosed. Lancaster city council is believed to have made an offer for the shop years ago, but negotiations failed.