It is impossible to imagine what agonies the parents of Damilola Taylor have been going through during the doomed 12-week trial. They came to court hoping to discover the truth about their son's death but went home yesterday knowing that their child's killers - for they do not believe suggestions by the defence that Damilola may have been killed accidentally when he fell on broken glass - remain at large.How they must wish they had stayed in Lagos, Nigeria, where the family had a comfortable home in a quiet area and where Damilola's school was a 600-yard stroll away. His father, Richard, first came to the UK in the early 1970s to study public administration in Harrow. Gloria, then his girlfriend, joined him from Nigeria and they were married at a church in Kensington. They had two children, Beme, now 24, and Tunde, 22, and Mr Taylor set up in business. One blight on their happiness was that Beme suffered from epilepsy. The family returned to Lagos in 1982 after Mr Taylor's business ran into difficulties. Both Richard and Gloria carved out successful careers, he at the defence ministry and she at the Union Bank. Damilola was born in December 1989. He was a bright child who enjoyed computer games, captained his school football team and had ambitions to become a doctor. "It was his dream - because he said he wanted to find a cure for epilepsy to give to Beme," Mr Taylor said. By 2000 the family had come to the conclusion that Beme could receive better treatment for her condition in Britain. In the summer of that year the family travelled to London on their British passports. Mr Taylor remained at work and planned to visit when he could.Mr Taylor said: "London seemed a very safe place, and so when Dammy went there he was enthusiastic. Very excited." The family initially stayed with friends in Brentford, west London, but a doctor advised them that Beme would benefit from specialist treatment available at King's College hospital in Denmark Hill, south London. The family accepted an offer to stay with another friend on the North Peckham estate. On September 6 Damilola began attending the Oliver Goldsmith primary school in Peckham Road, Camberwell. His teachers liked him and he made friends. But he was taunted - the bullies called him "gay" though he had no idea what it meant - and scratched and beaten. Damilola's quiet upbringing had not prepared him for such treatment and he would return home in tears. One evening he called his father in Lagos and pleaded with him to come and stop the bullies. On November 27 he went to school as usual wearing his maroon school jumper and silver puffa jacket. After school he went to a computer class at Peckham library. As he left the library he was caught on CCTV camera skipping over stepping stones - a memorable image played time and again as the police appealed for help - and was then gone. He suffered the fatal injury in the left thigh, just above his knee a few minutes later as he neared home. The motive - if he was stabbed - remains unknown. He had no mobile phone on him and probably no other valuables. In his jacket pockets were a small cartoon picture and a woolly hat. In his trousers was a 5p piece. The broken beer bottle which caused the wound severed a major artery and vein in the leg, causing profuse bleeding. He staggered 30 metres to a stairwell and up two flights of stairs before collapsing. When Damilola did not return home, his mother went to the school. She said: "I met the headmaster, who said Damilola might be staying with another pupil. By the time I returned home, at about 10 to seven, a policeman was blocking the road. "He told me that a boy of Damilola's description had been killed. I was rushed to the hospital, but it was too late. I cannot believe that this could have happened to my wonderful son." Damilola's death shocked the nation. More than 1,000 people attended an emotional memorial service held on what would have been Damilola's 11th birthday (he had asked for a Bible as a present). His father said he was horrified by the poverty he had seen on the North Peckham estate and was saddened by the way Britain seemed to have changed since he lived in Middlesex in the 1970s: "Since I have arrived here I do not think I have seen a policeman on the beat. They used to come round and find out your problems. They were friendly. That is not the situation now. That must have led to the deterioration of family values." Mr Taylor said he expected "traditional British justice" to take its course. But yesterday the Taylors' solicitor, Neil O'May, said the three-month trial had brought them no nearer to the "burning question" of what happened to their son.