Two police firearms officers involved in the fatal shooting of a man who was carrying a fake gun will be allowed to keep their identities secret after the court of appeal said they had "reasonable grounds" to fear for their lives.The two sergeants will give anonymous evidence next week at the inquest into the death of Derek Bennett, a father of four, on the basis that they could face reprisals. They will be cross-examined by video link. The decision to uphold an earlier high court ruling hinged on comments by an unidentified man, Mr C, who is alleged to have threatened the officers in the event that the inquest reached a verdict he found unsatisfactory. Though the threats were made to other police officers and the man was never formally investigated, the court ruled that the threat from him and his potential associates was serious enough for the officers to assert their right to life under article 2 of the European convention on human rights. The decision was attacked by the victim's family. Mr Bennett's brother Daniel said: "They shot my brother in the back four times and we want to see the face of the man responsible. Anyone in our position would want to." The family also voiced fears that the ruling sets a dangerous precedent. Anthony Bennett, the victim's eldest brother, said: "In the future, any firearms officer can use Derek's name to claim anonymity... We feel this is a slap in the face to us and to the public." Mr Bennett was shot after officers were called to the Angell estate in Brixton in 2001 by reports of a man behaving strangely. During a short confrontation, Mr Bennett was said to have briefly held a member of the public hostage. He was found to have been carrying a gun-shaped cigarette lighter. Supporters of his family say the fact that he was hit in the back proves that he was not an immediate threat. But Officer A, who fired the fatal shots, has been supported by experts who say Mr Bennett may have turned as the shots were discharged. The Crown Prosecution Service said there was insufficient evidence to bring criminal proceedings. The three appeal court judges yesterday ruled that Selina Lynch, the presiding coroner, should have acceded to the officers' request for anonymity because the man who threatened them belonged to a Rastafarian temple where guns had previously been found. The man later withdrew his comments but the judges accepted that others might take reprisals. The judges said the officers may be named in future if found to have been culpable.