Would be cyber-sleuths overwhelmed a new website listing Britain's most wanted criminals today, causing it to crash almost as soon as it was launched.Police were hoping to use the Most Wanted website to snare crime suspects, but 208,000 visitors in its first two hours online brought brought the site to it's knees."We definitely didn't anticipate that many ... we expected 10,000 or 20,000 at most." said a spokeswoman for Crimestoppers, which launched the project.She said they expected to have the site running again by the end of the day.It will include photographs, CCTV footage and descriptions of people sought by police. Eleven police forces are involved in the project, and Crimestoppers hope the site's popularity will attract others.Members of the public can leave tip-offs using a secure online form and see pictures of the most wanted suspects in their local community.The chief executive of Crimestoppers, Mick Laurie, said it would be the first time the charity could receive information about crime anonymously via the internet."This is a major step forward for Crimestoppers, being able to use new technology to aid UK policing and help make our communities safer," he said.Nick Ross, presenter of BBC's Crimewatch, hailed the site as the "biggest advance since the Wanted poster"."It is astonishing this has never happened before. Apart from Crimewatch, there is virtually no way of getting national publicity for most cases and many wanted people could just disappear - until now," Ross said."Even the police have no effective way of communicating the huge number of wanted suspects."The Sun has reached an non-exclusive agreement with Crimestoppers to publish pictures from the website in the newspaper.Crimestoppers is an independent UK-wide charity. Since its launch in 1988 it has received more than 640,000 calls with useful information, resulting in more than 57,000 arrests and charges.Every month it receives an average of 6,000 anonymous calls that lead to more than 500 arrests.The information it receives is often used to help solve existing investigations but it is also used to inform police of crimes they may not know about.Suspects featured on the website include:· Ayub Khan, who is wanted in connection with the double murder of Amarjit Singh and his nephew Rajinder Singh. The east London pair were shot dead on August 29 2003 when they went outside after hearing three Asian men damaging their van. Police want to speak to Mr Khan in connection with the shooting and a £10,000 reward is being offered for information leading to his arrest and conviction.· James Francis Hurley, 42, who escaped while being transferred between prisons on February 16 1994. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1989, for murdering a police officer, armed robbery and firearms offences. While being transferred to HMP Wandsworth, he and another prisoner pulled a knife on a prison officer and Hurley escaped.· Joseph Oduguwa, 42, is wanted for questioning by the Metropolitan Police's economic and specialist crime unit in connection with a substantial fraud. He is believed to have connections in Nigeria and may be in that country.