Friends and supporters of a prisoner who was at the centre of the Strangeways siege 14 years ago have called for his case to be reviewed because they claim his continuing incarceration is unfair.Alan Lord, 44, was "snatched" on the 23rd day of the standoff in April 1990 as he was on his way to meet negotiators who were trying to bring an end to the longest and costliest disturbance in British penal history. The riot and ensuing siege resulted in the Manchester prison's closure and refurbishment, leaving hundreds of prisoners temporarily locked up in police cells across the country, further adding to estimated costs of around £100m. Lord is serving a life sentence for murder imposed in 1981, when he was 20. For that offence, the trial judge recommended that he should serve 15 years. Speaking from Frankland prison, he told the Guardian this month: "I want to move on and be given the chance to prove that I am not a danger to anyone." His supporters claim the fact that he is still behind bars is an act of revenge on the part of the Prison Service, who were embarrassed by the small number of Strangeways prisoners who defied them for so long. Lord stood trial after the riot in connection with the death of Derek White, a remand prisoner who was attacked when inmates took over the prison and later died of his injuries. But the disclosure of video evidence, showing him to have been on the roof at the time of the assault, led to his acquittal. In a further trial, he was convicted of grievous bodily harm to members of several control and restraint squads who had attempted to regain control of a prison wing. He received 10 years, to run concurrently with his life sentence. The acknowledged leader of the riot, Paul Taylor, also received 10 years. Lord escaped from the police station where he was being held just after the riot. He was recaptured but briefly escaped again during his trial along with five other alleged rioters. Of all the escapees he was the only one to be made a category A prisoner. He remained so until last September, when the Prison Service lowered his status after a judicial review. Vera Baird QC, who represented Lord at his first Strangeways trial, described as "amazing" the news that he had remained in prison, as a category A prisoner, for 23 years after his original conviction. Inviting the Prison Service to look at Lord's case again, Ms Baird, now the Labour MP for Redcar, added: "It is not permissible in this day and age to let people rot in perpetuity because of prison rules that may not be in the public interest." Lord Woolf's report into the riot concluded that the disturbance was planned as a lim ited protest and that the majority of Strangeways inmates shared the belief that conditions at the jail were "unacceptable and inhumane". Lord Woolf went on to say that three requirements must be met if a prison service was to remain stable: security, control and justice. He added: "The April 1990 disturbances were a consequence of the failure of the Prison Service to conform to those basic rules." Paul Taylor, released in 2001, said he believed Lord had taken no part in planning the riot and that he had helped the negotiations which resulted in scores of prisoners giving themselves up. A Former prisoner, Joe Murray, 70, who has visited Lord for 14 years, said he was in no doubt as to why his friend remains in custody. "The Prison Service's treatment of Alan is motivated by pure revenge. At the time of the riot they were hugely embarrassed by being held at bay by such a small number of prisoners. "Lord Woolf rightly casti gated the whole of the service for allowing the riot to take place. Why should one man alone still be suffering for those mistakes?" A Prison Service spokesman said yesterday: "The parole board are reviewing his case at the moment."