Teenager Luke Mitchell was found guilty today of the "truly evil murder" of his 14-year-old girlfriend, Jodi Jones, whose body he mutilated.Mitchell, 16, was convicted by a majority verdict at Edinburgh's high court and the judge Lord Nimmo Smith said he was guilty of one of the "most appalling crimes" in recent memory. The court had heard that Mitchell had an unhealthy interest in Satan and the occult and was a "cool, confident killer" who had helped Jodi's family search for her after murdering her. He faces a mandatory life sentence but the judge deferred, for background reports, determining a minimum number of years he must serve before being considered for release. This will be determined at a hearing in three weeks' time.The schoolgirl went missing after going to meet Mitchell on June 30 2003. Hours later, her body was found in woodland close to her home in Dalkeith, Midlothian. Mitchell "showed no emotion whatsoever" on the night her body was found, the trial had heard.Jodi is believed to have died in the area where her body was found. The prosecution said Mitchell hit her about her head and body and constricted her breathing, causing her to fall to the ground. No murder weapon was found, but Jodi's killer tied ligatures around her arms and slashed her repeatedly on the head, mouth and body with a knife. Mitchell, who was also aged 14 at the time of the killing, had denied murdering her and his lawyers had lodged a defence which blamed other "persons unknown" for Jodi's murder.But today a jury of eight women and seven men convicted Mitchell almost exactly 24 hours after beginning their deliberations following the trial, which, at 42 days, was the longest single-accused murder trial in Scottish legal history. Addressing Mitchell, the judge said: "It lies beyond any skill of mind to look into the black depths of your mind. I can only look at what you have done. You have been convicted of a truly evil murder, one of the most appalling crimes that any of us can remember - and you will rightly be regarded as wicked. "I have no idea what led you to do what you did. Maybe it was a desire for notoriety, to achieve something grotesque. I leave it to others to fathom." The trial heard that Mitchell had been in possession of several knives, one of which he used for cutting up blocks of cannabis, which he was said to be a heavy user of. He was also found guilty today of supplying cannabis. A knife pouch with the initials "JJ" - apparently a reference to Jodi Jones - and the numerals "666" written on it was found in his bedroom. Today Mitchell, wearing a blue shirt, stared straight ahead and showed no emotion as the jury delivered the verdict. The guilty verdict was met in court with cries of "yes" and applause from the public gallery. Jodi's mother, Judith, wept and was comforted by friends and family, who also cried when the verdict was announced. Mitchell's mother, Corinne Mitchell, who was also in the courtroom, hung her head. Outside court, Detective Superintendent Craig Dobbie, who led the investigation, told reporters: "I'm really delighted that the jury had the courage to make what was a very difficult decision for them, but one which was the correct decision. "Jodi's mother is delighted and relieved. The family now have an answer to Jodi's death and can move on with the grieving process." It was thought that Mitchell and Jodi may have seen themselves as kindred spirits, as both were brought up by their mothers. Mitchell's mother and his father Philip are thought to have split up in 1999. Jodi's father had committed suicide.Both Mitchell and Jodi also shared an interest in Goth culture and music. The day before the killing, Mitchell bought a CD of American Goth rock star Marilyn Manson. Mitchell's jotters from Dalkeith's St David's high school were daubed with Satanic slogans and he wrote a school essay with worrying references to the devil. His English book, shown to the court, had the numbers 666 and "Satan lives" on the cover. "I have tasted the devil's green blood" was also scrawled on the back. Several other jotters were shown, which contained slogans such as: "Evil is the way", "Depression is only a stage in my life, so fuck off and stay out my mind" and "the finest day I ever had was when tomorrow never came" - a quotation from the late Nirvana singer, Kurt Cobain. Mitchell had angered Jodi's family when he appeared on television on the day of the teenager's funeral to make a public denial. He told a Sky News interviewer when asked if he had murdered Jodi: "No. I never, I wouldn't ... in all the time we were going out, we never had one argument at all, never fell out or anything."