On a balmy late summer evening, after a leisurely hour or so sipping lemonade in her garden, Laura Rankin went into her house for a refill, only to be met by an intruder careering past her as she reached the kitchen."It all happened so quickly," she says. "He made his getaway over the garden gate. I couldn't believe someone would come into the house while I was in."Rankin says she felt lucky, that "it could have been much worse". But the experience shocked her so much it spurred her into action. She immediately signed up as a volunteer for Victim Support.Ten years on, Rankin is still a volunteer at the charity's Bolton branch, regularly helping people to cope with the after effects of crimes ranging from burglary to domestic violence and rape.She accepts that becoming a volunteer might seem an unconventional response to being a victim of crime, but, she explains: "It made me realise that while I am very lucky in that I am a strong person and can just get on with things, some other people might not be. I wanted to do something to help those people."Rankin is exactly the sort of committed volunteer Victim Support likes to recruit. In the cramped room where a weekly meeting of Bolton branch volunteers is in full swing, there are nods of agreement when she speaks. It turns out many of the volunteers (or their family members) have also been victims of crime.The Bolton group is typical in many ways, a spokesman for Victim Support says. Most are women, and many have been volunteering for a decade or more.In an effort to attract more volunteers, the charity has designated the week beginning April 25 as Make Some Time for Victims of Crime Week. It is also launching the second stage of its Sunrise Appeal to raise extra funds. It is asking people to give £3 a head.Victim Support, an affiliation of around 400 centres across the country, has about 10,000 volunteers. It is a long way from its humble beginnings in Bristol 30 years ago when the first office was set up. But, a spokesman says, it is in need of a substantial funding injection if it is to continue to provide "a vital service for people who really need it".Although volunteers are unpaid, they are supported by full and part-time staff at each centre who perform a variety of tasks, such as liaising with police to identify victims who might need help and assessing the level of support required. The staff also help recruit, train and monitor volunteers.Although a non-statutory body, Victim Support sees itself as woven into the fabric of the criminal justice system and, perhaps because of this, has lobbied long and hard for increased funding and government support. In many ways it has been successful. It has seen annual funding from central government triple from £10m to £31m since 1997.But even with the rises, the service is under pressure due to constant funding shortages, a spokesman says. Last year, lack of money forced two branches to close. The organisation says it would need to double the government grant in order to provide "comprehensive" levels of service."With what we get, we can just about cover the costs of the core service," the spokesman insists.At Bolton, the staff and volunteers agree. They go out of their way to illustrate the importance of the work they do and the demands involved. "All kinds of assistance is needed for people who have been a victim of crime," says one member of staff. "Sometimes it can seem like small stuff, but is very important. For example, often people don't realise that they are entitled to make a claim for compensation. Or they may not understand the paperwork or legal side. We can navigate people through this, but it takes time."Practical help such as advising on insurance after a burglary or helping domestic violence victims to find a refuge, are also a large part of paid staff and volunteers' work, he adds.The volunteers at Bolton discuss a number of issues including resources, but for much of their meeting they concentrate on a crime that takes up a lot of their time - domestic violence. Two female specialist domestic violence police officers from Greater Manchester police are present and are spelling out how Victim Support helps relieve the burden on the police force."We have limited resources," one officer says. "We don't always have the time to spend with victims, so the work you do is a huge help." The two officers explain that between them, they are responsible for around 6,000 reported cases of domestic violence a year and are overstretched. The volunteers, aged from early 20s to mid-60s, are keen to establish how the two services can work closer together.When asked why they continue to give up their time, the volunteers are animated. "It can be very rewarding," says one, who has been with the organisation for two years. "But it is hard at times, too. We are there to listen mainly, to offer support, and very often that is what people need most."We have to be sensitive and aware too," he adds. "Something that seems small can have a major impact. Take burglary. That can be a very traumatic event for an elderly person."The work of volunteers and staff stands to be made better by a number of government initiatives, the Victim Support spokesman says. For example, when the domestic violence, crime and victims bill becomes law, it will estab­lish a statutory code of rights for victims - something the charity has been campaigning for.Another step in the right direction, he says, was a recent move by the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, to tackle harassment of vulnerable witnesses by announcing plans to separate defendants and witnesses in court buildings. Police reforms that encourage improved cooperation with agencies such as Victim Support, and the confirmation of a victims' commissioner, are also welcomed.The cash raised by the Sunrise Appeal - £1.7m so far - will go toward bolstering services, improving volunteer recruitment and training, research, and an awareness campaign. But despite all the positive developments, fundraising efforts, and on-going commitment of volunteers such as those at Bolton, Victim Support says it needs to raise considerable sums of money.WeblinksVictim Support is at www.victimsupport.org.ukInformation on Make Some Time for Victims of Crime at www.makesometime.org.uk