A 13-year-old boy was arrested today after a boy was stabbed at a school in Leeds, police said.West Yorkshire police were called to Allerton Grange school in Moortown shortly before 9.30am after reports of the stabbing. The injured boy, who is 14, was stabbed three times in his chest and stomach with a knife. Police said the attack happened in a classroom at the school.He was taken to Leeds General Infirmary, where his condition was described as stable.The 13-year-old is in police custody, a police spokeswoman said. The school's chairman of governors, Richard Morris, described the attack as "highly unusual". "Nothing like this has happened in the school before and it is all the more shocking because students' behaviour is normally of a high standard," he said Morris said lessons were proceeding as normal and praised the school staff for their "calm and professional response". The National Union of Teachers, Britain's biggest classroom union, called on ministers to hold a summit on knife and gun crime. "It is clear that too many youngsters are suffering as a result of violence involving weapons," said the general secretary, Steve Sinnott. "Many youngsters fear for their safety. I call upon the government to arrange a summit of education leaders and others to consider ways in which we can work together to tackle the culture of knives and guns." Earlier this month, a 13-year-old girl was stabbed outside her school in south-east London. She was stabbed in her chest and thigh in the attack outside Sacred Heart school in Camberwell. The girl was discharged from hospital the same day after receiving stitches. A 14-year-old boy was arrested in connection with the attack and bailed pending further inquiries. John Dunford, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said schools faced a "difficult task" dealing with pupils carrying weapons but insisted they should not be "turned into fortresses".He said search arches or metal detectors might be appropriate in "wholly exceptional" instances, but the decision should be left to the headteachers.