"It is astonishing how many joints of meat you can get down your jacket. Sometimes it surprises you how much comes out," says Steph Reay, a neighbourhood police community support officer, patrolling the Newcastle Shopping Park in the east of the city, trying to identify shoplifters.Against a backdrop of recession and then welfare cuts, police chiefs have been warning of an increase in shoplifting of basic items, including food, particularly among female shoplifters offending for the first time.An analysis of shoplifting offences between 1 October last year and mid January in Byker, east Newcastle, revealed that officers had stopped 26 first-time offenders, compared with five the previous year. Twenty of the first-time shoplifters were female and 11 of the 26 incidents were low-value, food-related thefts. The high proportion of female shop-lifters was notable because shoplifting is usually a male crime, said Inspector Ron Charlton, head of the neighbourhood police team in Byker.The Crime Survey of England and Wales revealed a 4% rise in shoplifting (up by over 11,000 to 313,693), amid an overall 10% drop in crime.The shoplifting figures in this area of Newcastle echo wider concerns about growing numbers of new female shop-lifters highlighted this month by the Northumbria police and crime commissioner, Vera Baird, who has drawn attention to the rising numbers of women, who had never previously offended, who were stealing food. Meat, poultry and fish in 2012 made up 6% of items stolen in the Northumbria area, whereas in 2013 this figure had risen to 11%.The Durham police commissioner, Ron Hogg, said people were "stealing food just to live. These are people who commit crime often out of desperation. They have young children." He said the force was taking a humane approach to prosecuting these women. Lancashire chief constable, Steve Finnigan, has also spoken about a rise in the theft of basic food items, such as bread, milk and cheese."The offenders are first-time offenders and, when you talk to them, they are not stealing food to sell on; they say they are stealing to feed themselves" he says. "In my own force we have seen an increase in shoplifters who are first-time offenders and say they are doing it to put some food on the table."In Byker, Charlton is more tentative about a link with the recession and welfare reform. "The figures suggest there is an issue – it is rising. We deal with them on an individual basis … I'm not sure if we would relate these thefts to austerity," he said. "If we felt these were first-time offences, committed to put food on the table, we would get social services involved. We might do a house search and see if they have bare cupboards, then we would get the right professional bodies involved and refer them to a soup kitchen or a grocery bag service. But this is rare."Baird said officers from different areas had been telling her they were seeing new people involved in shop-lifting. "There is an increase in the theft of food, and an increase in first-time women offenders. It is not about increasing moral depravity. It is about some people who feel under real pressure. What worries me is that if this kind of pressure is making some people break, we need to make sure they are getting all their benefits … food bank support," she said."Getting a criminal record can ruin your chances of getting a job, so I think she should be giving people advice and support to avoid them getting into that situation."In the Eldon Square shopping centre in central Newcastle, police are working with shop security staff to reduce shop-lifting which they believe has become increasingly sophisticated. Usually, however, in the centre of town where there are fewer food shops, the shoplifting is concentrated on high-value items – iPads, bottles of scent – rather than food."It's not just drug addicts. We regularly get clean and nice-looking people who you perhaps don't expect to be shoplifting," said sergeant Graeme Barr, in the neighbourhood policing team, focusing on retail crime.Shoplifting in the city centre has been reduced by a policy of engaging with potential offenders. Security staff call the policy "giving world-class customer service" and explain it involves shop staff paying great attention to customers who worry them."We're very attentive, ask how we can help them, ask them if they want us to take an item to the till for them – we act like an old-style shop assistant. It's a win-win strategy. If they are not a shoplifter, they get great service; if they are, then you see them leaving very quickly," Lee Wilson, security coordinator for Intu, which owns and manages the centre, said. "We have a duty to protect people from becoming shoplifters."