The deterioration in the health of Myra Hindley comes just months before she might have been released.A ruling is expected imminently on an appeal to the House of Lords by double murderer Anthony Anderson which could have paved the way for Hindley to gain her freedom. Anderson is challenging the home secretary's power to fix tariffs - or minimum periods of detention - for murderers, arguing that the decision should be up to judges, not politicians. Under current procedures, the home secretary receives recommendations on tariffs from the trial judge and the lord chief justice. The period covers punishment and deterrence, after which the prisoner can apply to be released on licence. Anderson's argument is that the home secretary should fall into line with recent European human rights judgments and accept that the tariff be set by the judiciary. This already happens in Scotland and Northern Ireland. His 15-year minimum tariff, which was recommended by the trial judge after his 1988 murder conviction, was increased to 20 years by the then home secretary. Anderson's barrister Edward Fitzgerald QC, who is also Hindley's barrister, told the law lords: "It is a decision that should be taken openly, publicly and fairly in court by a judge, not secretly and unfairly by a politician who has never heard the case and is subject to all the inevitable pressures of public opinion." If the ruling goes against the home secretary, a total of 225 inmates who have had their tariffs increased by politicians could have them reviewed. Around 70 - including Hindley - have already served more time than originally recommended by the judiciary and could be freed immediately. When Hindley was sentenced in 1982, the then lord chief justice, Lord Lane, advised she should serve no fewer than 25 years. But subsequent home secretaries fixed her minimum tariff, first at 30 years and then at "whole life", meaning she is one of 23 prisoners who have been told they will never be released. The "whole life" term decision was taken in 1990 by then home secretary, David Waddington, and was confirmed by Michael Howard in 1997 and later by Jack Straw. The current home secretary, David Blunkett, has made it clear that he will not tolerate notorious "whole life" killers being freed. If, as many experts expect, the law lords rule in favour of Anderson, Mr Blunkett says he will bring in new laws to prevent some of Britain's worst killers going free. In recent years the home secretary has already lost the ability to intervene in the sentencing of juveniles convicted of murder following a ruling from the European court of human rights in Strasbourg on an appeal by the killers of James Bulger. Another ruling said the home secretary has no power to keep killers in jail after the parole board has recommended their release. According to reports, Hindley has been considering what she would do if the Anderson ruling led to her release. Friends are said to have investigated possible accommodation for her, including a convent in southern England. Hindley is now a Roman Catholic. It has also been speculated that she would go to a safe house in Scotland belonging to a woman prison visitor.