More than £87,000 has been raised on an online fundraising page for the family of Asad Shah, the much-loved local shopkeeper who was fatally stabbed hours after posting an Easter message of inter-faith harmony on Facebook. Over 4,500 people have donated on the GoFundMe page, which was created on Good Friday by some of his customers to raise money for his family.Shah was discovered with serious injuries outside his newsagent shop in the Shawlands area of Glasgow, a few miles south of the city centre, just after 9pm on Thursday. The 40-year-old was taken to Queen Elizabeth University hospital, where he was pronounced dead.Jen Bannerman, a neighbour of the Shah family, said she set up the fundraising page because Shawlands residents were looking for ways to show their support after the tragedy. “Mr Shah was a popular, well-respected and much-loved member of our community and his death has devastated many. He was a warm and friendly man and he always went out of his way to make time to talk to you – he was more than just our local shopkeeper. He was a friend to many.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   People leave flowers in tribute to Asad Shah outside his shop. Photograph: John Linton/PA“We are raising funds for his family to use in whatever way they see most fitting – whether that be to contribute towards funeral expenses, provide financial security for his family in the coming months, or simply to do something in his memory. We know money will never make up for his loss but this is our way of showing our support for him, and showing his family how much he was cared for in our community.”On Sunday, prominent members of Glasgow’s Muslim community called for calm and solidarity after police confirmed that the man arrested in connection with the killing – which is being treated as “religiously prejudiced” – was also a Muslim.Following the revelation, Humza Yousaf, the Scottish government’s only Muslim minister, immediately responded in a tweet: “No ifs, no buts, no living in denial – vile cancer of sectarianism needs stamped out wherever it exists – including amongst Muslims.”Shah, whose final Facebook update, posted a few hours before his death, offered Easter greetings “to my beloved Christian nation”, was a member of the Ahmadiyya Muslim community.This minority Muslim group faces persecution – most recently in Pakistan and Indonesia – and is treated with open hostility by many orthodox Muslims.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A police officer at the shop where Asad Shah worked. A man has been arrested in connection with the death. Photograph: John Linton/PAOver the Easter weekend tributes continued to flood in for the shopkeeper, who moved from Pakistan to Scotland in the 1990s and was the eldest of seven siblings. Many Easter Sunday services mentioned him in their prayers, and people have continued to add to the growing bank of flowers, cards and candles near the site of the killing.Shawlands residents who knew him have described a gentle man who cared deeply for his community and every year would print out his own Christmas cards with personal messages for customers.More than 400 people, including Scotland’s first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, attended a candlelit vigil on Friday night organised by two local women – one Muslim and one Christian – and publicised on social media with the hashtag #thisisnotwhoweare. Speaking at the event, members of Shah’s family called for Glaswegians to stand side by side.Shah’s Facebook page, which includes videos of him praying and messages of peace, displays a final missive posted on Thursday at 5.10pm.It read: “Good Friday and a very Happy Easter, especially to my beloved Christian nation … Let’s follow the real footstep of beloved holy Jesus Christ and get the real success in both worlds.”