The death of any prisoner in custody is a cause for regret and sorrow, so it is in the case of Harold Shipman (The final betrayal, January 14). Despite the fact that he was placed in a maximum security prison where staff-to-prisoner ratios are more generous than other prisons, he could not be kept under close supervision for 24 hours a day. He was not deemed to be at risk of self-harming and any prisoner in that category can readily find the very, very short time that is required to end his life, if that is what he wishes to do.The prison service is between a rock and a hard place. On the one hand is a Treasury that requires savings, which inevitably mean staff reductions; and, on the other, a public and critics blessed with the knowledge of hindsight. The public and government have choices to make. Are they prepared to see the prison service budget double for years to come, to provide increased levels of supervision, or will they settle for a halving of the prison population, so that existing staff will enough to provide the supervision the public seems to demand. The prison system is clogged by thousands of prisoners who present no real threat to public safety. It's only our society's obsession with the protection of property that results in this country having one of the highest prisoner-to-population ratios in Europe. Even though the prison service has allocated large sums of money to training staff in the identification of prisoners at risk to themselves, too many prisoners die by their own hand in prison. Let us hope that the death of Harold Shipman will jolt our consciences and start the debate about why and what we should use prison for.   Tegfryn Davies   Ex-prison governor, Retford, NottsDavid Ramsbotham is concerned over the "utter hopelessness" felt by convicted serial killers who have no chance of release (How do you protect the living dead? January 14). There is a solution - it's called capital punishment.   Neil Clark   Oxford If I wanted to hang myself in my bedroom, I couldn't because there's no fitting that would bear my weight. Why aren't prison cells like this?   Dr Dorothy Rowe   London