The body of a man dubbed the Facebook Fugitive was found hanged in a disused pub soon after he murdered his girlfriend and set fire to her body, an inquest heard today.George Appleton, 40, from Salford, was found in February this year, 10 days after strangling Clare Wood, 36, who was discovered at her house in Salford.At an inquest in Bolton into Appleton's death the coroner, Jennifer Leeming, expressed condolences to the families of Wood and Appleton as she recorded a verdict of suicide.None of Appleton's relatives attended the short hearing as they were said to be too upset. In a statement, his mother said that she had separated from her husband shortly after her son's birth. When her son was seven years old she met and later married Douglas Appleton, who became a father figure to her the boy. He unofficially changed his surname to Appleton.Appleton was jailed for three years in 2002 for harassing another woman, and for six months a year earlier after breaching a restraining order.At the time of his death, George Appleton, who acquired his nickname as he was known to surf online dating and social networking sites looking for women, was unemployed, suffering from health problems and in receipt of disability allowance. He was single and lived in Adelphi Court, Salford. "I last saw him on 2 or 3 February when he called to collect some washing as his washing machine was broken," his mother said. She said she was aware of the police investigation into the death of Clare Wood."It is difficult to put into words to explain my feelings about this whole situation," she said. "I am so upset and it is such a waste of two young lives. My sympathy goes out to Clare's family."A consultant histopathologist at Salford Royal Hospital who examined Appleton's body said he had died of asphyxia caused by hanging. There was a small amount of cannabis in his bloodstream but it was not significant enough to impair his judgment.A friend, Andrew Langley, said Appleton had visited him at his home on the evening of 5 February and into the early hours of the next day. Appleton had told him he had been arrested on suspicion of attempted rape and he was fearful of returning to prison. Langley said he had tried to talk him out of harming himself but that Appleton suddenly "jumped to his feet and left". He said as he left he told George Appleton to be careful."I didn't think he was brave enough to take that action," Langley said of his friend's mental state.Detective Sergeant John Mulvihill said a search team found Appleton's body in a derelict building formerly known as the Waterloo public house in Boond Street, Greengate, Salford, in the early hours of 12 February. He was found hanged from a doorway within the building.There were no suspicious circumstances and no third party involvement in his death, he told the hearing. "We believe that he left Mr Langley's address and went straight to the location in Boond Street," he told the coroner. "He probably hung himself there and then."He said CCTV footage from Adelphi Court showed Appleton leaving the address at 00.25 on 6 February in a red Ford Escort. Later the same day, at 8.25am, the vehicle was given a parking ticket by a civil enforcement officer. It was parked near the building where his body was found and had not moved.DS Mulvhill confirmed that Appleton had been questioned by police over an allegation of attempted rape made by Wood. He had denied the offence and been released on police bail."Clare was found on 6 February at her home address in St Simon Street, Salford," he continued. "She was found in her bed. Subsequently it has been confirmed that she had been strangled and then set on fire. The scene had been made to look like it was an accident." He said they believed she was murdered on 2 February."Prior to his own death and before we found Clare's body he had described having done a terrible act for which he was likely to go to prison. He described to one witness a scene like we found at Clare's home address." DNA from Appleton was also found at the scene. The detective said he was satisfied that Appleton had killed himself after murdering Wood.The coroner said it was beyond reasonable doubt that Appleton had taken his own life.The inquest into the death of Wood, who has a 10-year-old daughter, will be held at a later date.• This article was amended on 17 September 2009, to clarify that George Appleton was seven years old when his mother remarried.