Thousands of fine defaulters are to be told to pay their debt through community work instead of being sent to prison under plans announced yesterday by the home secretary, David Blunkett.The decision means courts will get the opportunity of making a community punishment order or a curfew order instead of jailing the fine defaulter. Mr Blunkett's call for non-custodial sentences for lesser and non-violent crime came as figures showed the prison population jumped by more than 500 in the last week to a record 70,926. The use of the fine as a penalty by the courts has fallen from 51% of cases in 1989 to only 31% in 2000. The reason why they have gone out of fashion lies in the fact that on past performance a third of the £360m of fines imposed in 2001 are unlikely to be collected. The running total of unpaid court fines has reached £270m, partly explained by the backlog of 106,000 unexecuted warrants for non-payment. "Fines are the most common sentence handed down by the magistrates and collecting them is a major issue. Only two-thirds are collected, therefore one third goes begging and so in effect one third of those guilty of crimes snub the law and their victims," Mr Blunkett told the Justices' Clerks' Society conference in Cardiff yesterday. "People who do not pay should work off their fine, rather than going to jail for a few days. I am talking with the lord chancellor about bringing into operation the provision in the 1997 Crime (Sentences) Act to impose community sentences of unpaid work for fine defaulters instead of custody."About 3,700 people, 90% of them men, are jailed each year for an average of seven days for failing to pay fines. This is a sharp fall from the mid-1990s when the figure was about 20,000 a year, before a legal judgment said the courts had to exhaust all other options before sending a fine defaulter to jail. Mr Blunkett also confirmed his intention to set up a sentencing guidelines body to put an end to the wide variations of sentencing around the country which, for example, sees 20% of burglars sent straight to prison in Teesside and 41% in Birmingham. The new body, which will supersede the role of the appeal court and the existing sentencing advisory body, will be composed of judges and magistrates but politicians and the public will be able to comment on the guidelines as they are being prepared. Mr Blunkett also announced plans to extend the prosecution's right to appeal against a decision by the court to grant bail to those awaiting trial. The power, which will require legislation, will extend the right to appeal to cover all offences that carry a possible prison sentence, not just those which carry a maximum of five years. It will mean that bail decisions could be overturned in cases that involve, for example, somebody who persistently vandalises homes.