At this moment in time Britain is facing an epidemic of knife crime. Whether you live in the country or the city you can't turn on the news without hearing about another teenager being killed on our streets.But this is only the tip of the iceberg. What about the incidents you don't hear about? Coming from a council estate in Hackney, I am all too aware of the realities facing our young people. This is not a new phenomenon - it has been happening for a long time. I remember getting knives pulled out on me when I was 15 and that was 11 years ago. I also remember being at secondary school in the early 90s when a kid in our year was stabbed. It was a big deal and everyone was talking about it, but the common conception back then was that if someone got stabbed, although it was not good, there must have been some sort of reason for it.Nowadays children are getting stabbed for nothing! The murder of Ben Kinsella is one such example. I've known Brooke, his sister, for many years now and she is honestly one of the sweetest people you could meet in the industry; so humble and down to earth, and I just keep thinking to myself this shouldn't have happened. My heart goes out to the family. Ben was a good kid and had his whole future in front of him, and I know personally that he was never caught up in any gang or street activity – yet his life was cut short.Since playing the role of Jay in the movie Kidulthood I have regularly been asked to take part in talks and debates with politicians and young people up and down the country regarding knife crime – from being interviewed with David Cameron about the "hug a hoodie" campaign to visiting many deprived inner-city areas across the country and raising awareness of the dangers of knife crime.But recently I've really started to lose patience with it all. All the debates, all the seminars, all the talking – where is it getting us? Even though I know these steps are needed and I really do enjoy taking an active role, what we really need is the government to take some serious action and make some big decisions. Let's stop talking and take action! The government spent £2m on an advertising campaign telling children to put knives and guns down. However, kids know already they shouldn't be doing these things, and seeing an advert on the TV or a poster on the street is not a proactive way of tackling the issue.Money could be better spent on other things. In particular it should be spent on providing more things for the youth to do. I am told all the time that kids do have places to go and there are plenty of activities for them to take part in - they just need to get out there and look. To an extent I can agree, but more often than not, these activities mean a DJ workshop that lasts a couple of hours and then it's back to the council estate!These kinds of activities are all well and good but we need to try and offer young people an opportunity to progress and develop their career paths – activities that start from when they are young (and perhaps more impressionable) and carry them through to adulthood.  Our education system does not work for everybody and we need to radically think about how we can change it to be more inclusive, proactive and relevant. Most of the youth I talk to feel so detached from regular society that they feel the only career path for them is on the streets that they know, selling drugs and getting into street crime. But I'm sure if you could put real options on the table for them, most would choose the right path. My way out of that cycle was through acting. I was lucky enough to get spotted at a young age and I count my blessings everyday because without acting, who knows where I would have ended up.I have always been passionate about portraying real-life characters that people can relate to and learn from, in movies such as Kidulthood and Adulthood, or TV programmes such as W10 LDN. However these types of programmes are rare; it seems to me that many writers and producers are scared of the culture we live in and would rather not show it.Young people relate to voices that resonate with their attitudes, beliefs and way of life, and I feel this is missing in many commentators addressing the issue of knife crime. Say the words "blud" or "shank" on television and it's all too scary for middle England, but TV and film can play a big part in showing people the right way to live. Using the right slang and accurate dialogue means young people stand up and take notice.These things are happening on our doorstep and unless the we address these issues through the media in a way that the youth can really relate to, we cannot begin to change young people's hearts and minds.