A move to abolish jury trials in complex fraud cases is set to provoke the first clashes of the parliamentary year, as home secretary John Reid tries to succeed where every other home secretary since 1997 has failed.The battle promises to be a tough one for the government, because the House of Lords has thrown out attempts by Jack Straw, David Blunkett and Charles Clarke to limit jury trials in such cases.Published yesterday, the fraud (trials without a jury) bill gets its Commons second reading on November 29; it is unusual in that it is a bill to implement a piece of legislation which has already reached the statute book in the Criminal Justice Act of 2003.The proposal proved so controversial in the Lords during the 2003 debates that the then home secretary, Mr Blunkett, could only get his criminal justice legislation on to the statute book by promising to allow a separate vote by both houses of parliament before the measure was implemented. He also promised to examine a compromise to allow judges to sit with a panel of experts.When Mr Clarke in November 2005 tried to get the measure through parliament it was again rejected by the Lords. Mr Reid made clear yesterday that he would try again with fresh legislation that the Commons will consider in a fortnight. It is the first of the controversial Home Office bills to see the light of day. The detail of the bill published yesterday shows it would give force to the provision in the 2003 act for judges to sit alone in a serious fraud case if it is considered that the case's length and complexity are likely to prove too much of a burden to a jury. A high court judge would have to approve such a non-jury trial, which it is said will ensure compatibility with rights legislation guaranteeing a fair trial.Home Office minister Joan Ryan said there were a few fraud trials so serious and complicated that it was impractical to bring the defendants before a jury. "Let me be clear, trial by jury remains at the heart of the criminal justice system; but it is not right that the greater the scale and complexity of a fraud the less likelihood there is of a successful prosecution. We cannot accept a double standard of easy-to-prosecute petty frauds and unprosecutable major frauds," Ms Ryan said.The Law Society said it would again fiercely oppose the measure. "Trial by jury in serious criminal cases is a fundamental right, vital to public confidence in our justice system. Judge-only trials for white collar crime would create the perception of a two-tier justice system," said its vice-president, Andrew Holroyd.The collapse of a string of high-profile trials brought demands for reform: the Jubilee Line case cost £60m and lasted 21 months; the acquittal in 1996 of Kevin and Ian Maxwell, sons of publishing magnate Robert Maxwell, cost £25m and took eight months; and the 1992 Blue Arrow trial lasted 12 months and cost £40m.