I have argued many times that one of the own goals scored by the criminal justice system is that no one knows the cost of imprisonment. That is not to say that no one knows how much money is granted each year by the Treasury to the Ministry of Justice, by the Ministry of Justice to the National Offender Management Service (Noms) and by Noms to individual prisons. But no one knows how much it would cost to do all the things that ministers say that they want to do with and for prisoners to better protect the public by reducing re-offending.The problem with not knowing is that no one knows what cannot be done. Inevitably there will be a considerable shortfall between what you have available and what you need. It is, of course, ministers who must decide what will have to be dropped.The recent disclosure that a junior probation officer was having to supervise 127 offenders encourages the feeling that the same is true of probation. Every time ministers are asked about the cost of probation, they point out how much more money has been made available to the service since 1997, compared with that provided by their Conservative predecessors. But that argument is meaningless until the probation service has all the resources it needs to carry out all the demands made of it.For some time, offenders under probation supervision have been tiered according to the degree of risk they represent to the public. The highest risk, or tier, requires the most experienced supervision. Provided the same risk assessment criteria are used in every probation area, and the same limits on the maximum size of case load, it should be possible to work out how many probation officers, with what experience, are needed in each area. There are, of course, other aspects of probation work that need to be costed, such as the preparation of pre-sentence reports.Last Tuesday, during exchanges in the House of Commons between the justice secretary, Jack Straw, and a number of MPs, Rob Marris suggested an inquiry into why there was a mismatch between given figures and what seemed to be happening on the ground around the country. That suggests a similar gap, between what is available and what is required, to that in prisons. Only identification of its size and implications will enable ministers to decide what should not be done and inform both the probation service and the public accordingly.The burden of working that out will inevitably fall on the chief executive of Noms, Phil Wheatley, to whom I owe an apology before he starts work. In my article of 9 June, I reflected on why he had left the duty of seeing David Scott, the chief probation officer for London, who resigned over the Sonnex incident, to a subordinate, rather than having the decency or common courtesy to see him himself. He has pointed out to me that he could not see him because that would have compromised his position as the senior official responsible for adjudicating over performance capability inquiries. He also tells me that to give the impression that all 4,270 Noms staff are at its headquarters is misleading, because, for example, a number are carrying out a variety of tasks on behalf of a number of prisons, rather than in individual prisons, and that he has active plans in hand for reducing the number. I freely acknowledge my error.