The jail overcrowding crisis, poor industrial relations, and a lack of a clear purpose have led to an "unacceptable regime" at Liverpool prison, the largest in Britain, according to the chief inspector of prisons.The report by Anne Owers published today said conditions for new inmates were among the worst her inspectors had seen - with cockroaches, broken windows, and dirty cells and toilets. The inspectors found prisoners without a towel, razor, or toothpaste. Conditions in the healthcare centre were also unacceptable, with one small, dirty ward where the windows could not be opened because of the smell of blocked drains. Prisoners were able to shower and change their underwear once a week and in some cases not even that frequently, according to the report. "At the time of the inspection, Liverpool was not delivering an acceptable regime for the prisoners in its care. The availability of association, exercise and showers was far below the average for other local prisons, with most prisoners having association only once a week if that," Ms Owers said. Liverpool is one of the largest and oldest prisons in the country. It holds nearly 1,500 prisoners in cells designed to take 1,204. The prison service has named Liverpool along with Dartmoor as the two worst performing prisons in Britain, and given them six months to improve or face being handed over to the private sector. Two more prisons to undergo this "performance testing" are to be named next month. The director general of the service, Phil Wheatley, said yesterday that, with additional management support, the Liverpool governor was planning a major improvement to its regime and its delivery. "If the bid is to be successful it will have to address the many shortcomings this report identifies," Mr Wheatley said. Official projections for the prison population published last Friday show that overcrowding is likely to get more intense. The worst-case scenario shows that a total of 73,000 could top 100,000 within three years. The chief inspector's report of the inspection last June said despite improvements in culture and some good pockets of work, Liverpool was failing to provide a decent and positive environment for the many men who passed through it. There were fewer opportunities for work and education despite criticism in the 1999 inspector's report. "Only 18% of prisoners had access to education, though the prison's own statistics showed that 95% needed help with basic literacy and numeracy. No national vocational qualifications were being offered," Ms Owers said. The inspectors also found that, like many local prisons, Liverpool suffered severely from overcrowding. "Many single cells held two prisoners with an unscreened toilet, and there was considerable difficulty in safely managing the large number of prisoners coming through reception every day. Its role and purpose were unclear, except as a recipient of overcrowding drafts." Ms Owers said overcrowding could only add further to Liverpool's difficulty in tackling "its demanding agenda". She added: "But it is an agenda that must be addressed if the north of England's largest local prison is to do more than simply contain and recycle its 1,500 prisoners." 