Almost 50 years on from the Wolfenden committee, the last comprehensive review of the laws on prostitution, there is an echo of a familiar theme. In the 1950s there was much public concern, stoked by an xenophobic press, about foreign pimps. Five decades on from the five Messina brothers who ran illegal and coercive brothels, east Europeans are accused of trying the same trick. Last week Luan Plakici, an Albanian who posed as a Kosovan asylum seeker, was found guilty of bringing 30 east European women to Britain and forcing them to work in illegal brothels in London, Bedford, Luton and Reading. But prostitution is a much more complex problem than just foreign pimps. A new Home Office-led review is promised.There are several grounds for applauding this move. First because a return to evidence-based policy-making is long overdue, not just in the Home Office, but across Whitehall. Secondly, because it is another sign that ministers are finally ready to take on rightwing moralists who generate so much social harm. Remember, it was not until the year 2000, that child prostitutes were belatedly recognised as victims, rather than criminals. In a four-year period before then, some 4,000 children - many of them runaways from unhappy homes - were prosecuted or cautioned for breaking the prostitution laws, rather than their clients or pimps. A third reason for welcoming the review is the confusion and contradictions in the current laws. Although prostitution is not illegal, some 35 separate offences, such as soliciting, criminalise the trade. Now what is needed is a review that matches this week's rhetoric at its unofficial launch - the promise to "consider all the available options, no matter how radical". One issue facing ministers is whether they should opt for "zones of toleration" or introduce legalised brothels. The problem with toleration zones is that they are only likely to be acceptable in rundown commercial zones, where there are no residents. Even a Church of England spokesman this week said it would prefer legalisation. Legalising the trade - as Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden have already done in different ways - offers sex workers much better protection from the three most common threats: pimps, violent clients and disease. It also means the work can be taxed.