Barry George said yesterday that he could not have killed Jill Dando because he was stalking another woman at the time. George, who was acquitted of the murder of the BBC television presenter, also claimed that the photo of a man in a mask and brandishing a gun found at his flat and widely published was not him."I didn't kill Jill Dando," he told the News of the World. "I was stalking another woman. I walked with her for a bit and, from her perspective, maybe it was unwanted attention."Asked why he had not given evidence in his retrial, which ended in his acquittal last week, he said: "I never refused to give evidence. My legal team advised that it would be inappropriate." He suffers from cognitive impairment and has an IQ of 75. Of the alarming photo, he said: "That's not me!" He said he could not go into details about it because of "legal issues". Yesterday, George was savouring his first weekend as a free man since he was arrested for the murder of Dando eight years ago. He is planning a holiday abroad, a trip to see Leeds United play and a slow adjustment to life outside.The 48-year-old marked his release with a meal of fried chicken but, because of the medication he has to take for his epilepsy, has been told he should not be knocking back the champagne to celebrate his freedom. He was understood to be at a hotel with his sister, Michelle Diskin, who has campaigned for his release since he was first arrested in 2000."I won't follow women any more, I know it's wrong," George told the Sunday Mirror. "I will be vigilant from now on. I am never going to give anyone the chance to send me away again. I have changed."In an interview with the News of the World, for which he was paid a five-figure sum, George said he was "very remorseful" about his behaviour towards women in the past - he has convictions for attempted rape and indecent assault."If I could go back in time and change that I would," he said. He apologised to women he had frightened in the past. He said he was anxious to prove his innocence and added he would be happy to take a lie-detector test. He hoped to go on holiday with a friend to South America and had also thought of going to Ireland, where he has relatives, and Jamaica. After his holidays, he said he would go to "a secret location" but still intended to live in London afterwards. Inside prison, he had studied Buddhism, he said, but he had also, as a Catholic, prayed and read an Old Testament psalm every day. "I prayed that something would happen to get me out," he said.His family and supporters accept that he will need help to adjust to his new life. He put on a lot of weight in prison through obsessive eating of sweets. Initially, he was given a hard time by fellow inmates. "Lots of prisoners blamed me for murdering Jill," he said. "They used to call me scum and spit in my tea. I kept my head down and never spoke to anyone."George was certain he would be convicted and had been "overwhelmed" by the verdict. "I'm going to be convicted," he told clinical psychologist, Dr Susan Young, who sat beside him in the dock throughout the retrial and appeal. John McManus, of the Miscarriages of Justice Organisation, said George would need much support if he is to cope with life outside. "People serving long sentences are able to adjust slowly to the idea of freedom but the victim of a miscarriage of justice case is just suddenly out on the street without any preparation," he said. George's solicitor, Jeremy Moore, said George would be seeking compensation from the government for his time inside. It is estimated he could receive as much as £500,000.