Danilo Restivo showed no emotion as statements were read in court on behalf of his victim's family.In her statement, Heather Barnett's daughter Caitlin Marsh, who was only 11, when she found her mother's body, said that life "changed forever" for her and her brother when Barnett was killed.Marsh, now 19, described the "horror" of finding her mother's body and being told by police that she was dead.She said: "It was at that moment that I  felt as if my heart had been ripped out. I was in a state of complete and utter shock and it took months before I accepted the truth. I understood the words used but I felt that things like this don't happen to people like my mum."Marsh described how her brother, now 23, became her "protector" but she was traumatised by what had happened.She said: "I used to have nightmares and flashbacks reminding me of the events of the 12th November."I also don't like going into bathrooms. I used to think that someone might be waiting for me. Now I just hold a fear of what's behind the bathroom door."It was several years before I accepted the help of a child psychologist to help me cope with what happened that day."She added: "My mum is no longer able to help me celebrate my successes and pull me through the disappointments. I  will never get the chance again to tell her how much I love her and how much I now miss her."The only person that I can fully trust and rely upon now is Terry. My mum has been taken from me. The home I had shared with my mum was now tainted with someone else's violent actions. I have not been back there since and cannot face even going near our old front door. It reminds me too much of the horror that awaited my brother and I to find."Marsh added that she had not allowed herself to become a "victim".Describing Restivo, Marsh, who sat in the court to face her mother's killer, said: "I feel a great anger at him. Without him she'd still be here."How could he intrude into our safe and happy family home and then take everything from us in such a horrific and callous way?"She continued: "A particularly difficult day was when I first saw Danilo sat in the witness box, looking up into the public gallery."This was the first time I had come face to face with mum's killer. He showed no emotion and no remorse."I still do not have any explanation for why this happened to mum. What did she do wrong? Why was mum his victim?"