The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday July 12 2005In response to the article below about the repeated anti-social behaviour of Michael Carroll, the lottery millionaire, Camelot, the organiser of the national lottery, has asked us to point out that all those who win more than £50,000 are offered support and guidance which includes financial and legal advice. Carroll has refused those offers so far.Sandwiched on the court list between a "driving whilst disqualified" and a "drunk in charge of a vehicle", Michael Andrew Carroll needed no introduction when he arrived in the dock. A regular before King's Lynn magistrates for the offences such as disorderly behaviour and taking vehicles, Carroll is infamous in the tabloid press as the King of Chavs after winning £9.7m on the national lottery. As he became the richest man to be given an Asbo yesterday, the 22-year-old was proof that money does not change anything.Since he won the jackpot two-and-a-half years ago wearing an electronic tag, Carroll - who drives a jeep with the number plate L11 OUT (read lout) - has bought 80 cars, several mansions, invested £1m in Rangers football club, built a banger-racing track and changed his tag for solid gold bling jewellery.Along the way, the former dustman has been in and out of court, been deserted by his wife and child, had a spell in prison for failing to comply with a drugs treatment order and turned the lives of his neighbours in Swaffham, Norfolk, into a nightmare.Carroll was back in court for the fifth time in two weeks yesterday, and even his lawyer admitted he was lucky to escape prison. His offence was to cruise through Downham Market in a black jeep lit by blue neon lights taking pot shots at cars and shops with a ball-bearing loaded catapult. When he was arrested, Carroll admitted he had done the same thing on 29 other occasions, and wrote "sorry" on his police form. He was given 240 hours' community service yesterday, ordered to pay £3,628.97 compensation and put on his first Asbo.As he left court, this time driving a gold Isuzu jeep, number plate W111 NER, Carroll said he had tried to ignore the constant media attention since winning the lottery.But having escaped jail, he faces further troubles and more media attention because the local council plans to impose a planning enforcement order on his land in Swaffham to force him to move the scores of smashed-up cars piled in the gardens and close down his racetrack.For neighbours, the order cannot come too soon. Allison and Sid Skeat, whose home overlooks the 70 wrecked cars piled in the front and back gardens of Carroll's home, have had to put up with two years of caravans, cars and tyres being set alight, cars being raced constantly and long days in which Carroll and his friends sit in BMWs revving the engines until the early hours.After numerous complaints, the council put his home under surveillance and issued an environmental health enforcement notice last year.But the antisocial behaviour has continued, say neighbours. The worst night recently was on Carroll's 22nd birthday in March, when he held a race lasting several hours before setting Mercedes and BMW cars alight and sending a thick pall of smoke across neighbouring properties.Carroll's lawyer, Neal Meachem, says he has turned over a new leaf and is giving some of his fortune and his time to charities supporting "wayward children". For the past 12 months, he said, Carroll had not committed any offences - three of these, however, were spent in prison.But staff at the North Lynn Project for disadvantaged children supported Mr Meachem, praising Carroll for his commitment after he volunteered to help them build a youth club in one of the poorest areas of Norfolk."He approached us and said he was very depressed, he said he wanted to get involved in something ..." they said."He was always on time, always last to leave, polite, trustworthy and popular with the children."Mr Meachem blamed Carroll's latest crime spree on his desire to take the law into his own hands after being robbed of £120,000 of his win. Believing his uncle had stolen the money - though the police found no evidence of this - Carroll visited him a few weeks ago with the catapult gun. Fuelled with drink on the way home, the court heard, he sprayed a butcher's shop and two cars with ball bearings.With a further court appearance in August for affray, Mr Meachem said the solution for Carroll lay in who he chose for company."The solution to all this is for him to stop hanging around with the people he is hanging around with," he said. "His family never wanted him, then when he won the money they were all over him. He is young and there is no one decent around him."Victims of his latest brush with the law may not agree. Charles Joyce, a Norfolk county councillor, said: "Carroll needs to grow up. He thinks he can get away with anything, he is just leaving people in misery for no reason whatsoever. He is dangerous with all that money."But back in Swaffham there are signs that temporarily, perhaps, Carroll may be cleaning up his act."From the sound of the crashing and banging today it seems he is clearing all the cars from the land," said Jean Poulter, a retired radiologist, who lives nearby."I always said a young man like him who already had problems should not have got so much money in one go and, to be honest, I have always felt slightly sorry for him."But maybe someone is guiding him at last - it would be good for everyone, especially him."