The Soham police officer Brian Stevens's mobile phone was used miles away from Cambridgeshire on the night he claimed to have stayed there with a female friend, an Old Bailey jury heard yesterday.Detective Constable Stevens, 43, and Louise Austin, 32, a Crown Prosecution Service case worker, deny perverting the course of justice by inventing a false alibi when Mr Stevens was charged with accessing pornography on the internet. Mr Stevens, the liaison officer for the family of Jessica Chapman, murdered with Holly Wells by Ian Huntley, stayed at a police convalescence home, Flint House, in Goring-on-Thames, Oxfordshire, from May 30 to June 10 2002. Three months later, he was charged over "questionable images" downloaded on to his laptop at 2.01am, 2.05am and 2.13am on June 9 2002. The charges were dropped last year. When first arrested, Mr Stevens told police he had his laptop with him at Flint House and had allowed other officers to use it. But a year later, he changed his story. Both he and Ms Austin then insisted he drove more than 100 miles from Flint House to her home on Saturday June 8, arriving at lunchtime, without his laptop, and stayed until about 11.30am on Sunday June 9. Police traffic officers put the journey time at just under 2 hours. Yesterday, however, David Bristowe, a mobile phone mapping expert, said cell mast records showed Mr Stevens's phone was used eight times in the vicinity of Flint House on the evening of June 8, the last call or text message being registered at 10.50pm, and there were calls or texts at 4.41am and 12.57pm on June 9. "There is no chance whatsoever that the phone was in the Cambridgeshire area," said Mr Bristowe. Earlier, Michelle Obradovic, a Hertfordshire police constable, told how Mr Stevens, she and other officers staying at Flint House went on a day trip to Windsor on Saturday June 8. Ms Obradovic was with Mr Stevens from around 9am until 7pm that day, during which he paid for her prescription in a chemist and had drinks in a pub with two other officers. Michael Evans, a West Mercia constable, told the court he saw Mr Stevens's laptop at Flint House. The case continues.