The crisis at the criminal records bureau deepened yesterday when it was disclosed that it cannot provide background vetting checks on new probation officers.Napo, the probation union, said a technical oversight meant that probation was left out of the prescribed list of occupations whose recruits need CRB clearance. "Probation was omitted when the schedules to the bill setting up the CRB were being drafted. It means that people wanting to work in probation cannot get a CRB security check," said Harry Fletcher, Napo's assistant general secretary. The drafting oversight meant that 750 trainee probation officers had to be taken on this autumn without certificates. Chief probation officers had to fall back on local police checks and education and health department lists of those who should not work with children. A further 1,200 probation staff are to be recruited in the next year "This drafting error is unfortunate. It is essential that those who wish to work in probation are properly vetted," Mr Fletcher said. "The service works directly with young people and also seconds staff to work in young offender teams." The latest problem comes as the national audit office is preparing to launch an investigation into the CRB, which is struggling to cope with a backlog of almost 100,000 applications. Home Office ministers have been holding weekly meetings with the representatives of Capita, the company running the CRB, in an attempt to get it back on the road to recovery. An action plan was put in place a month ago postponing checks on 300,000 carers, agency nurses and school governors because it was being overwhelmed. A lot of its work of transferring handwritten applications on to computer disks has had to be subcontracted to a firm in Madras. But despite these measures, the 96,000-strong backlog shows few signs of clearing. The latest figures to the beginning of this month show that the bureau has so far carried out 819,000 background vetting checks since it opened in April, but is well behind its target of 3.3m checks in its first year of operations. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has asked an independent team, led by a businessman, Patrick Carter, to look at the problems faced by the CRB. It is expected to report early in the new year.