For years, he was "the man who got away with murder", spat on in the street, shunned by neighbours and denied even the most menial job. Now Colin Stagg, the man wrongly accused of the murder of Rachel Nickell in 1992, is finally able to savour his vindication.Next week sees the publication of Pariah, his own account of the years that followed his arrest for the murder. Told by journalist Ted Hynds, the book will recount how Stagg came to be the prime suspect and faced the possibility of life in prison until a judge threw out the case against him at the Old Bailey in 1994. Even his acquittal and the lack of evidence against him failed to halt the smears and harassment. Obscenities were frequently scrawled on his door and a lynch-mob mentality, encouraged enthusiastically by sections of the press, kept him constantly on guard.Last night, at his home in Roehampton, south-west London, Stagg, 44, expressed his enormous relief. "Finally people are going to have to believe I didn't do it," he said."I have dreamed about this day for years, but part of me never believed it would happen. My only reservation is that I hope the CPS have got it right this time. Despite being cleared by an Old Bailey judge back in 1994 I have been portrayed ever since as the man who got away with murder."Stagg initially came under suspicion as an eccentric local man who walked on Wimbledon Common. He appeared to fit the archetypal "loner" profile and Scotland Yard assigned an undercover policewoman, using the pseudonym Lizzie James, to pretend to be a lonely heart turned on by sexual violence.The aim was to coax a confession from him but the judge dismissed the evidence as "deceptive conduct of the grossest sort".Even then, Stagg was the subject of constant suspicion and innuendo, eventually going on television to take lie detector tests to try and prove his innocence.A self-conscious school dropout from a dysfunctional family, he was always more at ease with his two dogs, Jess and Gypsy, than with other people.His brief marriage - to a woman who contacted him while he was still in custody on the murder charge - failed but he now has a girlfriend, Terri Marchant, a 41-year old mother of four.He has been unable to find work. "My local job centre officially accepted that I was unemployable because of who I was," he said yesterday."Hundreds of interview applications were accepted and then mysteriously turned down. For years I have been forced to live with a fortress mentality. I won't use public transport. I hate crowds, because sooner or later people recognise me. I hate being stared at."News that the police had been reinvestigating the case has led to some people who previously shunned him accepting that he was another victim of the killer although he has always stressed that what happened to him was "nothing" compared to what happened to Rachel Nickell's two-year-old son, who witnessed her murder.Now he hopes that his book, published by Pennant, will explain how the accusation changed his life for ever.He will also receive compensation from the government, with a final figure to be announced in the new year.