The law lords are today expected to strip the home secretary of his power to set minimum jail terms for murderers, in a ruling that could end the ability of politicians to interfere in the judicial process.A specially convened panel of seven law lords is expected to rule that the home secretary's power to fix tariffs is incompatible with article six of the European convention on human rights, which requires sentencing to be carried out by judges, not politicians. David Blunkett announced yesterday that four paedophile child murderers should not be freed for at least 50 years. The Home Office said the timing of the announcement was coincidental. The four included Roy Whiting, who abducted and murdered eight-year-old Sarah Payne. The case sparked vehement calls for tougher laws which tested Labour's credentials on being tough on law and order and in touch with the public's mood. Whiting, 43, murdered Sarah after snatching her from a cornfield near her grandparents' house in Kingston Gorse, West Sussex.Sentencing Whiting, who had indecently assaulted a child before, Mr Justice Curtis described him as "every parent's nightmare". He told Whiting: "This is one of those rare cases where I will recommend that you are kept in prison for the rest of your life." Today's expected House of Lord's ruling will make little or no difference in Whiting's case because Mr Blunkett is agreeing with the trial judge's recommendation. It is not known whether the home secretary has increased the sentences given by the courts in the cases of the other three child murderers ordered to serve 50 years, Howard Hughes, Timothy Morss and Brent Tyler. News of Whiting's tariff was welcomed by Sarah's mother, Sara, who said she had feared he would be freed within 20 years to prey on her grandchildren: "We can finally step out of his shadow now. When we told the children the news, there were big smiles from the boys." Home Office minister Lord Falconer of Thoroton said: "There are certain cases where life should definitely mean life and if it doesn't mean life there would be people in this country who would rightly think the criminal justice system was not producing punishments which fit the crime." The dispute over who should define how long the most notorious murderers spend in jail goes to the heart of the relationship not only between politicians and the courts, but also between politicians and a public demanding retribution. The home secretary's use of his power was criticised by Mark Littlewood, campaigns director of Liberty: "Why does the Home Office trust judges to make decisions in every one of thousands upon thousands of cases, except those that make the biggest headlines? "Judges have the most information and the most independence, to make decisions that match the seriousness of every case, not just those in the headlines." If, as expected, the law lords make a declaration of incompatibility, Mr Blunkett could refuse to institute the fast-track procedure laid down by the human rights act to amend legislation ruled in breach of the convention. He could force Anthony Anderson, the double lifer who brought the case to the lords, to take his case to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg, which could take two years or more. But the home secretary would only delay the inevitable. He has been advised that he would have no chance of success in Strasbourg because the issue has already been decided in another case by a unanimous decision. The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said Mr Blunkett should not try to flout the law lords' opinion if he loses: "It would be wrong, even if understandable, for the home secretary to resist any judgment that went against him." A Home Office spokeswoman said: "If the home secretary were to lose he would use domestic legislation to find another way." Although politicians have already ceded the power to judges in Scotland and Northern Ireland, Mr Blunkett has vowed to take action to try to keep his power in the event of a ruling against him. Anderson is challenging the home secretary's power to impose a tariff longer than recommended by the trial judge and the lord chief justice. The trial judge recommended a 15-year tariff after his conviction in 1988 for killing two men in bungled robberies, but the home secretary increased it to 20 years. Lawyers speculated that by moving to a 50-year tariff, rather than whole life, Mr Blunkett may be trying to pre-empt attempts to challenge the whole life tariff as "inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment". Myra Hindley had such a challenge pending in Strasbourg when she died. The Anderson case affects some 225 mandatory lifers whose tariffs, set by the home secretary, exceed the terms recommended by judges. They include five "whole lifers" who have been told they will die in jail, although judges recommended a specific term. Around 70 prisoners have already served longer than the judges recommended.  At the home secretary's pleasure Howard Hughes, 36 Received three life sentences for the abduction, rape and murder of Sophie Hook, 7, in 1995. The home secretary has set his tariff at 50 years.  Timothy Morss, 39, and Brett Tyler, 37 David Blunkett has imposed 50 year tariffs on both these prisoners, who kidnapped and murdered nine-year-old Daniel Handley in October 1994. They met on a prison sex offenders' wing while serving sentences for sexually assaulting young children, and on release murdered Daniel.  Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, both 20 The children who murdered the toddler James Bulger were ordered to serve a minimum of eight years by their trial judge in 1993. But Michael Howard when home secretary increased that to 15 years, a decision overturned by the courts. They were released last year.  Harold Shipman, 56 The "doctor of death" will never be released after murdering at least 215 patients, making him Britain's worst serial killer.  Myra Hindley Jailed for her part in the murder of five children, she could have been released next year. Her death on November 15 spared Mr Blunkett a clash with judges who vowed she would never be freed. The lord chief justice, Lord Lane, said in 1985 that Hindley should serve a minimum of 25 years, which was later raised to 30 years. In 1990, the then home secretary, David Waddington, raised it again to "whole life", a decision backed by his successors, Michael Howard and Jack Straw.