Criminals stand a far higher chance of getting away with a wide range of serious offences today than they did 20 years ago, an Observer investigation can reveal.While figures for rape, burglary, robbery and serious violence have shown huge increases, the proportion of crimes leading to conviction in court has plummeted. The disclosure comes as the Government prepares to launch a White Paper on criminal justice reforms - set to be the most radical and far-reaching for many decades. The Observer has obtained details of some of its key measures. It will include plans for a sweeping administrative shake-up, in an attempt to bring the system's disparate elements into line with each other, and big changes to the rules of the legal process. Last week the Prime Minister pledged to 'rebalance' the system towards the needs of victims, to restore their confidence that criminals would be brought to justice. The analysis is based on Home Office figures for crime and convictions in court for 1980 and 2000. Although crime totals fell steadily for most of the 1990s, they ended the decade at a much higher level than 20 years earlier. Police and criminologists agree they are probably now at the start of another period of sustained increase. Labour's 1997 pledge to be 'tough on crime' and its causes is at risk and party strategists fear the party may cede political ground on this issue to the Tories. The analysis shows that the system has been particularly ineffective at convicting those responsible for crimes the public fears most. Reported rapes in 1980-2000 rose nearly sevenfold, from 1,255 to 7,929. Yet the total of those convicted increased by just 30 per cent - from 457 in 1980 to 597 in 2000. Rape also shows one of the highest rates of acquittal in court. In 2000, 739 men were found not guilty. The Government hopes that one of the White Paper's proposals may address this problem by allowing videotapes of victims' interviews with police to be played in court as evidence. 'Very often, seeing how a person was when they first told their story can be very effective,' a senior judge said. 'Rape and violent assault cases often come down to juries deciding who is telling the truth. Playing the tape may well make that easier.' Perpetrators of serious ass- ault are also much more likely to evade justice. In 1980, there were 4,545 recorded crimes of wounding with intent and attempted murder, a figure that soared to 15,737. Although the number of convictions rose slightly, from 1,311 to 1,825, this was far behind the growth in offences. Less serious attacks displayed a still more worrying pattern. Actual bodily harm assaults increased from 90,654 to 201,290 in the period 1980- 2000. However, convictions fell from 53,648 to 50,966. These figures are even worse than they first appear: during the period, assault cases were reclassified so that many which would have merited an ABH charge in 1980 would have been downgraded to common assault by 2000. Burglary and car crime totals also showed big increases, but massive falls in the numbers of convictions. In a bid to remedy the situation, the Government wants to introduce a basic shift in the way court cases are run. It is argued that many trials become bogged down in legal argument over what can be put before the jury. The White Paper will propose an 'inclusionary rule', under which it will be presumed that anything - often including previous convictions - should be allowed, unless the defence can demonstrate that it would be unfair. Home Office sources say this is a 'trade-off' for dropping plans to restrict the right to trial by jury, which the Government tried and failed to introduce last year. 'Our opponents said this was a fundamental right and juries should be trusted,' one source said. 'In which case, why not trust them to hear all the evidence, not only the bits which lawyers, working to a set of arcane rules, think suitable?' The proposals are likely to arouse strong opposition from defence lawyers and civil rights groups. Other measures in the White Paper include a right for the prosecution to appeal against judges' rulings while a trial remains in pro- gress, abolition of the 'double jeopardy' rule preventing suspects from being tried more than once for the same offence, and obligations on the defence to disclose the substance of its case before a trial.