The 14-year-old girl was supposed to have been the prosecution's key witness, whose testimony of what she saw on the afternoon Damilola Taylor died would underpin the case against the four boys accused of murder.But during five and a half days in the witness box, the girl, known as Bromley, gave a performance that so bewildered everyone in court 12 that the judge, Mr Justice Hooper, ruled her evidence was too unreliable for the jury to consider. The problem was this; Bromley could not stop lying. She lied to the police about what she saw. She replaced one set of lies with another when she was caught out. And in court, the tangle led her to exclaim: "How am I suppose to remember all the lies I've told?" When she was put under pressure, she threw tantrums. The jury watched her stomp out of the witness box, swear at Courtenay Griffiths QC, and giggle when another barrister pointed out that her story of what happened on the afternoon Damilola died was "absurd". Character references were hardly glowing: her school said she was dishonest and mentally disturbed. Her motive was questionable: during one police interview she was recorded singing "I'm in the money" - a reference to the £50,000 reward. Under the witness protection programme, she was put up by the police in a hotel in Croydon, south London, but was asked to leave when she set fire to a toilet. Not, however, before she had run up a £4,000 bill over eight days Bromley was 12 on November 27, 2000, the day of the murder. When she first rang the police on December 23, 2000, she had intended to give information anonymously, but the police had her mobile phone number and tracked her down. To begin with, she told police one of the 16-year-old brothers now on trial had called her and confessed to the crime. But when detectives checked phone records, they realised it was untrue. Bromley then told police defendant D, the 15-year-old, had told her about the stabbing. She later admitted she had made up the entire episode. When the teenager eventually told police she had witnessed the attack, her account was riddled with inconsistencies, and, the court heard, further lies. During interviews she told police that blood was coming out of Damilola like "a water fountain". Later she admitted she had not seen any blood at all. In his ruling yesterday, the judge noted that the "water fountain" phrase was used in a news report published a week after the murder. Bromley told police that she knew the 16-year-old brothers and had met them a few days after the murder. Neither claim was true. She described how she kept a logbook of all the brothers' crimes and that this journal was buried in a park in Peckham. Police searched for the book, but could not find it. This was hardly surprising - Bromley admitted it did not exist. Her account of November 27 was also erratic. She gave six different versions of where she went and who she saw before witnessing the attack. In his ruling yesterday, the judge said Bromley's story about watching the murder in Blakes Road was contradicted by other elements of the prosecution's case. She said the attack took place near some black doors, yet the blood trail indicated the stabbing happened elsewhere. She said she had hidden behind a Fiat Punto - but police found no such car in the road. During police interviews, Bromley had demonstrated how Damilola was lying on the ground and calling for help. In cross examination, she said she had not seen this at all. "The only conclusion must be she had again embellished the story out of her fertile imagination," the judge said. Another bizarre strand to her story was the meeting she said she had with a Scot in Blakes Road moments before the murder. The man, she said, was "an oldie ... who had a bald head". He was taking photographs with a flash. Yet this man had not seen the boys and the boys had not seen him. Bromley could not explain this. Although the judge was careful not directly to criticise detectives, he said their handling of Bromley during interviews and the use of "inducements", meant that "the danger that [Bromley] was persuaded to tell untruths is very real". Only one of the police interviews was conducted in accordance with Home Office guidelines on dealing with child witnesses. Bromley was told by officers she could get her friend, defendant four, "off the hook" if she admitted witnessing the murder. She was told the reward money would "be more guaranteed" and that the "nightmare for everybody" would end. Once Bromley had told police she had witnessed the stabbing, "the love, protection and support which has been shown to her would make it extremely difficult for her to change her mind again," Mr Justice Hooper said. He added that all the core information given by Bromley to the police was already in the public domain when she came forward. "There is no independent support for Bromley's account that she was there and able to see the incident which led to Damilola's death," he concluded.