A serial killer is being hunted by police after the discovery of a woman's body in a brook downstream from where another young woman was found a week ago. Both were prostitutes.Police divers found the naked body of 19-year-old Tania Nicol, who disappeared more than a month ago from the red-light district of Ipswich, at Copdock Mill, close to the East Anglian town.The body of Gemma Adams, 25, had been found face down and unclothed in the same stream about a mile away, near Hintlesham. She also vanished from Ipswich's red-light area.Officers reiterated warnings to prostitutes working in the town last night to 'look after each other' as the manhunt for a suspected serial killer was stepped up. 'If women are going out to work as a prostitute, we would urge them to tell someone where they are going, who they are going with and perhaps even take a car registration number,' said Detective Superintendent Andy Henwood, who is leading the inquiry into both murders.Yesterday's confirmation of the identity of the second body fed speculation that the two women may have been killed by the same man, and Henwood confirmed that police had launched a 'linked murder investigation'. He appealed for clients of the two murdered women to contact police with information that might help in the investigation.Initial police profiles suggested the killer harboured a vendetta against prostitutes and could be a local man with a knowledge of Ipswich and the surrounding countryside. Suffolk Constabulary officers were checking their database for similar cases to try to help establish whether the murderer has struck more than twice.The parents of Gemma yesterday spoke out for the first time since the discovery of their daughter's murder, describing how she had turned from a piano-playing schoolgirl into a drug addict. They said they had no idea she had been working as a prostitute.'We are going through hell trying to come to terms with it. It has been shock after shock,' said her father, a businessman, speaking on condition that their first names were not used. He described how he and his wife had tried without success to get their daughter off drugs. 'One of her teachers described her as an "ordinary, intelligent girl from a nice family" and that's exactly what she was,' he added.He said that she had got in with the 'wrong crowd' after leaving Kesgrave High School near Ipswich, and had soon become addicted to heroin and crack cocaine.Gemma was last seen alive at around 1.15am on 15 November in the red-light area around Ipswich Town's Portman Road ground. Her boyfriend Jon Simpson, her partner of 10 years and a fellow addict, reported her missing when she failed to respond to two text messages. Her body was found last weekend.Tania Nicol disappeared from the same area on 30 October. She was reported missing by her mother, Kerry. She, too, had not known that her daughter was working as a prostitute until the police told her.Officers said it was plausible that the bodies of the two women could have been dumped together, but that Tania's body might have been washed downstream by recent flood water. Another possibility being investigated is that her body might have been dumped in the water from a bridge on the A1071 road and then washed downstream.