The memory of one woman whose husband had taken a hammer and chisel to her face still haunts Sandra Horley, chief executive of the charity Refuge. "He had broken her jaw in five places and she needed 250 stitches," she says. "Her face was a mass of purple bruising; you couldn't see a square of normal skin colour. I had to feed her liquids through a straw."Horley's memory bank no doubt contains many hundreds of such horrific stories. This month marks the 35th anniversary of the charity that she has run for more than two decades. An organisation that has achieved the inestimable feat of bringing the scourge of domestic violence to popular attention and understanding, it has also provided help, care and security to many thousands of women and children who have been living in fear of familial violence - and even death. Women who have had their teeth knocked out, who have been throttled, punched and burnt, who have been thrown down stairs and verbally abused until any confidence they may have had is shredded. Given the changed social attitudes that Refuge has nurtured, it is shocking to recall how dismissive people were about domestic violence even just a few decades ago.Although the women's movement was firmly established by the late 1970s, wife-beating was still regularly joked about at dinner parties. "I dreaded telling people what I did for a living," says Horley, because the myths surrounding domestic violence were so pervasive. Women who called the police were simply advised to make it up with their husband or partner. "You absolutely could not get the police to attend incidents for love or money. Nothing happened."It is no exaggeration, then, to say that, until Chiswick Women's Aid, the forerunner of Refuge, began to offer women sanctuary, the concept of domestic violence - as opposed to wife-beating - was unheard of. The idea that this could take the form of emotional, as well as physical, abuse, and that children could also be victims, would have been derided. Hardly anyone would have predicted that 35 years later a Home Office paper would describe it as a "horrendous crime".In some ways, though, the movement got off to an inauspicious start. In late 1971, Erin Pizzey - a bored thirtysomething housewife who would soon become an outspoken writer and campaigner - was running a women's group from a house in Belmont Terrace, Chiswick. When a bruised woman turned up on her doorstep and said that no one would help her, Pizzey agreed to take her in. Many others soon followed.By 1974 the managing director of the building company Bovis had offered her the much bigger house where Horley came to work in 1983. "I remember being astonished that first day," she says. The building was supposed to house 35 women, but the open door policy meant it sometimes accommodated four times that number. "There were rats, graffiti all over the walls. It was straight out of Dickens. I was so distressed by the rats I rang up environmental health and asked them what to do." Horley was no ingénue. When she answered the job ad to take over the refuge she had already worked at another shelter, the Haven in Wolverhampton. Still, she was shocked. "It wasn't a squat, but it was squalid," she remembers. But women fleeing their violent partners were so desperate they were undeterred by the vermin and the overcrowding. "There were hundreds of women ringing. We could never meet the demand."Refuge has always been committed to assisting every woman who sought its help. But it suffered a setback in the late 1970s when Pizzey began suggesting that many victims unconsciously enjoyed violence, dividing them into "genuine battered women" and "violence-prone women". In her controversial book Prone to Violence, she described how one woman who sought her help repeatedly "needed murder games to feel alive". When her son was taken into care, she begged Pizzey to vouch for her fitness to look after him. "I can't," Pizzey told her. "If you can't come to terms with your own need for violence, he's safer away from you. But you don't want to give it up. I'm sorry, love." Pizzey was reviled. Many declared her a traitor, undermining the very cause she pioneered. She left Chiswick Women's Aid in 1981. "On the positive side," says Horley, carefully, "one has to give her a great deal of credit for setting up the movement in the first place." But Pizzey's theories, she says, are misguided. "There is no evidence whatsoever to support her theory ... It is a total myth that women like, or seek, violence and it is wrong to judge those who are forced to return to an abusive man - they may simply have no other option." Today, the number of women calling the hotline, run jointly by Refuge and Women's Aid, continues to rise and each year around 63,000 women and children are admitted to a refuge. Refuge's 30 hostels house a core group of around 25 to 35 women and the charity needs £10,000 a day for running costs.One of the women who sought help in recent years was Laura, whose partner first attacked her - completely out of the blue - while she was driving him to his Sunday football game. He turned around and punched her directly in the face when she explained that she didn't know where he was playing. After that, the violence escalated - with incidents including strangulation. Laura contacted Refuge after one of the incidents in which her partner pushed her - his attacks were so frequent that she has had to have physiotherapy for the scar tissue formed in her thigh from the repeated falls (the wounds were compounded by him kicking her). During their relationship, Laura had lost much of her confidence, and had once attempted an overdose, but, with help from Refuge, she was able to leave her partner and start anew. Although she still lives in fear of him - constantly looking over her shoulder - she has built a successful career.Hostels are still key, but they are no longer the only option. The Domestic Violence Crime and Victims Act 2004 makes it an offence to breach a "no molestation order", but despite this, many perpetrators are able to find out where their ex-partner is living and try to return. Some local authorities run "sanctuary schemes", reinforcing one of the rooms in an abused woman's house so she can retreat and lock and bolt the door.Since Horley began her work, the attitudes of the police have fundamentally changed - just yesterday 500 Metropolitan Police officers made raids across London, targeting domestic violence and hate crimes, co-ordinated to draw attention to just how seriously these offences are now taken. Of those now arrested, more than a third are charged and a further 15% cautioned. Despite what Horley calls a "postcode lottery", the criminal justice system recognises domestic violence and is beginning to act. Yet two women still die each week in England and Wales at the hands of a partner or ex-partner, a figure that has barely altered since 1997. Horley is fully aware that a refuge is an escape and not a solution. "It's about power ... men beat women up because they get away with it. We could have a refuge on every corner but as long as society continues to hide, excuse and ignore domestic violence, it will carry on behind closed doors."· Some names have been changed.