The owner of a taxi firm who helped his cousin carry out the "honour killing" of a Muslim bride moments before her wedding was yesterday convicted of murder.A jury at Birmingham crown court took seven-and-a-half hours to find Tafarak Hussain guilty of murdering Sahjda Bibi, who was stabbed 22 times. Miss Bibi, 21, died almost immediately at her home in Alum Rock, Birmingham, on January 11 after being attacked by Tafarak's cousin, Rafaqat Hussain, who was angry that she was not marrying a blood relative. The court heard that Tafarak, 26, of Bordesley Green, Birmingham, helped Rafaqat plan the killing, drove him away from the scene afterwards and arranged for a taxi driver to take him to Heathrow airport. Rafaqat, a 38-year-old machine operator from Camberley, Surrey, pleaded guilty to murder at an earlier hearing. The cousins, who both face mandatory life terms, will be sentenced by Mr Justice Wakerley on Monday. During the eight-day trial Tim Raggatt QC, for the prosecution, told the jury how Rafaqat had attacked Miss Bibi, a dressmaker, with a kitchen knife in her bedroom as she prepared for the wedding ceremony. The bride's mother witnessed the final stages of the murder. Rafaqat then fled in a waiting BMW driven by Tafarak. The killer had learned of the marriage a few days earlier and, together with Tafarak, decided to kill Miss Bibi before it could take place. On January 10 the pair met in Birmingham to finalise their plan. They bought a plane ticket to allow Rafaqat to flee to Pakistan immediately after the killing. Although he pleaded guilty to murder in September, Rafaqat told police Miss Bibi's death was an accident and offered no other explanation. However, detectives believe the factory worker decided to kill Miss Bibi because he did not approve of her choice of husband, Zaffar Mughal. Speaking after the case, the West Midlands police said they were satisfied with the court's decision. A spokesman said: "Sahjda's death has been called an honour killing, when a person is murdered because they have 'brought dishonour' upon their family. But I can see no honour in killing another human being. In this case the victim was a relative of the killer and she seemed to have trusted him. "It seems Sahjda had simply fallen in love with the wrong man. "Rafaqat appears to have been unable to accept this union and took it upon himself to prevent it taking place - at any cost."