Jackie Annable is waiting for the bailiffs. In less than an hour, she and her 15-year-old son, Shane, will be homeless. Everything portable is lying in the backyard. There's not much: a few bin bags overspill with clothes, some crockery, family photographs in careless bundles. Anything larger remains in the house. Ms Annable, 38, and Shane have nowhere to go; nowhere to take their things.She had known for months, of course, that this day would come. The letters from the council, the court appearances. It was an inexorable process, but she never thought it would come to this - she imagined there would be somewhere, anywhere, to go. This is the reality of political rhetoric: a wet Monday morning in Nottinghamshire and Ms Annable and her son are homeless because of Shane's anti-social behaviour. They are the human face of anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos), the government's flagship policy for dealing with unruly young people and bad tenants. Last month, a few hundred miles away from Ms Annable and Shane in Westminster, the prime minister gave an impassioned speech calling for local authorities to make more use of Asbos. In 2002 there were 2,246 evictions clearly attributed to Asbos. For the government, it is not enough, it wants councils to evict many more anti-social tenants and anti-social children.Tony Blair and the home secretary, David Blunkett, have made this the cornerstone of their social policy. But homelessness charities are critical. To them, Asbos are a futile exercise, a way of merely kicking the problem around the country without offering any solutions. "Politicians have been so keen to emphasise enforcement, they have just ignored the root causes of the problem. Evictions don't solve anti-social behaviour," says Adam Sampson, director of Shelter. The Annables are among the first tenants to be evicted since the prime minister's speech. In a unique project, the Guardian will be following them, getting to the heart of the reality of the political arguments, to discover how Asbos work in real life. Shattered We begin yesterday morning, when Ms Annable's hope was shattered. Shane knew he and his mother were to be evicted at 11.30. He went to school as usual, believing he had a house to go to in Nottingham that night. Then, after he had gone, the postman came. He brought a letter from the local authority: the house it had planned to transfer them to was still occupied. The home they were forced to leave yesterday was not much of a house: a two-up, two-down terrace in an old miners' row in Eastwood. Curling linoleum on the floor, pistachio green framing the ageing gas fire on the wall. But it was, at least, close to Ms Annable's family, who have lived in Eastwood for five generations. She was born a few doors down; her sister, brother and dad still live there. But she has been forced out because the neighbours, and the council, have had enough of Shane's behaviour. Lighting fires, smashing windows, picking on other kids, being rowdy late at night: Ms Annable lists all her son's ills. He has ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder), diagnosed when he was six. It is the cause, she says, but she is not making any excuses. "If the boot was on the other foot, I wouldn't want him on my street," she says. It is about an hour until the eviction. Her support worker makes phone call after phone call, desperately banging the buttons. There's no way of halting the repossession, but maybe he can find them somewhere to stay. The hostels, though, are full. Private landlords want references. Time ticks away. Then her sister Denise says she can take her; she can share a bed with her youngest girl. But she won't take Shane. There's no room and if Shane causes trouble, her tenancy will be in jeopardy too. The knock at the door finally comes. Ms Annable visibly steels herself. The bailiffs are there, the police too. She leaves, but then runs back inside. "Just give her a minute," says the support worker as the joiner checks the lock. From the street, you can hear her sobs. She hands over the key and, laden with all she can carry, she walks to her sister's. Her sofas, fridge and washing machine are left locked up behind. The support worker telephones social services. He says Shane is officially homeless and they must take care of him. "I don't want to lose him, don't let them take him," says his mother. But social services will not take Shane. They say he is still his mother's responsibility. It's just after lunch time, a few hours until Shane comes home from school - to nothing. Ms Annable says it was easier to control Shane when he was a kid, but he's 15 now and she cannot cope. She suffers from depression, has been in and out of hospital. "He takes no notice whatever," she says. "I try to speak to Shane about how he's got to behave and he just tells me to shut up. But maybe I'm to blame, maybe I've let him get away with murder." Shane has always been a handful, but in March, things came to a head. He and his friends had been smashing windows in the street. They were a gang, really, and fought with other gangs. "The little buggers turn this place into a ghetto," says a neighbour. The local terraced streets do not have the best reputation. Brown town, they call it, because of the heroin. On the main street, windows are boarded up. Round the back, sinks and other junk lie in overgrown gardens. But a bit of community spirit remains. Some people like living there; Ms Annable was one. A handful have bought their homes from the council, tried to make the place a bit better. Other residents were not prepared to put up with the behaviour of Shane and his friends. "They are out at three in the morning, shouting all sorts," says another neighbour. Police were called and that was when the council was drawn in. It is Shane's, not his mother's, behaviour that is the problem, but her name was on the tenancy so she signed the acceptable behaviour contract. Shane had to behave or they would lose their house. ThreatBut threat of eviction had no effect on Shane. When he was out late at night, Ms Annable knew he was up to no good. So she went looking for him. "I was out at four in the morning looking for him and I got a brick chucked at me by one of his mates." Shane will not take his Ritalin; his temper is short. Then the letter came saying she had to go to court for a repossession hearing. "As soon as I got the letter, I started packing things in bags." She put aside a little money each week from her benefits to pay the deposit on a flat. She went to look at houses. "I went to see private landlords, but they all wanted too much bond money." She went to the county court on September 2. "When I got there the barrister and solicitor said, Could you chuck Shane out? Shut the door and save this place." The barrister wanted her to put Shane in a centre where his ADHD would be addressed. But she had been in a residential school and did not want her child to experience that. "And I thought if they took Shane away, I'd never get him back." That morning, there was a reprieve. The court ruled, on a technicality, that she could not be evicted. Instead, it issued a suspended order: if Shane behaved, they could keep their house. That afternoon, the council says, Shane broke a window. Shane denied this, but eviction had become inevitable. "When I spoke to Shane about it, he said, 'I don't care, I'll get somewhere to live.' I love him but I have got to the end of my tether." At another hearing, she was told her house was being repossessed. By then, she had agreed to put Shane in a residential place. But the council said there was no money to fund it. Last night, she sat in her sister's home, almost frantic. When Shane finds out he has nowhere to live, "he'll go mental," she says. "But there's nowhere for us to go, we've tried everything."