Next week parliament assembles for the last Queen's speech before the election. The text will already have been determined as it requires a full working week to complete the medieval process of transcribing it on to goatskin.The ceremony is frozen in a Ruritanian time warp, and features a parade of heralds dressed in garb that the rest of the nation only ever sees on playing cards. Every year the spectacle must confirm to another tranche of electors that parliament is living in the past.But at least the event provides a grand public platform on which the government can set out its chosen battle lines for the election campaign. Already the spinners have been hard at work smoothing the way for the message. Both press and party have been briefed to expect a speech strong on security and tough on terrorism. We have listened to Bill Clinton's characterisation of the electoral struggle between the politics of hope and the politics of fear, and have decided that Bush's victory shows there are more votes to be made out of fear. This is an odd basis on which a left-of-centre party should make its pitch for a renewed mandate. For a start it does not recognise the success New Labour has already achieved in tackling crime. Burglary, street crime and car theft have all tumbled. The chance of becoming a victim of crime is today less than it has been for decades. It is perfectly true that the Daily Mail has resolutely refused even to admit that there has been progress on tackling crime, but that hardly makes it sensible for Labour to behave as if the Mail has the right agenda, and join in its efforts to get up a moral panic of fear.Tony Blair was right in his determination, on becoming leader, to make Labour a party that was seen to identify with the victims of crime and not to sympathise with the criminals. But he should recognise how far he has achieved his goal and stop fighting a battle that is a decade old. His second term has convincingly demonstrated our authoritarian credentials. As a result, our prisons are bulging with a population that breaks all British records and surpasses the figures for every other European country. There can be no one left who still believes Labour is soft on crime. There are dangers in forever ratcheting up the state's powers of repression. The risk is that they end up being applied against the innocent, leaving behind a legacy of resentment and alienation that becomes a barrier to cooperation with the police. Terrorism is cited as the reason why we should sacrifice civil liberties in the interests of security, but before we concede additional powers we should consider the abuse of existing powers. Since 9/11 there has been an explosion in the number of house searches under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. In these three years there have been approaching 100,000 such raids, overwhelmingly on families in our Muslim communities. In the nature of raids looking for suspect terrorists, they are often accompanied by the drama of the front door being broken down and the men of the household spread-eagled on the floor. This offensive to trace the enemy within has netted a grand total of 17convictions, most of them nothing to do with terrorism. In one flagrant abuse of the terrorism powers, every Pakistani and Indian restaurant in York was raided at the same time for no obvious reason other than that they were Asian. Not surprisingly, no evidence of terrorism was detected among the murgh masala, and the four arrests that were made all related to immigration offences. Far from producing good intelligence against terrorism, such exercises set back efforts to prevent terrorism by persuading many Muslims that they are regarded as suspects rather than allies. But there is another compelling reason why the reported theme for the election campaign is perplexing. A major challenge for the next campaign will be motivating Labour's traditional activists to repeat their intensive efforts on the doorstepwhich secured the last two victories. Even the Home Office cannot believe that proving we can be tougher than the Tories will inspire Labour foot soldiers. Yet there is plenty in the record of the government that fulfils Labour's values, and would motivate our troops if we chose to put it at the heart of our campaign. No previous government, Labour or otherwise, has done so much to achieve social justice. We are on track for our target to halve child poverty, and unemployment has been removed from the agenda of major problems. If our leadership worries that an election campaign on those lines would be too leftist for the Daily Mail, they could always present it as a strategy to achieve law and order. After all, those societies that enjoy the lowest levels of crime are not the most authoritarian, but those with the highest level of social cohesion and the lowest levels of inequality.  r.cook@theguardian.com