"The offence took place at the work address of Mamadu X," the Crown Prosecution Service lawyer tells the courtroom. Mamadu, an office cleaner, has pleaded guilty to stealing a small amount of cash, of a value unknown, belonging to his employer.The lawyer describes how a webcam at the office has captured footage of an agency cleaner, at 5.40am, searching for money in the trouser pockets of a suit and then putting the money in his own pocket. The defence lawyer stands up to offer some explanation. "He says the only reason he stole that day was because he didn't have enough money to get home. He is a man of good character. He said he was embarrassed and ashamed."He did this out of desperation, I would say. He is the father of three children, a Portuguese national who came from Portugal two years ago. He is living with his sister and he sends what little he earns home. He is only employed two hours a night, and earns about £200 a month only. It's reasonable to suppose that he really did have no money for his fare home. It's difficult to imagine how anyone could survive on that little living in London."If you want a quick induction into the problems facing London, spend a few days in a busy magistrates' court, where every case exposes a different contemporary challenge. The cases tell you about the things we prize and want to steal (mobile phones), the modern methods we use to hurt people (texting offensive messages), and the more timeless ones (biting police officers). They reveal our changing attitudes to racist abuse, and how jealousies and anger explode into violence.Monday morning at Thames magistrates' court is the busiest part of the week because people arrested over the weekend and held in police cells have to be dealt with, and there is a huge backlog of cases. Court 7 is the busiest of Thames's eight courts; overall Thames is the busiest magistrates' court in the country, dealing with more than 1,000 cases a week. Anyone arrested in the London boroughs of Tower Hamlets or Newham is sent to this court to have their case processed.The court building, designed in the 1980s, lets light pour into the eight courtrooms through sloped glass skylights. The courtroom layout, with the magistrates bench raised above the dock, is designed to inspire respect, but the fittings have become shabby; yellow and black tape holds together the exploding yellow foam innards of the courtroom seats.The day's business begins with the case of a freckled, 32-year-old man from Poland, Juris, accused of stealing £13 worth of Budweiser from Tesco. He pleads not guilty. The judge is bemused that Tesco managers have said there is no CCTV evidence to support the prosecution. "No CCTV? At Tesco's?" he says. Because the defendant has pleaded not guilty, there will be a trial, and a date is fixed for three months' time. It is a long wait – six weeks is considered an acceptable delay – but court slots are booked up for months ahead. The defendant raises his eyebrows in a way that suggests he finds the proceedings absurd, but he slopes out, hunching his shoulders, in apparent embarrassment. There will be a considerable cost to prosecuting the case, likely to run well over £1,000, dwarfing the cost of the beer.It is remarkable how much shoplifting there is (which is in line with national crime figures, showing that this is one of the few crimes to be rising, up by 4% over the last year) and how frequently this shoplifting is of very low-value items from budget shops like the 99p Store.A 34-year-old man, Bshart, is brought up from the cells, accused of stealing a packet of condoms worth £6 from Poundland. The CPS lawyer, (who has the challenging job of remaining in the courtroom all day, outlining case after case, with hardly a break in between hearings) explains that he was seen by store security guards, who were monitoring activity in the store on CCTV, hiding the packet of condoms in his jacket. "He was detained outside the shop and he said: 'Yes, I took them'," she tells the court.The defence lawyer stands up, trying to downplay the significance of the offence. "This is a low-value theft and an unsophisticated one. My client said he was planning to sell them because he wanted to buy food." The lawyer explains that Bshart is receiving jobseekers' allowance, but has alcohol and heroin addictions that he needs to fund. Condoms, he adds, are easy to sell. "There is no stability in his life. His mother offers him no help whatsoever," he tells the judge. The defendant lowers his head as he listens, exposing a balding crown, covered in grey stubble. He has already spent three nights in custody waiting for this hearing.The judge tells him to stand up and says in a booming voice that he is being given credit for the fact that he pleaded guilty straight away, and that since he has already spent some time behind bars, he needs only pay the court costs of £40 and a victim surcharge of £15. The defendant explains he has no money to pay the court, and after some discussion the court agrees that he will have £5 a week deducted from his jobseekers' allowance.  Thames is the busiest magistrates’ court in the country, dealing with more than 1,000 cases a week Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the GuardianAfter a few days in the court, you understand that most of the people coming through the system have very little money and are unable to pay the fines imposed on them unless they are divided up into small weekly instalments that can either be removed from their benefits payments or paid in cash at the front desk. This is the single most disturbing thing about spending time in a magistrates court: that the vast majority of people who come through the doors are struggling financially. The duty solicitors and magistrates find it less remarkable. They point out that this is east London, which has higher unemployment and poverty rates. "If someone was wealthy, they wouldn't go shoplifting," says David Forbes, a duty solicitor, who has worked in this area for 37 years.The next case, involving Jessica, a 21-year-old woman accused of taking £612 worth of sunglasses from Boots, has to be postponed because Jessica, who has been held in the cells beneath the courts since the early morning, is having an asthma attack and an ambulance has been called to take her to hospital.The judge turns instead to a similar case, in which John, 47, has been accused of stealing three pairs of glasses, with a total value of £283, from a display stand at Specsavers.He pleads guilty. The defence lawyer explains that John, who is homeless, also has a problem with drug addiction. The glasses were recovered and returned to Specsavers. Court staff say most of the shoplifting is connected with drug use. If people were stealing to buy food to eat, they would take a sandwich or a piece of ham or cheese, says David Blayney, a magistrate of nine years who used to work as a traffic police officer until he retired. "Not three joints of beef or a leg of lamb. That's what they steal to sell. Or £130 of chewing gum. It's obvious why they steal it," he says. Another court sees a 33-year-old who has stolen £123.83 worth of smoked salmon.Two Lithuanains are accused of taking two boxes of Twix, worth £47.52, from the 99p store. A Lithuanian interpreter arrives, his hair combed into a royal-family, style-side parting, with a red handkerchief in his breast pocket. The defendants are in jeans and denim jackets; they look exhausted.In the peculiar, clipped legalese that characterises these court summaries, the prosecutor tells the court: "At 7.30pm, a security officer was informed by another customer at the 99p Store that two males had been seen running out of the store with a box of chocolates." They were detained and both admitted taking the chocolates. The defence lawyer says: "Neither can remember much about the incident. Both have been drinking together and their first memories are of waking up in a police cell. Neither of them knows why they specifically wanted a Twix box."One of the two men has been working for a while, but has run out of money. He has previously been referred to an alcohol course. The other says he has no problem with alcohol, but agrees he was very drunk. He is earning about £350 a week in construction. They have already spent two nights in a cell. The judge warns them: "Eventually you are going to be sent to prison if you carry on like this."Occasionally you see glimpses of the problems that may have prompted the drug and alcohol addiction. The court sees Halima, 18, who bit a police officer who was reprimanding her for being drunk. She has no memory of the attack. Her defence lawyer mentions in passing that she has been in and out of foster care, and "took up alcohol at the very early age of 13".You see how the law struggles to help people with mental health problems, who have become abusive and violent, but who are really just very ill. A bit later, the case of Laura, 34, who was arrested in the street with a large kitchen knife, is also postponed, because she has been taken unwell in the public gallery. All morning, court staff have been reprimanding her for muttering audibly, and packing and unpacking a plastic bag full of medications, while she waits for her trial.Sean, 37, shouts out "NFA" (no fixed abode) when asked his address, evidently familiar with court and police jargon. A disproportionate number of defendants are homeless. He was stopped by the police late at night, and was told he was going to be searched under the Misuse of Drugs Act. He was very distressed and angry at being searched. "The defendant said: 'Fuck off, you cunts.' He continued to tell the officers to 'fuck off'," the prosecutor said. Nothing was found on him. "He kept shouting: 'You fucking cunts. Why?'"  Shoplifting is one of the few crimes to be rising nationally, up by 4% over the last year. Photograph: Mentorn/BBC/Emilie SandyA young defence lawyer explains that her client has been diagnosed with schizophrenia and "struggles to express his frustration satisfactorily". The case is adjourned until a later date.Watching the hearings, you witness justice being administered, but with so many of the defendants already in such a messed-up state, it often feels rather late to be administering this kind of justice.London's extraordinary diversity is reflected in the court interpreters who come to translate from Polish, Lithuanian, Portuguese and around 153 other languages. Through a lot of these cases, you catch a glimpse of the hard, hand-to-mouth lives that a lot of new migrant workers have.Daniel, 25, was arrested in Marks and Spencer with an unusual credit card that has been doctored so that the name on the front doesn't match up to the digits registered on the magnetic stripe. He pleads guilty to possessing an article for use in fraud. The prosecutor explains: "It was around 5.30pm when a customer services assistant noticed that a warning light was flashing above a self-service checkout till, where someone was trying to pay. She noticed that the last four digits didn't match up with the last four digits on the card. He was attempting to purchase goods to the value of £23.05 and to get £20 cash back." The defendant, who is from somewhere in eastern Europe, ran off and was caught by a security guard.His defence lawyer explains that Daniel was given the card in payment for some work, by an (unnamed) employer who wasn't inclined to pay him in a more conventional way. "He is a self-employed glass fitter; he is not someone who is going around trying to make money in a fraudulent manner. Someone owed him money for fitting glass and suggested that he could use this card as a way of repaying a debt. He suspected that there might be something dodgy with it," he says, adding that Daniel has been sending a chunk of his weekly earnings to his mother. "He is hoping to start work as a strawberry picker. He is working hard. He has just slipped up on this occasion," he says. Daniel is fined and given a 12-month community order.Most of the defence lawyers here are "duty solicitors", allocated to prisoners when they are transferred from police cells to the court cells in the morning of their trial. It is remarkable how well they defend them, on the whole, given that they have met them very briefly only hours before. But lawyers are anxious that legal aid reform is already hampering their ability to defend clients.Solicitor David Forbes notes that legal reform has already drastically reduced the salaries of criminal defence solicitors. "Due to the reduction in fees, firms simply cannot afford to pay the same levels of salaries." He says salaries in his firm have been cut by several thousand pounds, and already people have left to get jobs elsewhere."Inevitably, it will be the best people who will go. Those left will be people such as myself, nearing the end of their working lives, and the newly qualified and inexperienced who do not yet have a proven track record. The consequence will be increasing numbers of unrepresented defendants and ultimately the closure by larger firms of their criminal departments and closure of specialist criminal practices altogether. How long this process will take is anybody's guess."Some cases recall the kind of crimes that have been committed throughout the ages. Blayney pulls out at random one of the leather ledgers listing cases from the Thames Police court in 1885. The day, 2 March, saw people accused of stealing cod-fish, a floor cloth, a barrow and some boots. It also (in a case that is unlikely to come up today) saw Mary Picker, 11, sent to the workhouse for seven days, for the crime of "residing in a brothel". Someone charged with begging gets seven days; someone charged with indecent exposure is sentenced to a month's imprisonment. On 19 May, a man accused of rape is discharged; someone who attempted suicide is remanded in custody; judges considered what to do with an army deserter and someone accused of stealing sugar.But some crimes are very modern. Steve, 53, a stout man in a thick, zip-up woolly cardigan and jeans, is accused of being racially abusive towards a woman in a queue at Tesco Metro on the Barking Road. There has been a row over queue-jumping for the self-service machines. The victim, confused about how the machines work, goes to consult a member of staff, and returns to her place. The accused gets annoyed, thinking she has pushed in, complains to a member of staff and then abuses her for interrupting."'It's got nothing to do with you, you nigger. I am going to punch you in the mouth,'" he is alleged to have said. The defendant shakes his head, red in the face.His lawyer says he admits using the word, but denies threatening to hit her. He told police after his arrest: "It was stupid and I was fuming and angry and I didn't mean to use the N-word. I got my words muddled up. It was a word that just came out of my mouth."In breach of court protocol, he stands up and speaks directly to the magistrate. "The lawyer is trying to make things look worse than they were," he says. He is asked to sit down.The magistrate tells him: "This sort of behaviour is not tolerated in British society. This kind of language does no one any good. It hurts people's feelings. It is totally inappropriate." He is given a £75 fine, £85 court costs, £20 victim surchage, and is ordered to pay compensation to the victim of £100. The defendant is unemployed so has no money to pay straight away, but agrees to pay it at a rate of £10 every fortnight.Mobile phone theft comes up a lot. One man is called in, of previously good character, because he made the unwise, spontaneous decision to pocket a mobile phone that someone has absentmindedly left at the supermarket checkout, rather than handing it in to the shop. Later Altaf, a 41-year-old balding, shrunken man, who looks extremely ill, pleads guilty to the attempted theft of a mobile phone. He saw a woman, seven months pregnant, outside Pizza Hut, sending a text on her phone. When he was at arm's length away, he attempted to take it from her; she dropped it and he ran away, but was picked up later by the police.His defence lawyer explains that Altaf, who is battling depression, "had lost his benefits and he was trying to get through the day. He said later that if he had stolen it he may have tried to sell it."Courtrooms make gripping drama, but often episodes are left unresolved and behaviour left unexplained in a way that a scriptwriter would never get away with. We don't find out why Artur, 32, decided to lie backwards over the bonnet of a woman's car while she tried to drive out of a cinema car park with her child, or why he looked at her chest and shouted "Big, big, nice, nice" before punching the car bonnet with his elbow. It's not clear why a new mother apparently left her young baby behind to walk to the shops, and why somehow, on the way, she got into a conversation with a man, before disappearing into an alleyway with him to perform oral sex, observed by plain-clothes police officers.She pleads not guilty to outraging public decency. "She doesn't get out very often as a young parent," her lawyer says.It's sad how shocking it all seems on the first day, and how quickly the problems played out here begin to feel familiar. The solicitors, magistrates and court workers are bluntly inured to the misery that lies behind a lot of these cases. Blayney explains: "It is a bit like being a police officer and dealing with dead bodies. It isn't very nice, but you get used to it."• This article was amended on 10 June 2014 to correct the Thames Police court, from Thames Palace court as an earlier version said.