The stars and director of a hard-hitting BBC1 drama about young offenders have thrown their support behind The Observer 's campaign to expose treatment of children in prison.Out of Control, to be shown tonight, is a blistering attack on the youth justice system. Former EastEnders star Tamzin Outhwaite, who plays a single mother on a south London council estate struggling to keep her son out of trouble, said: 'It made me think, maybe there's another way where you can still punish, but also rehabilitate.' Between April 2000 and November 2001 there were 554 cases of self-harm by children in prison and four suicides. Since 1997 there have been 93 suicides of under-21s in prison, 28 of whom were awaiting trial. A young prisoner commits suicide every 90 days. BBC Head of Films David Thomson said: 'Like Cathy Come Home in the Sixties, this film will open up the debate.' Director Dominic Savage, who spent months visiting youth prisons, said: 'We spend £20,000 a year on each young prisoner. Surely that could be better spent in other directions. When I spoke to these boys I felt an overwhelming sense of tragedy.' Tomorrow the inquest begins into the death of 16-year-old Kevin Jacobs, found hanging from a sheet at West London's notorious Feltham Young Offenders' Institution last September. During the three months Jacobs spent at Feltham he had become the victim of bullies and had already tried to hang himself two weeks before his death. Lawyers acting for Jacobs, who was in care at the time of his arrest, will argue that prison should not be used to house disturbed and damaged children and challenge the standard of supervision and support of 'at risk' inmates at Feltham. This week Home Office plans to lock up suspects as young as 12 for persistent petty crimes such as shoplifting will be extended nationwide. In the past children awaiting trial could only be imprisoned on remand if accused of serious crimes. Remand prisoners are supposed to be presumed innocent, and more than half end up with acquittals or community sentences. The Children's Society and The Observer are calling for the repeal of Section 130 of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 which gives magistrates power to lock up children as young as 12 for minor repeat offences. Of 4,000 children interviewed by the Children's Society while on remand in prison, 340 had mental health problems, 318 had attempted suicide or self-harm and 252 were victims of bullying.'The Government is already abusing human rights by locking up unconvicted children for crimes they have not committed,' said Sharon Moore of the Children's Society. 'Now it is enforcing a new law which will only serve to lock up younger unconvicted children charged with petty offences, such as stealing sweets. That is indefensible.'