A teenager who knocked over and killed a 15-year-old boy as he sped through a city centre in a Mercedes has been jailed for almost five years.Mohammed Ahmed, 18 at the time, took his sister's car without her knowledge, raced through a set of traffic lights in Bristol at 50mph and smashed into promising rugby player Troy Atkinson as he jogged across the road. Troy suffered severe head injuries after he hit the passenger side of the vehicle, flipped on to the windscreen and was thrown 18 metres.Bristol crown court heard that Ahmed, now 19, did not brake as he hit Troy and continued speeding, without even looking back.Although the traffic lights were on green, Judge Neil Ford QC said Troy could not have anticipated a car speeding at 50mph. The judge accused Ahmed of "reckless, youthful, senseless bravado".Ahmed had taken the Mercedes C180 without his sister's knowledge from their home in Easton, Bristol, in April and cruised around the Broadmead and Cabot Circus shopping centres with a 16-year-old friend.Several witnesses said they heard the engine of Ahmed's car revving as he approached the lights, which were turning from red to green. Ahmed's passenger told police that, although a bus partially obscured Troy, he – the passenger – saw two boys and warned Ahmed. But the driver took no notice and accelerated.The Mercedes was traced to Ahmed's sister, who did not know it was missing. Ahmed refused to tell police what had happened but traces of glass shards from the windscreen were found in his hair.Charles Row, in mitigation, said: "One can only try to imagine the panic that must have gripped this young man and everything that followed was a product of that panic."Passing sentence, Ford said that, although the speed limit was 30mph, even that would have been excessive in such a populated area.He told Ahmed: "Troy behaved in a way in which many young people would behave – unfortunately he did not pay enough attention to the road. But he would not have anticipated that anyone would be driving at the speed you were. At the sort of speed you should have been travelling this collision would have been wholly avoidable."I appreciate that what happened was not intended and that you would have been acting from panic, but what you did in leaving the scene where a boy was seriously injured was legally wrong, but more importantly morally inexcusable."The public gallery was packed with Troy's friends and family, many of whom were wearing jumpers bearing the slogan "Justice for Troy". A framed photograph of the teenager was placed at the front of the gallery, facing the defendant.Outside court, Troy's aunt, Karen Phillips, 42, said: "We will never be able to forgive the man who not only took Troy's life but kept the whole family and police waiting before he finally admitted his guilt. Troy was a real softie who would do anything for his friends and family. He was a natural athlete who loved rugby and was a real team player, determined to make the best of himself."Ahmed was jailed for four years and nine months for causing death by dangerous driving. He was also given a three-month sentence for taking a car without authority, to run concurrently.