A man has been convicted of the murder of his ex-girlfriend's three year-old daughter, 24 years after the killing took place. Police reopened their investigation into the death of Lisa Jayne Pegg after a campaign for justice by her father.Jurors yesterday threw out Nicholas Byard's claim that Lisa died after falling down stairs. Medical experts agreed that her injuries were far too serious to have been caused by such a fall.Byard, 46, had been living with his partner Julie Pegg, Lisa's mother, at the time of the tragedy in February 1982.An earlier police investigation was halted after the attorney general decided there was insufficient evidence and Ms Pegg accepted Byard's story that her daughter's death had been an accident. The couple went on to have two children together.But the coroner recorded an open verdict and Lisa's father, Alan Pegg, never accepted Byard's version of events.At Mr Pegg's request, Leicestershire police decided to launch a fresh investigation after reviewing the case in 2002. Yesterday Byard, a test driver of Barwell, Leicestershire, was unanimously convicted at Nottingham crown court.Speaking after the verdict, Mr Pegg admitted that his decision to pursue the case so long after Lisa's death had been "very difficult". But he added: "She deserved justice and I believe today justice was done."Mr Pegg, a former soldier, said Lisa's death had devastated her family. "The reason I wrote to the police about this case, leading to it being reinvestigated, was not because I wanted revenge. I did it solely for Lisa and for all her family members."He thanked the family "for standing by me through a very difficult time."During his three-week trial, Byard insisted that Lisa had fallen down the stairs at their home in Burbage. "I saw her with her face on the landing and with her legs up on the stairs at the bottom of the stairwell," he told the jury. "She was just lying there and, as I picked her up, she started crying."After the trial, Lisa's mother told how she had struggled for years to come to terms with the loss of her daughter, whose "life was cut tragically, senselessly short." She said: "For all these years, I have believed that my daughter died as a result of an accident, having fallen down the stairs in our home. When the police told us they were reinvestigating Lisa's death and that new evidence had come to light that suggested her death may not have been the accident we always believed it to be, my family and I were again plunged into a nightmare."Byard will be sentenced today.