Every magistrate in England and Wales is to be sent a warning from the next lord chief justice that knife crime is reaching epidemic proportions and needs the "most severe" sentences. The appeal court ruling from Sir Igor Judge will blunt the impact of new sentencing guidelines for magistrates, which come into effect on August 4, and suggest that a fine or community order may be appropriate for some adult offenders guilty of carrying a knife, as long as the blade was not being used to threaten or frighten anyone.As David Cameron, called for a presumption of prison for anyone caught carrying a knife without good reason, the justice secretary, Jack Straw, held out the prospect of a fresh review of the legal framework surrounding knife-crime sentencing. He is to discuss the issue with the home secretary and attorney general later this week when proposals to introduce a new sentencing commission are published. So far the government has promised "a presumption to prosecute" in knife crime cases.Ministers are concerned about the political impact of next month's guidance for magistrates from the Sentencing Guidelines Council at a time when a spate of killings involving knives has dominated the headlines and prompted Scotland Yard to disclose that knife crime has overtaken terrorism as its top operational priority.Police launched a murder inquiry after a teenager who was stabbed after a row with a gang of youths almost three weeks ago died yesterday. David Idowu, 14, was attacked in Southwark, south-east London, on 17 June. His death brings the number of teenagers violently killed in the capital this year to 19. The new advice to the 30,000 magistrates says a "high-level" community order should be the starting point in cases involving first-time offenders who are caught carrying a weapon that has not been used to threaten or cause fear. Two factors can be taken into account in deciding a bottom of the range sentence: that the weapon was only carried on a temporary basis, or for a legitimate reason, such as in the course of trade or business. Ten factors, including being on public transport or in a gang, will mean a more severe sentence. These more severe offences should be dealt with sentences of up to 12 weeks in custody.The appeal court ruling by Sir Igor Judge, who was named yesterday as the next lord chief justice from October, upheld jail terms of from four months to three years on four individuals for carrying knives and an axe.But Juliet Lyon, of the Prison Reform Trust, warned that prison sentences for all knife crime would curb judicial discretion and fill prisons beyond capacity, without necessarily getting to grips with the problem in communities. "Rather than tougher threats, it would be more useful to adopt public health measures, combining prevention and intervention, as you would with any dangerous epidemic," she said.Straw also highlighted a recent Cardiff University survey of 35,000 violent crime victims treated for serious injuries at 29 hospital accident and emergency departments. It punctured the notion of a country gripped by a knife crime "epidemic", recording a 12% fall in violent crime between 2006 and 2007.