Judges and social workers should review the traditional doctrine that children at risk are usually better off with their parents than in care, the independent childen's watchdog warns today.Sue Berelowitz, the new deputy children's commissioner and a former social worker, said the 'received wisdom' that it was better to keep families together wherever possible was based on assuming that children did not thrive in care homes. But it was time to consider whether taking children away earlier, before they had become damaged by years of neglect, might produce better outcomes, she said. Her intervention follows the case of Baby P, the 17-month-old battered to death in Haringey, north London. Social workers are said to have twice considered taking him into care, but were advised that the case did not meet requirements for court action.A review of nationwide child protection services launched last week by Ed Balls, the Children's Secretary, is coming under pressure to examine claims that it has become too difficult to take children from their parents. Berelowitz said she had seen cases where an abusive mother had already had several children taken away, yet when she became pregnant again and social workers applied to remove the new baby to avoid it suffering the same fate, judges would rule to give the mother another chance. 'In my experience, it is very rare for that to have a positive outcome, in terms of the mother and baby staying together,' she told The Observer'I know the received wisdom is that, by and large, children don't do well in the care system. But what I don't think we know enough about is: if children were removed in a timely way, would they do better in the care system because they would be less damaged? The fate of Baby P has focused the spotlight once again on child protection services and loopholes in the system designed to protect the most vulnerable children, as well as on broader questions of how to reach an underclass of inadequate parents raising their children in volatile circumstances.Yesterday previously unpublished government research revealed that eight in 10 of the children killed or seriously harmed by abuse and neglect are not even on the child protection register, meaning that they were either completely off the radar of social services or were not judged a high risk. Barry Sheerman, chairman of the Commons education select committee, called for more research on how the most vulnerable families and problem parents could be better identified before tragedies occur. 'I want to find out how the people more vulnerable to committing these evil deeds on children can be better profiled,' he said. His committee is now reopening an inquiry on children in care to take evidence on the process by which children at risk are taken into care or left with their families. Sheerman said his committee would look at whether the system had tipped too far towards keeping children with their families when they might be better off in care: 'Every 10 days, a child is murdered in our country. There are more than 30,000 kids on an at-risk register. Yes, that is a very difficult number to manage: yes, we know about the aversion that many people in the profession have to taking a child from the birth family; but these questions have to be looked at,' he said.