It is an open secret in Whitehall that among the clutch of criminal justice bills that will form the centrepiece next week of Tony Blair's final Queen's speech will be legislation to shape the future of the National Offender Management Service (Noms). In the past, home secretaries have had their fingers burned trying to reform the structure of prison and probation services in England and Wales, and a similar bill designed to create "a vibrant mixed economy" in criminal justice services had to be withdrawn last year when it ran into trouble.Despite the fact that Home Office ministers last Friday were reminded by the House of Lords of the depth of political passions that even minor reform moves in this area can stir, the home secretary, John Reid, is determined that the criminal justice system is not behind the pace on public sector reform.A prospectus quietly published by Reid over the summer set out the scale of the project. It envisages a five-year programme of "competitions", during which £9bn worth of probation and prison services - a quarter of the total spent - are to be offered to third sector organisations and private security companies.This "contestability" programme is being introduced alongside a series of "capability" reviews to drive up the performance of the troubled probation service in cutting reoffending rates.Helen Edwards, the Noms chief executive, believes that this time the government will do better at explaining what it is they are trying to do."There has been talk of this being all about privatisation," she tells Society Guardian. "That is not right. This is as much about letting the third sector play more of a role in all this. It is not about abolishing probation. Probation is centre stage now and they will continue to be centre stage in the new system. I want them to do it really well and I want to work with them in a way that enables them to do it really well. I think if we can have some debates around those things it will move us forward constructively."Edwards says the Noms bill will end the statutory monopoly of the 42 local probation boards to provide probation services. A regional network of "offender managers" - known as Roms - who have already been appointed by the home secretary will buy in probation services instead: "It will put probation in the same place as prisons so it allows for the possibility of people other than probation delivering probation services. At the moment, probation boards can choose to contract out work or choose to do it themselves. From our perspective, boards do decide to do most of the work themselves, and it is arguable that they are trying to do too much."Improve performanceShe says the key motivation for the change is to improve performance, which, as recent high profile cases of crimes committed by offenders under licence have repeatedly demonstrated, still has a long way to go. "The service has done really well at meeting many of the targets that have been set, but I do not think that a reoffending rate for adult offenders of over 60% is the best that we can do," she says. "There is no evidence that if we put more resources in that we get better results."Ending the public sector monopoly, she says, will bring more flexibility into the system. The legislation will also enable the Home Office to replace the local probation boards with more "business-like" probation trusts. A preliminary move to end the statutory need to have four magistrates and two councillors on the local probation boards, which came into effect on November 1, sparked last week's protests in the Lords. But Edwards says they do not want to be too prescriptive about membership. Many boards already have sufficient business experience and it will be important not to lose the liaison link with the local courts, but they must not become too big and unmanageable."We see this very much as a decentralising move," says Edwards about the forthcoming legislation. "At the moment, we have the National Probation Directorate which is very much about setting targets from the centre and imposing them. We are folding the directorate into the centre of Noms at the same time as reducing our headquarters. We want trusts to be much more accountable and responsible for what they deliver."She says that it should be the trusts, and not the home secretary, that appoint local chief probation officers. "It seems strange that we do that from the centre," she says. "We think they should be judged on outcomes. We do not think we should be as interfering as much as we do now."Under this blueprint, Noms - whose strategic policy function is to return to the main Home Office - will become a small, strategic commissioning organisation setting out clear national standards of what is expected for offenders both in and out of prison.The introduction of the trusts - which will run the local public probation service - is to be phased and will depend on the performance of each local area. This is not academic since at least five probation areas are undergoing "capability reviews" for poor performance."We won't do it with everybody on one date," Edwards says. "That's too much change in the system all at once. They will go in waves so the trusts that are performing well, and who we are confident can deliver offender management, will become trusts in the first wave, probably spring 2008 at the earliest. It will be the kind of earned autonomy model we have seen in the health service, so you get independent status when you are ready for it."Edwards says it is expected that all the existing probation boards will improve their performance sufficiently to become trusts in the end, but that the legislation will provide for a whole failing probation area to be put out to tender.The intention is that the public probation service will remain centre stage and will be expected to build the wider partnerships with health, education, the employment services and local authorities that are needed to provide employment skills, drugs and alcohol treatment and housing.Smaller players"About 50% of the resources needed to reduce reoffending come from players outside the criminal justice system," Edwards says. "We want the contracts we put in place to be based on partnerships. We want some of the smaller players to come in, particularly from the voluntary sector. We think that the probation trusts are best placed to do that and orchestrate it for us."She acknowledges that the new system will depend crucially on the quality of the relationships between the Roms and local probation trusts and prison service area managers. But she is confident that the overcrowded prison system will not block the move towards "end-to-end offender management", which is already established for the 200,000 on community sentences and will be introduced into prisons next week. The first wave will focus on the 11,000 most serious or prolific offenders, with dedicated offender management units ensuring they are doing the programmes they need.There are about 1,100 voluntary organisations and others already providing courses and programmes for the probation and prison services but the contracts only account for about 2% of the value of the work done by the probation service. Local probation boards have been given a voluntary target of increasing that to 5% by next April and 10% by 2007/08."A lot of third sector organisations feel they have the skills and expertise to bring to bear, but are not being asked to use that," Edwards says. "At the same time, probation are saying they are overstretched and their resources are too thin."The legislation will enable Noms to insist that, from 2008, more probation work is contracted to the "best service provider", so that the appallingly high 60% reoffending rate starts to fall. That, at least, is the theory.· Any comments on this article? Write to society@theguardian.com