Prison, Britain's least visible and arguably most neglected public service,is mired in a complex and potentially damaging disagreement overchanges to staff structure, pay and conditions. Under governmentproposals for workforce modernisation, as well as a long-awaited payaward, there will be significant changes to the grading and deploymentof prison staff and managers. The Prison Officers Association hasjust ballotted its members and overwhelmingly rejected the offer. Thisweek the Prison Governors Association will learn, and presumablymake public, the results of its consultation with members.Among many reasons for rejection, the POA cites new structures andtraining plans, fitness testing rather than occupational health, andless favourable pension arrangements. It predicts longer periods oflock-up for prisoners and future unrest in jails. It accuses governmentof trying to de-skill and devalue the service as part of a massivecost-cutting exercise backed by the threat of market testing. Meanwhile,the justice minister, David Hanson, has stated that the proposed reformswill increase efficiency and do not jeopardise prison security andsafety. He has warned that, in tough economic times, it is not in POAmembers' interest to reject an attractive pay deal.From the outside it is difficult, despite some discussion with theparties concerned, to fully understand the likely impact of the proposedchanges. What is easy to see, however, is that the prison service worksunder constant pressure. Since the early 1990s in particular, it has hadto cope with the effects of political rhetoric, disjointed legislationand scaremongering in the popular press. Combined, these have led toinflation in sentencing, damaging over-use of custody and staggeringincreases in the prison population - from just over 60,000 people in1997 to more than 81,000 today.Staff numbers have not kept pace with this enormous wave of prisoners.According to government figures, the total fulltime equivalent staff ofofficer grade employed throughout the prison estate was 24,272 in 2000and 26,474 at the beginning of 2006. That is an increase of 9%, while over the same period, the prison population increased by 24%. This pressure-cooker environment may be a significant contributory factor to the prison service's high sickness levels averaging around 11 days a year. Continual movement of governors in charge, the churn of prisoners from one overcrowded establishment to another, and drastic budget cuts all take their toll. Certainly Ipsos Mori polls reveal consistently low morale in the service.Prison staff in England and Wales, with eight weeks' basic training, receive the least training and development of all public service workers, including other justice colleagues. This compares unfavourably with most western European countries. France, for instance, offers six months' introductory training, and Norway two years' professional development, for those chosing a career in the prison service.Prison staff have a duty to protect the public – not only by holdingpeople securely and preventing escapes, where they currently exceedperformance targets, but also by releasing people to lead responsiblelives in their communities. Here re-offending rates have risen in linewith prison numbers, and the social and economic costs of re-offendingremain unacceptably high. Despite some recent improvements, two thirds of those leaving prison re-offend within two years, at an annual cost of more than £11bn.The rehabilitative role of prison staff is undermined by overcrowding –more than 80 of 140 jails running way over numbers for which they werebuilt – and by being forced to make up for the failure of other publicservices. Health and social care professionals can refuse to treat, ordecide to discharge, many addicts and people who are mentally ill orsuffer from learning disabilities. Education staff can exclude disruptive students. By contrast, prison staff must take in, and are required to treat with decency and respect, all those sentenced to custody by the courts. This means that prison is a disciplined but essentially reactive service, struggling to deal with those at the margins of society.Ill-conceived plans to build giant new prisons will not help. LordCarter's review, which proposed these so-called Titans, suggested theywould "be based on cost-effective designs which deliver unit cost savings during both construction and operation, for example, through … optimal sight lines which would result in better staff utilisation and deliver staff savings", In other words, bigger prisons, run with fewer staff, with less meaningful time or opportunity to engage prisoners. Prisons operated along these lines, as seen in the US, are a fundamental shift from prisons being used for rehabilitation to being used as penal warehouses, with prison staff reduced to mere turnkeys.Prison is too important a public service to reduce it in this way.Measures of agreement can be reached. The involvement of the TUC, and discussion facilitated by Acas, would encourage greater flexibility all round, and could lead to a proper negotiated settlement. But any reform of the role of staff must go hand in hand with sustained efforts by government to end the capacity crisis that has had such a debilitating effect on the prison system and those who live and work in it.