 A row over how much to pay the head of the National Crime Agency (NCA) is delaying the launch of the government's strategy to tackle organised crime.Details of the agency, the UK's equivalent of the FBI, were expected to be announced last week. But the key part of the government's police reforms and the launch of the rethink on organised crime have been put on hold as arguments rage between civil servants, politicians, fraud investigators and senior police officers.Combating organised crime, estimated to cost Britain £40bn a year in lost revenue, is a cornerstone of the home secretary Theresa May's shakeup of policing.The much vaunted NCA is being set up to replace the Serious Organised Crime Agency, criticised for focusing too much on gathering intelligence and not enough on frontline operations. The NCA will also incorporate the work of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Unit, which has had huge success in bringing paedophiles to justice and rescuing abused children.But it has emerged that the biggest post in UK policing cannot be filled because of a salary dispute. It is understood to carry a salary of £140,000 a year, a figure chosen to ensure the holder of the post does not earn more than the prime minister.But those tipped as the main candidates all already earn more than £140,000, and there is a concern the salary will fail to attract the right calibre of police officer.Frontrunners include Bernard Hogan-Howe, the former chief constable of Merseyside who is an inspector of constabulary; Cressida Dick, assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police; and Sara Thornton, chief constable of Thames Valley police.The police minister, Nick Herbert, has promised to provide proper support to those fighting serious and organised crime, saying that previous governments had failed. He told a conference last week that such crime was carried out by some 38,000 people, in 6,000 gangs and syndicates: "There is a harsh reality … too many of these criminals have shown themselves to be out of law enforcement's reach."So far, the coalition government's attempt to lead a renewed fight against organised crime has failed to materialise. There have been disputes over whether the NCA will take over the work of the Financial Services Authority and the Office of Fair Trading, and resistance from the Serious Fraud Office to a plan for its investigators to be part of the agency and its prosecutors to join the Crown Prosecution Service.May was rebuffed by cabinet colleagues last week when she put forward her plan for the SFO. Transparency International, the anti-corruption pressure group, described plans to replace the SFO as poorly conceived and warned they could "reverse the UK's improving enforcement record".A Home Office spokesman said that no date had been fixed for unveiling the revamped organised crime strategy. The Home Office added in a statement: "No decision has been taken on the salary of the new head of the National Crime Agency. An advert for this position including salary information will be published in due course."