The lord chancellor's plans to reform the way judges are appointed were attacked as "wrong-headed" and "flawed" yesterday by his own watchdog, the Commission for Judicial Appointments (CJA).The commission, headed by Sir Colin Campbell, said Lord Falconer's proposals could, at worst, perpetuate the shortcomings of the existing system but without the current independent oversight The constitutional reform bill, which comes back to the House of Lords on Monday, would set up an independent judicial appointments commission to take the selection of judges out of the hands of the lord chancellor and his department. The CJA is not responsible for appointments but investigates complaints and audits the way the Department for Constitutional Affairs selects judges. The government plans to abolish it without putting a system of independent audit in its place. The commissioners said this would "remove a confidence-inspiring, independent guarantee of fairness, transparency and selection". They said their audit of appointments to the high court this year revealed "serious inadequacies". The new body needed an audit function to keep it "honest" and "provide ballast against any interest tempted to exert pressure on it". Some senior judges fear that an emphasis on appointing more women and ethnic minority judges would mean that appointments would no longer be based solely on merit. The commissioners were not arguing that they should be retained, but that audits of the new body's performance could be carried out by the proposed judicial conduct and appointments ombudsman. The Department for Constitutional Affairs said: "We believe that the new appointments system will be sufficiently open and transparent to preclude the need for this form of oversight." The commissioners also called for a majority of lay members on the 15-strong appointments body, instead of the six in the bill. And they want the commission to have the final say in appointing judges below the high court level, rather than just recommending names to the lord chancellor. Lord Falconer has told the commission he wants to keep the power to reject names if, for example, a proposed appointee had a criminal conviction or the recommended candidate "was someone whom the lord chief justice or the judge involved in the selection process had _ opposed for selection on the basis that they were unsuitable and the secretary of state agreed with their view." The commission said giving not only the lord chancellor but senior judges a veto would reintroduce an impression of "patronage by powerful political or judicial figures". Sir Colin, who is vice-chancellor of Nottingham University, said: "Some people are worried that the new commission might just be a shell in which traditional practices might continue."