Two signed Damien Hirst works of art worth £33,000 have been stolen from a gallery in London, police have said.The pieces were taken from the Exhibitionist Gallery in Notting Hill, between 3am and 3.30am on Monday, in what police believe was a raid planned specifically to target the two works.The thief entered the gallery by forcing open the front doors and drove the items away in a dark-coloured hatchback-type vehicle towards Ladbroke Grove, Scotland Yard said.The stolen works both feature multicoloured dots. The larger of the two, Pyronin Y,measures 103cm by 116cm. It was created in 2005 and is worth £15,000. The second stolen piece is entitled Oleoylsarcosine and measures 67cm by 89cm. It was created in 2008 and is valued at £18,000.Detective Sergeant Jon Lightfoot, from Kensington and Chelsea borough police, said: "It appears the suspect has specifically targeted the two pieces. The items would have been visible in the back of the car and we are appealing for any witnesses or anyone with information to please come forward."Nathan Engelbrecht, 31, manager of the gallery, said they had acquired the prints only four days before the theft – and had planned to unveil them to clients on Tuesday. He said: "They were two spot Hirst prints, we had only just got them."It took quite a while to negotiate because we are such a small gallery. Literally four days later and they have been stolen so it's a bit gutting for us."He said he believed the prints were targeted, adding: "The thief left other works in the gallery, just taking the prints. he storeroom had not been touched at all. The spot prints are the most recognisable Hirst works, the others we had were left behind."You think in an area like this, with bars and people around all the time, you think you are protected. Not necessarily."He added: "The police have been great, they have been in touch a lot. It's just so disappointing this has happened."Engelbrecht said the matter was with the insurance company, and that Hirst had been informed of developments.The Exhibitionist Gallery also features works by Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol, Anish Kapoor, and Banksy, according to its website.Hirst is believed to be the world's richest artist and was ranked number 368 in this year's Sunday Times Rich List, with an estimated worth of £215m. He is also one of the most controversial artists, with his works including dissected sharks, pickled sheep and a human skull cast in platinum and studded with pink and white diamonds. He was awarded the Turner prize in 1995.