For three of the five years he was missing, canoeist John Darwin was living next door to his wife in Hartlepool, using a secret passageway to gain access to the house, it was reported yesterday.John Darwin's wife, Anne, told one newspaper that when the couple's sons, Mark and Anthony, returned to grieve after the inquest into their father's death, he hid next door in the bedsit.More details of Darwin's missing years came to light yesterday, including reported sightings of the 57-year-old in mainland Europe, Panama and Cornwall, as detectives were given more time to question him.Darwin walked into a London police station last weekend, five years after he was believed to have drowned in a canoeing accident in the North Sea, telling the desk officer he had lost his memory.Anne Darwin, 55, conceded that her husband made the decision to fake his own death because of tens of thousands of pounds of debt accrued through problems with the bedsit rental business they ran.However, she said she did not know he was actually going to carry out the plan, and genuinely believed he was dead when his canoe washed up on the shore near their home. Mrs Darwin told the Daily Mail how just under a year after he went missing, Darwin had arrived at the door looking dishevelled. She did not immediately recognise him."When I asked where he had been he said it didn't matter. He was home now. He said he'd done it basically so that we didn't lose everything, which is rather ironic now," she was reported to have said."I had really thought he was dead, especially when they found the canoe and because of the state it was in. Now there he was, standing in front of me. Although I was pleased he was alive, I think deep down a part of me was always angry. To think of what he put us all through. He had basically come back expecting me to forgive him."She was reported to have said she wanted to admit everything that had happened, but Darwin threatened to say she had been involved since the beginning.After days of arguments and discussions, she says she agreed not to say anything. She also promised that she would not tell the couple's sons that their father was alive.Their sons would scour missing persons pages of newspapers and search the internet, tortured, she said, by the fact their father's body had never been found.But by the time she cashed in the £25,000 life insurance policy, she knew he was alive, according to reports in today's Daily Mail.Mr Darwin reportedly used one of the family's bedsits in Hartlepool as a hiding place, but it was connected to the family's main house by a hole in an adjoining wall. His decision to return to Britain and go to the police, stemmed, his wife was reported to have said, from how much he missed his sons. Mrs Darwin said he would insist on her putting the telephone on loud speaking when they called so he could hear his sons' voices.Mrs Darwin left Panama on Wednesday after she was confronted with a photograph showing her and her husband smiling in a rented apartment in Panama City in July 2006 - four years after he was supposed to have died in a canoeing accident.She is expected to face some difficult questions when she eventually returns to Britain. Mark and Anthony, who say they know nothing about the scam, have publicly disowned her."How could our mam continue to let us believe our dad had died when he was very much alive?" they said in a joint statement released this week.She told reporters that she feared they would never forgive her for pretending that their father was dead."I know I have done wrong. I just wish I had told the boys when I found out ... What kind of mother am I?"Mrs Darwin, who is currently in Miami, said she was resigned to the fact that she could be sent to prison on her return home. "I am aware that could happen and I am absolutely terrified at the prospect," she said. "I feel I have been living a kind of prison sentence for the past five years, but that's been my own private sentence and the public one will now follow."She was reported to have said she was always on eggshells when family and friends came to stay in case someone would wander into the room where her husband was hiding. Most of the time, she said, she was afraid to open the front door. She added that her husband would walk along the beach near their home with a fake limp and in disguise, wearing a woolly hat and using a walking stick.One neighbour said people were struggling to come to terms with the daily twists and turns, adding: "We used to make jokes after he disappeared, saying, 'He's done a Reggie Perrin.' It's funny to think that he really did." Others said Darwin had always seemed a little "odd". "John used to make garden gnomes and sell them in Durham indoor market in the early 1990s," a school friend of his son Anthony said.The neighbour, who wished to remain anonymous, said the study in the family's house was filled with computers which Darwin used to deal in stocks and shares. The house's new owner, Gary Walker, a prison governor, found 17 phone lines in the study.He said: "After we moved in, bailiffs came to the door four or five times asking: 'Are you John Darwin?' I gave them short shrift." Walker also found 30 to 40 porcelain frogs in the attic and basement as well as garden gnomes.According to neighbours in Panama City, the couple had appeared relaxed. Their apartment on the top floor of a four-storey block had views over the city and a terrace with hanging plants - not luxurious but pretty, and residents said Mrs Darwin was delighted."I saw the husband more than her," said one neighbour yesterday, who declined to be named. "Some called him Señor Juan. I called him John."It was also reported that the couple had bought land in Panama for £200,000 to establish a canoeing centre for tourists.Yesterday Chief Inspector Andy Greenwood said Darwin, who is being questioned on suspicion of fraud, had put forward "some sort of account ... giving some sort of explanation", although a source said the former prison officer was still claiming he had little memory of the intervening years.According to one eyewitness, the 57-year-old flew from Newcastle to Gibraltar two years ago to buy a £45,000 yacht with cash transferred from his wife's account; an angler claimed he met Darwin in Cornwall 18 months ago, lending him £300 which was never repaid.A spokesman for Cleveland police said: "We are pursuing all these leads and will be speaking to everyone involved to work out exactly where he has been and what he has been doing."The police file on Darwin's disappearance was reopened three months ago after a woman who worked with his wife in a doctor's surgery tipped off detectives. She apparently became suspicious after hearing snatches of whispered telephone conversations in the run-up to Mrs Darwin's move to Panama.As the police net tightened around the couple she sold up, telling neighbours she was making a new start in Panama following the death of her pet dog.According to boat dealer John Hopkin, Darwin flew out of Newcastle in 2005 to look at a £45,000 catamaran moored in Gibraltar. Hopkin said Darwin had transferred money from his wife's account and was on the verge of buying the boat when the deal fell through.Cleveland police also want to speak to the angler who claimed to have met Darwin while fishing in Cornwall 18 months ago. Dockyard worker Matt Autie, 37, said the man he met called himself John Williams - but he now recognised him as Darwin from newspaper coverage.Outside Hartlepool magistrates court yesterday, Greenwood said the questions surrounding the Darwin case had developed into a "global inquiry"."It is a complicated and protracted inquiry and it will go on for some considerable time," he said. "We are still keen to speak to people who know Mr and Mrs Darwin, even if it is only a small amount of information."The scale of the investigation, and the media interest it has generated, have left local people bemused. Yesterday the drama appeared to have taken its toll on Darwin's father, Ronald.The 90-year-old, who earlier in the week had expressed his delight at his "dead" son's return, is now refusing to answer questions.Darwin's aunt Margaret Burns, 80, told reporters: "He is slowly coming to accept this is not a time for celebration and pride."FAQ: who knew what?Where has John Darwin been for the past five years? The 57-year-old says he has no idea, but an intriguing picture of his movements has emerged. His first connection to Panama appears to be in 2005, when someone created a company that was later used to register Anne Darwin's apartment. A year later the couple were pictured as they viewed another property in Panama City.Mr Darwin also seems to have spent time in his native north-east. Detectives say there was a sighting two years ago and he apparently flew from Newcastle to Gibraltar to buy a £45,000 catamaran. Police said yesterday they want to speak to a man who claims he met Darwin fishing in Cornwall 18 months ago. There are suggestions he visited the US after contacting women via the internet before he disappeared.How much money was involved? Mrs Darwin has admitted she cashed in her husband's life insurance policy but insisted she did so in good faith. There are also suggestions she got a widow's pension from the Prison Service, where he worked, as well as funds from other insurance policies. The total value is unknown but estimates have ranged from £200,000 to almost £1m.How often does this happen? Experts say it is extremely rare for a person who has been declared dead to return alive. In 2000, Harry Bentley Gordon was declared dead following a boating accident, only to be arrested in November 2005 after returning to Sydney. He was jailed for 15 months. In 1998, the clothes of Lincolnshire dockmaster Graham Cardwell were found on mud flats and police and his family assumed he had been swept out to sea. Eight months later, the former Grimsby councillor was found living in the Midlands under a pseudonym.Was his wife in on it? So far Mrs Darwin is the only one who has admitted knowing her husband was alive, although she says she only found out years after he disappeared. Yesterday police sources said Mr Darwin was still claiming not to be able to remember anything before June 2000, two years before he went missing.Did his sons know? The couple's sons, Mark and Anthony, insisted on Thursday they had known nothing and had been the victims of a "large scam". Mark, 31, had fled from his north London home the night before, clearing out his belongings and leaving a notebook for his girlfriend with directions to City airport.What now? Detectives have a further 36 hours to question Mr Darwin on suspicion of fraud and say they urgently need to speak to his wife. Both face custodial sentences if they are convicted. Matthew Taylor and Fay Schlesinger