A new FBI-style national agency could be set up to combat organised crime in Britain, Tony Blair said today.The prime minister, speaking at a major international criminal justice conference, said the possibility of a new agency was being considered alongside a review of the way customs and the inland revenue operate. It could mean the creation of a "new dedicated national agency", he told delegates. Mr Blair did not disclose exactly which agencies could be merged to form the new service, but it could include the national criminal intelligence service and the national crime squad. "There is more we could still do to fight back against organised crime," he said. "Some have argued that the time has come to bring together some or all of the national law enforcement agencies which currently investigate serious organised crime and create a new dedicated national agency which could share intelligence, expertise and investigative talents. "We are currently looking at this idea alongside the review which the chancellor announced last week on the future of the inland revenue and customs. "We will set out our conclusions in the autumn." Mr Blair went on to defend the home secretary, David Blunkett's controversial criminal justice bill, noting it had generated "heated debate" among the Lords and civil liberties campaigners. "The bill is the biggest reform in a generation and the changes are badly needed," he said. "But I believe it is a balanced package. President of the Association of Chief Police Officers [ACPO], Chris Fox, welcomed Mr Blair's review of the way organised crime is tackled, but said any kind of national agency must not lose contact with local communities."I think what we're doing at the moment isn't working very well," he said. "The different agencies have different responsibilities and different lines of accountability." It was important to avoid the FBI's reputation for aloofness and its tendency to trample the turf of local law enforcers, he added. "We need to make sure that we have an integrated operation which has got to link in with the grass roots," he said. Mr Fox confirmed ACPO was already involved in discussions about the possible creation of a new national agency. However, Jan Berry of the Police Federation, which represents 130,000 frontline officers, warned against change for change's sake. "If you are going to change things we have got to make sure they are changed for the better," she said. "Change for the sake of change doesn't do anybody any favours. We already have a national agency to deal with organised crime and it is called the national criminal intelligence service." At the conference in Westminster, Mr Blunkett pledged that changes to the way courts deal with minor offenders will be a "new beginning" in the criminal justice system. He called for a step change in law and order so that judges, prosecutors and defence lawyers all work to improve their communities. Details of a new type of community court to crack down on petty crime and anti-social behaviour were also unveiled by the Home Office, as Mr Blunkett welcomed to London a judge and prosecutor who pioneered similar projects in the US.