The failure of the police and social services to report serial sex allegations against Ian Huntley in a routine check is not the only serious flaw in the justice system highlighted by this case (Blunder after blunder, December 18). It is highly significant (although not surprising) that other allegations of sexual assault did not result in conviction. Britain's lamentable conviction rates (7-9%) for rape and sexual assault and the discrimination against women demonstrated by the legal system have been well documented.Huntley should have been convicted and imprisoned for these offences long ago. It's time we took sexual assault and rape far more seriously and prosecuted offenders more forcefully. Joanne Sennitt Leicester Serious questions need to be asked about how our criminal justice system is letting down women and girls. Three separate young women came forward to the police claiming that Huntley had raped them, yet in none of these cases was there deemed "sufficient evidence" to mount a prosecution. It seems that the message given to Huntley was that he could literally get away with rape and sexual abuse, and the police were not able or willing to stop him. As a welfare advice worker, I sometimes support young women who have been raped or sexually assaulted. How can I honestly encourage them to report these crimes to the police when they know as well as I do that the chances of their assailant being brought to justice are minimal? It is time for a serious review of how rape and sexual assault cases are handled. Nic Veysey Lancaster Your leader (Accounting for Huntley, December 18) fails to raise the crucial question of whether or not the correct interpretation of the Data Protection Act restricts the preservation of case records in the absence of any conviction or formal caution. The home secretary should instruct the information commissioner to provide clear guidance on the kind of offences for which records may be kept, and for how long. The Soham case has shown that it is no longer tenable for individual police authorities to be left to decide this for themselves. Michael Smethurst Winchester, HantsHuntley had not previously been found guilty of any crime and was therefore, under our rule of law, innocent. Do we really want to establish a precedent under which careers and lives can be blighted by unsubstantiated allegations and unproven charges? What will the reaction be when someone is denied a position on the basis of confidential information about dropped criminal charges forwarded to a potential employer by police?  Frank Startup Cirencester, Glos Martin Kettle suggests that Soham will now be remembered for one awful thing alone. (There are not more Huntleys lurking around the corner, December 18.) Before August last year, some of us who know something of railway history knew it as the scene of the heroism of a locomotive crew during the second world war who, confronted with a fire on their train full of ammunition, made sure that it was well clear of the village before it exploded, an action which earned two of them the George Cross but cost the fireman his life. Perhaps it is worth remembering Soham as a place where human nature was shown at its best, as well as its worst; where lives were heroically saved, as well as tragically lost. Brian Polley London