If criminal connections are anything to go by, John Massey, who escaped from Pentonville prison on Wednesday, will not be short of people to help him evade capture. He is of the old school, and forged strong links during the 35 years he has spent in jail. And if, as rumoured, he went over the wall using a rope and hook, that would be typical – the old school way of escaping.Last year, I interviewed Massey at length, over the phone at the home of his sister Jane in north London. The Masseys are a close knit family; indeed it was because of these strong family ties that Massey had come to be one of the longest serving prisoners in the penal system.Sentenced to life imprisonment in 1976 for killing a nightclub bouncer who had wounded his friend, Massey was finally released to a hostel in 2007. Massey complied with the terms of his licence until he was told his father, Jack, was about to die in hospital. He asked for an extension of his curfew to stay with his dad. It was refused. He stayed at the hospital anyway, for four days, until he passed away.Massey gave himself up and was returned to prison. It was another two and a half years before he was granted open prison conditions again, at Ford, in Sussex.Then, in May 2010, tragedy struck the family again. Another sister, Carol, became gravely ill and asked to see her brother. Massey was refused permission to visit her in hospital, so he walked through the gates of the jail and stayed by his sister's side until she died two weeks later.This time Massey did not give himself up. He went to live, quite openly, at his mother's house in Camden, waiting for the "knock on the door". It came ten months later, and Massey was returned to Pentonville, where he remained until Wednesday.When we spoke, Massey questioned why he should remain in prison for being a "loving son and brother". He said he had not committed any crimes while he had been out of prison, and that his mother's neighbours knew and respected him.Last year, Lord David Ramsbotham, the former chief inspector of prisons, described Massey's plight as "a very sad story, where common sense should have prevailed. Of course, technically, Massey is in the wrong. But that's no excuse for clogging up an expensive system with people from whom the public do not seem to need to be protected," he said.In February this year, a parole board hearing convened to consider Massey's future. The panel decided he represented a risk to the public and directed that he should remain in closed conditions for at least another three years. The Guardian has a copy of the six-page document outlining the board's decision. Nowhere does it mention the deaths of Massey's father and sister.A friend of Massey's, who was brought up in north London and served time with him, believes the fugitive will not be too far away from the jail that housed him. He said Massey is well thought of in the area and people think the system had "taken liberties" with him. The man, who does not wish to be named, said that any compassionate human being would have done what Massey did in choosing to be at the deathbed of his father and sister."The police say the public should not approach John as he may be dangerous; that's a nonsense. John has just had enough of a system that does not know the meaning of compassion and family ties. I hope he manages to stay out," he said.