On his first night as a prison officer at New Hall jail, Andy Marsden had to cut down six women after they tried to hang themselves in their cells. 'I thought I had died and gone to hell,' says Marsden, now a senior officer in the prison hospital. Marsden grew accustomed to seeing women on the brink of death. 'There was one woman there and I only saw her when she was blue.'Since then he has seen hundreds of women try to take their lives in New Hall, a 400-bed prison outside Wakefield in West Yorkshire. Like every officer at New Hall, Marsden carries a specially designed blade encased in plastic to cut the women free. Several officers told The Observer of nights when they had been forced to sprint from cell to cell to slice off home-made nooses the women use to stop the blood supply to their brains. Where male prisons are often dominated by a brooding atmosphere of violence, women's prisons are suffused with mutilation and despair. Marsden's colleague Tony Ellis, head of operations at New Hall, remembers sitting with a physically healthy prisoner who was desperate to be transferred to the prison hospital. 'I told her it was full and I couldn't simply transfer her when the need of others was greater.' The woman looked Ellis in the eye, raised her arm and bit into it like a chunk of meat. 'You could hear the flesh tear. It was horrible,' he says. 'She got her way all right. I sent her straight to the hospital.' The stories are endless. One seriously disturbed prisoner at New Hall would cut open her own stomach and hide pens and batteries in the wound. Another sliced off strips of skin and ate them. Drugs are central to this never-ending cycle of misery and self-hatred. Many of the women come into the prison 'crotched', with drugs stashed internally where staff are not allowed to search them (in male prisons the term used is 'plugged'). Visitors have also been caught smuggling drugs into New Hall in babies' toys and even babies' bottles. Kelly, a 25-year-old heroin addict who was clean after nine days of rehab and ready to go back on the wing, said prison was something 'you just get used to'. On her sixteenth sentence and with over 40 previous convictions, prison was now a way of life, a cheap and easy way of going into rehab. 'I've been coming here on and off since 1997. It's just like a holiday for me.' Of the 295 new prisoners sent to New Hall in January, 212 were put straight into detox and 188 were heroin addicts. Andy Crofts, an officer who works with the detoxing prisoners, says women's prisons have been forced to combine the work of secure mental hospitals and drug treatment centres. He also has a simple solution: 'Kill the dealers or legalise drugs. There's no other way.' Over the past year at New Hall there have been more than 1,500 self-harm incidents, a 200 per cent rise. Last month a woman of 37 there stuffed paper into her clothes and underwear and set herself on fire in full view of other inmates. Staff saw smoke coming from her cell, but by the time they arrived she had turned herself into a human torch. The woman was rushed to hospital to undergo emergency surgery for burns and remains in a serious condition. Few women take the extreme course of self-immolation. Most choose the traditional methods: strangulation by trainer laces, curtains or bedding. The official term for the makeshift nooses the women use is 'ligatures' and they come in all shapes and sizes. There are always new methods: some women sit in their cells all day weaving ligatures from strips of fabric and threads. 'It's almost like a comfort blanket,' said one senior officer. The women have discovered that, if you find the right pressure point on the neck, you can lose consciousness within seconds. Staff have found women hanging from cell bars, door handles, bedsteads and even from a plug in the wall. In the latest development of this strange death cult, inmates have found that, if they twist a wet J-Cloth around their necks at night, it dries out and strangles them in their sleep. One woman told officers at New Hall that the only time she felt at peace was when she felt 'the glow of losing consciousness'. Staff said it was often the same prisoner over and over again and, however many times a life was saved, there was no guarantee that the woman would not try again days, or even hours, later. Petra Blanksby, who strangled herself with a J-Cloth at New Hall last November and later died in hospital, had 'ligatured' on 91 previous occasions in the months before. Three women took their lives in New Hall in 2003, but prison staff feel they are often unfairly held personally responsible for deaths in custody. 'The media understandably concentrates on the tragedies when they happen, but no one talks about the hundreds of times when lives are saved,' says Tony Ellis. An investigation by The Observer into the crisis in Britain's female prisons has discovered a system in crisis. In all, 14 women killed themselves in prison last year, up from nine in 2002 and six in 2001. Already two women have killed themselves in prison in 2004. In one jail alone, Styal in Cheshire, four women took their lives last year, which led Prisons Minister Paul Goggins to commission an independent inquiry. But the problems are replicated across the system: the rise in self-harm and suicide had coincided with a rocketing prison population. The latest official figures show that there are now more than 4,400 female prisoners in jail, more than double the figure a decade ago. But the rise in the suicide rate is not simply a consequence of soaring prison numbers. In the five years between 1996 and 2001, the female prison population increased by 67 per cent, but suicides in women's jails went up by 200 per cent. Prisons taking seriously the issue of self-harm have initiated schemes to help prisoners at risk of taking their own lives. Fellow prisoners are trained by the Samaritans to become 'listeners' to look for early-warning signs from vulnerable prisoners. Other inmates are trained to talk to new prisoners as they arrive in the reception area. Prisoners and staff agreed that, despite the deaths, the detox regime at New Hall has done more than anything else to improve tensions at the prison. But it does little to help them settle back into life outside. Gail Coupland, the nurse who heads the unit, said: 'There is no doubt that these people's lives have become more chaotic and there is often a dual diagnosis of mental illness and drug abuse. We can get them clean, but the real problem is that they have no support when they get out.' In April the Home Office comes to the end of a three-year suicide and self-harm 'reduction strategy' and this is likely to lead to a wholesale rethink, which is expected to focus on prisoners helping each other. It will also have to deal with the high levels of drug abuse, self-harm and domestic violence in the communities that women prisoners come from. Ministers will look for inspiration to an inquiry into women in the criminal justice system being carried out by the Fawcett Society, which is due to report at the end of March. A Home Office spokeswoman said: 'We realise it may look as if our strategy has failed, but in the context of a rising prison population we believe the numbers are steadying off.' But she added: 'This may be due to the fact that we are cutting people down more successfully.' If it is possible, the problems for Brockhill prison in the West Midlands are even worse. This small jail, outside Redditch in Worcestershire, houses mainly remand prisoners, who stay sometimes only a matter of months before moving on to another institution or being released. The conditions here are some of the worst in the prison system. Buildings designed in the 1960s to house an open prison are rotting. While we were there, the heating in one block failed. To end the demeaning practice of 'slopping out', Home Office regulations now state that all prisoners must have access to a lavatory. But only two cells in Brockhill have them fitted. Instead, a computerised queuing system allows women access to a shared lavatory on each landing. Many women with mental health problems fail to understand the system. Although a new medical block is being built, there is no specialist detox unit and drug use in the prison is endemic, with 75 per cent of inmates addicted to heroin and crack. Despite the high turnover of inmates, governor Barbara Treen has introduced a system of Samaritan listeners and even a programme of therapy for women who mutilate themselves. 'We now know there is an obvious link between domestic violence, child abuse, drug abuse, alcohol abuse,' she said. Staff at Brockhill and New Hall were convinced that most women in their prisons were the victims of far more serious crimes than they had perpetrated. If Ministers are to tackle the issue seriously, they will have to address the radical question of whether the majority of women in prison should be there at all. Brockhill's scheme, which also involves physical exercise, music and education, was developed by Julia Rose, a psychologist at Wolverhampton University. Rose says the findings have devastating ramifications for the future of penal policy. 'We estimate that 95 per cent of women in this prison have suffered some form of abuse, from domestic violence to child abuse. Three-quarters of them have some form of mental illness. These women self-harm because of abuse they have suffered.' As a result of work done at the prison, staff have produced 50 reports of serious offences and, when women have been persuaded to give evidence, these have led to successful convictions. Becky, a prisoner who works on the listener scheme, has reached an even bleaker conclusion. 'With the experiences they have been through, they feel they have to do it: that's their way of releasing the pressure. They get a buzz from it, and afterwards they feel better.' Many older prison officers feel they joined the service to lock up criminals and ended up as a mixture of social workers, psychotherapists and drug counsellors. Joe Bagguley, who runs the segregation unit at Brockhill, said: 'We are no longer prison officers, we are mental health workers. We are enthusiastic, but we are only amateurs.' Sometimes it can get too much even for the most experienced staff. Gwynne Jones, who is responsible for suicide prevention at Brockhill, asked if he could have a quiet word during our visit. He said that he wanted to tell us about a woman had been brought in the day before on a petty theft charge. She had come straight from hospital, where she had just had an abortion after being raped. Like so many women in Brockhill she had begun cutting herself, he said, but this one was different. Instead of the usual cuts on the arms or legs, this woman hated herself so much and felt so angry about what had happened that she had slashed open the skin around her vagina. With tears in his eyes, Jones said: 'What is that woman doing in prison? How does my training as a prison officer prepare me for that?'