Charles Clarke had three things on his mind when he used a series of media interviews yesterday to speak out about his dismissal and the parlous state of New Labour politics. First, the sacked home secretary wanted to defend his role in the foreign prisoners affair and whether he should have realised sooner that more than 1,000 prisoners had been released without any decision on whether they should be deported.Second, he wanted to hit back at his successor, John Reid, for suggesting the Home Office was "not fit for purpose". Finally, he wanted to send out a warning to the man who so damaged his political career - the prime minister - by telling him that any lingering hopes that he will stay in office to 2008 depend on his ability to regain a grip on the reform agenda. Mr Clarke has never made any secret of his anger at being dumped in the May reshuffle. Mr Blair insists that but for the foreign prisoners crisis he would have made Mr Clarke foreign secretary, but in the end he reluctantly decided Mr Clarke would have been hounded by the media for weeks, and that he had to move. Although some of today's headlines are badly damaging for Mr Blair, Downing Street will probably be breathing a sigh of relief that Mr Clarke's attack was not more ferocious. He could have brought heavier criticism to bear on Mr Blair, thus immediately opening the premiership to the chancellor, Gordon Brown. Instead, he told the prime minister to get a grip, something Mr Blair has sought to do in recent days with his speech on crime, his article in today's Guardian, the government's strong attack on David Cameron's human rights policy, and his address to the Labour national policy forum this coming weekend.With typical honesty, Mr Clarke last night told Mr Blair: "What we are lacking at the moment is a sense of leadership and direction; that can either be solved by Tony himself recovering in the way he has the capacity to do - that would still be the best solution - or by Gordon being elected with that sense of leadership and direction himself, and offering that to the party and the country. "My preferred option has been and remains that Tony Blair stays as leader and prime minister to complete the execution of the manifesto upon which he was elected in 2005 and then hands over to a new leader who would prepare the manifesto for 2009-10." Such remarks will not be welcomed by those who want Mr Blair to announce his departure in the autumn and hand over power next spring, still the most likely option. Mr Blair has also been privately urging a private role for Mr Clarke in developing the New Labour agenda, and that he should develop some kind of policy organisation to further such thoughts. Mr Blair is determined to stop opponents of the New Labour coalition using the code of renewal to tear up his agenda. Indeed, he will be worried about preventing a row between two of his one-time closest allies, Mr Reid and Mr Clarke. Some believe Mr Reid's remarks about the Home Office will have deeply offended Mr Clarke, who prides himself on his administrative skills and the direction in which he was taking the department. The criticism may have served Mr Reid's short-term interest, but he stored up troubles by offending his colleagues and civil servants. Mr Clarke defended himself, and attacked Mr Reid: "It was not me that said the Home Office is not fit for purpose. It was not me that went down the whole process of suggesting there were people throughout the Home Office who ought to be sacked. In fact, I made major changes at the top of the Home Office by appointing a new permanent secretary and other senior staff ... I will take responsibility for what I did and how I did it. I am not going to take responsibility for the way issues are being dealt with now." Mr Clarke also distanced himself from Mr Reid's tendency to respond to a tabloid agenda, especially on Megan's law and the controversial issue of paedophiles. "It is not a trivial point, because the way the tabloids operate it is easy to play a populist agenda and I think it is quite dangerous to do so," he said. Mr Clarke also wrote to the home affairs select committee trying to explain how he handled the foreign prisoners affair once it reached his desk. He insists that once he learned that considerable numbers had been released without proper consideration of deportation, he took up the issue and alerted the prime minister. By implication, he suggests he did no better or worse than the man who sacked him.