In this country, as elsewhere, concern has been growing that privacy of the individual and the boardroom is in real danger as the use of audio/visual tapping devices becomes more common. In its current issue, the New Law Journal states that the issue has taken a disturbing step forward, alleging that police had bugged a solicitor's interviews with clients. Demanding a full inquiry into the incident, the Journal says: "This must, in the absence of any explanation in the particular case, raise the question whether, and to what extent, solicitors’ investigations on behalf of their clients in criminal matters are tapped". Indeed it does. That alleged incident also raises the whole question of the work of private detectives in Britain. If the police are carrying out the type of spying suggested by the New Law Journal, it is almost certainly on a minimal scale; the gamut of regulations and laws a policeman wishing to use a bug would have to run is formidable, and there is no guarantee he would be granted permission eventually. Just for the record, any newspaperman wishing to snoop electronically is - or should be - in the same position. John Skelton is the general secretary of the Association of British Detectives, an organisation held in esteem by the police and among European and American law enforcement agencies. He holds stern views about the need for government control of private detectives - "both for the protection of the public and business firms and the protection of the detectives.""The sad truth," Mr Skelton said yesterday, "is that there is virtually no control, apart from that which may be self-imposed, over the majority of private detectives in this country. Anyone - even a person straight out of gaol - can call himself a private detective, solicit business, and use whatever means he may wish to carry out his work." It is estimated that there are between 2,000 and 3,000 private detectives in Britain. The Association of British Detectives has 550 members, and subjects them to the tightest examination and scrutiny. "Between 65 and 70 per cent of those persons who apply to us for membership are rejected," Mr Skelton said. All Association members are forbidden the use of bugging devices "no matter the circumstances of the case." They also refuse industrial espionage. But Mr Skelton believes the use of electronic gadgets will not be fully controlled until all private detectives are required by law to be licensed members of a professional association. "We have been working for a long time to have a Private Detectives Act - similar, for instance, to the Solicitors Act - passed through parliament and we shall continue to press for this. "We have to face the facts; the public and the name of our trade can only be protected when all private investigators are seen to be under strict control, and are seen to be qualified and competent. The work of the private detectives in Britain is growing all the time. More and more people are using detectives for all sorts of work—insurance, legal, counter industrial espionage, and so on. If the public is using us so much, the public must surely want to be sure its interests are protected." 