   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The Crown Prosecution Service recently made a film called "Right person. Right charge. Right time." It's essentially a four-minute piece of corporate spin, extolling the virtues of co-operation between prosecutors and police in making decisions on whether suspects should be charged with crime.I wonder if the CPS are regretting making this film now. Today the new Home Secretary Theresa May is expected to confirm the long-held Tory view that the police alone should decide on charging in all but the most complex cases.The Conservatives believe that the current system is inefficient. The police have to prepare a "pre-trial file" for prosecutors anyway, but then hand over the actual decision whether to charge, which the Conservatives regard as a waste of time and man-hours.Involving prosecutors also leads to inconsistency. And there are concerns that the CPS are too tempted to advise against charging in cases that might not result in a conviction at court, to boost their performance figures – something the Guardian has documented. The Conservatives' concerns are to some extent supported by a 2008 report by the CPS Inspectorate which found that the process of police consulting prosecutors on whether to charge was "inconsistent, overly complex, inefficient and lacking in pragmatism."But if this CPS film is to be believed, these problems are surmountable hurdles, which both the police and prosecutors are united in their desire to overcome."One of the biggest criticisms police officers have at the moment is the charging process. And that's because it's too slow, it's unavailable when the actual officer needs that charging decision, so as a result we have too many offenders bailed to return for charging decisions, and there is too much waste in the system," Tim Godwin, Acting Deputy Commissioner for ACPO says in the film. "But", he adds, "we know that the journey we have had in changing charging and handing it over to the CPS has actually brought about big benefits in terms of reduced discontinuances, far more effective trial processes, and far more convictions. So there is a will and a desire to tackle the problems that have been jointly identified together.""It's very important that we look forwards and not backwards. And looking forwards we have to work with the police to make sure that the charges are brought in the right cases at the right time," says Keir Starmer, the director of public prosecutions. So what is the truth? Probably somewhere in between the two. It's difficult to enthuse criminal lawyers about the charging process because – and this is the one thing everyone does seem to agree on – it is complex, laborious and bureaucratic. Some defence counsel I spoke to said that anything that removes a layer of CPS bureaucracy is a good thing. And, they rightly point out, this only applies to the most serious cases anyway. Around two thirds of all crime is made up of minor offences where the charging decision is still, and always has been, decided by the police.But no one seems to reminisce fondly of the days when charging was in the sole hands of the police either. Both Keir Starmer and his predecessor as DPP, Ken Macdonald, have described the new dawn of police-prosecutor collaboration in charging as "the future" and "the foundation stone of what the CPS do."The Conservatives seem very clear that this is a good thing but everyone else - not least the professionals who do this every day - seem a bit confused.