Most victims of stalking who turn to the criminal justice system for protection say it is failing them, a survey reveals.Two-thirds of victims said the police and Crown Prosecution Service did not take their complaints seriously enough, with offenders not being charged in nearly nine out of 10 alleged cases.The survey of 140 victims was conducted by the charity Protection Against Stalking (PAS), which found "low level" stalking offences were dealt with too leniently and could escalate into more serious offences, including murder.The majority of victims are women. One told how the criminal justice system had failed her: "The police told me to switch my phone off and ignore him. They said nothing could be done. I showed them dozens of texts and they were not really interested. They said nothing could be done unless he actually tried to hurt me."Another victim said: "Being abandoned by the police while being stalked only adds to the fear and distress of what is already a terrifying situation."Victims said their tormentors were escaping jail despite numerous offences. One victim said: "There have been over 50 breaches of non-molestation orders. The outcome was an £80 fine for the perpetrator."Laura Richards, the author of the report, said: "Stalking is not fully understood by criminal justice professionals and too often the stalking pattern is missed. This results in a low priority being afforded to cases by all professionals in the criminal justice system. Victims pay with their lives."The findings come as the government is expected to announce a review to see if tougher measures are needed. It will consult on whether stalking should become a specific criminal offence, as it already is in Scotland. There is no legal definition of stalking in English law.Police and courts can issue restraining orders under the 1997 Protection from Harassment Act, but it is so widely drawn that it covers all kinds of harassment, including bullying at work.The review, to be undertaken by the Home Office, CPS and Ministry of Justice, will look at police training and attitudes to stalking, the impact of guidance for prosecutors, and how effective restraining orders are in preventing harassment and stalking.Home Office ministers hope techniques developed by a specialist unit, the Fixated Threat Assessment Centre, can be used more widely. It has considerable expertise in assessing the risk in stalking cases to high-profile individuals, including members of the royal family and politicians. It makes psychiatric assessments available to police officers working on such cases.Programmes may be run for convicted stalkers to challenge their criminal behaviour and deal with any mental health issues.A Home Office spokesman said: "The effect of stalking on victims' lives can be devastating and we are actively looking at what more can be done to protect victims and ensure there are robust prosecutions."According to the PAS survey, 42% of victims had been stalked for 24 months or more. One victim told of having to move 10 times; others said the constant fear was "soul destroying".Some 62% of victims said phone calls were used by their tormentors; 51% reported being followed; 50% received unwelcome text messages; 50% suffered harassment through the use of a third party; 30% received email they considered harassment; 25% received distressing letters; and 25% of victims suffered break-ins.Social media, such as Facebook and Twitter were also used, as was child contact and the court process.The survey found that stalkers were former partners in 57% of cases, while 13% were strangers, 13% neighbours, 12% ex-colleagues, 11% an acquaintance, 6% a family member, 3% a patient and 3% a friend.Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, which is supporting a new anti-stalking law, said victims must be better protected. "The consequences of their not being taken seriously can be devastating and result in physical and mental injury and in far too many cases even homicide," he said."The time is right for the introduction of specific stalking laws so that perpetrators' behaviour can be fully taken into account before sentencing."