Highbridge (pop 4,606), a small town on the edge of the Somerset Levels, is - if reports are to believed - suffering an epidemic of crime. "A mystery crimefighter [is] helping police catch crooks with hundreds of tip-offs," reports the Daily Mail. "There are a number of theories as to their identity, with some suggesting they could be a retired policeman or even a crime novel enthusiast," adds the Daily Telegraph, mysteriously. The anonymous letter-writer is said to have sent 200 letters to local police in the past eight months and helped solve a string of local crimes. He or she is portrayed as a Miss Marple in a town that is closer to Tijuana than Taunton. There's just one problem with what, on the surface, is a great story: it's largely nonsense.Sleuthing by the Guardian - in fact, a single brief phone call by me to the local police authority - has unearthed a few corrections to the original tale. The police have received around 50 letters from the local "crimefighter"; they detailed four alleged crimes - possession of cocaine by a local person, and three untaxed vehicles. The possessor of the cocaine (the stash was worth £800) was arrested, tried and received a community sentence; two of the untaxed vehicles were removed by the police; the third was on private property and allowed to remain; all the subsequent letters from the informant have berated the police for not removing the third vehicle and for not ensuring that the possessor of the cocaine received a custodial sentence.Local police reckon their neighbourhood Miss Marple has turned into a Mr Nuisance, and are keen to talk to him to explain that they can do nothing about vehicle number three and have no control over sentencing policy. Meanwhile, Highbridge has a good deal of work to do to repair its battered reputation. "It is a dire place to live," admits a journalist on the Weston & Somerset Mercury, "but it's not as bad as Highbridge in the Bronx." Though Somerset's red-faced freelance crimefighter might beg to differ.