The prison sentence imposed on the mother of Baby P provoked confusion and anger today, with ministers being forced to defend the complex system that could allow her to apply for parole in three and a half years, despite evidence that the boy suffered horrific abuse in her care.The mother of the toddler, who can now be named as Peter, was jailed indefinitely by the judge, who said she was "manipulative" and "calculating", and presented a continuing risk to children.She was given a minimum tariff of 10 years, which means she will serve at least five before she becomes eligible for parole. But because she has already spent almost two years on remand, campaigners and children's charities said she could get her first hearing as early as August 2012.The NSPCC led the condemnation, saying the sentence was inadequate. "We are disappointed that the minimum tariff was so low," said Andrew Flanagan, chief executive of the charity. "It raises the question of how bad the abuse has to be before offenders get a longer minimum time in prison."The NSPCC also condemned the sentence handed out to Jason Owen, a lodger at Baby P's home, who was given an indeterminate jail sentence with a minimum tariff of six years. That means he could apply for parole in 2011, having spent three years in prison."Peter suffered sustained abuse, leaving him with horrendous injuries," said Flanagan. "Two of his abusers could walk free at a time when Peter should be a schoolboy with a new world in front of him. Despicable cruelty has denied him that opportunity."Lynne Featherstone, MP for Hornsey and Wood Green and the local MP in the case, said she would be shocked if the mother did not serve a lengthy sentence.The Sun, which campaigned for social workers in the Baby P case to be sacked, immediately turned its fire on the justice system, urging readers to sign an online petition demanding longer sentences in this case. The furore led the justice secretary, Jack Straw, to defend the system introduced by the then home secretary, David Blunkett, four years ago. "The judge has been clear about the minimum terms they must serve, and such decisions must be for the judiciary," Straw said."Beyond that time they will only be released if the parole board decides after a rigorous safety assessment that it is safe to do so. If the parole board thinks they are not safe to release, they will remain in custody until such time as they are, whenever that may be."Straw added that a "large proportion" of prisoners given life or indeterminate sentences, such as the defendants in the Baby P case, served more than the minimum period set down by the judge.Baby P was 17 months old when he was found dead in a blood-spattered cot at his home in north London in August 2007.Despite being on Haringey council's child protection register doctors, health visitors and social workers failed to spot his catalogue of injuries, including a broken back and seven broken ribs.At the Old Bailey hearing today, Judge Stephen Kramer sentenced the boy's mother, the lodger, and the mother's boyfriend, who was also given a life sentence for the rape of a two-year-old girl, and 12 years for his role in Peter's death.The judge said they lived in a home which had developed a "climate of abuse and neglect" that should have been obvious. He said: "Any decent person who heard the catalogue of medical conditions and non-accidental injuries suffered by Peter cannot fail to have been appalled."The judge said the child's mother had put her relationship with her boyfriend before her responsibilities to her child. "I reject the suggestion that you were blind to what was happening ... or ... naive." The judge told the boyfriend he would give him a tougher sentence than was recommended in the guidelines due to the "seriousness and extraordinary and abhorrent features" of the rape he carried out.The sentencing row came as a second case review into the tragedy said the outlook of social workers, doctors, lawyers and police was "completely inadequate".Peter should have been placed in care, the review carried out by Haringey Local Safeguarding Children Board found. Even after he was put under a child protection plan, his case was regarded as routine "with injuries expected as a matter of course". Graham Badman, chairman of the board, said: "Baby Peter deserved better from the services that were supposed to protect him."Children's secretary Ed Balls said what happened in Haringey was "unforgivable" but added that changes were being made to try to prevent such a case reoccurring.He said: "There were opportunities … to take the child to a safe place, and they weren't properly taken, and that's wrong. That's about the social workers and the police and the health service, in that particular case, not doing what they should have done and letting down that little boy."