  Dustin Hunter. Photograph: PAA corrupt policeman who sold stolen police uniforms and offered tips on how to foil detectives was jailed for seven years today for drug dealing and helping to plot a robbery at a jewellery store.Dustin Hunter was serving with Surrey police when he was arrested last November after officers found 994g of cannabis, with a street value of £5,670, in his car. He claimed he had collected the package from a friend and was unaware of its contents, but he was suspended from the force.Detectives launched an undercover investigation into his activities, and in January Hunter was contacted by a man known to him only as John. Unaware that John was an undercover police officer, Hunter met him at a pub in west London where the pair discussed the kind of crimes they might commit.Hunter, who had worked in the police intelligence unit, suggested they could rob known drug dealers, deal in controlled drugs, set up a cannabis factory or steal money from online betting accounts. He told John he could provide information on a foiled robbery attempt at Decorus jewellers in Oxted, Surrey, and that he had access to police uniforms.During several further pub meetings, the pair planned a robbery at the same jewellers. Hunter, who said he would not take part in the raid, was offered 15% of the proceeds. He handed John a typed note offering a "detailed description" of the foiled attempt and how to avoid getting caught.He gave John two stolen police hats, two reflective jackets and a special constable's hat badge, for which he was paid £500. The robbery was to have taken place on 20 March. Hunter was arrested at a hotel at Clacket Lane Services, on the M25.Hunter, 30, formerly of Crawley, West Sussex, was convicted of the drugs offences at Harrow crown court on 16 July. Ten days later, at Winchester crown court, he pleaded guilty to encouraging or assisting the robbery and three counts of theft. Today in Harrow he was sentenced to two years for the drugs offence and five years for his part in planning the robbery. He was also sentenced to six months in jail for each of the three counts of theft, to run concurrently.The judge, Michael Caplan QC, said Hunter had shown "complete contempt for law and order" by using his police expertise for his own ends."You've sought to use techniques and knowledge learned through the police to advance your criminality," he said. "You have used knowledge used in fighting crime to commit serious crime. Your conduct has also detracted from the excellent work carried out by your fellow officers."Michael Boardman, defending, said a period in custody would be "significantly more difficult" for Hunter because he had been a police officer. In mitigation, Boardman said his client had made sure no firearms would be used in the planned robbery, and the night before Hunter had tried to stop the raid from going ahead.The court heard that Hunter, who is £28,000 in debt, joined the police force at the age of 19. "It's something he always wanted to do," said Boardman. "Quite clearly he has fallen severely from grace." Surrey police said that at the time of his drug arrest Hunter was a constable based at Banstead police station. He was suspended from duty and later resigned.Detective Chief Inspector Simon Humphreys, of Surrey police's professional standards department, said: "We expect the highest standards of behaviour by our staff and will investigate any suspected wrongdoing within the organisation. Dustin Hunter abused his position for his own personal gain and as a force we did not hesitate to take action."Our internal investigation was able to uncover and provide evidence of his involvement in criminal activity and has resulted in the sentences handed out today. I hope our swift action demonstrates to the public that Surrey police continues to hold itself and its staff to account at all times."