An official watchdog has ruled that a police officer whose patrol car drove into a teenager, smashing his leg could have been "unjustified" in his actions, the Guardian has learned.Sherman Thomas was 18 when the car hit him in Brixton, south London. He had wanted to play professional basketball, but he was left with a limp and says it ruined his life. The Police Complaints Authority ordered the officer be charged with a disciplinary offence of misconduct after the Metropolitan police refused to do so. Despite being arrested at the scene, Mr Thomas was never charged with any offence and has been left in severe pain. Police chased the teenager in July 2000, suspecting him of having ridden a stolen moped. His lawyers say he had surrendered to police before the car rammed into him, crushing his leg against a wall. The PCA inquiry uncovered that in a call to the ambulance service, a police officer said: "He's conscious and screaming, yeah, teach him to nick mopeds." In a later call, the ambulance operator responds to police laughter by saying: "It's not funny, is it?" The officer, who police will not name, responsible for the call was given "words of advice" by a senior officer. Mr Thomas, now 21, has been left with a metal plate in his leg and faces more surgery. The charge brought by the PCA alleges that the officer who was driving the car was wrong in his actions because Mr Thomas posed no life-threatening risk to officers or the public when he was rammed by the patrol vehicle. A PCA spokesman, Richard Offer, said: "It will be put to the officer that his actions were unjustified at a disciplinary hearing. "We overruled the MPS [Metropolitan police service] and ordered that there should be a charge and a hearing. "We gave the MPS a formal direction on August 29. We had a disagreement with the Met, they did not think a charge was appropriate and we did." The Crown Prosecution Service decided not to bring a criminal case against the officer, a move that "surprised" the PCA. Mr Thomas said the police had left him in agony: "I didn't think it was going to hit me, I thought they were parking up, because I stopped when they shouted at me to stop. "When it hit me at first I was just in shock, I didn't feel anything for the first minute. I looked at my leg and felt my bones were crushed, I saw blood coming through my trouser leg, and I felt the heat from the engine which was being revved up. "Then all the pain kicked in and I couldn't bear it." Mr Thomas said the charge was too minor. He said: "I think that's out of order, if I'd done that to a policeman they'd charge me with assault. "All my dreams are shattered now, I wanted to play professional basketball, they've taken that away from me." His solicitor, Daniel Machover, wanted tougher charges: "We welcome the fact the PCA forced a charge in the teeth of opposition from the police. "We want the officer suspended and the disciplinary panel to have the power to dismiss the officer if he is found guilty." Mr Thomas is suing the force for assault and negligence. Scotland Yard declined to answer detailed questions, but said no date had been fixed for the disciplinary hearing. Even if found guilty, the maximum sanction the panel can impose is the loss of 13 days' pay. In a statement the force said: "As there is an outstanding discipline matter to be heard and the MPS is aware of a civil claim in relation to this incident. It would be inappropriate for us to discuss the matter further at this time."