A major search is under way today for a gunman who shot a policewoman investigating a burglary in Nottingham.Rachael Bown, 23, a probationary officer, is in serious condition in intensive care after being shot in shortly before midnight last night.She was gunned down when she attempted to stop a man near the scene of the break-in in the Lenton part of the city. She was hit in the lower abdomen."Shortly before midnight, officers attended a report of a burglary at an address in Lenton Boulevard, Lenton," a Nottinghamshire police spokeswoman said. "Two officers, an experienced city-based male officer and a female probation officer, attempted to stop a male nearby. The suspect produced a firearm and shot one of the officers."The 23-year-old probation officer, who was wearing body armour, has undergone emergency surgery for a gunshot injury."Shortly after 5am she was transferred to intensive care where she remains in a serious condition. Her family are with her at Queen's medical centre."No one has been arrested but a major investigation is under way, police said. Several areas have been cordoned off for forensic tests.Detective Chief Inspector Tony Heydon, who is leading the hunt for the gunman, said: "This is clearly a significant incident and anyone with information should contact police as a matter of urgency."Divisional commander Chief Superintendent Marcus Beale told BBC Breakfast: "This is an extremely serious incident and has been a terrible shock for this officer's family. Officers are clearly very concerned about their colleague and we are 100% committed to finding and apprehending the offender as soon as possible."Overnight she's undergone emergency surgery. Thankfully, in the early hours she was transferred into the intensive care unit where she remains in a serious but, I understand, stable condition."Mr Beale said Ms Bown was approaching the end of her two-year probationary period before becoming a "fully fledged" officer."In the police service, when people initially join, there is a huge amount for them to learn. Not only the law, but all the issues around the interpersonal skills that are necessary. Rachel had previously worked on one of the estates on the edge of Nottingham, and recently moved across into Nottingham city centre, where she currently serves."Nottingham has been the scene of a number of fatal shootings in recent years.Last year, Mark Kelly and Junior Andrews, members of Nottingham's notorious Waterfront gang, were convicted of murdering the 14-year-old schoolgirl Danielle Beccan in a drive-by shooting in the city in October 2004. In September 2003, 64-year-old Nottingham jeweller Marian Bates was shot and killed during an armed raid.The Home Office minister, Hazel Blears, said: "I was shocked to hear of the shooting of a police officer in Nottingham this morning whilst carrying out her duties. My thoughts are with the injured officer and her colleague at this difficult time."