Scotland Yard is to set up a specialist team to deal with soaring crime in London's south Asian communities, Metropolitan police assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur announced yesterday.The unit will be set up along similar lines to Operation Trident - which targets serious crime within the black community - as a response to the increase in violence within Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Sri Lankan communities. The number of south Asian murder victims has almost quadrupled in the past decade from 10 in 1993 to 38 last year, compared with a 32% rise for the general population, while the kidnap rate has more than doubled from 90 to 228 from 1998 to 2003, accounting for 20% of the Met's total kidnap figure last year and racking up 114 kidnaps so far this year. In some cases, victims are being seized in India or Pakistan and ransoms demanded from relatives in the UK. A growing number of young Asians are becoming embroiled in drug dealing, guns and gangs. Minor disputes are escalating with young south Asian gang members resorting to violence, including stabbings and shootings. Drug crime in Asian communities has increased 41% in the past five years, compared with the overall figure of 37% for London. Pakistan is the source of 27% of the heroin found in London, with a rising number of Asian addicts and associated crime, and Tower Hamlets, one of the Asian crime hotspots, dubbed the UK's heroin capital. In the past year in London, there were 2,270 Asians arrested, 81 gun crimes, 72 firearms seized and 442 knives recovered from the Asian community. More and more south Asians are also carrying out organised economic crime, such as benefit fraud and money laundering. Mr Ghaffur said the new unit would be based along the lines of Operation Trident, which had combined targeted policing with strong community liaison. "This is not about segregating crime by race, it's about using what we have learned through Trident to nip it in the bud and actively reducing crime where victims and perpetrators come from the same communities," he said. He aims to create a distinct south Asian intelligence cell in the next eight weeks. He will then liaise with south Asian community advisers who will name the dedicated unit, which he hopes to establish by the end of the year, with an initial budget of around £5m and 80 staff. The unit will focus on tackling the crimewave in the Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Sri Lankan communities, which make up 12%, just under 900,000 of London's population, and will also work with law enforcement agencies in the "source" countries. The assistant commissioner said a lack of jobs and educational opportunities, community deprivation and a widening gap between older Asians with traditional values and the younger generation had added to the upsurge in crime.