A policeman was shot and seriously injured in Northumberland early today in an attack officers are linking to a double shooting in the same area 24 hours earlier.Police are hunting Raoul Thomas Moat, whom they described as "very dangerous", in connection with both incidents. He is believed to have shot and seriously wounded his ex-girlfriend and killed her boyfriend in the early hours of yesterday, a day after being released from prison.Northumbria police said one of its officers had been shot in East Denton, Newcastle, at 12.45am. "Police strongly believe that this shooting is linked to the incident in Gateshead in the early hours of Saturday morning, during which a man was killed and a woman seriously injured," the force said in a statement.The injured officer is being treated in Newcastle General hospital, where his condition is described as "serious" but is not thought to be life-threatening.Temporary chief constable Sue Sim said: "This was an unprovoked attack on a Northumbria police officer as he carried out his duty ... My thoughts are with his family and colleagues at this time."Raoul Thomas Moat is a wanted man. He is very dangerous and should not be approached by members of the public. We know that Moat held a grudge against the people he targeted in Gateshead yesterday. It is now believed that his grudge at the moment is with the police."Moat, 37, from Newcastle, had just been released from Durham prison after serving a sentence for assault. He is thought to be a former nightclub bouncer.Samantha Stobbart, 22, who is believed to have had an on-off relationship with Moat over six years, was shot in the stomach at her home in Birtley, near Gateshead, at about 2.40am yesterday.The mother of a three-year-old child, she was hit when a shot was fired through her living room window. She is in a critical condition in hospital under police guard. Her boyfriend, a karate instructor in his late 20s who has not been named, was killed 50 metres from the front door.Stobbart's half-sister Kelly Stobbart told the News of the World that family members had been warned she may not survive."We don't think she'll make it," she said. "She's been shot in the chest and stomach, her body's been ripped apart. She is on a life-support machine and is critical. The hospital have told us to expect the worst."Northumbria police said they were following up several lines of enquiry. "All available police resources and tactics are being used," the force said in a statement.