Reading Ben Westwood's complaint that the new law outlawing violent pornography "makes innocent people into criminals" ('It becomes wallpaper', G2, November 17), I thought back to the retrial of Graham Coutts for the murder of Jane Longhurst.I attended two sessions of the trial to support Jane's mother, Liz. The second of these was the judge's summing-up: in the first a psychiatrist gave evidence of Coutts' attempt to seek help for his fantasies of raping and strangling women, and his fear that one day he might actually murder a woman. Unfortunately, he chose not to seek further help.Westwood, a pornographer, says: "I don't think imagery makes you go and do something that you wouldn't have done otherwise. If you're thinking of hurting another person, that doesn't come from seeing pornography, it comes from another part of you. I don't think if you see a picture of a woman tied up, it means you're going to go and grab a woman and tie her up." But what I saw at Coutts' trial was the story of a man who nurtured and encouraged that part of himself by visiting pornographic internet sites - sites that went way beyond images of women being bound up and gagged. They featured violent sex, strangulation, rape and torture. Coutts downloaded images from these sites - as I remember, an enormous number in the days immediately preceding the murder.It is impossible to prove that his consumption of these images was responsible for his murdering Jane, but the internet gives instant access to a far greater range of pornographic material than would have been available to Coutts in the past. His visits to the sites showed him that he wasn't alone in his preoccupations; the repeated exposure normalised them to the point that he tried to persuade various girlfriends to participate in strangulation games and even tried to put a pillow over the face of one of them. With those women he was still sufficiently in control of himself to stop, though he did say to one: "I'm going to strangle a man or a woman." Eventually, he reached the tipping point."I think society should be more liberal about these issues," says Westwood. I have always been against censorship, yet Coutts' trial challenged me: how far can self-expression be allowed to go? It is illegal to download child porn, partly because its production involves violence against children. Westwood's own work may be harmless and his models may be human beings to him, but one wonders what's going on for the actors involved in the kind of videos Coutts was watching. Then there are the consumers of this material; they may not all kill, but surely repeated exposure must colour their attitudes towards women. "It becomes the background, like wallpaper," Westwood says of his images. In other words, it becomes what you take for granted.Perched next to Jane's mother in the gallery at the Old Bailey, looking at the tense grey-haired man in the dock, I thought of the role the radio played in the Rwandan massacres, inciting the Hutus to violence against the Tutsis until the idea of slaughtering them became the wallpaper of their minds. The human psyche is so much more malleable than it's comfortable to think.• Leslie Wilson is a writer and a friend of Liz Longhurst al_slade@btinternet.comIf you wish to respond to an article in which you have featured, email response@theguardian.com or write to Response, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. We cannot guarantee to publish all responses, and we reserve the right to edit pieces for both length and content