A security guard who murdered a young woman more than 15 years ago was today jailed for life after pleading guilty to the crime.Jeffrey Gafoor, 38, today admitted stabbing to death 20-year-old Lynette White in 1988, a crime for which three other men had been wrongly imprisoned for two years. Appearing at Cardiff crown court, Gafoor drew gasps from the gallery as he entered the guilty plea.Passing sentence of life in prison, the judge, Mr Justice John Royce, told Gafoor that he had ended a young life in a most terrible and vicious fashion. "For 15 years you kept your guilty secret and evaded justice even while others stood trial for the murder you knew that you had committed," he said.Miss White, who had been working as a prostitute in Cardiff, was found murdered at her docklands flat on Valentine's Day in 1988. She had been attacked with a knife and had at least 50 injuries.Gafoor, 38, of Bridgend Road, Llanharan, south Wales, was charged her murder in March this year after police reopened the case. In 1990, three men were wrongly convicted of White's death. Tony Paris, Yusef Abdullahi and Stephen Miller were sentenced to life in prison, but two years later had their convictions quashed by the court of appeal. Another eight years passed before South Wales police launched a fresh inquiry when advances in forensic research made new evidence available.Patrick Harrington QC, prosecuting, told Cardiff crown court today that police were able to use new advances in DNA technology and, as a result of "brilliant detective work by scientists and an extremely clever scientific approach by detectives", their inquiries led to Gafoor. Mr Harrington said Gafoor tried to kill himself when he realised police were getting close. In 1988, Gafoor had been living and working in his family's shop in the Splott area of Cardiff, the court heard. "His sister knew him best," said Mr Harrington. "She says he hardly ever went out, spending most of his time working, reading or watching television. He did not use pubs or clubs, he did not drink, smoke or take drugs." No one can recall him ever having a girlfriend, the court was told. In February 1988, Mr Harrington said, Gafoor went into the first floor flat which Miss White used. "She was murdered some time between February 12 and 15," said Mr Harrington. "Precisely why, how or even when the defendant committed this murder is known only to him. Although he has been given every opportunity to do so, he won't tell us."It is reasonable to assume that Gafoor had gone to Miss White to use her services as a prostitute, said Mr Harrington. The attack started either before she took off her clothes or as she put them back on. "A knife was produced and the defendant used it to kill. He did not simply kill, he attacked in a barbaric manner, cutting, stabbing and slashing his victim over 50 times, cutting her throat, slashing both wrists, cutting, stabbing and slashing her face, arm and especially the torso. "It is tempting to talk of the defendant having attacked in a frenzy, but the pattern of distribution of injuries suggests a particular mindset. "Having inflicted the killing injury, which may have been to the throat, he dragged Lynette White's body to where it was found before rushing from the flat in darkness." The knife has never been found, said Mr Harrington. "It is significant that after this most brutal killing his life seems to have appeared to carry on on an even keel," said the prosecutor. "He lived at the same address, did the same work, led the same - some would say boring - life and continued to be a loner and friendless. Only he knew the secret of what he did, a secret he still keeps." 