The former England footballer Paul Gascoigne has been fined and ordered to pay compensation after he admitted to racially abusing a black bodyguard in front of 1,000 fans during a one-man show.Gascoigne asked the bodyguard, Errol Rowe, who was standing in the shadows at the side of the stage in Wolverhampton, West Midlands: “Can you smile so I can see you?”Rowe said he was humiliated that a man he regarded as a “football icon” had made such a comment in front of a large number of people, and that he had suffered flashbacks. The district judge Graham Wilkinson said there had been criticism of the case being brought before court, but that the comments were “the sort of insidious racism that needs to be challenged”.Addressing Gascoigne, he said: “You targeted Mr Rowe for no other reason than the colour of his skin. You sought to get a laugh from an audience of over 1,000 people because of the colour of Mr Rowe’s skin.steven morris (@stevenmorris20)Paul Gascoigne at Dudley mags, where he faces trial for an alleged racially aggravated public order offence. pic.twitter.com/gE01vVtd3pSeptember 19, 2016“That is why I applaud the Crown Prosecution Service for bringing this matter to court. It’s important that we, as a multicultural, multiracial society, challenge racist behaviour in all its forms.”Gascoigne, 49, admitted using racially aggravated threatening or abusive words or behaviour during his popular An Evening With Gazza show last November.When he was interviewed by police he initially denied making the remark, but then admitted what he had said and apologised. He said he had not meant to offend anyone. He was fined £1,000, and ordered to pay Rowe compensation of £1,000. He also had to pay court costs of £600.Simon Davis, prosecuting, said Rowe was a 38-year-old security guard and close protection expert who described himself as “Afro English”. He had been assigned to look after Gascoigne for his visit to Wolverhampton.At 6pm on the evening of the show, Davis said Rowe visited Gascoigne in his dressing room. The former footballer allegedly said to him: “I didn’t know my security had got a suntan.” Rowe later said he was shocked but remained professional and got on with his job.During the show Rowe stood “discreetly” in the shadows at the side of the stage of the Civic Hall, Davis said. Gascoigne asked Rowe for a tissue because he was laughing or coughing – and made the racist remark.Davis said Rowe felt humiliated, angry and sad that a man he considered a football icon had made such a joke. “Mr Rowe felt the crowd go quiet,” Davis said. “He couldn’t believe the comment had been made in front of so many people. He was dazed and humiliated. But he maintained his professionalism.”In a statement to the court, Rowe said Gascoigne had been a “legend” to him and highlighted the 1990 World Cup when a Gascoigne-inspired England reached the semi-final. He said he had cried about the remark and had been unable to work after it was made.The court heard that a woman called Samantha Bright, who was at the show with her black boyfriend, walked out after the remark was made. She later told police she believed Gascoigne had been expecting a laugh, andthat some members of the audience did so.When interviewed by police, Gascoigne had said he meant no offence, and that it was “just good humour”. But he added: “I’m upset that I upset him ... Looking back I said the wrong thing. I’ve upset somebody. I apologise from the bottom of my heart. It will never happen again.” Gascoigne denied the dressing room comment.Defending, Gavin Harris said Gascoigne was sorry and had wanted to make a “heartfelt” apology to Rowe. Harris said that in private in football dressing rooms such language was used by many people. “Mr Gascoigne failed that night to stop private jokes entering the public sphere” but said he had learned his lesson.The court was not given details of Gascoigne’s issues with alcoholism, depression and the physical abuse of his ex-wife Sheryl. Judge Wilkinson said only: “You have lived a roller-coaster life.”Allowing Gascoigne to sit during his sentencing remarks, the judge said that his conviction did not make him a racist. The judge said he himself was a football fan and he was not aware of anything in Gascoigne’s past that would suggest he was racist.Wilkinson said society had become adept at challenging overt racism but the sort of “creeping racism” of which Gascoigne was guilty still had to be challenged. “A message needs to be sent out that in the 21st century such words will not be tolerated; they are not acceptable,” he said.steven morris (@stevenmorris20)Gazza signs autographs as he leaves court pic.twitter.com/8DI4MEJ9KQSeptember 19, 2016The judge praised Rowe’s “considerable courage” in coming forward and issued a warning that anyone who abused him via social media could face prosecution. Setting the level of the fine and compensation, the judge told the defendant: “You are not a man of huge wealth.”At the end of the hearing Gascoigne thanked the judge. He signed autographs as he left the court and was driven away in a Porsche, making no comment.