Fear of young people and the strange clothes they wear is nothing new. Following bank holiday riots in 1900, a Daily Graphic reporter wrote: 'The boys affect a kind of uniform... all of them have a peculiar muffler twisted around the neck, a cap set rakishly forward, well over the eyes, and trousers very tight over the knee and very loose at the foot.' Substitute the muffler for a 'hoodie', give the cap a Burberry pattern and the report, complete with its air of brooding menace, could almost have been written last week in response to the decision by a Kent shopping mall to ban hooded tops. There is now ample evidence that anxiety about the behaviour of young people is on the increase and that some of it at least is unjustified. An investigation into youth crime by the Institute for Criminal Policy Research at King's College, London, showed that the fear of youth crime far outstrips reality. The crime statistics illustrate that known young offenders commit around a tenth of all crime and the Metropolitan Police believes the figure may be 20 per cent. But surveys indicate that nearly two-thirds of the public believe young people are responsible for 40 per cent of crime, and a quarter believe they are responsible for 60 per cent. We find it increasingly difficult to trust our children and the climate of suspicion this generates can only increase the sense of alienation young people feel. As we report, the Home Office is now planning to issue uniforms to young people on community service to mark them out and promote the idea that non-custodial punishments are not a soft option. We are tempted to ask whether the uniform will have a hood and if the offenders will be issued with matching baseball cap. There is no reason to doubt Labour politicians when they say voters across the country are concerned about street-corner thugs, and it would be patronising to suggest that these fears are wholly unfounded. On some estates, small groups of youths are making people's lives a misery. And there is a widely held perception that examples of aggressive and thoughtless behaviour are on the rise as our commitment to shared standards of courtesy and respect is loosened. But we challenge the government to demonstrate that its concern with antisocial behaviour is part of a broader package to tackle the problems faced by the communities many Labour MPs represent - drugs, underperforming schools, poor healthcare, unemployment, and the still growing gap between the richest and poorest in our society. And we urge that young people are not made the focus of our anxieties about social disorder.