A terminally ill prisoner who has been offered the last rites is to remain in jail despite assurances that his application to be released on compassionate grounds would be reviewed if his condition deteriorated.Clive Spinks, 62, who was described by the court of appeal in January as having no prospect of recovery, remains in the hospital wing of Wakefield prison. His mother, May, described the refusal of the prison service to let him die with dignity as "heartless". Spinks, from Leeds, has served 10 years of a life sentence imposed for killing a man he claimed attacked him with a knife. His 12-year tariff for the offence expires in 2007. In October 2003 he was diagnosed as suffering from terminal cancer of the colon and was told that he had less than six months to live. That expectancy was extended after chemotherapy but his mother now describes him as being desperately ill. Last year Spinks applied to the home secretary to be released on compassionate grounds. The application was refused and the refusal upheld by a high court judge and the court of appeal. But the appeal court took note of the home secretary's pledge to monitor Spinks's condition in respect of any "material change in his life expectancy" with a view to recommending his release to the Parole Board. In January an appeal court judge said there was no prospect of recovery and added: "His life expectancy is, at this time, very short." Last Wednesday Mrs Spinks visited her son. She said he was virtually immobile and he had told her a chaplain had just offered him the last rites and asked him if he would like to take communion before he died. Mrs Spinks, 88, added: "He is so frail and in his present state of mind he could do with some company. He is no threat to anybody, they should send him to a hospice where he can die with dignity." Campbell Malone, from Stephenson's solicitors, which represents Spinks, called on the Home Office to show some compassion and keep its word. "The Home Office promised to monitor Mr Spinks's condition and they reassure us that they are doing this," he said. "It is time they kept their word and allowed this terminally ill man to end his days in peace and dignity with his family." A Home Office spokesman said it could not comment on the health of an individual prisoner. "However, prisoners routinely receive visits from ministers of religion, whatever their faith," he said. "Last rites are routinely offered as something that is available to terminally ill prisoners."