Nine gangmasters who employ hundreds of migrant workers face having their licences revoked after the largest crackdown of its kind found labourers were being underpaid and forced to live in substandard accommodation, it emerged yesterday. Officials discovered that labourers employed to pick daffodils and vegetables in Cornwall were being paid below the minimum wage, living in dirty and cramped conditions, and being forced to pay over the odds to be driven to the fields in dangerous vehicles. The crackdown, codenamed Operation Westport, took place over four days and included officials from agencies including the Gangmasters Licensing Authority (GLA), the police and local authorities. Eighty workers, mainly Poles, Lithuanians, Latvians and Bulgarians, were interviewed by GLA inspectors and raised a raft of complaints, including: · Workers employed by one labour provider had not been paid for three weeks;· A daily £12 transport charge per worker was deducted for a three-mile journey;· A weekly £10 "administration fee" charged to workers reduced pay below national minimum levels (£5.52 an hour);· Workers were saddled with excessive bills for accommodation, sometimes £50 a week, almost £20 more than they should have been paying;· The agricultural minimum wage, which is more than the normal minimum wage, was not paid to some workers who were entitled to it;· One gangmaster was subcontracting workers from unlicensed gangmasters;· Personal protective equipment, such as gloves, had to be bought by the workers, which is against health and safety regulations. More than 40 vehicles, mainly minibuses, were stopped and inspected. In 26 cases there were concerns about the safety of the vehicles or the competence of the driver. Eight vehicles were taken off the road at once. One minibus had a faulty tyre, another a handbrake that did not work properly, and in one a battery was being held in place with string. Three houses where a number of workers lived were found to be unfit for human habitation or unsafe and were closed.Paul Whitehouse, chairman of the GLA, which was set up following the death of 23 Chinese cocklepickers in Morecambe Bay in 2004, said: "The GLA is intent on cracking down on illegal work practice to protect workers from exploitation. Following this recent phase of our enforcement operations licences will be revoked, the question is how many. We will know more as soon as we have finalised our investigations. "Labour providers who continue to ignore the rights of workers and exploit the vulnerable should be in no doubt that we will catch them through our unannounced raids and other enforcement activities. Where we find abuses we will apply the maximum sanctions. We will not stand for worker exploitation and we will stamp it out."Neil Court, who was in charge of the operation on the ground, said it was the latest in a series of crackdowns. He said the workers had been interviewed via interpreters or asked to fill in forms describing their experiences. He said almost all were happy to speak to the GLA. He added that if licences were revoked the GLA would make every effort to find them employment elsewhere. More than 1,100 gangmasters are now licensed to operate legally in the UK and the GLA has uncovered worker exploitation and illegal activity that led to 47 licences being revoked. Operation Westport centred on areas around Penzance and Camborne in the west of Cornwall. Last year a Latvian woman, Iveta Knausis, who was in Cornwall picking flowers, lost her left leg just above the knee after a minibus accident. The driver, also a Latvian, had been banned from driving in his country and had never driven a right-hand drive vehicle before he plunged off the road, down a bank and into trees. One of her sons, Intars, 21, lost the sight of an eye.