The "debilitating and chilling effect" of overcrowding in jails is driving up the suicide rate and stifling rehabilitation work, the chief inspector of prisons said yesterday.In her first annual report, Anne Owers said: "There can be no doubt that most prisons are less safe than they were a year ago and many are also less decent places." The prison population has risen by 6,840 since the beginning of the year to a record 72,500, and the number of inmates who have killed themselves has reached 89 since January, compared with 72 self-inflicted deaths in 2001. The suicide rate in prisons in England and Wales is rising more rapidly than the increase in the prison population and has reached 116 for every 100,000 inmates, compared with 89 for every 100,000 a year ago. "The number appears to be rising," Ms Owers said. "Recently, there were eight suicides in one week, five of them within 24 hours. These shocking statistics are, of course, directly connected to prison overcrowding and the consequential 'churn' as prisoners continually move into and out of prisons throughout the estate." Although there have been improvements at some prisons such as Doncaster, which saw six suicides in one year, the chief inspector said prisons booked in and out as many as 100 inmates each day, with many of them arriving late at night. This made carrying out risk assessments very difficult. Some of those inmates most at risk were simply not being identified. "Some prisons still fail to carry out proper risk assessments for cell sharing, even following the deaths of Christopher Edwards and Zahid Mubarek," said Ms Owers, who also pressed for greater independent investigation of those deaths in custody which raise questions "that go to the heart of the safe running of a prison". These were matters which could not be dealt with by an inquest. The chief inspector said overcrowding meant that disturbances had been "more numerous and increasingly serious" as frustration over the amount of time spent in cells, or over being hundreds of miles away from home, could easily boil over. Appearing before the Commons home affairs select committee yesterday Ms Owers said she would not be surprised if a legal action under the Human Rights Act were brought over conditions in some prisons. She singled out the 20% of the prison population who have to share a cell meant for one, with a common toilet in full view and often providing the only place where one can sit to eat, as falling far short of basic standards of decency. "There are choices to be made, she said. "Prisons that are properly resourced and supported, and that are used only where necessary, can deliver positive work that provides long-term public protection by reducing reoffending. Or they can be 'Operation Container': warehousing prisoners and firefighting to limit the damage to them or the prison system." The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, in evidence to the committee yesterday, acknowledged the link between the rising number of suicides and overcrowding: "The increased population and higher population turnover, particularly in local prisons, is making it more difficult to identify the suicidal and intervene and help them." But he insisted that in difficult circumstances the prison service was performing well and was likely to hit demanding targets on education, drug treatment, and programmes to tackle offending behaviour and on getting inmates into jobs.