The police have been taking a close interest in a house in my street. Some male youths had moved in in the summer and it was obvious that they were trouble: trouble for their families, trouble for their neighbours, ultimately trouble for themselves.Those young men have now gone elsewhere and for several days a Met forensics team took their place. The local talk, informed by consultations with Safer Neighbourhoods officers, is of a sexual assault, traces of various banned substances, a link with an illegal weapon seized elsewhere.The physical proximity of such activity is not new to my neighbourhood, or others similar to it in London and elsewhere. But this was a year when the chilling extremes of teenage criminality emerged from the shadows into the limelight of national anxiety. There was no hiding from the existence of territorial teens ready to kill their peers and to risk being killed in their parallel world, one that became graphically more visible in 2007.The 25th teenager to be murdered in London this year was David Nowak, 16, from Stoke Newington, which lies a 10-minute walk from my front door. He was stabbed to death following a mass street brawl connected to a birthday party at a community centre.A month earlier, a little further down the road, 17-year-old Etem Celebi had been shot dead yards from his home by two youths reportedly seeking vengeance for an assault on another member of their gang.Apparently, it didn't matter on whom their retribution was visited, so long as he lived on enemy turf. Etem, uninvolved with gang business, fitted the bill. Unlike Suzanne Moore's daughter, neither of my teenage sons was a friend of the slain boy, but they both knew him because they too had been at the same school (also the one attended by David Nowak).The murder of Etem was all the more shocking to the wider community because it seems to have been nothing truly personal. Peaceable citizens disturbed by such events can normally steady their nerves with the knowledge that it's mostly not us and ours these young assassins terminate - it's each other. But my oldest boy, just home for Christmas after his first campus-based term at university, remarked the other day on how nice he was finding it to be living now in a place where he needn't feel nervous just going out.The readiness this year of teenage street gangs to employ fatal violence has transformed their presence in mainstream urban life from a largely subterranean sideshow into a frightening foreground feature. The media, of course, will go on becoming bored with being appalled but politicians may find it harder to do so. Forced to address reality at least they - even mayoral candidate Boris Johnson - seem to have recognised, like the police, that so-called "tough" and so-called "soft" approaches to the problem are not mutually exclusive (as right-wing crowd pleasers love to pretend) but complementary. In that acknowledgement lies the best hope we have that future remedial action will be effective. How big a hope? I couldn't possibly comment.