A third and final report into the death of Bob Woolmer has confirmed evidence that the former England batsman was not murdered, Jamaican police will reveal this week.The official announcement that Woolmer died of natural causes is expected to precipitate legal action from the Pakistani cricket team against the Kingston-based force. The initial belief that Woolmer was strangled prompted claims that members of the Pakistan team may have been responsible for the death of their 58-year-old coach.Now, Jamaican officers have received all the reports they requested into the cause of Woolmer's death in March. The last of the three pathologists' verdicts into the case was received last Tuesday from a strangulation expert in South Africa. Jamaican police said last Thursday they were examining 'new material' which now appears to corroborate the two earlier reports by pathologists, one from the Home Office, which concluded that Woolmer was not strangled.Woolmer was found dead in his hotel room in Kingston in March the day after Pakistan were beaten by minnows Ireland in the Cricket World Cup.Although Mark Shields, the former Scotland Yard officer and deputy police commissioner of the Jamaican police, led the investigation into Woolmer's death, it is understood that he will not be forced to explain why he mistakenly announced a murder inquiry. Instead Lucius Thomas, the head of the Jamaican police force, will explain that Woolmer was neither poisoned nor strangled and that his death was most likely a heart attack. The crucial piece of evidence that pointed to murder was the verdict by Dr Ere Seshaiah, a Jamaican pathologist, that the hyoid bone in Woolmer's neck was broken, a sign of strangulation.The humiliating U-turn for the Jamaican officers is likely to be exacerbated by the threat of legal action from Pakistani cricket players. Pervez Jamil Mir, spokesman for the team, claims the murder inquiry 'maligned' the name of Pakistan as well as high-profile members of its national cricket team. One of these, former Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq, described the aftermath of Woolmer's death as traumatic.'Besides all the trauma, I was alleged to be, God forbid, involved in Bob's murder,' he said. 'Now the true facts are coming out and I am thankful to the Almighty and pray that Pakistani cricket never sees such days again.'The case prompted speculation about the possible involvement of a 'match-fixing mafia' in Woolmer's death. The Pakistan team were finger-printed and provided DNA samples, with Inzamam among three members of the entourage who were questioned twice over the affair. Mir said these acts, along with repeated police statements that Woolmer was strangled, only fed speculation that Pakistan team members were somehow involved.'I will be recommending whatever legal actions [the Pakistan Cricket Board] needs to take because basically it was the Pakistan team on trial,' Mir said from Karachi, Pakistan. He did not give details. Mir said he also wants a public apology from Jamaica's police, claiming its spokesman, Karl Angell, told him and other team members two days after Woolmer's body was found that authorities believed he died from hypertension.Angell denied making the statement when asked to comment.It was reported last week that at the time of his death Woolmer had an enlarged heart, possibly caused by heavy drinking or being overweight and suffered from diabetes. Due to a snoring problem, he used a machine to help him breathe more easily at night. He was also stressed after Pakistan's defeat.