In court, the case was described as a tale about a princess and an artist. The princess was a voluptuous headless statue of one of the six daughters of Pharaoh Akhenaten and Queen Nefertiti, carved out of translucent alabaster.The artist was an extraordinarily gifted forger who boasted about how he "knocked up [the statue] in three weeks" in the garden shed of the council house he shared with his parents.But equally it could be seen as a story of frustrated talent and ambition; and a chronicle of how a greedy art world and over-stretched police force allowed this Bolton family to refine their early efforts until they were able to fool galleries, museums and dealers on both sides of the Atlantic.The princess, in the Egyptian Amarna style, sold for £440,000, largely from public funds, in 2003 and was given pride of place in the Bolton Museum. It was, said Angela Thomas, the Keeper of Egyptology, a rare piece of great significance.But in 2006 Shaun Greenhalgh, 47, the artist, was arrested along with his parents, Olive and George, for an art forgery operation spanning two decades that raised £1m.Shaun's greatest strength, according to the police, lay in the sheer diversity of his work, which his parents, armed with carefully researched provenances of family heirlooms, would then sell. Had they disposed of everything, they could have made more than £10m.George Greenhalgh, 84, in a wheelchair and wearing thick, gold-rimmed glasses, was said to be the principal salesman - "a nice old man," Angela Thomas recalled - who revelled in fictional stories of his ancestors. Greenhalgh, after all, was an old Lancashire name with many historical characters.The list of copied artists includes the painters LS Lowry and Samuel Peploe; sculptures came from Barbara Hepworth, Henry Moore, Otto Dix, Horatio Greenough, Man Ray, Brancusi, and Gauguin. From antiquity there were purported Roman silver and gold artifacts with original metals, probably from coins, Assyrian stone reliefs and Anglo-Saxon jewellery.The institutions approached included the British Museum, Tates Modern and Liverpool, the Henry Moore Museum in Leeds, museums in Manchester, Chester, Liverpool, Ireland and Dresden, and the auction houses of Sotheby's, Christie's, Philllips and Bonhams. The V&A provided funds.If any of these institutions had inquired into where the Greenhalgh's lived, questions might have been raised earlier. The red-brick terraced council house with poky windows on a bleak estate close to the west Pennine moors in the northern Bolton suburb of Bromley Cross is not the most obvious place for an Aladdin's cave of inherited treasure.After the three pleaded guilty in November and George's final sentencing today, the case is closed. But a closer examination reveals a more complex tale.Rather than being accomplished operators from the start, the family's early attempts to pass off forgeries were often rebuffed.In 1990 Peter Nahum, the international art dealer from The Leicester Galleries in London's St James's, took a call from a Mrs Greenhalgh who wanted to sell a still life by Samuel Peploe which she had apparently inherited from her grandfather.George arrived at the gallery with the painting late one afternoon and insisted on cash, saying the rival Portland Gallery might be interested.Nahum was under pressure, and handed over a cheque for £20,000. He had doubts later that night, he told the police 16 years later. On reinspection, he found it to be "a clever fake."The next day he faxed Scotland Yard's art and antiques squad: "The painting was inspected by my restorer Hamish Dewar - 9 Old Bond Street. He is prepared to stand in court. Tom Hewitt [of the Portland] says it's a fake. Over to you."The tip-off came to naught. According to former detective sergeant Dick Ellis the squad was under-staffed at the time and the Greenhalghs slipped through the net.It happened again in 1995. George tried to sell an Anglo-Saxon ring through Phillips Auctioneers, who took it to the British Museum for analysis. The keeper of pre-history in Europe department determined it was of modern origin. Anglo-Saxon, the experts now agree, was not the family's best suit. And the museum's experts recognised the family name from the past. In 1989 George had tried to sell to to Manchester University a 10th-century Anglo-Saxon silver vessel - the so-called Eadred Reliquary - he claimed he had found metal detecting in a Preston park.The museum decided it was not genuine. Three years later he presented a Roman silver tray, known as the lost Risley Park Lanx, to a London dealer. After intensive analysis, two British Museum experts concluded it was probably a copy, though not recent, and possibly using the original metal.Nevertheless, it was bought by a dealer for £100,000 and was later placed on display at British Museum.The museum contacted DS Ellis of the Yard but, once again, he told the Guardian, the squad was overwhelmed with other work.Another alert came in 1999 when Christie's was asked for an opinion on two Roman gold ornaments. They were withdrawn from sale after George would not allow them to be scientifically analysed. The auction house's own internal research revealed the Greenhalghs' links with a number of fakes in the past; and when the Amarna Princess was sold in 2002, Christie's, which was asked to value it, raised concerns about the provenance. They were not, however, followed through.And so the business thrived: a bust of Thomas Jefferson purportedly by Greenough but produced in a hired Bolton workshop, sold at Sotheby's for £48,000; a Barbara Hepworth terracotta goose was bought by the Henry Moore Institute for £3,000.Even today, after a lengthy police investigation, the family remains an enigma. How did Shaun, who left school without qualifications, manage to acquire this dazzling talent, not only in copying such varied art forms but also in sourcing original materials and creating elaborate provenances?George, we know, served in the last war and was wounded in Italy. "I got two bullets in my head and one in my back and it still hurts," he told a sentencing hearing this month. Significantly he is said to have been a technical drawing teacher, though where is unknown. Metal detecting was a hobby.Peter Clayon of Seaby's Antiquities in Old Bond Street first met George in 1991 when a grey-haired balding man came into the gallery carrying a suitcase. Inside, wrapped in a tartan blanket, was a silver tray, which he said contained an old family treasure. It turned out to be a replica of a tray from Risley Park which had been found by a ploughman in 1729."He seemed like an ordinary, elderly gent," Clayton recalls. "He was bluff and amiable, like a farmer. "Police suggested the family had a relatively frugal lifestyle, without even internet access. They lived in the same council house for decades, and did not even take the odd cruise. Olive apparently never left Bolton. There was, however, a fine library of art books.Some neighbours have longer memories. "They kept themselves very much to themselves," said one. Another recalls the young Shaun being a bit of a tearaway, often throwing what appeared to be broken old plates around the garden. Sometimes ancient coins were spotted in the hedge. Clearly something was going on before Shaun mastered the subtle brilliance of a Turner-inspired Moran watercolour, which he claimed he could run off in half an hour.It was George who was known locally as the artist. "He used to make these lovely stone Greek statues years ago and sell them on the front lawn as garden ornaments," said another neighbour. "I once said to Olive, 'If your husband was dishonest he could be a rich man.' She just sort of recoiled with a shocked look on her face."The Greenhalghs were finally rumbled by a piece of stone. In 2005 George wrote to the British Museum enclosing photographs of three reliefs in the Assyrian style dating back to between the 9th and 7th century BC. Unaware of the file on the Greenhalghs, the museum was excited. One of the reliefs, with a soldier and horses, appeared to be from the palace of Sennacherib in Nineveh. "A superb example," wrote John Curtis, Keeper of the Middle East department.Shortly afterwards Shaun arrived with the tablets at the British Museum in his Ford Focus (bought from the proceeds of the Bolton princess). The museum decided to buy the horses stone and the two others were sent for sale to Bonhams.One was examined by Chantelle Waddington, head of antiquities, and consultant Richard Falkiner. "It was a gut instinct, but stylistically it didn't add up," says Falkiner.They took their suspicions to the British Museum, who then began a more detailed forensic examination.This time the police acted and connections were soon made with the Amarna Princess and the Risley Park Lanx - both of them withdrawn from view - and many other forgeries.In their first interviews the three stuck to the story of family heirlooms but as the evidence mounted up, Shaun made a statement. At trial his barrister told a sad story: "Mr Greenhalgh discovered many years ago he has no style of his own. He had one outlook and that was his garden shed. What he can do is copy. He was completely self-taught ... that may make him unique. He was trying to perfect the love he had for such arts."There remains a final, nagging question: what was the Greenhalghs' motivation? Certainly not the quest for a grand house or an opulent lifestyle. Experts say forgers are often driven by an inability to develop a distinctive style and a concomitant desire to mock the vanity and greed of the elitist art world. It may be so.Last week the Guardian knocked on the front door of the Greenhalgh house to ask these questions. A lock rasped shut, a blind was drawn and from behind the frosted glass plane a woman shouted: "Go away or I'll set the dog on you."