Later today, the prime minister will use his speech to party conference to launch an assault on "antisocial behaviour". Good.In July, writing at the Open Left website launched by James Purnell, I argued that:The left must once again organise in, and speak for, the respectable working class in Britain's most dangerous places. A project to empower those who play by the rules to reclaim their own streets, overwhelm the thugs, drug-dealers, work-shy and criminals, and then take charge in building up from below the kind of social spaces that the middle class take for granted is a generational task for the left, and will require a new, and working class, social movement.However, if the advance notices of the speech are accurate, Gordon Brown is only offering a list of new punishments. I hope this is not true.Brown should speak positively, instead. He should summon up the powers of the decent majority and of their potential to reclaim their own streets. He should declare the determination of his government to back that decent majority. He could follow his hero James Maxton and look to their "mass enthusiasm" not to Whitehall diktat.He could talk of the critical role of from-below regeneration through grassroots sport delivered by charities like Street Games. He could encourage a new social role for unions and the Co-op on the worst estates, extending the cultures of order and decency and solidarity from workplace to estate.We could decide to create and empower "estate stewards", a modern (and largely female, probably) version of those old dense networks of authoritative community leaders that used to be thrown up naturally by the cultures of labour.A courageous politician would declare war on the culture of indifference bordering on contempt that exists within parts of the police when it comes to the torment endured by decent working class people. And he would not give a damn for the comfortable columnists and academics who shut up the mouths of desperate working class people with their conversation-stopping mantra "moral panic, moral panic, moral panic." (Look out for that shady phrase in tomorrow's papers.)But if the PM offers only punishments, well, then maybe IDS will do better.The speech will probably be dismissed as a weakened leader playing to middle Britain. Actually, the issue should be our version of In Place of Fear. It should be our crusade, for our people. And it should be cast as what it is, a progressive pursuit of the decent society, entirely at one with the best and most generous instincts of the labour movement.