You can feel the atmosphere of a prison the second you drive through the gates - even entombed, as you usually are, in one of those wretched cells-on-wheels that carry prisoners for many long hours and miles between one cage and another.In 1990, Wormwood Scrubs felt uninspiring. And when I was escorted out of the van and set eyes on it, it was. The gaff was a dump, even by the standards of decrepit local jails. It was teeming with cockroaches and rats bloated on the contents of the shit parcels that cascaded down daily from the barred windows. (A perfectly reasonable alternative for cons - better than leaving your turds floating in a bucket in your cell for hours on end.)I stayed for three months, awaiting trial at the Old Bailey. I was on the "easy" wing that held a hefty number of London "faces", who had status among cons and screws: men like Old Wally Downes, dead now, up for a blag on which Kenny Baker, a serious robber, had been shot dead by the police (despite wearing, as always, a bullet-proof vest on the job); or "Vodka John", part of the Wembley mob, who'd been put away by Bertie Smalls, the first supergrass to go public. (John's still alive, I hope, and no doubt still reading the Telegraph.) My association with the faces kept me out of the segregation unit, a brutal place. The other day, I took the Central line to East Acton to walk back into the nick I'd left 13 years ago. Instead of being sent there by a court, an invitation had come from Jenny Davies, who works on the resettlement programme at the Scrubs. The prison was holding an open-day, in which soon-to-be-released cons had the opportunity to meet in the flesh prospective employers and helpers. I was interested; it would be the first prison I was going into as a Guardian journalist, and resettlement schemes are usually associated with category D (open) prisons, or Cat Cs, where they have the time and low populations to manage such programmes. The Scrubs is a local nick, filled with men on remand, or those serving short sentences. Then there are the mentally ill for whom there are no hospital beds, the immigration cases ... in short, it is a warehouse for bodies. Walking through the gates, I was struck by the cleanliness of the place. Tidy lawns, attractive flowerbeds, relatively (by prison standards) litter-free areas nearest to cell windows. The resettlement day took place in the CofE chapel. I made a beeline for the cons, about 30 in all, and had time to talk to 10 of them. They looked feisty to me - not the sort, if I'm any judge (and I ought to be), to toe the prison line just because they were having coffee with a few civvies. Our conversations were unmonitored. Vital first question: how are the staff in here? The answer to that, in my view, tells you all you need to know about a nick. Make no mistake; bad conditions serve mainly to inconvenience prisoners. Bad screws make their life a misery. Do you know what? Ten out of 10 gave roughly the same answer. "No problem" from one; "Some of them go out of their way to help," from another; "They leave you alone". In our shared context, that is high marks for the screws. At lunch, Sonia, a member of staff, asked me if I'd like to take an impromptu tour of the wings - just her and me. "Is the Pope a Catholic?" I thought. "Lead on," I said. Very strange feeling, walking through the deserted-for-lunch-landings. (I saw all of them, except the hospital and segregation unit. One of these days ...) I felt like a prisoner again except that here, too, all was now spick and span. I was allowed to knock on a couple of cell doors, to ask the occupants whether they'd consent to a chat. They did, and the impression I'd received from the 10 men in church was confirmed. Both cells contained fruit given out by the kitchen, not bought from the canteen out of wages. So I asked to go to the kitchen. The huge cooking area was spotless, despite having served 1,200 or so lunches an hour before. The catering officer called it "the best kitchen in London". After the tour, I discovered an interesting fact about Wormwood Scrubs. When the huge prison - still one of the largest in Europe - was built, between 1875 and 1891, the four wings were designed to ensure that each one got an equal amount of sunlight, as the sun travelled from east to west. The notion of that intended benevolence stayed with me. You see, despite the winter sunshine which had brightened the day of my visit - and despite what I'd seen about the nick - I was well aware of the recent dark history of the place. In April 1998, eight years to the day after the Strangeways prison revolt started, the Guardian broke the story that nine screws from the Scrubs had been suspended, following widespread allegations of brutality. The four-year investigation by the Metropolitan police was to be by far the biggest of its kind ever in the penal system. At its conclusion, police files on 43 screws accused of brutality and torture were sent to the Crown Prosecution Service. After a series of trials, six were jailed (though three convictions were overturned on appeal). More tellingly perhaps, the Prison Service has paid out more than £300,000 in damages in actions brought by the prisoners who made the allegations. The cases - in the civil court, where the required burden of proof is lower - continue, and it's been estimated that the total payout will exceed £1m. The staff at this prison clearly had work to do. The staff and management of the Scrubs appear to have transformed their prison. (If I'm wrong, I hope some of the cons I didn't see will tell me.) For that they deserve enormous credit. If Wormwood Scrubs can turn itself around, then the other penal dustbins (and they know who they are) have absolutely no excuse not to follow suit. A final question to the Home Office: why does there always have to be a storm before the sun starts to shine on a prison? · Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent e.allison@theguardian.com