Undercover police officers are to be sent into pubs and clubs to catch staff who serve drunks, controversial plans being studied by the Home Office reveal. The plan, which could be rolled out as early as November and extend to the Christmas period, has been seen as a response to mounting public concern about alcohol-related violence.However, the move has provoked anger in the leisure industry. 'We would question whether this is appropriate during the Christmas period,' said a spokesman for the British Beer and Pub Association (BBPA). 'If there is going to be a national campaign, the police are going to be under pressure to make arrests. You can't send an officer to spend all day in a pub and not arrest anyone.'The scheme is being piloted in Blackpool, where police have issued two fines to staff serving drunk people. But the association said defining who is drunk is a problem. 'There is no legal definition of what constitutes drunkenness,' the spokesman said. 'That will make the plan difficult to operate.'He also questioned whether pubs were the right targets. 'The pub is a controlled drinking environment. Police time might be better spent on the streets.'Under the proposals, Home Office funding would be made available to forces to place officers in problem pubs. The amount of money available and how many forces will participate is still being discussed, according to Home Office sources.A spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) confirmed it had been advising the government on the plan. 'Acpo has been in discussions with the Home Office regarding this matter, but details of the plans are yet to be finalised,' the spokesman said.In the past the Home Office has conducted national campaigns to combat alcohol-related crime and disorder. But this would be the first time it has targeted bar staff.The move follows the relaxation of the licensing laws which has seen pubs open later. Critics of the move say it has fuelled a rise in violence.Attacks in pubs and clubs increased by 55 per cent in Devon and Cornwall in the year after the licensing laws were relaxed. The government's own research revealed that there were 1,087,000 violent attacks by drunks in the first full year - up 64,000 on the previous year. Some types of drink-related assault increased by more than 130 per cent in the early hours.Prime Minister Gordon Brown has announced a review of the change in licensing hours.Concerns about alcohol-related violence hit the headlines this summer following the death of Garry Newlove in Warrington, Cheshire. The 47-year-old father-of-three died after being punched and kicked by a gang of youths who, it is believed, had been drinking.