The husband of an award-winning BBC make-up artist who vanished eight days ago has been arrested on suspicion of her murder.Diane Chenery-Wickens, 48, who worked on hit television shows Dead Ringers and The League of Gentlemen, has not been seen since last Thursday, when she was reported missing by her husband, David.Mr Chenery-Wickens, 51, a spiritualist minister, is understood to be in custody at Eastbourne police station. Yesterday, police said a 51-year-old man from East Sussex had been arrested on suspicion of her murder and will be interviewed later.The couple's four-bedroom house in Duddleswell, near Uckfield, was being searched last night. Police said they had not found a body in connection with Mrs Chenery-Wickens' disappearance.Russell Wickens, the brother of the missing artist, said that he knew little about his sister's husband. "I don't really know enough about him but from what I understand he is not a vicar but I believe he is involved in a spiritualist church."Mr Chenery-Wickens, who wore a dog collar, is a "roving minister" who would attend churches and hospitals whenever he was needed, according to friends and neighbours. He is also a railway enthusiast and catering manager for the Lavender Line, a steam railway in East Sussex run by volunteers.His wife won an Emmy for her work on Arabian Nights and was twice Bafta-nominated for Dead Ringers. Shortly after she was reported missing, police issued a statement saying she was last seen travelling by train with her husband to London from East Grinstead to attend a meeting at the BBC in Shepherds Bush. Her husband said he last saw her waving him goodbye at Kensington Olympia station in London, as she headed to BBC offices.Mr Chenery-Wickens said he planned to meet his wife at a hairdresser where she had an appointment but when he arrived there staff said they had not seen her.He told police he tried calling her on his mobile phone but on each occasion it went straight to voice mail.Last night, a spokesman for Sussex police said they did not know whether Mrs Chenery-Wickens attended a meeting at the BBC last Thursday or not. The BBC would not comment, saying that the matter was in the hands of the police.Marion Taylor, shop manager of the Lavender Line, who has known Mr Chenery-Wickens for six years, said he was well-liked and used to volunteer whenever he could, but was on call as a minister from churches and hospitals in the area.Taylor said the first she heard about the disappearance was last Sunday, when Mr Chenery-Wickens had been cooking at the line's only station, in Isfield. "He had to leave early as his wife was missing and he had heard that police were at the door," she said.A neighbour who did not want to be named said: "I recognised Diane on a television appeal last night and I was amazed. They are a nice couple. He is a minister who goes around helping people and listening to their tales of woe."She is very happy and bubbly and he is a lovely chap, always very eager to help everybody."Earlier this week, Mrs Chenery-Wickens' family issued an appeal for help in tracing her. Russell Wickens said the family were "sick with worry" and that she had never gone missing before.Mrs Chenery-Wickens was wearing a brown suede jacket, jeans and boots at the time of her disappearance.