Government plans to hive off parts of the probation service to the private sector were today branded "dangerous" by a penal reform charity. The Howard League for Penal Reform warned that plans to allow private firms and voluntary groups to run elements of probation would lead to the virtual abolition of the probation service. The charity raised its concerns following the Home Office publication last month of a proposed overhaul of the Probation Service. Measures outlined in Restructuring Probation to Reduce Reoffending, include giving the secretary of state power to contract for probation services to allow for greater value for money through competition.The plans are being scrutinised today by the Commons' all-party home affairs select committee. Frances Crook, director of the Howard League, said: "These are dangerous proposals which increase the risk to the public, represent a death sentence for a public probation service and will not reduce crime. "There is no evidence that yet another mammoth and costly reform is required and the decisions to do so are being taken behind closed doors." A briefing paper by the charity has been sent to the committee, the Home Office and the Treasury, which said the proposals would move away from locally accountable services to a regionally based system. It added that "private corporations will triumph over local expertise and knowledge". Ms Crook said: "Despite the appearance of consultation, these changes will be pushed through regardless of the widespread objection from the probation world, and with no real public debate. "I am not sure that the public would be comfortable with the idea of private security companies managing problem offenders in the community." It emerged earlier this month that probation service managers have been warned by top bosses to always use the term "contestability" rather than "privatisation". The Home Office said the rehabilitation of offenders and cutting re-offending were "top priority" for the National Offender Management Service. A spokesman added: "We are not privatising the Probation Service."