A hospital trust was today fined £100,000 after pleading guilty to failing to supervise doctors at a hospital where a man died following a routine knee operation. Southampton University Hospitals NHS Trust was also ordered to pay £10,000 in costs following the health and safety prosecution prompted by the death of Sean Phillips at Southampton General hospital in June 2000.The case was brought after senior house officers Amit Misra and Rajeev Srivastava were convicted of manslaughter by gross negligence in 2003. Both were sentenced to 18 months in prison suspended for two years. Sitting at Winchester crown court, Mr Justice Cresswell said today the breach was an "extremely serious offence" and that the medical care of people was a "solemn duty". He said: "Common sense dictates that a reasonable standard of care must pertain seven days a week, 52 weeks a year."The judge said Mr Phillips, from Southampton, had a "tragic death". "A fine healthy and much-loved person has died unnecessarily. Anyone listening to this matter can have nothing but the deepest sympathy for the family and friends of Sean Phillips." Earlier the court was told that Mr Phillips was admitted to Southampton General hospital to repair torn knee ligaments. The operation went well and he was expected to leave the next day. But an infection set in which Mr Phillips was unable to deal with and toxins started to build up in his body, in a rare reaction. Despite a high temperature, high pulse rate and low blood pressure, both Misra and Srivastava failed to diagnose the condition or seek help and advice from senior doctors even though they visited Mr Phillips eight times over two days. . Myles Phillips, father of Sean Phillips, said outside court: "I think the judge did the best he could within the constraints of what he had to work with, but these trusts have got to be fined a lot more than that in the future. They have to understand that second rate treatment (from the two doctors) will not do." He said if mistakes continued, trusts should be fined upwards of £1m. At an earlier hearing, Southampton University Hospitals NHS Trust pleaded guilty to failing to supervise doctors in the trauma and orthopaedic department. The General Medical Council later suspended Misra from working for one year and Srivastava for six months. In a rare move, the Crown Prosecution Service charged the trust following the trial. At a sentencing hearing at Winchester crown court yesterday, Hywel Jenkins, prosecuting, said that a proper system of supervision and evaluation of junior staff at the hospital could have saved Mr Phillips's life. Mr Jenkins said if the hospital had organised daily visits by a specialist registrar for all patients "the chances of it (the condition) being missed would have been lessened". The trust's barrister Richard Lissack, said: "The trust is desperately sorry for Sean Phillips' family and friends."Mr Lissack said the trust had never sought to deny its responsibility but he stressed to the court that that responsibility was limited in its scope and related to one aspect of care in one department. Mr Lissack said that since the death of Mr Phillips, the trust had set up an automated early warning system that monitors patients' vital signs and when there is a problem, it triggers an automatic response and a senior doctor becomes involved. The hearing was also told that the fine would come out of the general budget for the trust and so would be taken from money used for patient care. Mr Lissack said the trust had overspent by £6m in the last financial year.