Detectives investigating the murder of Amarjit Chohan and the disappearance of his family yesterday completed a five-day search at a remote farm in Devon where they believe the millionaire's body was buried before being dumped in the sea.As an international hunt continued for two men considered prime suspects, the detective in charge of the investigation said there was evidence that a body or bodies had been hidden in the field, next to a country lane in Stoodleigh.Forensic scientists are examining evidence from the scene, but detectives refused to reveal what had been found.The haulage company boss was found floating in the water near the pier at Bournemouth last month. There is no sign of his wife, mother-in-law and two sons, about whose welfare police are becoming increasingly concerned.Mr Chohan, 46, his wife Nancy, 25, their sons Ravinder, four months, Devinder, 19 months, and Mrs Chohan's mother, Charanjit Kaur, 51, vanished from their home in Heston, in west London, on or about February 16.Police have named Ken Regan, alias Avery, and William Horncy, alias Smith, as prime suspects. The men, who are believed to be travelling under their aliases, were seen at Dover on Wednesday boarding a ferry for France. Mr Regan, 54, from Salisbury in Wiltshire, who is believed to have known Mr Chohan for eight years, joined his firm, CIBA Freight, as an HGV driver last year. Police said Mr Horncy, 50, from the Bournemouth area, was an associate of Mr Regan.Detective Chief Inspector Norman McKinlay, of the Metropolitan police, said: "From the searches of premises we have conducted and interviews of persons, I am satisfied that these two people are involved in the murder of Amarjit Chohan and also involved in the missing members of Chohan's fam ily."Speaking from the excavation site in Devon, Det Ch Insp McKinlay said: We have found some significant things and there is evidence that a body or bodies have been here. We believe the body of Mr Chohan ... has been here at some time.Belinda Brewin, a former publicist who worked at Mr Chohan's haulage firm, said she had contacted police after seeing Mr Regan digging in her field.She revealed how she called police on Monday of last week when she returned home to find Regan digging in a field where he had previously been hired to lay drainage. "I did call the police because I came home one day and found Regan digging. I was suspicious."Det Ch Insp McKinlay said: "We believe Mr Chohan was killed elsewhere and his body was brought here to be buried and was then dug up and put into the sea."Mr Chohan's company is based in Southall and imports fruit and vegetables from Africa. It employs 22 people and has an annual turnover of £3m to £4m. Det Ch Insp McKinlay confirmed that CIBA was also involved in the importation of a narcotic named qat, a substance legal in the UK but banned in the US. When chewed it can cause mild hallucinogenic effects."We are obviously investigating the financial dealings of Mr Chohan and of course we have been looking at all aspects. Is it possible that he was intimidated or threatened? Was there somebody trying to take over the company?" the detective said.Neighbours have not seen the family since February 15, but Mr Chohan was spotted trying to get rid of the family car, a Ford Escort, in the Southampton area on February 21. Parts have been found after it was sold for spares but they yielded no clues about the family's whereabouts.Two men, who were in the car when it was involved in a minor road accident later that day, have since contacted police but officers refused to release details.