The amount of cocaine seized by the police and border officials has surged to the highest level in more than a decade, despite an overall fall in the numbers of seizures, new figures show.Authorities confiscated 4,228kg (9,321lb) of the class A drug in England and Wales in 2015-16, a rise of a quarter on the previous year and the largest quantity since 2004, according to Home Office data published on Thursday. The amount of herbal cannabis seized more than doubled to 30,493kg (67,226lb) – the highest level since 2008-09. However, there were sharp falls in the quantities of ecstasy, heroin, LSD and amphetamines picked up.The rise in the quantity of cocaine seized was largely down to a 31% increase in the amount seized by Border Force officials; this was also the case with herbal cannabis. By comparison, the change in the amount of cocaine picked up by police forces was not statistically significant, while the amount of herbal cannabis seized on the streets of England and Wales fell 28%. The report said the large increase in overall cannabis seizures was down to a 159% rise in Border Force seizures.Overall, the number of drug seizures fell by just over 10% to 148,553 in 2015-16 – the fourth consecutive annual fall. Total seizures of cannabis and cocaine fell by 12% and 1% respectively, the figures showed.The report said the total number of drug seizures each year is “highly correlated” with the number of drug offences recorded by police. In 2015-16, there was a 13% fall in drug offences logged by forces, with the number dropping by 39% since a peak seen in 2008/09. The Home Office would not comment on the reason behind the sharp increase in the amount of cocaine stopped at the border. The department stressed that the amount of drugs seized should not be taken as a measure of prevalence.A spokesperson said: “Drugs seizures are just one part of our strategy to tackle the harms caused by drugs. Our approach remains clear – we must prevent drug use in our communities and help dependent individuals recover, while ensuring our drugs laws are enforced.“We have seen a reduction in drug misuse among adults and young people compared with a decade ago and we are working with other government departments and key partners to develop a new drug strategy, which will be published in the coming months.”