The most dramatic moment in the trial of Rosemary West at Winchester crown court in 1995 came with the collapse of a witness in the midst of crucial evidence. The witness was Janet Leach, a 39-year-old mother of five who had been selected at random to act as an "appropriate adult" and sit in on the police interrogation of Frederick West, accused of a series of despicable murders of girls and young women over a number of years.Her function was to watch that the police behaved properly throughout the interviews. No more. She never expected to be called as a witness. But when Frederick West committed suicide before his trial, it became necessary that Leach be questioned in order to help convict Rosemary West.I have never seen anyone look more nervous than she did. Anxiety emanated from her like a mist, drifting into every corner of the courtroom. She had good reason. For though she had endured 80 official police interviews with West, she had additionally formed a friendship with him and continued to visit him privately in prison once a week for months afterwards, and spoke to him on the telephone three times a week.All this was gradually exposed by counsel, and Leach collapsed under the strain. She was literally struck dumb, losing the power of speech, and had to be rushed to hospital for treatment. Had she not been able to continue with her testimony, the case against Rosemary West may well have had to be dropped. Lawyers were prepared to await her return to the witness box, however long it took.They had to wait six days, and then she was brought back in a wheelchair, her face as white as flour and accompanied by a doctor, to suffer her ultimate demolition. She had been presented as the one untainted witness amid the crawling heap of others who had been purchased by unprincipled newspapers. Now Richard Ferguson QC revealed that she had in fact called the Daily Mirror and made an arrangement to tell all she knew (and all she ought to have told the police instead) in return for £100,000. Her duplicity open to all the world, Leach was a woman on the edge of a catastrophic disintegration. We did not feel much sympathy for her at the time; it looked as if she had brought calamity upon herself.Appropriate Adult, ITV's two-part dramatisation of her role, which concludes evening, examines the relationship with Frederick West and considers the painful truth which led up to that collapse. It is a compelling piece of drama with an astonishing central performance by Emily Watson, which tears the gut and utterly restores that sympathy which was difficult to summon in court. But is it true?The accuracy of other aspects of the film suggests that it probably is. The substance of the police interviews with West are taken from transcript, without elaboration, and reflect in tone all that I recall from the originals. His bluster, his cockiness, his lies, his arrogance, his palpable serpentine evasions, are all here, in another intelligent and searching performance by Dominic West, who has to convey the man's surface easy-going nature and suggest as well the cruelty and perversions beneath.Depicted with graphic accuracy, too, is the house at 25 Cromwell Street in Gloucester. I went through it, and saw precisely what is now shown in the film, the small claustrophobic rooms, the central creaking staircase, the wretched peep-hole into the room where Frederick West watched his wife practise the prostitution which he demanded of her. There is an unnerving moment when we see the painstaking excavations of the back yard, deep holes squelching with water, and we can almost smell the decay which suffuses the screen. But mercifully the producers stop there. They do not show the discovery of bones, nor the evidence of the most disgusting torture, so unspeakable that even the worst of our newspapers forebore to report it. For this is not a film about the West crimes, which would be a project replete with shame; it is the story of a very unpleasant duty taken on by Janet Leach with tragic consequences for her.We watch his very creepy flirtation with her, gaining her confidence, praising her concern, trying (successfully, alas) to impress her, flattering her, calling for her help,manipulating her with that weird and woeful charm which the psychopath can so readily summon from the abyss of the soul. She even buys a present for him. He also manages to shock her, without her ever realising (how could she?) that the desire to shock is part of the sadist's tool-kit; it asserts power over the victim's emotions. Although he can no longer torture his victims, he can still ensnare her, and assure her ultimate destruction. As the detective says to her at the end: "You were utterly irrelevant to him."