If the escaped prisoner Michael Wheatley – the subject of a major manhunt this week – had not been nicknamed "Skullcracker", would we have been quite so exercised about his disappearance?Crime is perhaps the only profession where having an ominously threatening nickname is a good career move. "Mad" Frankie Fraser, still with us, and Frank "the Mad Axeman" Mitchell, murdered in the 1960s, both owed their fearsome reputations to many acts of violence, but having the unhinged prefix must have made life simpler when it came to collecting debts and settling arguments.Half a century before the police were hunting for "Skullcracker", the most famous of prison escapees was one Walter "Angel Face" Probyn. He was given his monicker at the age of 15 by the press who had been fed it by the police. Probyn reckoned that the police and press collaborated on fancy nicknames for villains because it made any arrest sound more heroic and life easier for headline writers. He was relieved that another nickname the police tried to give him – the "Dimpled Demon" – did not stick, although sometimes he was referred to as the "Hoxton Houdini".Brian Wright, the very busy cocaine smuggler jailed at Woolwich crown court for 30 years in 2007, was known as "the Milkman" – yes, because he "always delivered". This might have been a testament to how much he was trusted by his clients but probably did not help when the judge decided on his sentence. It also ensured that, when he was on the run and hiding out in Northern Cyprus a decade ago, he attracted the kind of media attention that a chap without a nickname might have avoided.Some nicknames carry no threatening baggage: Jack "the Hat" McVitie, who was killed by Reggie Kray in 1967, was sensitive about going bald and thus always wore his trademark headgear. John Moriarty (no relation to the fictional one) was a north London armed robber active in the 70s known as "the Target" because he had been shot so many times. Micky Cornwall, shot dead in 1977, was known as "the Laughing Bank Robber" because of his permanent grin.The most famous smash'n'grab thief of the last century was called "Ruby" Sparks who got his nickname because he stole a maharajah's jewels, was told that they were fakes and only discovered after he had given them all away that they were, indeed, genuine rubies. He was also known as "Rubberface" because he contorted his features when the police tried to take mug shots. His getaway driver in his pre-war heyday was a young middle-class woman from Wembley called Lillian Goldstein who was always referred to as "the Bobbed-Haired Bandit" by a press fascinated by her exploits. Nowadays, if a female criminal is given a nickname by the press is it often a play on the misogynistic "Black Widow".Many nicknames have been borrowed from American gangsters or films: Philip "Little Caesar" Jacobs was jailed at the Old Bailey 1972 for gangland activities; Victor "Scarface" Russo was a Glasgow wideboy of the 50s who also operated in London, and whose own face had been redecorated many times in an era when criminals used razors rather than guns. More recently, John "Goldfinger" Palmer was a notorious time-share fraudster and conman.The rule for a criminal nickname would seem to be: very handy, if you want your reputation to precede you, or you fancy writing your memoirs one day; rather less useful if you want to keep a low profile when you are on the run.The danger, of course, is that the nicknames, particularly those with a larky, Runyonesque feel to them, make light of the reasons for which they were acquired. "Skullcracker" might sound like a jokey character in Guys and Dolls – but is not so funny if you were the cashier whose skull he cracked.