There are some stories that hook right into our primeval suspicions, that are unsurprising because they reinforce things we have believed, in however woolly a way, all along. A recent discovery by the Sussex police force, that incidents of anti-social behaviour rise significantly whenever there is a full moon, is one of them. Inspector Andy Parr, who has the unenviable responsibility of policing Brighton at weekends, set the number of violent crimes his force had recorded in the past year against the dates on which they had been committed and found that they peaked on payday - and when the moon was full. They now plan to beef up their patrols at full moon. "I'm aware that this is just one of many things that can influence public disorder, but if you speak to ambulance staff, they will tell you exactly the same," he said.The full moon has been blamed and lauded and wondered at for its effect on many things over the centuries: the ancient Egyptians thought crops should be sown at the time of the full moon (a belief that persists with some farmers even now), and the full moon, cradled by a crescent, crowns the heads of many Egyptian deities. It's a symbol of recurring rejuvenation, but also to be feared: lycanthropy, or shapeshifting into wolf form, appears in different guises, all over Europe; association of the legend with the full moon occurs in medieval England and is then picked up in modern fiction. We instinctively believe ourselves tethered, like the tide, to lunar waxing and waning - William Fulke, in his Book of Meteors (1640), was a bit of a latecomer in his assertion that, "From the new moone, to the full, all humors do encrease and from the full to the new Moone, decrease againe" - and that in certain phases this tethering pulls us out of the bounds of normal reason. That, after all, is the root of the word "lunacy". (Which, when combined with the common belief that menstrual cycles follow the moon's peregrinations, can lead to some unfortunate conclusions.) As the writer Kevin Jackson argued a few years ago, English literature's debts to the moon and its phases would fill a hefty book - at least as hefty as Robert Graves's moon-worshipping mythological epic The White Goddess.Our supposedly cynical, ultra-scientific age is no exception. In horoscopes, of course, the moon's influence is an article of faith, but the full moon has also been linked, in all seriousness, to everything from traffic accidents to kidnappings, casino payout rates to A&E admissions, sleep-walking to aggression by professional sportsmen. And, as with many of these things, there is often some evidence. One American study discovered that murders could treble at the time of a full moon. A three-month tracking of 1,200 prisoners in the maximum security wing of HMP Leeds found that there was a distinct increase in violence on either side of a full moon. Animals aren't immune either: In February 2004, National Geographic News reported that Chanchall Bhattacharjee and colleagues at the Bradford Royal Infirmary had "reviewed 1,621 patients admitted to the infirmary's emergency room between 1997 and 1999 for animal bites and found that the chances of being bitten were twice as high on or around full-moon days."Case closed, one might say - but, as with anything this mysterious, not really. The Bhattacharjee case was published in the December 23 2000 issue of the British Medical Journal - alongside a similar one by Simon Chapman at the University of Sydney in Australia. The latter found no connection between big round moons and dog bites at all. "My own opinion is that the case for full-moon effects has not been made," said Ivan Kelly, a Canadian psychologist, who reached this rather spoilsport judgment by publishing no fewer than 15 papers on the topic and reviewing more than 50 others.Dr Glenn Wilson, reader in personality at King's College London, once did a similar exercise, reviewing all the research done up to that point. He encountered one or two case studies of people "who claimed to have a bit of the wolf in them, who went wild on full-moon nights - and, of course, it's a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy. If people believe that they've got a bit of wolf in them, then they might go a bit wild." He hasn't any time for the menstrual link, either. "That is absolutely not the case because women cycle at different times, which are not connected to moon phases - and, of course, animals have cycles that don't correspond with the monthly phases of the moon."Overall, "the conclusion was that the effects were minimal and inconsistent," he says. "Those that did seem to be properly documented could be attributed to the light of the moon, not the gravitation [some claim that our bodily fluids are as susceptible to such forces as are tides], the reason being that they only appeared on cloudless nights. If you couldn't see the moon, the moon had no effect." (The Lunar Society, a late 18th-century club of influential industrialists and intellectuals that included, at various times, Erasmus Darwin, Joseph Priestley, Josiah Wedgwood, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson and Anna Seward, always met on the night of a full moon - because that made it easier to get home. They called themselves "lunaticks".) Wilson is also an expert on sexual behaviour, and concedes that that's the sort of thing "that might conceivably be affected, in that people might become a bit more adventurous and romantic and so on when the light of the mooon is out there. Moonlight provides the ideal level of anonymity combined with the ability to see past your nose. It's an optimal degree of illumination for getting up to high jinks."Inevitably, this January, he and Kelly were in turn contradicted. In The Lunar Cycle: Effects on Human and Animal Behaviour and Physiology, Professor Michal Zimecki of the Polish Academy of Sciences analysed yet more studies and concluded that "the lunar cycle has an impact on human reproduction, in particular fertility, menstruation and birth rate. Other events associated with human behaviour, such as traffic accidents, crimes, and suicides, appeared to be influenced by the lunar cycle." He was, however, no closer than anyone else to explaining why this might actually be. When it comes to the opaque workings of our closest celestial body, we are, it seems, still in the dark.