It can start with something as simple as moving house. At your old address a stray bank statement and a utility bill are put out with the rubbish. Not much to go on but enough to provide the determined fraudster with the basic building blocks to begin hijacking every aspect of your identity, from your credit history to your driving licence to your passport details.Across Britain, identity theft has become big business. Once confined to the pages of thrillers like Frederick Forsyth's The Day of the Jackal, it has become the fastest growing form of fraud, costing an estimated £1.3bn a year. Credit card fraud alone is now worth about £370m annually, while insurance scams using stolen or false identities have reached about £250m. A report by the Cabinet Office last summer made clear how worried the government is about this burgeoning area of criminal behaviour. "Identity theft is a harrowing experience for the individuals whose iden tity is taken over or stolen," the study concluded. "And identity fraud and theft have many and increasing links to organised crime." But as Derek Bond has discovered the hard way, these scams are relatively straightforward to perpetrate and extremely difficult to detect. Although hi-tech threats to identity and information security such as hacking and internet fraud attract the headlines, stealing an identity remains a simple, low-tech matter of obtaining small nuggets of personal information about an individual, using these nuggets in turn to obtain more persuasive evidence of identity, until a complete documentary record of the target's life has been collected. So a bank statement will provide crucial details about an individual's financial transactions. Taken together with a utility bill they will also be accepted as proof not just of name but also of home address. This is why serious identity thieves will target properties which become available for rent: there is a good chance that mail ad dressed to the previous tenant will continue to land on the doormat. Dustbins also provide a fertile ground for scamming material. According to a study of 400 household's bins by Experian, Britain's largest credit reference agency, last year, one in five contained sensitive financial information such as statements or card transaction receipts. A key building block of identity in Britain is the birth certificate, but these too are notoriously easy to obtain. The BBC journalist Paul Kenyon was able to obtain a copy of David Blunkett's birth certificate from the family records office and use it to obtain a provisional driving licence using the home secretary's details, even though he is registered blind. Passports are the other most tempting target for identity thieves. Between April 2000 and March 2001 the passport agency detected 1,484 fraudulent applications. Of these, 301 used the identities of dead people and 1,003 used stolen identities of the living. Bruno Rost, Experian's spokesman, said: "The key problem is that society relies on systems of identification that have become compromised. Your identity is really just a manifestation of these paper-based proofs so if somebody can provide enough bits of paper relating to you, then it's enough for them to convince people that they are you." In Mr Bond's case, the scam which allowed an impostor to use his passport details undetected for 14 years may have been even more basic: the information could have been bought. "Passport details would have been easy enough to obtain from a hotel where he stayed or maybe a car hire company," said Michael Levy, professor of criminology at Cardiff university and an expert in fraud. "All it takes is one bent employee."