The brother of a police special constable murdered outside her home described yesterday how he had tried to talk his sister out of joining the force because it was too dangerous.Nisha Patel-Nasri, 29, was killed by a single stab wound to her upper groin late on Thursday outside her house in north-west London. She is believed to have gone outside in her nightclothes after hearing noises. She had spent the evening celebrating her third wedding anniversary with her husband.Yesterday, with police having identified two suspects they want to come forward, her brother told of his grief on what should have been his wedding day. Katen Patel, 33, spent what was going to be one of the happiest days of his life instead urging those responsible for his younger sister's death to come forward.Mrs Patel-Nasri ran a hairdressing business and was also a volunteer special constable. Mr Patel said he had pleaded with his sister not to volunteer because the work was "very, very dangerous", but he said her desire to serve her community took priority. "She wanted to do it, she got in; she was very proud, and she did it free of charge ... she did it out of the goodness of her heart to help people and catch people."He said his sister had been open-minded and brave, qualities she brought to her police work. He also described the central place in his life that his sister had: "She did pretty much everything for me as a sister, and I know she would do anything at any time, at any hour of the day; she would always be there."Mr Patel told how his sister had been looking forward for years to his wedding: "She had just been waiting for this day for years and years and years and years. She kept trying to set me up with so many of her hairdressing clients ... but the day's here now, and she's not around, and I'm not even thinking about the wedding, I'm just thinking about her."He told how she had begun hairdressing as soon as she left school, and after training built up a successful business while looking after their sick mother.Mr Patel appealed for anyone with information to come forward. Police said they were looking for a second suspect who is believed to have walked away, ignoring Mrs Patel-Nasri's screams after she was stabbed. Detective Superintendent Julian Worker said: "The truth of the matter is Nisha is screaming and he doesn't look back."Detectives are also looking for another man in a hooded top who was seen in the area around the time of the stabbing, and who may have been covered in blood: "It's possible he may have injured himself, as can happen, or have been covered in blood because of the stabbing," a police spokeswoman said.Police also said they were investigating links with an attempted burglary at Mrs Patel-Nasri's home five days earlier. The police volunteer challenged three men who fled the house, outside which were parked expensive cars used by her husband in his limousine business.Yesterday her husband, Fadi, 32, said the attempted break-in had left his wife "worried and scared", but said it would not have led to her behaving rashly.Detectives are also investigating any links between threats made to Mr Nasri and the murder of his wife. Police declined to give more details but said it was being treated as "one line of inquiry".Detectives also appealed to a couple seen in the area to come forward, though they are not believed to be suspects.Mr Nasri used broadcast and print interviews to ratchet up the pressure on the suspects and anyone who knows them to come forward. "Obviously, someone has got a guilty conscience; they will be worrying about what they have done, or be shocked; or maybe it was an accident or mistake, or whatever," he said. "We know that someone has to know something who lives around them, a neighbour, or seen some blood, or someone acting suspiciously or nervous. It might not be important, but just give us a call and let us know."