A mother whose neglected two-year-old son suffered a prolonged and agonising death after drinking poisonous plant food has walked free from court.Lauren Booth, 24, was handed a 12-month suspended sentence at Bradford crown court on Tuesday after being found guilty of child neglect. She was asleep at her home in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, when her son Aaron drank the liquid. Booth's home was also being used to grow cannabis.The trial heard that Aaron had not been fed and was probably extremely hungry and thirsty when he drank the pH Up brand plant food, which contained a highly toxic concentration of potassium hydroxide, or caustic potash. Two teaspoons of it would have been a fatal dose.Aaron died 11 days later after his windpipe disintegrated. He suffered several other injuries, including burns to his stomach, pancreas and spleen.Judge Colin Burn described the toddler's death as terrible as he sentenced Booth. He said: "Aaron's death was, on the evidence, a prolonged and frankly horrible one. And it was preventable."Booth's then-partner had taken the plant food into the house in Norris Close, Burn said. It was thought Aaron, who was described as being at an age where any new item was a curiosity or a challenge, may have mistaken the blue bottle for the soft drink Fruit Shoot.Information about growing cannabis was discovered in a notebook and laptop seized from the house. Burn told Booth: "The evidence that this liquid was used for growing cannabis was strong. You should not even have allowed the liquid to be brought into the same house as Aaron."He continued: "You knew that the content of that bottle of plant growing liquid could be harmful to Aaron, you knew that there was the risk that Aaron could get to the bottle. You failed to take proper steps to prevent him getting to that bottle."He added: "By failing to move the bottle, or failing to supervise him, you allowed this terrible event to happen."Booth and her partner were awoken by a loud thud at around 12.40pm on 6 November 2010, to find Aaron lying down with a brown mouth and lips. By the time paramedics arrived, his lips were purple and he was foaming at the mouth.Burn said Booth was a loving mother to Aaron and tried her best to look after him but made some poor judgments. "Most parents do, from time to time, make some poor judgments in respect of their children. The unfortunate aspect of this case is on 6 November your poor judgment had fatal consequences," he said."You will have to live with his death long after any sentence from this court has been served."Burn said an immediate prison sentence would neither benefit the public nor Booth, who has since had another child.He said reports showed that she did not pose any risk to her children and rehabilitation would help her to become a "proper, appropriate, satisfactory, at least adequate parent in the future".The judge said the maximum suspended sentence he could pass was one of 12 months but said he would suspend it for the maximum period of two years, during which time Booth would be under supervision.