Jack Straw received a mauling from the Police Federation at its annual conference in Blackpool yesterday when he defended the government's record on law and order.It was described as the worst police response to a home secretary's speech for at least a decade; at times Mr Straw was visibly shocked by the hostile reception. He was heckled and slow handclapped for 30 seconds by the 1,000 delegates, and hoots of laughter greeted his outline of Labour's plans for the police service. The dissent began with loud muttering as Mr Straw was explaining the falling crime figures. When he spoke of the reform of the crown prosecution service, he produced howls of laughter that became louder and louder. Jeering reached a crescendo when he described the police service as a popular job. "I understand your concerns about morale," he retorted to the sarcastic laughter. Delegates were most vociferously when he spoke on funding and police numbers, the subject of much debate at the conference. When he said the number of officers leaving was "stable and low", delegates clapped slowly for half a minute. A startled Mr Straw responded: "It's true, it's true." The federation has said that at least 140,000 officers are needed to stem the rising tide of crime. The government has promised 130,000 by 2003, and Mr Straw said yesterday it might be more. He was challenged from the floor when he spoke of record entrants to the Hendon training centre. Not all the 40 minute speech provoked such an extraordinary reaction. Toward the end, he was applauded for a move to make defendants' previous convictions known to courts. He received more applause for a plan to put reoffenders who break bail conditions into custody for the remainder of their remand. "If a defendant has committed a crime on astonishingly similar facts in the past, why shouldn't the jury be able to weigh that?" he asked. "And since the prosecution rightly have to disclose all expert evidence and names of all witnesses to the defence, what is wrong with the defence disclosing all their witnesses and expert evidence to the prosecutors? It is done in Scotland, and we are going to do it here." The home secretary outlined proposals to punish more harshly persistent offenders, and to tighten up on granting bail to persistent young criminals. He said that assets seized from criminals should go straight back into law enforcement, with the creation of a confiscation agency similar to ones in Ireland and the United States. Victims of crime would also have the right to tell courts the impact of the crime on their lives. He concluded by telling delegates: "The police force in this country remains extremely popular and public confidence remains high... [though] there are those who talk the service down and deny achievement and exaggerate failure, it has a wonderful history behind it and a wonderful future ahead of it." As he left the platform, many delegates applauded, but it was a noticeably muted exit for the home secretary. Fred Broughton, chairman of the federation, said afterward that many of Mr Straw's points had met a unanimous response, particluarly those regarding criminal justice and the courts; but delegates were under intense pressure and many had come from police stations where they were not seeing the recruits, and he understood their sense of immense frustration. Afterward a phlegmatic Mr Straw said he was used to rumbustuous meetings.