A schoolgirl who was found guilty of falsely accusing a 14-year-old boy of rape when she was 15 was told by a judge she had only narrowly avoided a custodial sentence.District judge Joti Bopa Rai said the girl would have been sent to prison if she had been an adult, for years rather than months. The girl, who lives in Gloucestershire, was today given a two-year youth rehabilitation order, with requirements to attend a victim awareness programme, a relationships programme and a programme to help increase her self-esteem.Her mother was ordered to pay £250 compensation to the boy, a low amount because the family lives on benefits. The judge also ordered that the family pay £250 towards the cost of the trial. The girl was told that she would receive a custodial sentence if she did not respect the rehabilitation order.Anti-rape campaigners and legal experts have expressed concern that such a young girl was taken to court. But sentencing her at Cheltenham youth court, the judge told the girl: "The charge is very serious. If you had been an adult there would have been no alternative to custody. Because of your accusation, a young lad was arrested and questioned by police, and that cannot have been easy for him. Had he been charged and convicted, he would almost certainly have faced a custodial sentence."The girl, who cannot be named, had denied attempting to pervert the course of justice but she was found guilty after a three-day trial last month. The judge ruled that the girl had lied to police and to the court, having consented to sex with the boy but then, thinking she might be pregnant, claiming she had been raped."It is quite clear [that the boy's] lifestyle has been severely curtailed, he has been called names in the street and accused of rape. There is no doubt that when mud is thrown, it sticks," said the judge. "Other young people have also been involved in this case and questioned about very embarrassing sexual matters which cannot have been easy for them."But the judge said concern had been expressed about the girl's mental health and there was evidence that she had self-harmed. "It is clear that custody would probably cause a deterioration in her mental state and her self-harm would continue," she added.The boy who was accused had been consulted about financial compensation and wished any such award to go to a charity, the court was told.