A fresh inspection has been ordered into Brixton prison after it emerged that the man leading the investigation had already been informally approached by the prison service to become the governor of the south London inner-city jail.Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, yesterday said leaders of official jail inspection teams would in future be banned from taking up the governorship of a prison within six months of an inspection in which they had been involved. Two years ago Martin Narey, now the Home Office's commissioner for corrections, said Brixton was one of the six worst "hell holes" in the prison service in England and Wales. Ms Owers yesterday made publicly available a record of the inspection into the prison, carried out last September. But she said it was not being published as a full report with recommendations, "because of the fact and timing of the appointment of the inspection team leader as governor". The team leader, John Podmore, was informally approached by the prison service to become the jail's governor before the inspection. His appointment was confirmed in December, while the report was still in draft and had not yet been seen by ministers. Previous reports by inspectors into Brixton have been scathing, with the jail's healthcare centre coming in for particular criticism for its filth and neglect, and claims that officers were flouting authority by running a "jail within a jail" and victimising black inmates. The record of Mr Podmore's inspection said there had been a great deal of progress in the healthcare centre since the previous inspection, but noted that the prisoners themselves had not seen an improvement. The inspectors could not find any evidence to back allegations that staff were sabotaging cell call-bells so they did not work. The summary of the report said although Brixton was essentially safe for most inmates, a more proactive approach, with officers involving themselves in the lives of the individual prisoners in their care, was needed to increase safety for all. An anti-bullying strategy should be the first priority. Some prisoners continued to complain of racism and of assaults by staff. Ms Owers said yesterday that the director general of the prison service had ordered that she be informed of all discussions, however informal, with the inspectors about job offers in the jail service. 