A consultant paediatrician who was stabbed to death in her car could have been killed by a disgruntled ex-patient, or the parent of a patient, who lay in wait for her inside the vehicle, police said yesterday. The body of Victoria Anyetei, a locum at St Thomas' hospital, London, was discovered by her 19-year-old son in her car outside their house in a cul-de-sac in Dartford, Kent, at 10.20am on Tuesday, two hours after she had set out from their home to go to work.Chief Superintendent Gary Beautridge, Kent police area commander for Dartford and Gravesham, said the 53-year-old, who suffered multiple stab wounds, was probably attacked in her car and was specifically targeted. Detectives will investigate the possibility that the killer was a former patient or a parent of a patient, but officers were keeping an open mind about the motive.Mr Beautridge said: "It's a truly extraordinary crime as these things hardly ever happen: a middle-aged, professional, well respected Christian member of the community attacked in a frenzied way and struck down in broad daylight."A neighbour described hearing the horrified reaction of the doctor's son, Andrew Thompson, when he discovered his mother in her silver Toyota Avensis. "I heard this screaming, really loud, blood-curdling screaming. I ran outside and saw Andrew on the driveway. He was going mad, just staring at his mum's car. Then I saw Victoria. She was behind the wheel with her head rocked back ... It was pandemonium."Dr Anyetei, who was divorced, lived with her son and another younger relative, who were yesterday being looked after in Essex by family members. Her former husband lives in Ghana.Yesterday her nephew, Phillip Anyetei, said: "I am extremely shocked, no one can believe something like this could happen. She did not have a bad bone in her body. It does sound like it was planned, from what I have been hearing."Her car was being tested and police officers were searching for a weapon.Mr Beautridge said: "It is possible that the killer discarded a weapon nearby and we are appealing for people in the area to check their gardens. Someone may know who killed Dr Anyetei - that person may have returned home in an agitated state, [with] blood on their clothing."Dr Anyetei had been a locum consultant paediatrician at St Thomas' since Christmas, and had been a senior registrar there during her paediatric training.Frances Flinter, clinical director of children's services at Guy's and St Thomas' NHS foundation trust, said: "We were extremely sad to learn of Dr Victoria Anyetei's tragic death. Victoria had a lovely, warm manner with the children she cared for and they in turn always responded very well to her. She was also the sort of doctor that parents instinctively have faith in and she will be very sadly missed by her patients, their parents and all her colleagues."Dr Anyetei usually drove from her house to the local station to catch a train into London.A postmortem examination showed she died from stab wounds. There were no indications the attack was a race crime.