A tough community punishment scheme under which 18- to 20-year-old persistent offenders will face electronic tagging and an intensive work programme was launched yesterday as an alternative to a short prison sentence.The "intensive control and change programme" was unveiled as the prison population in England and Wales hit a record of 73,105 inmates - 72 more than the previous high last October - and only 500 spare places. The prisons minister, Hilary Benn, said the service had not had to revert to holding prisoners in police cells, as was the case last autumn. But he confirmed that ministers were "keeping under review" the options for a further extension of the home detention curfew early release scheme. The control and change programme will involve 720 young offenders in year-long pilot schemes, but will cover 5,000 a year when it is fully implemented. Eithne Wallis, director general of the national probation service, said the programme was the "most restrictive and intensive community penalty that probation has rolled out yet", and at £4,500 a place is less than a fifth of the cost of keeping someone in jail. She said that the public expected young offenders to be kept off the streets, under control and getting on with something constructive. The first three offenders were put on the scheme this week, including a 20-year-old in Hull with a string of convictions for street robbery and theft. The scheme involves a curfew of up to 12 hours a day, enforced by an electronic tag to ensure offenders are at home at night. This is supplemented by seven hours a week unpaid community work and an intensive programme designed to confront their criminal behaviour. The young adults will also be expected to pay compensation to their victims. Those who fail to comply will face prison. Mr Benn said the new community penalty would not only punish but would also directly tackle offenders' behaviour in a way that short-term prison sentences with no support or supervision after release were unable to do. England and Wales is top of the European imprisonment league and official projections say the population will grow to 91,000 within three years. Mr Benn denied reports that ministers were considering changing the early release date under the home detention curfew scheme from three to six months for those serving more than 18 months. The Prison Reform Trust has urged the government to "stop trying to build its way out of trouble" and instead reserve the use of prison for serious and violent criminals only.