A man who survived an apparent suicide pact with his girlfriend has been jailed for killing her, even though she wrote in a diary that she did not want him to be blamed for her death.After hatching their plan to die together, David Cole and Leoni Roberts travelled to London and spent money on hotels and gambling in a casino, Exeter crown court was told.They then drove to a Cornish layby in a car Cole had bought with money stolen from the pub he worked at, lay down in the vehicle and tried to take their own lives. Roberts, 28, from Chepstow in Monmouthshire, died but Cole, 36, from Havant in Hampshire, survived. He denied murder but admitted manslaughter, a plea the prosecution accepted.Jailing him for four years, Judge Francis Gilbert QC said: “You must bear the responsibility for encouraging and assisting her to carry out her settled intent to kill herself. Your position should have been to dissuade her.” The judge said Cole was highly culpable because he stole to buy the car and took an item used in the suicide. Peter Coombe, prosecuting, said drivers spotted a silver Ford Mondeo parked at an awkward angle in a layby on a road between Looe and Polperro in Cornwall.He said the windows were steamed up and Cole appeared to be asleep in the driver’s seat. Coombe also said that at one point Cole got out of the car to have a smoke, which he denied. When the police arrived, Cole was evasive and officers were about to arrest him on suspicion of stealing the car when he said: “I might as well tell you.” He explained the failed pact and said Roberts’ body was under some bedding in the back of the car.The court heard that the couple had been in an on-off relationship for about five years. Roberts suffered from depression and had previously taken an overdose. Three days before her death in June 2013, the court heard, she had texted Cole, saying: “Let’s kill ourselves together.” Cole stole £11,000 cash and equipment from the pub where he worked in Worcestershire and the couple appeared “happy and chatty” when they went to London.In a diary found in the car, Roberts wrote that she had “enjoyed the last few days of her life”, praised Cole for being “fantastic” and said she hoped he would not “bottle out because her decision was solid”. In a police interview Cole said he could not explain why he had survived. Richard Smith QC, defending, said Roberts made “an independent decision to take her own life”. He said it had been a genuine suicide pact. Smith said Roberts had written in her diary that she had “calmly planned what she wanted to do” and used words like “relief and enjoyment” in her final days. He said Cole had talked it through with her and asked: “Are you sure?” Smith also said Roberts had worried Cole might be deemed to be at fault and wrote: “Don’t blame him.”Smith said: “It was a genuine pact between them and he failed. We don’t know why.” He added that Cole did not pressurise or cajole her, but the judge intervened saying: “He encouraged and assisted her to carry out her intention.”Cole was told he would serve at least half of his sentence before being eligible for parole. Friends and family of Roberts left the courtroom in tears.The Samaritans’ 24-hour helpline is 08457 909090