Police are searching for a couple who tried to snatch a four-month-old baby from her pram during an evening stroll with her mother.The baby's mother had to repeatedly fight off a man and woman who attempted to snatch her daughter from the pram in Leigh, Greater Manchester. The 30-year-old woman, who has not been named by police, punched one of the would-be abductors to the ground during the incident on Sunday evening.The woman had been walking along Wigan Road at about 8pm when she saw the couple. As she pushed the pram across a pelican crossing, the woman reached into it and lunged at the baby, shouting to her accomplice: "Get the baby, get the baby."The woman tried but failed to take the child from the pram. The man then reached in and tried to release the baby from its harness but ran off when he also failed. His accomplice made a second attempt to grab the baby before the child's mother punched her in the face and knocked her to the ground. The woman got up and ran off.Detective Sergeant Graham Rigby, of Wigan CID, said: "This was a deeply disturbing incident in which a couple tried to snatch a baby from a pram. Thankfully the mother had strapped her baby into the pram and had the wherewithal to fight off the would-be abductors."She put up a determined fight against the couple and managed to fend them off, but she was left understandably horrified by what happened. We now need to hear from anyone who either saw what happened or who saw this couple before the incident. We need to catch these people before they put another mother through a similar ordeal."The mother was able to give a detailed description of the couple, who may have been seen arguing near a Sainsbury's supermarket moments before the incident.The man is white, 5ft 7in, in his 40s, of muscular build and with very short dark hair. He was wearing black trainers, black jeans and a black leather jacket which was fastened to conceal most of his face. His accomplice was also white, 5ft 6in tall, in her 40s, slim, with black hair scraped back into a bun. She is described as having "piercing" green eyes and was wearing black trainers, dark green combat trousers, and a black canvas jacket. Both offenders were wearing black knitted gloves.Neither the baby nor her mother, who is from Leigh, were injured during the incident. Police said the mother had been left traumatised and was not willing to be identified publicly.