As Helen calmly recounts her experiences since she was raped, her emotion displays itself not through tearfulness or agitation, but in the contempt she feels for those who have let her down."I've been failed by every single service that was supposed to help me, apart from the Haven sexual assault referral centre [a confidential service in south London]," she says. "I did my bit in reporting a rapist, and the authorities didn't do theirs. Instead they made my life hell. It has exhausted me."This week, almost four years to the day since the attack in London's West End, the 29-year-old's steadfast refusal to accept the shoddy treatment faced by so many victims finally paid off.The Guardian's revelation that she - and several other women - had been given reduced compensation because their alcohol consumption was judged to have contributed to their rape provoked widespread dismay and prompted a fuming justice minister, Bridget Prentice, to demand on the Radio 4 Today programme that the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA) look again at the cases.On August 20 2004, Helen, a beauty therapist who has not worked since, had been out shopping with a friend. They had dinner, accompanied by some drinks, and followed it up with a few more in Soho. At around 4.30am Helen found herself outside a bar, with no memory of the previous few hours apart from being chased down a street by a man, and without her handbag and mobile phone.She went to a friend's house and awoke the next morning to realise her underwear was on inside out and she was covered in bruises and blood, including around her groin. She was also experiencing sensations often associated with drink spiking: her body felt like a dead weight and she was shivering uncontrollably. The next day she went to Charing Cross police station and told officers she believed she had been drug-raped. Initially she was impressed with the response, but claims that everything went downhill after she told the Westminster Sapphire Unit she had made a previous allegation of rape.Witnesses were not interviewed for months, she says, evidence was not forensically analysed and she struggled to find out what was going on with the case. No one was ever arrested.Eventually she filed a detailed complaint without the help of a lawyer. The police admitted a string of failures including poor communication and delays that meant the opportunity to trace a potential suspect was wasted and forensic evidence was lost. Two officers were disciplined and Helen received a formal apology.Her success is testament to her diligence, intelligence and determination. Yet this was not to be the end of her trials. Reading the letter from the CICA, and its declaration that her drinking had been a "contributing factor" meaning her payout would be cut by 25% to £8,250, she was speechless. Her initial reaction was that she had no energy to carry on fighting. Her solicitor, Debaleena Dasgupta, suggested she wait a week before deciding. By the time it was up, Helen was determined not to let the CICA add final insult to injury. "I thought, 'if I take this money every penny of it will be tainted'," she says.Dasgupta fired off a letter telling the authority she believed the docked payout amounted to indirect sexual discrimination.Soon a fresh letter arrived offering her the full £11,000. No explanation was given for the change of heart. The records of her application the CICA provided also revealed that the police had lost all the paperwork, including intimate photographs of Helen's injuries."To discover that the police had lost the file was the worst time in all of it," she says. The police have since apologised and said they were trying to locate it in their storage area. Copies of all the documents have been found, they said.Helen is delighted that her case has shone such an unforgiving light on the prejudices that rape victims suffer. But that struggle has taken its toll. "My twenties have been ruined," she says. "I'll never get that time back. I haven't had a job. I don't know if I'll ever be able to work full-time. Before I got my award I was living in poverty, in a council flat I was unable to furnish."I've lost most of my friends; it's destroyed my social life. I've lost those really important years, the years when everyone else builds a career, and finds a boyfriend, and gets a dog."She plans to spend some of her award on therapy for rape trauma, having waited three years for treatment on the NHS, and a training course to get back into work. "I'm going to end up using the money I fought so hard for to continue doing other people's bloody jobs."