The "theft of wardrobe doors" scenario has, apparently, become a familiar tale among extradition lawyers. The story goes like this: carpenter fits wardrobe doors, his client fails to pay, so the carpenter removes the wardrobe doors.Such a chain of events would be unlikely to trouble the UK's criminal courts. Or anyone, frankly. Even if the disgruntled client were to press charges against the obstinate carpenter, and even if there were evidence that wardrobe doors had indeed been removed against their owner's will, the Crown Prosecution Service would still have to apply the test of whether it served the public interest to prosecute. Uprooting the honest carpenter with no history of offending from his hardworking family life over a dispute about payment would be unlikely to pass.If, however, the events took place in Poland and the carpenter was a Polish national now living in Britain, a different ending emerges. Under the European Arrest Warrant system (EAW), EU members including the UK now extradite citizens of other member states back to where they came from with few questions asked. The idea is to simplify criminal proceedings within the EU, the presumption being that, from one European human rights-bound state to another, suspected criminals will surely receive humane treatment and a fair trial on their return. In some cases, this has happened. The UK has been able to extradite foreign suspects wanted for serious crimes in other EU countries. Similarly UK citizens at large in the EU zone have been returned for investigation into crimes at home. Less predictable, however, has been Poland's use of the EAW to request a breathtaking number of extraditions for cases described by judges and lawyers alike as trivial. By "trivial", they mean allegations of theft relating to wardrobe doors, a pedal bike, or a dessert. Each case requires specialist extradition agents from Scotland Yard, extradition solicitors, barristers, interpreters and precious court time before one of only five judges in the country able to hear extradition cases. The Metropolitan Police have had to start chartering regular planes back to Poland just to cope.The explanation for this seemingly bizarre use of state time and resources lies in the Polish system of "compulsory prosecution" or zasada legalizmu. All allegations of crime in Poland must be investigated, and once reasonable suspicion has been established, all offences must be prosecuted. Investigation requires the presence of the suspect and, if the suspect has made his way to the UK, extradition is required.Harmonisation of criminal justice systems within the EU is a long way off and in the meantime Poland is entitled to its own system of charge and prosecution. Nevertheless, this apparent clash of attitudes towards prosecution is having a very clear effect. The British courts are struggling to cope. The sheer number of Polish extradition cases, a "huge volume" of which, according to the Met Police, relate to the kind of one-off, minor offences that would not be pursued had they taken place here, seems wildly disproportionate. But more than that, these cases raise questions about the principle of an extradition system based on "mutual trust" – described by a judge as "the important underlying assumption ... that member states, sharing common values and recognising common rights, can and should trust the integrity and fairness of each other's judicial systems". Although Polish law is apparently proving the most annoying challenge to this doctrine, it is my no means the most serious. Other former members of the Eastern bloc have been working hard to push the concept of "mutual trust" to its absolute limit. Bulgaria and Latvia, for example, have repeatedly been accused of violating basic human rights standards by providing detention facilities with no exercise or natural light, no toilet facilities except a bucket shared among numerous detainees, infestations of fleas and scabies and food shared with mice and rats. Poland does not stand accused of violating rights on this scale. It is simply flooding the courts at a time when they are already struggling to cope with a massive shortfall in funding – a situation which looks unlikely to improve in the near future. In the era of "tough choices", do we really want to persist in extraditing Poles for stealing desserts? And if so, at what cost?