It is 2.25am in Manchester city centre on a cold night outside the Krunchy Fried Chicken takeaway in the heart of the gay village. Minicabs line up to take a steady stream of drunken young people home as they pour out of the pubs and clubs.Suddenly, the atmosphere becomes tense and a man in the takeaway queue raises his fist. Inevitably, a fight breaks out and punches are thrown. The police, patrolling the area in a marked car, intervene before the fight escalates. Back-up officers arrive in less than a minute. "If we hadn't been here immediately, then we would have been left to pick up the aftermath of an assault a few minutes later, which would have been much worse," says PC Paul Crossley. Manchester is struggling to stem the rise in violent assaults in the city. Between 1997-1999, there was a 225% increase in assaults, which coincided with a 241% rise in the number of licensed premises. Between April 1999 and March last year there were 7,134 robberies of personal property, an increase of 9% from the previous year. Thefts of mobile phones have also increased. A recently introduced bylaw in the city means officers now have the power to remove opened bottles and cans of alcohol from people. Two men with cans of lager are approached by Paul's colleague PC Nikola Jones, 26, and they reluctantly put the drinks in the bin. PC Crossley, 35, says: "I believe that some of the lads who come out in the city centre do not think they have had a good night unless they have been involved in a fight." Friday and Saturday nights are the busiest, but Thursday is also busy as it is student night. Many mobile phones and purses are stolen after being left behind in bars by intoxicated students visiting the toilet. PC Jones says most of the people who create trouble are young men in their late teens or early to mid-20s. She has been assaulted twice. Six hours into their shift, they had removed four cans of alcohol, arrested a violent drunk causing trouble on a bus, attended a burglary, three thefts from pubs or restaurants and been called to the aftermath of another fight. Chief Inspector Garry Shewan, of Bootle Street police station, says the number of violent attacks remained static last year. "We hope in 2001 that we will be able to stop the rot and that we will see a decrease. Our two priorities are violent assaults and robberies. We must attack the root cause of crime and deal with low-level disorder before it escalates into violence." Detective Superintendent Peter Minshall, who is in charge of Operation Hawk, which targets street robbery, said statistically there had been an upward trend in street robbery in 2000, but this had reversed once the initiative was launched last autumn. "We clearly have a long way to go and are not complacent," he says.