If your father was one of the most notorious criminals of the last century, would you want everyone to know? Justin Hill, the son of the late Billy Hill, who was known as the "boss of Britain's underworld" in the 1950s, is in no doubt that he would like everyone to acknowledge the fact.He is anxious for people to know about his relationship to the legendary hard man of Soho, not because he has any intention of following in his footsteps but because he is weary of seeing inaccurate stories about his parents in the ever-expanding world of true-crime histories. Now that his adoptive mother, the famously flamboyant and glamorous Gypsy Hill, who was herself known as the "queen of the underworld", has died, he says he wants to set the record straight.Billy Hill was born in 1911 and established himself as one of London's main gang leaders with what was known as "the heavy mob" in the 30s. Although married, he started an affair in the late 1940s with the beautiful Gypsy Riley, a relationship that lasted until Hill's death in 1984. Gypsy, whose real name was Phyllis, came from east London, where she had worked as a bus conductor who enjoyed the postwar West End night life. One night in a club, a man was buying drinks for everyone in the bar, Gypsy included. This was Billy Hill, already famous as a ladies' man who prided himself on looking like Humphrey Bogart. Their relationship began and the two ruled the gangland roost until Hill's semi-retirement via the club he owned in Tangier. Hill briefly two-timed Gypsy with another woman, Diana Harris, who worked as a dancer at Raymond's Revue Bar in Soho and who suffered from depression. Justin was the result of this liaison, initially to Gypsy's dismay.Diana was facing serious mental health problems at the time of Justin's birth and her medical records show that there was a series of suicide attempts through overdoses of barbiturates. She finally succeeded in 1975. "I was told later that I was with her when she died," says Justin, "but I can't remember anything about her." Her death certificate indicates that she killed herself "as a consequence of her illness".Justin was sent to a children's home where Billy and Gypsy were regular visitors, plying him with presents, making it clear that they would be happy to adopt him. A report by the consultant child psychiatrist at the Maudsley hospital in south London in 1976, when Justin was three, shows that he already had a rapport with the Hills. The consultant, who described Justin as a "cheerful, friendly, ebullient child with an attractive personality and appearance", had to make the difficult decision as to whether Justin should stay in care or be given to the Hills.By this stage, Billy Hill was in his 60s and so notorious that jokes were made about him in films on the assumption that people would know who he was. The report, which dealt with Hill's "criminal activities in the past", concluded that "the Hills provide a loving and committed family for Justin ... the Hills are not ideal parents but the alternative is even less ideal." The consultant concluded: "His future psychological development will be greatly influenced by the quality and stability of the family life he experiences from now on, and it is vital that he is provided with his own family as soon as possible."Justin was duly adopted by the Hills. When he was seven, social services required Gypsy, who could not have children herself, to explain that she was not his biological mother, which he found initially very upsetting."I went into one, as you can imagine," says Justin who now lives just outside London. "But she reassured me that in every other sense she was my mum and I always called her that." Justin's birth certificate shows a blank space where the father's name should be, and initially he was told that another man, who is still alive, was his father. Later, however, Hill signed an affidavit to say "I verily believe that I am the natural father" and, in 1982, the courts recognised Justin's right to be known by his father's name.Justin remembers Hill as an indulgent father who took him to the zoo, to Madame Tussauds and to play in Hyde Park. "He was always very smartly dressed, always in tinted glasses," he recalls. "He was very loving, very playful. I think I gave both of them a new lease of life. By then, he had decided to get out of crime. He did advise the Krays when they were up and coming, but he didn't want to do any more time himself." Occasionally, as a boy, he would be reminded of his father's past when other children at the school he attended would ask if he was the son of the famous gangster.When Billy Hill died – his death certificate described him, sardonically, as a "demolition worker" – Justin and Gypsy moved from their Bayswater flat in west London to Essex, closer to Gypsy's own family. After leaving school, he went to work for a while at Deloitte as a data controller. Gypsy died of cancer in 2004. "They are both buried in the City of London cemetery and I go there every Sunday and make sure the graves are clean and in good repair," he said. "I will go on doing that until I die."Recent books about Billy Hill have suggested that Justin is not his natural son but adopted. Some have claimed that Gypsy was a prostitute and that Diana, his natural mother, was a "Nigerian princess" or an "African dancer". This has prompted Justin to set about writing his own account, which he now hopes to have published. There are also claims that Hill left a £20m fortune in a Swiss bank account. "That's bullshit," says Justin. "I'm not going to plead poverty, but there never was a fortune. Gypsy would never talk to the press or anyone, but she told me everything about their life together. I've read in one book that I was 'spirited away to Tangier and given a Moroccan passport' and that supposedly I live in Tangier to this day, but I've spent most of my life in England." Justin still has many of his father's belongings, from the cosh given to Billy Hill by his gangland rival, Jack Spot, to his trademark trilby hats. Not that his father was the only member of the family to have brushes with the law. Gypsy was charged in her younger days with assaulting a man in a nightclub and had a reputation for not taking any prisoners. "She did have a temper," said Justin of the assault charge. "There had been a row in the club with a couple who kept bumping into her and making remarks about her fur coat. She hit the woman over the head with a stool and the man grabbed her from behind so she stuck one of those little lamps that was on the table in his face. She was acquitted."Justin said he was never tempted to follow in Hill's footsteps. "I would have been no good at it anyway. He was a hard man and I don't condone what he did but I was brought up not to break the law and I never have. Gyp was determined that I went on a different path. I'm not writing a book to live off his name but I do want to get it all out of the way once and for all."