Hundreds of thousands of home tutors will refuse to register on a state database designed to prevent paedophiles from working with children, a poll reveals today.At least 11 million teachers and others who regularly work with children or vulnerable adults will be required to register on the database, which will be run by a Home Office agency, beginning this summer.Self-employed home tutors, of whom there are 750,000 in the UK, have been asked to register by the agency – the Independent Safeguarding Authority – but are not obliged to do so. Three quarters of respondents in a poll of 525 tutors, conducted for thetutorpages.com, said they had no intention of registering on the so-called vetting and barring scheme. They said the database was intrusive and would damage trust built up between parents and tutors.Four-fifths believe it will fail to stop abusers harming children, while 68% argue it will lead to miscarriages of justice.Those registered on the database will have their employment histories checked and their details scanned through police and other records. They will still have to separately obtain a Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) check. The scheme will be the biggest of its kind anywhere in the world, with everyone registered on the database facing continuous monitoring.Deryn Cullen, a cello tutor from Leeds, said the database implied tutors were "guilty until proven innocent".He said: "Whilst I appreciate the need for parents' peace of mind, I have built up an excellent reputation as a teacher and responsible adult. I obtained an enhanced CRB certificate when I was working as a peripatetic cello teacher and no one has ever asked me to show it. I always give parents of my students the option to sit in on the lesson – especially in the early stages, when the child may feel insecure being in an unfamiliar environment."Henry Fagg, director of thetutorpages.com – a site that puts parents in touch with tutors – said many home tutors saw registration as "unnecessary, bureaucratic and intrusive".He said: "The very fact that the government has decided to exempt self-employed tutors, who regularly go into family homes, from having to register in the first place, speaks volumes. The reality is that tutors work very closely with parents and have a relationship built on trust. This scheme is in danger of undermining that bond of trust as it breeds the suspicion that every adult who works with children is a potential paedophile."The database was recommended by the Bichard report into the Soham murders of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman by Ian Huntley, a secondary school caretaker.Huntley was given the job despite allegations of sex with underage girls in his past, which were not passed on.Last July children's author Philip Pullman led a chorus of protest from prominent writers over the scheme. He called the plans "outrageous, demeaning and insulting" and said he wouldn't be visiting schools again because of it.The Tory manifesto, published this week, said that the database went too far and would be reviewed if the Conservatives were elected.