The husband of Nisha Patel-Nasri, the special constable who was stabbed to death outside her home in 2006, had been having an affair with a prostitute when he organised his wife's murder, a court was told today.Fadi Nasri, who is accused of enlisting three other men to kill his wife, moved in with the woman after the murder, Michael Worsley QC, prosecuting, told the Old Bailey.Nasri, 34, of Barnet, north London, denies murder along with the three other men: Rodger Leslie, 38, of Barnet; Tony Emmanuel, 42, of East Ham, east London; and Jason Jones, 36, of Manor Park, east London.Patel-Nasri, 29, was killed with a kitchen knife outside the front of her home in Wembley, north London, shortly before midnight on May 11 2006. She and Nasri had celebrated their third wedding anniversary with a meal at home earlier that evening.It remains unclear whether Patel-Nasri went outside in her nightdress to investigate a disturbance or found someone in the couple's house.Worsley told the jury: "There was a single stab wound through an artery in her left groin. It caused her to bleed to death."The knife was discovered to be missing from a block set in her kitchen after the attack and was later recovered by police. The court heard Nasri had been leading a "double life" in the period leading up to his wife's death, going on holiday with a Lithuanian woman, Laura Mockiene, who worked as a prostitute.Worsley told the jury: "While he was leading this double life and continuing this affair with Laura, Nisha was desperate to have a baby and she stopped using contraception."The barrister said the four men had acted together to cause her death. "Nasri had a number of motives which, taken together, provide the motive for murder in this case," he said. "He didn't do it himself, but he organised the killing."Worsley told the court that Emmanuel drove Jones, a doorman and the alleged killer, to the scene. Leslie, a drug dealer, acted as the "go-between" for communication between Nasri and Emmanuel, he said. After the killing, Jones was driven to a nearby street where CCTV images showed him dumping the knife in a drain, the court was told.Five days before the killing, there had been an "incident of intrusion or attempted intrusion" at the couple's home, when part of the lock was damaged. Patel-Nasri told several people about the incident."That incident five days before Nisha was killed was either a reconnaissance for what was to be done or an unsuccessful and bungled attempt to do what happened and succeeded five days later," said Worsley.Patel-Nasri, a hairdresser who was described as "eager, brave and not easily scared", had been a special constable for more than three years.Although she and Nasri appeared happy and affectionate, she had confided to a friend that she was considering divorcing him, the court heard.At the time of their marriage, Nasri owned an escort business which closed in early 2004. The pair had taken out life insurance worth £350,000 on each other.The trial continues.