A police inspector who was bailed on a charge of murdering his wife and then went on to shoot his mother-in-law may have been planning to kill other members of his family, an inquest heard yesterday.Garry Weddell, 47, an officer with the Met, took his own life with a shotgun stolen from a shooting club the day after he had killed his mother-in-law Traute Maxfield at her Hertfordshire home on January 11. Detective Chief Inspector Sean O'Neil said Weddell may have been driving to another family address when he was disturbed by a police helicopter flying overhead, believing her body had been discovered.O'Neil said: "The investigation team believe that Garry Weddell was possibly en route to carry out another attack. The route he had taken was a natural drive to the Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard area. It is our belief he intended to kill other family members. But because of the helicopter we believe he thought we were aware of his presence and he panicked."David Morris, the Bedford and Luton coroner, was holding inquests into the deaths of Weddell, his estranged wife Sandra, 44, and Maxfield. He ruled that the two women were unlawfully killed and that Weddell committed suicide. Weddell was waiting to go on trial accused of strangling his wife and faking her suicide when the shootings took place.The case sparked controversy after it emerged that a senior judge released him on bail despite the objections of prosecutors. The Ministry of Justice then revealed that in a survey of 455 murder suspects 60 had been released on bail. The attorney general began an investigation into the circumstances.But at the opening of the inquest into Weddell's death in January Morris said a high court review had found the decision was "properly conducted". He said senior judges who examined the case had no criticism of Judge John Bevan QC who made the original decision.Earlier yesterday, the inquest heard how detectives suspected Weddell had staged his wife's suicide after experts found other injuries on her body. Weddell told officers he found his wife dead in the garage of the couple's home. A plastic cable tie was bound around her neck and a suicide note was discovered nearby.But a forensic pathologist found bruises on her right fist, consistent with her hitting an attacker. O'Neil said injuries indicating a scuffle and bruising on her upper arms were also found.Sitting at Dunstable magistrates court, the coroner heard how other evidence also raised suspicions. A police computer expert found the suicide note had been printed out at the couple's home when Weddell was home alone on January 30 2007. Mrs Weddell was found dead later that day. There were no fingerprints on the paper, but a linguistic expert said the "high standard" of language suggested Weddell wrote the note. Several months later police charged him with his wife's murder.Morris said there was evidence that Weddell spent up to a month planning the murder of his mother-in-law and his own suicide. He undertook clay pigeon shooting lessons and then stole a shotgun from a gun club for his use.Morris said he might write to the government with observations on the safeguards controlling weapons held by gun clubs after reviewing the case. He said he might also encourage the government to review the restrictions on the judiciary when they consider bail applications.A statement was read out by police after the inquest on behalf of Mrs Weddell's family. It said: "It is impossible to describe the utter hurt and devastation the selfish coward has been able to cause to our family and his own children. We thank everyone who knew our unique and precious mother and sister for their continued support as we attempt to rebuild our lives and correct the injustices Sandra and Traute and their loved ones have suffered."Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire's major crime unit said: "This was a difficult investigation and our thoughts are with the families involved at this time."Nick Herbert, the shadow justice secretary, said: "Two lives were lost because Garry Weddell wasn't remanded in custody, and the possibility that he was planning more murders will raise further concerns about whether the bail laws are tight enough."