In the seaside resort of Penzance, friends and family gathered on Friday to pay their respects to a former publican and his wife. Such was the popularity of Terry and Josephine Johnson that relatives booked the largest church in the Cornish town for their joint funeral. Father Keith Owen talked of their enthusiasm for life, and their coffins were carried into St Mary's church to the sound of their favourite song, Dreams, by Gabrielle.But one person was absent. The couple's only child, Ryan Johnson, 33, will spend the day in another seaside town thousands of miles away on the island of Crete, where he is being held on bail charged with their murders - a charge he vigorously denies.It was to a strip of sandy beach in western Crete that the Johnsons were drawn last summer in pursuit of their dream of early retirement. And it was there the dream came to an abrupt end one Sunday morning in March when their bodies were found in the bedroom of their whitewashed villa. Terry, 53, had been tied up, beaten, gagged, strangled and stabbed in the head, and Jo, 54, had been strangled with a piece of washing cord. Both bodies showed signs of a struggle, and the safe had been broken into.Charged in Greece with murdering his parents, Ryan Johnson is also wanted in Britain, it has emerged. It was revealed last week that Devon and Cornwall police will arrest Mr Johnson if and when he returns in connection with a child sex allegation during his time as a dance instructor in the west country.The development is one more complication in the mystery surrounding Mr Johnson's alleged involvement in his parents' murders.Stelios Vardiambassis, chief of police in Hania, Crete, said that British police had informed him of the latest allegation against Mr Johnson, and he had passed it on to the prosecuting judge in case it offered another motive. Until now he has alleged that a family rift caused by Mr Johnson's homosexuality was the reason he overpowered his parents and killed them on the evening of March 11 this year.But what was once an air of certainty is today less emphatic. "We are not absolutely sure that he did it," Mr Vardiambassis said yesterday. "There are many reasons why he may have done it, but we don't know. The judge will examine all the evidence."The evidence includes postmortem results that reveal no evidence of a central plank of the police case - that Mr Johnson had drugged his parents in order to overcome them. A second postmortem in Cornwall also showed no evidence of drugs and Ryan Johnson showed no physical signs that he had been engaged in a struggle. As a result, having examined the police case, two judges in Hania decided to release him on £15,000 bail after failing to agree on the weight of evidence.ColonisationTwenty minutes down the coast from the Hania police headquarters, the village of Almyrida, where the Johnsons came to live, is a strip of narrow beach and a string of tavernas rapidly being colonised by Britons seeking a home in the sun. Here few mention the killing: murder is not good for business, and business in Almyrida is booming.Property firms compete for space along the main road, their billboards promising to make "dreams come true". Success is measured in the growing number of bars advertising "full English breakfast" and the cranes silhouetting the skyline in a race to construct paradise.The Johnsons' two-storey villa, bought for €160,000 (£110,000), stands empty. It was home for just a few days to the couple, who moved to western Crete from Newlyn last August after years of poor health convinced Mr Johnson to sell his partnership in a garage and the family's four-bedroom house and retire to Greece. Matt Foley, a family friend in Newlyn, said they persuaded Ryan to join them. "He wasn't convinced at first but I said, why don't you give it a go, if you don't like it you can come back."On the night they were killed the couple had shared a meal with their son and his friend Andrew Bart, 26, to celebrate moving into the villa and opening a gift shop nearby. Mr Johnson claims he left with Mr Bart after 9pm to drink and play pool in a bar up the road. He returned late and the next day went to wake his parents, only to discover their bodies.Initially the main suspects were Albanian immigrants working in the area as builders. But Mr Johnson became the prime suspect apparently on the basis of a statement by Mr Bart, suggesting his homosexuality had caused a rift with his father, and that he had a window of opportunity that night to return to the villa.That "window" was a matter of minutes, Mr Johnson's lawyers argue - too short a time to overcome two adults, kill them and return to Mr Bart unscathed.Doubts about Mr Johnson's guilt pervade Almyrida. But few want to discuss the alternative - a mini crime wave caused by the growing economic gulf between the comparatively wealthy English incomers, the locals and the Albanian immigrant workers. "There is no crime here," said Alan Shaw, who sold the Johnsons their villa. "I leave my door open all the time. I know the builders who worked on the Johnsons' place and I reject any suggestion they were involved."But Greeks are more forthcoming. "In the last two years there has been much more crime here," said Helen Nicolodiki, who grew up in Almyrida. "Since the murder people have been very frightened. The police say their son killed them but it seems odd. There was a burglary and maybe the killers are still out there."In the nearby offices of another property company, Mr Bart's boss, Peter McFarlane, said: "Andrew is not a suspect, he is a witness. He has made his statement and he does not want to say anything else."'No evidence'Few who attended the funeral in Cornwall believe Mr Johnson is capable of killing his parents. John Bailey, his uncle, said: "There is no evidence against him. He loved his parents, he moved to Crete to be with them. There is no reason for him to have done this. He was always open with them about his sexuality. They had known since he was 19."British police say they have been investigating a child sex allegation against Mr Johnson for 18 months, but Mr Johnson claims he knows nothing about the investigation. "I have no idea what they are talking about," he said from the flat he rents in Hania. "They have not contacted me about it."Elvira Stassinou, his Greek lawyer, added: "We don't understand why if the police in Britain wanted to talk to him they didn't do it before he came to Crete. It is important to remember that someone can make a complaint but until it is substantiated it should not be regarded as a proven allegation."But Detective Chief Inspector Chris Brown, of Devon and Cornwall police, said Mr Johnson was well aware of the allegation. Asked why he had felt it necessary to publicise his investigation now, he said: "There are a lot of people, Ryan included, engaged in a campaign to prove what a wonderful guy he is. He is asking for support in Britain to defend himself against the allegations in Crete, and we felt it would look bad if we did not let people know about the inquiry we are engaged in. He can't have it both ways."