There might be, as Richard Garside complains, "little in [Boris Johnson's youth action plan] that is genuinely new or innovative", but there are elements of surprisingly progressive thinking, which belie his toffy-Tory boy persona.Progress from the reactionary, conservative view of incarceration as a punitive measure against evil little oiks is encouraging. Project Daedalus promises a shift towards the somewhat obvious, but widely ignored, idea that locking up young, first-time offenders with career criminals is probably not the best way to achieve their rehabilitation into society. By promising to educate, guide and support these vulnerable sections of society, as they stand at the crossroads between the underworld and the straight and narrow, Boris has shown that he can listen and act accordingly. However, the Eton old boy rears his scruffy head when he considers ways to "harness and redirect the energies that lead to youth violence", asserting that "Scout troops and army cadets squads are the kind of gangs we like. It's time to expand their turf". Boris claims to have consulted "literally hundreds of people" on the subject of youth disenfranchisement and crime and yet one of those I spoke to, Sharon Singh, organiser of The People's March against knife crime, wonders "if he was listening to any of them at all"."The Scouts are a white, middle-class organisation," she states, flatly dismissing Boris's plans to use the uniformed youth organisations to instil poor, inner-city kids with a sense of self-worth and respect. "Who's going to go to them? How are they going to help?"Another London-based youth worker I consulted agreed with Singh's attitude, claiming that it would take a "major culture shift" to persuade unmotivated, disillusioned youth to attend these "mainstream" organisations. Inner-city youth are generally mistrustful of groups such as the army or police cadets, he told me, while the Scouts  are quite simply not cool. "They might work for some people," he agreed, but not the kind of children who are teetering on the edge of criminality and social severance. To get around this detail, Boris raises the possibility of compelling young people to attend such organisations, should they fall foul of the law, with the aim of improving their "character"; helping them to help themselves. In this case, however, not only does enforced attendance increase the sense of mistrust of such organisations and make young people even less willing to attend, but it also raises the absurd prospect of punishing kids for bunking off their Scout meet.However, youth workers generally agree that organised, structured youth organisations are a good thing. Boris is right that they can inject young people with a sense of empowerment and involvement, making them a part of something and valued as such. In inner-city areas, where crime is a viable way out of poverty, the breakdown of the nuclear family, along with a dearth of successful adult role models and a fragmented, under-funded infrastructure of social care means that kids can often find it hard to resist the peer pressure to join others like them in small acts of criminality, which can swiftly escalate. The gang – which is often little more than a group of alienated children – can provide a sense of belonging, of ideals, purpose and identity, as well as the feeling that the child is doing something constructive for himself, when no one else will bother. Structured, official organisations can lure children away from such gangs. "The discipline and routine they offer are important," says Sharon, while the attention and supervision they offer young people outside of school hours help to keep them occupied and engaged, instead of bored and alone. But Scouts? Really? Many of the young people in question are disillusioned and stubborn enough, without forcing them to enter yet another system that they feel has nothing to do with them. Such a battle would be a waste of time and resources and ultimately counterproductive. Instead, Boris should be seeking out the organisations and groups formed and administered by people with whom troubled teens can identify. Groups that have an understanding of the problems faced by inner-city youth, rather than those faced by Topsy and Tim. Deprived and wayward children need to be brought back into society before they become deprived and way-gone adults, but they need to be brought into a society that they can recognise; social organisations that offer positive and familiar role models, an image and purpose with which they can identify and interact, and the sense of being a part of something again. Organisations that offer the opportunity to rise through the ranks and eventually give something back to the group, and to society more generally. That is the only way to truly "harness and redirect" young people's energies. Imposing organisations such as the Scouts and cadets on rebellious, isolated and disenfranchised teens will only suppress and inflame such energies, with the risk of pushing these young people even further away.Boris has shown a willingness to listen on this subject and to adopt progressive solutions. Will he be persuaded to abandon the golden vision of a bygone era of long shorts, knobbly knees and dib dibs and "harness and redirect" his own well-intended energies, towards offering these young people the kind of help and support that's relevant to them?