A man armed with a six-inch kitchen knife was rugby-tackled to the ground by police outside Buckingham Palace after jumping over a vehicle barrier, a court has heard.At Westminster magistrates court on Tuesday, David Belmar admitted trespass and possession of a bladed article.The 44-year-old from Haringey, north London, tried to run through the palace's north centre gate on Monday morning. When police searched him after bringing him to the ground, they found the kitchen knife wrapped in a plastic bag in his jacket pocket.Edward Aydin, prosecuting, told the court: "He said to police 'I wanted to see the Queen. I'm not happy about my benefits'."Aydin said Belmar, who has mental health issues for which he is taking medication, had a fixation with the Queen and received a caution in 1989 for lighting fireworks and throwing them into the grounds of Buckingham Palace.District judge Quentin Purdy adjourned the case for pre-sentence reports. He remanded Belmar in custody until he is sentenced at Southwark crown court on a date to be set.Belmar, who appeared in court wearing a black jumper and blue jeans, went to the front of Buckingham Palace at 11.29am, Aydin said. Belmar was seen to suddenly break into a run."He then turned into the grounds of the palace and jumped over the vehicle barrier by putting his foot on that barrier," Aydin said. "Two armed police officers shouted: 'Stop!' He continued to run."As you can see he's quite a large man. He was rugby-tackled to the ground because he wouldn't stop. Police called out on two occasions." He added that other officers rushed to help apprehend Belmar.A number of children were at the gates of the palace watching while the incident was unfolding, the court heard."Armed guards had to stop him," Aydin said. "He could have been fired upon. Other people could have been hurt. And there was a risk of some form of disorder there outside the palace."Belmar was under the care of mental health services from 2002 to 2010 and lives with his father and brother, both of whom sat in the court's public gallery for the hearing. Aydin said Belmar had a long history of mental illness and was a danger to himself.He added: "His behaviour that morning was unpredictable. He is a danger to the public, carrying a knife in central London, and he is a danger to the Queen."Robert Katz, defending, denied that Belmar had a fixation with the Queen or Buckingham Palace. He said his client had been on incapacity benefit for the past 10 years but that it was stopped after he was assessed in September.Katz said: "He became very upset by that decision and he didn't know how he was going to cope."He said Belmar did not brandish the knife and was not going to use it, but had "wanted to draw publicity to what had happened to him".Belmar, who admitted trespass on a protected site and possession of a bladed or pointed article, has a number of previous convictions, including for actual bodily harm and criminal damage.Aydin told the court that Belmar became violent when taking some of his medication for mental health problems.Purdy said the case was too serious to be dealt with in the magistrates court, given his past convictions. He accepted that Belmar was living in the community on prescription medication, but added: "Something has clearly gone wrong."If it could go wrong yesterday, being granted bail there is a real risk, until he is properly assessed and perhaps further medication prescribed. He is a danger not just to himself but to others."