Gangs of European spammers are moving to Britain to exploit a legal loophole which allows them to bombard email inboxes with impunity, anti-spam experts warned yesterday. Campaigners have claimed the gangs are moving from countries such as Italy, where they face severe financial penalties or prison, to Britain, where the most they can expect is a £5,000 fine. No spam operator has been fined in the UK and the gangs see the country as a soft touch. Unsolicited junk mail accounts for more than 70% of all email. Industry experts predict this will increase to 80% by the end of the year and to 90% by next summer. The anti-spam organisation Spamhaus claims that legislation introduced in December 2003, allowing unsolicited emails to be sent to business addresses but not personal ones, has been seen by spammers as giving them free rein to interpret the law as it suits them and spam anyone they like. Steve Linford, Spamhaus's founder, said the law was full of "gigantic loopholes" and its punitive measures derisory. Britain, he warned, was on course to become one of the world's fastest-growing sources of spam and was already 10th in the table of the worst spamming countries. Mr Linford said at least one major Italian spam gang had moved its operations to Britain because spammers can receive up to three years in prison in Italy simply for sending unsolicited mail. When Spamhaus exposed its practices the gang tried to mount a campaign against it, sending fake emails purporting to have come from the group. Mr Linford regularly receives death threats from spam gangs because of his campaign. He said: "We get all sorts of threats from the American spammers, from 'We are coming to shoot you' to 'The next package you open will blow you out of the country'." One death threat said: "You are a dead man. As God is my witness you will die soon horrid violent death [sic]." British email marketing companies have not resorted to such extreme measures. Instead, they are using the loopholes to threaten Spamhaus with potentially devastating legal action if it continues to name them as spammers and block their mass mails targeted at business addresses. Spam, according to British legislation, is "unsolicited email sent without the consent of the addressee and without any attempt at targeting recipients who are likely to be interested in its contents". The law bans only the spamming of private email addresses.The Department of Trade and Industry agreed that business emails should be exempt from the law, a move which means spammers can fill up people's work email with adverts for Viagra, child porn and money laundering scams without their permission. The law, say campaigners, allows spammers to claim their emails are intended to go only to business addresses when they go to all and sundry. A £5,000 fine faces those who spam private addresses and fail to stop doing so if a complaint is made. But a fine has never been handed down and, according to insiders, is unlikely to be because no extra funds or staff to deal with the problem were put in place at the Office of the Information Commissioner, the government body meant to regulate the information industry. Mr Linford said the government's claims that it allowed business addresses to be spammed at the behest of business was nonsense. "This comes as quite a surprise to us because any normal person and any British business who is inundated with spam is fed up with the stuff. More and more UK spammers are starting up because they are seeing that there's no action against spammers," he said. "Spammers know they can come here and spam the whole country with almost total impunity." It is estimated that many spam companies, particularly those selling Viagra, make weekly profits of around £15,000. Others are simply frauds. A major concern now is the expansion of Russian gangs who offer to attack other businesses computers, sending viruses. "Russian spam gangs are now a big problem on the internet," said Mr Linford. "These gangs will attack computer networks around the world for you and that is a much more serious form of spamming. American spammers tend to be conmen and fraudsters - and we see them operating in partnership with British spammers - but the Russians are much more hardcore. There is a level of criminality that they employ that is worrying. And our law allows them to come and do it here."