Judges may be forced to release defendants accused of some of the most serious murder and terrorist offences and put their trials on hold because most defence barristers are boycotting a new legal aid payments scheme.The crisis in the criminal justice system means that solicitors cannot find defence counsel to represent their clients in the most serious and complex criminal cases. Several high-profile cases already face serious delays. Barristers throughout England and Wales are refusing to sign contracts introduced on April 1 for the most expensive criminal cases, including terrorism, murder, fraud and drug importation and dealing, leaving many defendants without representation. They say the complex fee structure imposes cuts of up to 50% in some cases on rates payable under the old pre-contract system, where the barrister's fees were assessed after the trial. The boycott, described by one barrister as "semi-official", has not been organised by the Bar Council, but heads of criminal chambers have agreed that their members will not accept work under the new "very high cost criminal case" (VHCCC) contracts. Only a minority of barristers are thought to be signing the contracts. The move, which covers crown court trials lasting at least five weeks and costing £150,000 or more per defence team, could leave judges with no choice but to let defendants out on bail if their cases are unable to come to trial within set time limits. The prosecution can apply to the judge for the custody time limits to be extended, but only for good reason. One QC said lack of representation would probably not be considered enough to justify an extension. Julian Linskill, a Liverpool solicitor, said he had booked a QC to defend a client accused of taking part in a £10m counterfeiting scheme, but the silk had returned the brief. "We phoned 57 different barristers' chambers and there was not one who would even consider it. We haven't even spoken to leading counsel - their clerks have just refused the brief out of hand." Barristers argue that the fees for their advocacy work at trial, if translated into an hourly rate, are less than the rate paid to a junior solicitor taking notes in court. They also object to the requirement to get authorisation from a contract manager, a civil servant without legal qualifications, to do any extra work such as reading new material disclosed by the prosecution. "It's like requiring a surgeon in the operating theatre to stop and ask an NHS bureaucrat if he can put in a few extra stitches," said one QC. The crisis could deepen further as a similar scheme is planned to cover barristers prosecuting for the Crown Prosecution Service. Lord Falconer, the constitutional affairs secretary, summoned Bar Council chairman Stephen Irwin QC and Andrew Hall QC, chairman of its remuneration committee, to a meeting on March 31, the eve of the scheme's implementation. He promised a review of the VHCCC scheme and offered the possibility of restoring a 20% overall cut in fees for shorter trials. A few days later he told them he could not, after all, produce the extra 20%, though he did offer an 8% increase phased over two years for family law barristers. Mr Irwin urged Lord Falconer in a letter delivered yesterday to defer contracting any new cases pending the review "so that the present risk of disruption is avoided". He added: "We will not encourage individual barristers to sign contracts under a scheme which is structurally flawed, inhibits the proper and efficient conduct of trials, and imposes such deep and unjustified cuts in remuneration." A spokeswoman for Lord Falconer said the rates should produce annual fees of about £80,000 before expenses for "junior" barristers - non-QCs - and up to £240,000 for QCs. A Bar Council spokesman said: "We dispute those figures and in any event a large chunk of earnings goes on overheads, which can be up to 40%." · The public believes every part of the criminal justice system is failing, the country's most senior judge acknowledged last night. The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, giving the Mishcon lecture at University College London, said: "We are not being sufficiently tough on the causes of crime. Unfortunately, it has to be accepted that, for many years now, the public have had little confidence in the ability of our criminal justice system to ensure that justice is done." 