It was just after 8am on a Monday morning in March 2015 when three police officers arrived at the gated mansion of the footballer Adam Johnson. They buzzed the intercom and his girlfriend, Stacey Flounders, let them in.Ushering the officers into his games room, away from his seven-week-old baby, Johnson had to prop himself up on his minibar when DC Kimberley Walton told him he was under arrest for sexual activity with a child. Flounders, who waited on the stairs, asked: “Who is she?” Johnson told her the schoolgirl’s name – and lied: “She said she was 16.”It was, the prosecution said, the first in a series of untruths told by Johnson in a desperate attempt to cling on to his gilded life as a Premier League footballer. The £60,000-a-week Sunderland midfielder, who was due to travel to Hull for a crunch relegation match the following evening, was instead taken three miles from his £1.85m home to Peterlee police station.In his first police interview, Johnson admitted kissing the schoolgirl, a highly significant confession that he made, he later said, in a moment of panic and inner turmoil. However, Johnson denied that it went further than a kiss and claimed that he only “eventually” found out she was 15.In fact, the 28-year-old had gone much further, with a sex act taking place in his car. And he knew within an hour of messaging her that she had just turned 15.While Johnson was being interviewed by detectives, the schoolgirl felt her whole world was collapsing around her. A Sunderland season ticket holder, she idolised Johnson. She would wait for a picture with him after games at the Stadium of Light, wearing his name on her shirt, and once even had an Adam Johnson-branded birthday cake.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adam Johnson is questioned by Kate Blackwell QC. Photograph: Priscilla Coleman/MB MediaRumours of the sexual encounter spread among her schoolmates the day after it happened. A Facebook group with more than 20 pupils was created and the rumours quickly became so widespread that teachers threatened to throw children out of class for discussing them.Soon the whole school knew. Within days, the girl’s name and picture was unlawfully posted online. She was vilified as a “slag” who was “making it up”, or a “slut” who must have lured the footballer by claiming she was over 18.Then, the terrace chants started, some of which glorified Johnson while others mocked him. Either way, the girl was so “scared her face was known” that she stopped going to Sunderland games after the 1-0 derby win against Newcastle United on 5 April, a month after Johnson’s arrest.Giving evidence via videolink at Bradford crown court, the teenager broke down repeatedly. She wept uncontrollably while explaining how she lied to try to keep Johnson out of trouble. “I wanted to keep him out of trouble,” she said in tears. “I was worried there wasn’t any evidence there on the texts. I was worried people wouldn’t believe me.”The girl’s father told the trial that she was “crying her eyes out and saying she wanted to kill herself” before she eventually told him what had happened, confiding in him as the rumours at school got out of control.Johnson had his suspension lifted 16 days after his arrest. The club stood by their star winger until the first day of his trial, when he pleaded guilty to one count of sexual activity with a child and one count of grooming.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  ‘I felt used and let down’: Police read statement from Johnson’s victimThe court heard that, far from taking the club by surprise, Sunderland knew within two months of his arrest that he had admitted kissing and sending explicit messages to the underage schoolgirl. The club had copies of the 834 WhatsApp messages the pair had sent each other, and transcripts of both their police interviews.“I told them everything,” Johnson said in the witness box at Bradford crown court. The court was told that Sunderland’s chief executive, Margaret Byrne, a former solicitor, gave the footballer’s counsel, Orlando Pownall QC, the transcripts and WhatsApp messages at a meeting in Newcastle on 4 May 2015. Johnson, who was at the meeting with his father, Dave, said there was never a suggestion that he would be sacked by the club.He continued playing until the weekend before his trial, scoring in a 2-2 draw away at Liverpool. Four days later, after signing the sex offender register following his guilty pleas, Johnson received a a two-line email from the club tearing up his contract. On his reported wages, Johnson had earned £2.7m since his suspension was lifted, not including his £10,000-a-season Adidas boot sponsorship, which was also terminated following his guilty pleas.In the witness box, Johnson cut a sorry figure. Hunched forward, he offered a series of one-word answers to the questions of Pownall and Kate Blackwell QC, the no-nonsense prosecutor. In a broad north-east accent, Johnson repeatedly told jurors that his explicit messages were “stupid flirting” and “inappropriate”.Having joined Middlesbrough football club after leaving school at 16 with four GCSEs, Johnson said playing top-flight football was “every young boy’s dream”, but hinted that he had fallen out of love with the game. It had made him arrogant and slowed down his mental maturity, he said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adam Johnson playing for Sunderland. He made his final appearance against Liverpool, scoring in a 2-2 draw at Anfield. Photograph: Martin Rickett/PAHe admitted sending sexually charged messages to a number of women to lift the monotony of being in the team hotel before matches. “You’re bored and you get caught up in texting just to keep yourself busy,” he said. More explicit messages, which were not read to the jury, were said by the prosecution to show Johnson as “somebody in the habit of planning sexual activity in or on his vehicle with others not connected to his family”.At the heart of the prosecution’s case was the 834 WhatsApp messages that Johnson and the schoolgirl exchanged over seven weeks. Reading more like flirty texts between two teenagers, Johnson was always the one steering the conversation towards sex. It was, Blackwell told the jury, “grooming in its purest form”.The pair started talking on New Year’s Eve 2014, when Johnson accepted her Facebook friend request. He recognised her from outside the Stadium of Light – her Facebook picture showed the pair posing for a photo in the car park – and he asked for her mobile number. Giving evidence, Johnson claimed that she was the first fan he had ever given his mobile number to and that he did it because he wanted sexual activity with her. Within an hour, he had asked her age. “Year 10,” she replied. “Will you still send me a signed shirt?”As the conversation went on, he asked: “Where do you go out?” She replied: “I’m not old enough to go out.” He said: “Yeah but you look old enough. When [are] you 16?” When she replied that her birthday was months away, Johnson said: “Ages, then lol.”The pair met on 17 January, 18 days after they started texting, in a car park behind a Chinese takeaway in County Durham, where Johnson gave the girl a signed Sunderland shirt. The meeting lasted little more than 15 minutes.Days later, Johnson messaged her, saying: “Thought I would’ve got a thank you kiss for the shirt.” He admitted under cross-examination that he wanted her to think she owed him a “sexual favour”.The pair continued to text and decided to meet up again on 30 January, when he texted her, asking: “Am I only getting a kiss?” She replied: “Depends what else you’re after.” He said: “Depends what else you’re up for. Little bit more than a kiss – a bit of feeling. No pressure though.”The pair met for the second time that day. After getting into Johnson’s black Range Rover, they spoke about football and the girl secretly recorded some of their conversation on video messaging app Snapchat to prove to her friends that she was in his car.After a short conversation, Johnson allegedly reminded the girl that he had come for his “thank you kiss”. This is when the sexual encounter took place.Just hours later, Johnson texted the girl, asking: “Wasn’t bad was it? Lol.” She replied: “No haha.” He continued: “Haha think we need to go in the back next time lol.” She said: “Haha yeah.”He told the girl that she “felt very turned on”, adding: “It was class. Just wanted to get ya jeans off lol ... Next time defo. I will last 10 seconds though lol.”The prosecution claimed that this message proved that Johnson touched the girl indecently and therefore that he was guilty of sexual activity with a child on this count. He denied it, insisting that he meant she felt “very turned on” because of the passionate nature of the kiss.There were other excruciatingly embarrassing moments for the footballer during his two-week trial. The length of his pubic hair became a core plank of the case when the schoolgirl said he was “completely shaven”, a claim denied by Johnson, who accused the girl of “just guessing”. Fellow Sunderland player Steven Fletcher was due to give evidence about Johnson’s pubic hair as a defence witness, but was later unwilling to do so, the court heard.Jurors were also shown intimate photographs of Johnson’s genitalia and a picture of him in the bath, which were downloaded from his iPhone after his arrest. Asked why he had a picture of his penis on his phone, a photo that his girlfriend had not seen, Johnson said it was “to show the doctor”.His attempt to show remorse for his actions was hampered by Johnson’s self-confessed inability to show emotion. Following two days in the witness box, Pownall pressed him to reiterate to jurors just how sorry he was. “Awful. What I did to everyone but mainly [the girl],” was the best Johnson could muster.Away from the jurors, Johnson appeared less than troubled by the prospect of prison. At lunchtimes, he was seen laughing and joking with a friend in the court corridors. Part-way through his evidence, he was overheard telling a friend that he was bored. The judge, Jonathan Rose, reprimanded him on the first day of the trial for chatting to a dock officer while Blackwell opened the prosecution’s case.His defence strategy, it appeared, was “confess and avoid” – to admit to the lesser charges in an attempt to avoid conviction for the two more serious child sexual abuse offences. His occasional candidness in the witness box – when he admitted, for example, wanting sexual activity with the girl despite knowing that she was underage – appeared designed to convince jurors that he was so honest, he must truly be innocent of the more serious offences.In the end, after almost 10 hours of deliberating, the jury of eight women and four men decided that Johnson was guilty of one count of sexual activity with a child. Johnson, the former England, Manchester City and Sunderland footballer, now faces a prison sentence of between four and ten years.