For nearly eight years Michael Morton, a millionaire architect and old fashioned Marxist, lived in the belief that he had outwitted the police to carry out the perfect killing. There was no forensic evidence, no trace of fingerprints, no eye witness and, most importantly, no body to incriminate him.In the hours after his estranged wife Gracia Morton drove to his Holland Park home in west London one November morning in 1997 to discuss their daughter's education, she simply disappeared.Had he remained at liberty, Morton, 67, planned to legally declare his wife dead this year - after the requisite seven years of her being missing - and add her £750,000 fortune to his own. But yesterday, after three police investigations and two Old Bailey trials, the London architect was brought to justice for killing his 40-year-old Argentine-born wife.The jury was given a hint that beneath the urbane front of a privately educated English gentleman there lurked a quick temper, but the scale of his violence towards women was never revealed to them. As Morton began a seven-year sentence for manslaughter after being cleared of murder, former girlfriends said they were relieved he was in jail."He bashed the shit out of two women and killed the third ... women were frightened of him," one former girlfriend told the Guardian.The conviction was the culmination of a long fight by Mrs Morton's sister Constanza Lezama to prove she died at his hands. Over the years, as he played the role of innocent, grieving husband, she knew he was a dangerous man dating a string of women - many found through a Guardian Soulmates ad: "Marx and Mozart: Seeks Love". Ms Lezama hopes now that his mask has been lifted he will give up the one thing she needs for a sense of completion - the whereabouts of her sister's body.Morton, a retired Greater London Council architect, remained at liberty for so long partly because of failures in the first police inquiry in 1997. Officers lost the vital initial hours of the murder investigation and treated the case as a missing person's inquiry for 10 days - giving Morton ample time to dispose of the body.When Detective Chief Superintendent Hamish Campbell reopened the investigation six years ago he found that from the day Morton's wife had left him in February 1997, he had threatened to retaliate."My wife and I have a contract, repeatedly reaffirmed, that the marriage we contracted is indissoluble and for ever," he wrote to her sister."I can foresee no prospect of happiness, remotely equivalent of the distress I would suffer in the loss of my wife and daughter, and my future actions will be directed to minimising distress. This isn't a threat - it's common sense."Morton and Gracia Lezama, who was 19 years his junior, met in the mid 80s while she was on holiday from Argentina. She was staying with her sister and brother-in-law, Peter Thomas, the leader of the Birmingham Symphony Orchestra.Intent on moving to the UK, the future Mrs Morton was wondering what to do with her life when she met Morton and, as he put it later, he propositioned her. The couple were married in September 1987 and had a daughter in 1993.Morton, who owned a property in Oxfordshire as well as his Holland Park home, proved a difficult husband, describing his wife as "a surgically enhanced trophy". He imposed conditions on the marriage: that his first wife, Patricia, the mother of two of his children, would remain his best friend and that no rows or melodramas should disturb his harmony. He warned Mrs Morton that any "premenstrual moods" would result in him "considering himself being unmarried".Eight years into her marriage, Mrs Morton was realising that her husband, who had five children by four different women, was an extremely violent man with a very short temper. The mother of one of his children had taken an injunction against him in 1985, saying in her affidavit that he had beaten her up while pregnant and on another occasion raped her. When Mrs Morton arrived at a psychotherapist's appointment with a black eye, she confided that her husband had hit her. She later cited violence as a ground for divorce.In February 1997, she walked out on him. Police later concluded that by leaving she was immediately in danger because Morton hated the woman to end a relationship. He told one girlfriend: "You must never leave me. Women must never leave me ... that's when the trouble starts."Former partners put his fear of abandonment down to his unhappy childhood. He was born to a wealthy Northamptonshire landowner and a musician mother, but his father left when he was three. Morton became a boarder at Haileybury College, where he formed a hatred of private education and became a Marxist.After training as an architect, he spent his working life with the GLC. Close friends came to know him for his bizarre behaviour. One former girlfriend said that Morton had once invited her for afternoon tea with a friend. While they were drinking, he climbed a pear tree in his garden and stayed there for several hours. To Morton, though, his behaviour was normal and it was others who were strange. On the day Mrs Morton died, Wednesday November 12 1997, her separation from him was almost complete with the decree nisi due within days. She drove to her husband's house, leaving her breakfast half eaten, her bed unmade and her passport in its usual place at her Kensington flat.Morton told police they had argued over her choice of a private school for their daughter. He claimed she had given him the keys to her flat and car and then left. It is a story he has maintained for nearly eight years, but one the jury did not believe.The killer caught on filmThe hunt for Gracia Morton's body has over the years involved a geologist, a forensic archaeologist and even a psychic. Woodland and properties owned by Michael Morton in Oxfordshire and London have been subjected to intensive searches.Police have dug up patios, searched drains, pulled up floorboards and used sniffer dogs, but have found no sign of the burial site.Morton's response was to successfully sue the Metropolitan police to the tune of thousands of pounds for damage to his property.After two police inquiries Detective Chief Superintendent Hamish Campbell, the man who went on to successfully prosecute Jill Dando's killer, reopened the inquiry six years ago. He arrested Morton from his Oxfordshire cottage at dawn, while he was still in his pyjamas but in interview the architect gave nothing away.While putting Morton under surveillance, Supt Campbell asked Scotland Yard's reinvestigation team to reexamine every piece of evidence. As Morton bragged to friends that he would outwit the high profile detective, officers pored over documents and scanned CCTV footage from the Kensington block of flats where Gracia Morton lived after she left her husband.It was in the hours of footage that officers found their breakthrough in 2003. Morton had always claimed he did not know the location of his wife's flat and denied visiting it.But caught on camera was an image that had been been overlooked. It showed Morton calmly walking into the block on the day after his wife disappeared and using her keys to enter her flat in the knowledge that she would not be there to object.When faced with evidence that he had lied to police over many years about his visits to the block, Morton, who had been vocal in all his police interviews, refused to talk any more. He has maintained his silence ever since. A jury last year failed to reach a verdict, but yesterday at retrial he was convicted of manslaughter. Police officers plan to visit him in prison to see if he will now reveal the location of the body.