The Prison Service has paid tens of thousands of pounds to a former inmate who alleged he was raped and beaten by a prison officer at Wormwood Scrubs, the Guardian has learned. The officer accused of the rape is still working at the west London prison. He denies the allegations.A second inmate is also suing, alleging that he was beaten and sexually assaulted by a different officer, who pushed a baton into his anus in June 1996. That officer also denies the allegations. The latest revelations added to growing demands for a public inquiry into brutality at Wormwood Scrubs. Yesterday the Guardian revealed that the Prison Service had admitted that 14 prisoners received sustained beatings, mock executions and death threats in the jail between 1995 to 1999. The out of court settlement in the alleged rape case - believed to be a six-figure sum - is by far the biggest amount paid to any of the 45 inmates who sued, alleging officers assaulted them. The Prison Service admitted the inmate had been beaten repeatedly by officers and had a noose placed around his neck. But it has not accepted his rape claim. The inmate claims that four prison officers entered his cell on September 18 1995 and told him to get off his bed. A sworn statement to the court said: "Two of the officers assaulted him by punching him and kneeing him in the groin. His clothes were then pulled from him and he was forced into a restraint position on the floor. He felt his ankles and hands being tied. "One of the officers said to the claimant, words to the effect of 'you're going to give him a blowjob'." He claims that an officer hit him on the back of the head and the demand was repeated. The former inmate's statement continued: "The claimant was then held on the floor. He could feel his buttocks being forced open. He felt an object being forced into his anus ... a lubricated penis. The Prison Service and its officers denied the incident took place. Nine days after the alleged assault the inmate was moved to another prison. The Prison Service has admitted that the inmate had been offered a deal whereby a trumped-up disciplinary charge would be dropped if he withdrew a complaint against officers. The Crown Prosecution Service decided not to prosecute after a police investigation. The prison officer denied the allegations during an interview with detectives, the Guardian understands. The inmate told the Guardian: "I felt humiliated, degraded and sick like I'd never felt before in my life. I felt lifeless, I could not move myself off the floor, I wanted the floor to swallow me." He was interviewed by police in 1998, but they left it three years before speaking to him again. He was never asked to identify any prison officers. A psychiatric report said that the alleged sexual assault had left him suffering flashbacks, nightmares and post-traumatic stress disorder. Yesterday the home secretary, David Blunkett, faced mounting calls for a public inquiry into the violence, bordering on torture, at the jail. Daniel Machover, the solicitor who was a driving force in exposing the brutality, said: "It's unthinkable that this level of torture can happen to so many prisoners over such a length of time without there being a public inquiry into how a prison can get this bad." He said the Prison Service and Home Office could not be trusted to investigate themselves: "If David Blunkett thinks this could not happen again he is living in cloud cuckoo land." The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, said: "I fail to see how the home secretary can ignore calls for a public inquiry into this scandal. If police officers had behaved in this way there would be a national outcry." After yesterday's revelations, the Home Office announced a review in the new year of all the cases to see if fresh disciplinary action against officers were needed. This dismayed John Hancock, the secretary of the Prison Officers Association at the jail. He said senior Prison Service officials were complicit if there were any wrongdoing, which he denies, and demanded a public inquiry. The former Tory prisons minister, Ann Widdecombe, said she was "flabbergasted" the admitted attacks had gone on until 1999, because by then the allegations had become public: "It raises an enormous question mark over what the prison authorities and the Home Office were doing at that time." The Home Office said it had not yet decided on a public inquiry.