The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday January 24 2008In the article below we said that Amnesty International has warned that Taser guns have been linked to more than 70 deaths in the US. Amnesty International's latest figures show that since 2001 more than 250 people have died after being shot by a Taser gun in the US and Canada. This has been corrected.  A man has died after he was shot with a Taser gun and then apparently injured himself with a knife, according to police.The incident happened at a house in Bedford on Saturday night after reports of a domestic dispute between a mother and a son aged in his 30s.The man, who was armed with a knife, threatened officers who were called to the scene and was shot with the Taser, which can deliver up to 50,000 volts. He has been named locally as Justin Petty and his mother is thought to be June Petty.Mr Petty lived with his mother, who has four sons and two daughters and a number of grandchildren who all live in the area, according to neighbours.He went back into the house on his own after being shot and was later found "in urgent need of medical attention", police said. He later died in hospital.The Independent Police Complaints Commission has been informed.A postmortem to determine the cause of death is likely to take place today.Officers arrived at the house at about 7pm. A spokeswoman for Bedfordshire police said: "On arrival at the property, police found the man in his 30s suffering from injury and armed with a knife. He threatened officers and as a result the Taser was discharged. The man then retreated into the house alone and when found shortly afterwards by police officers, he was in need of urgent medical attention because of subsequently self-inflicting serious injury to himself."He was taken to Bedford South hospital, where he was pronounced dead.The spokeswoman said the man would not be named until an inquest is opened later this week. She said the injuries from the Taser were "minimum".When Tasers are fired, two metal barbs connected to the weapon by a thin wire pierce the skin before a 50,000-volt electric charge is delivered.Amnesty International has warned that the weapons, which temporarily disable a suspect, have been linked to more than 250 deaths in the US and Canada. But according to the police in the UK, there have been no severe adverse reactions since Tasers were introduced by forces in 2003.In Northern Ireland, chief constable Sir Hugh Orde is under pressure to withdraw plans to introduce Taser guns. Sinn Féin assembly member Martina Anderson said: "My party is urging Hugh Orde ... to reverse his decision to pilot tasers at this stage. The PSNI does not need any more lethal weapons. They are the only armed police force in Ireland. What we need is a routine unarmed police service."The IPCC will today decide whether to launch an investigation.Tasers have been used 450 times in the past five years in Britain. Brian Loan, 47, died after being shot with a Taser and baton round after acting aggressively towards police in Sacriston, Co Durham in 2006, but a postmortem concluded the death was due to natural causes.