The armed raiders responsible for Britain's biggest cash robbery knew when to strike. Although it may have been pure luck that made the gang choose a Tuesday in February for the heist, the level of sophistication the team displayed shows they knew about the vagaries of Britain's money supply, as well as getaway cars.The UK is becoming more of a cashless society, but the economy still requires about £40bn in notes and coins for everyday transactions. Demand for cash fluctuates throughout the year: more of us take money out of automated telling machines (ATMs) at Christmas than at any other time of the year. In late December or early January, a cash depot such as Tonbridge would be relatively light on cash, because the public wants notes to spend on the high street.February, by contrast, is the weakest month for retail spending. Consumers tighten belts after Christmas, prices go up after the sales and tourism drops off. So about £4bn in cash is taken out of circulation and held in depots such as Tonbridge to await the next seasonal peak in demand, Easter.But demand for cash also has a weekly cycle. Spending peaks at the weekend, then falls sharply on Mondays and Tuesdays. Again, the notes that are not needed for daily transactions are withdrawn temporarily from circulation and sent back out to the banks on Thursday and Friday. As such, the gang had its timing spot on: the right day in the right month.Despite Tuesday night's robbery, the Bank of England believes that it is safer to hold spare cash in compounds than transport it around the country by road. There are 30 depots run by five private sector firms dotted around the country, in addition to three Bank of England centres that hold cash - Threadneedle Street, its printing works at Debden in Essex, and Leeds.Notes are printed under tight security in Essex by De La Rue, and the Bank then ships some of them in an armed lorry to Leeds for distribution in the north and Scotland. Five private firms then move the notes to the 30 depots, and they are delivered in smaller batches to banks and post offices.As the Bank of England pointed out yesterday, however, the supply of new notes only accounted for a part of the gang's haul - hence the lack of a firm figure for exactly how much was stolen.The Tonbridge depot also held a small number of notes no longer fit for use, which are taken back to Debden or Leeds to be destroyed; a bigger stock of cash that was being stored under agreement with the Bank because demand in February was weak; cash that the banks were holding to cope with the weekly fluctuation in supply; and the depot's own stock of cash, similar to the float operated by a pub or shop.