A global search got under way yesterday for a dynamic leader to head the UK's new elite crimebusting squad.The government has appointed headhunters to find the person who can inspire 5,000 highly skilled investigators to bring to justice the criminal "untouchables" who run multi-million pound international drugs, vice and money laundering rackets. The new Serious Organised Crime Agency will combine several specialist police and law enforcement units, such as the National Criminal Intelligence Service, National Crime Squad and Customs and fraud investigators, with hi-tech and financial experts.David Blunkett, the home secretary, announcing its formation yesterday, said: "Organised criminals make their millions from human misery - trafficking in drugs and people, engaging in fraud and extortion. They control criminal empires that reach from the other side of the world to the dealer on the street corner. They believe they are beyond the reach of justice. That is not the case. Modern organised criminals are sophisticated, organised and well-resourced entrepreneurs. We must get ahead of them." Senior police officers and policing organisations welcomed the new agency, recognising the need for a more coordinated approach to increasingly well-developed, quasi-corporate criminal networks with worldwide links. But they cautioned it must stay in touch with grassroots policing.Organised crime is estimated to drain £40bn a year from the economy, with drug trafficking and people-smuggling the two most profitable and most dangerous enterprises. The British crack cocaine and heroin markets are worth £3bn per annum, while 70% of illegal immigrants are smuggled in by organised criminal gangs.The intelligence services and specially trained prosecutors will also work closely with the new agency. Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, said: "Organised criminals can afford the best legal teams and are skilled at evading detection and prosecution. I am determined that specialists from the Crown Prosecution Service and Customs Prosecution Office will have the expertise and the tools to bring them to justice." A skeleton taskforce will start work immediately and the government will publish a strategy paper early next month, with proposals for tough new powers to allow the agency to fulfill its remit. Some changes will require legislation. Several senior US police officers have been appointed to top British law enforcement jobs, reflecting government enthusiasm for US policing ideas. Among the frontrunners to lead the new agency could be Bill Bratton, the Los Angeles police chief. Mr Bratton, 57, is a Vietnam veteran and former head of the New York police department, famous for his "zero tolerance" philosophy. The new agency has already been dubbed the British FBI, although its agents will not tackle terrorism and will concentrate on cracking criminal networks, as opposed to solving individual crimes. It will have powers of arrest, but it will also provide intelligence to local forces. But the government could well look further afield to international corporate high flyers for someone to manage and motivate such a diverse workforce, which will include detectives, lawyers, computer programmers and accountants. "We're looking for a person with a whole range of skills and expertise to lead a world-class team," said a Home Office spokeswoman. The Association of Chief Police Officers welcomed the agency. Chris Fox, Acpo president, said: "The new agency must work alongside forces on the ground to ensure a seamless approach to tackling crime from the very highest level through to the streets."Scourges: tackling organised crime· The Serious Organised Crime Agency will have around 5,000 staff.· The agency will combine the National Crime Squad, National Criminal Intelligence, Customs and fraud investigators, as well as financial and hi-tech experts. They will be supported by intelligence agencies and new specialist prosecutors. · Organised crime is estimated to cost the British economy £40bn a year. · The two biggest scourges are drugs trafficking and people smuggling. · The UK crack cocaine and heroin markets are worth £3bn a year; 280,000 drug users cause half of all crime. · Global profits from people smuggling are estimated at $10bn (£5.4bn) a year. · 500,000 people enter the EU illegally every year, 70% of whom are "facilitated" by criminal gangs, who charge about £11,000 a person.