A body was found in woodland beside an American military cemetery near Cambridge last night where police were searching for the missing student Sally Geeson.Cambridgeshire police confirmed that they had informed the family of the 22-year-old forensic science student, who went missing after celebrating New Year's Eve with friends in a pub in the city. Senior officers, a forensic science team and a forensic pathologist went to the area after the paddocks on a small farm were searched near the back entrance to the war memorial and cemetery where 3,812 American servicemen are buried, five miles from the busy Cambridge street where she was last spotted. Detective Superintendent Garry Swain told reporters and friends of the popular student at the scene that the body was that of a woman, but formal identification would not be possible immediately. Her friends, who had plastered posters of Ms Geeson all over the city in the six days since she went missing, collapsed in tears at the side of the road. Earlier, her mother, Sue Geeson, said her family were "living through hell" as the student's identical twin, Julie, posed in a similar outfit to that worn by Ms Geeson when she went missing, as part of a reconstruction. Ms Geeson was last seen shortly after 1am on January 1 when she went with a male friend to buy chips outside the Avery pub. After losing touch with her other friends, she sent a text message to one of her housemates at 1.40am saying she had got into a car with "someone" and asked to be called back. Two minutes later, she sent a text to another friend, saying "please help me x". Because of heavy mobile phone traffic on New Year's Eve, the messages were not received until eight hours later. Ms Geeson could not call her friends because she had almost run out of credit on her phone. When friends tried to call her the next day, her phone went dead. Her bank and credit card accounts have not been touched since. "We are just living through hell," said Mrs Geeson, from Southend, Essex. "Day to day. We never sleep. It's very, very difficult." Ms Geeson was due to start her final exams next week at Anglia Polytechnic University in Cambridge, where she shared a house with student friends. Police began searching the cemetery after checking CCTV footage around Cambridge and sending tapes away to be enhanced. The forensic scientist who helped to trace mobile phone records in the hunt for Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman was also drafted in to help pinpoint Ms Geeson's location when she sent the text messages.