It was a brutal response that offered a disquieting snapshot into the battleground of the modern classroom.Science teacher Peter Harvey's impulsive decision to beat a teenage troublemaker with a 3kg dumbbell, while shouting "die, die, die", may have provoked outrage in some quarters, but the consensus in the teaching community is that it was a case waiting to happen.Harvey walked free from Nottingham crown court on Thursday after the judge acknowledged that the strains of teaching and the mounting misbehaviour of his pupils had precipitated the highly experienced 50-year-old's problem of severe stress and depression.In the aftermath of the acquittal, the debate turned to whether teachers were receiving sufficient support to handle disruptive classrooms. Research indicates that levels of intimidation, unruliness and violence among pupils towards teachers is increasing and has grown significantly over the past five years. The most recent data shows that a quarter of teachers have encountered violent pupils, according to the Association of Teachers and Lecturers. A new Ofsted survey corroborates the trend, suggesting that pupil behaviour is unsatisfactory in a fifth of schools. Supplementary surveys have found that one in 10 teachers has been injured by pupils as classrooms become more disruptive.Perhaps the most resonant aspect of the Harvey case is that although the ferocity of the attack was highly unusual, the factors that caused his violence are all too familiar to the teaching profession. Chris Keates, general secretary of the NASUWT teaching union, hopes Harvey's case may act as a watershed in the need to offer staff better protection from unruly pupils.Unions agree that the problem of repeat offenders needs to be addressed, citing the failure of many parents to act as "good role models" as a driver of deteriorating behaviour in lessons. The 14-year-old clobbered by Harvey's dumbbell had disrupted the class nine times before the attack.Explanations for the rise in classroom disruption often focus on the notion that schools have "gone soft" evoking, in the process, and with some nostalgia, the days when educational establishments were proudly authoritarian and teachers were able to mete a brutal discipline to those sufficiently foolish to disobey. Parliament agreed to outlaw caning in all schools as recently as 1998. Harvey, who spent 16 years at the Nottinghamshire school before the attack, would have joined a profession with a very different view to tackling troublemakers.The result of the Harvey case appears to be a greater consciousness of the need to examine the whole area of teacher stress in greater detail. Teaching is one of the most stressful occupations around. A recent online survey decided it was the third most harrowing vocation, even more pressured than nursing.Four in 10 respondents to a National Association of Head Teachers survey confirmed they had visited a doctor with a stress-related problem in the previous 12 months. A fifth admitted to drinking too much, a quarter suffered from a stress-related health problem, including depression, sleeplessness and high blood pressure. Research by the Times Educational Supplement shows that as many as four in 10 teacher vacancies in secondary schools are the result of stress. Studies are currently in train to map the extent of "suicide ideation" – thinking about suicide – among Britain's teachers.Harvey's case also shows that his violent loss of self-control was prompted by more than a single, if particularly disruptive, pupil. For three years he had suffered varying levels of abuse from pupils and told colleagues that classes were getting out of control. At home, his wife had been treated for depression after quitting teaching.Teachers point to a myriad of factors that can combine to push a teacher towards nervous breakdown. They include long hours, a lack of autonomy, relatively poor pay, aggressive parents, low status and self-esteem, a dour curriculum and Ofsted inspections. For those able to withstand the rigours of modern teaching, pupils' misbehaviour can be the final straw for someone on the edge.