A prisoner in a maximum-security jail was driven to kill himself because the staff did nothing to stop other inmates verbally abusing him, an inquest jury found yesterday.Paul Day, 31, from Basildon, Essex, was found hanged in his cell in the segregation unit of Frankland prison, Durham, in October 2002. Day, a police informer who was serving eight years for robbery, had been on a dirty protest in the unit. A serving prisoner, Anthony Wood, who was protesting with him, told the inquest at Chester-le-Street that they had smeared excrement on their cell walls and flooded it with urine as a protest against staff bullying and intimidation. He said officers had given him a jacket potato containing dead flies. He claimed that an officer had shouted at Day: "If you carry on shouting, you little nigger, you will get hurt." Edward Tullet, the prison governor who conducted an inquiry into his death, said Day was the victim of "systematic failures" and had been "passed around" by the Prison Service. The Wandsworth prison governor, James Riley, had told Day and his mother Pauline that he was being moved to Frankland for his own benefit and he would be placed on the vulnerable prisoners' wing there. But the prison did not have such a wing and Mr Riley admitted that he had not telephoned the prison to ask about the facilities. A letter from Day read to the inquest said: "Mum, I was on the bus on the way to prison and I really thought this was a fresh start for me. "Instead, I was walking in the exercise yard and within 20 minutes, I had prisoners throwing urine on me and calling me a grass." While he was in Wandsworth Day scaled a gantry in an exercise yard and threatened to jump. Andy Topping, a principal prison officer at the jail, said he had tried to talk him down but his colleagues behaved "in an unprofessional manner" by shouting abuse and urging him to jump. Inmates joined in a chorus of "Let him fall". He agreed that this amounted to outrageous conduct. Day was supposed to be monitored frequently because of the risk of him harming himself, but the records showed that there were gaps of more than an hour when he was not checked. Officers said they had checked him, but the pressure of work prevented them filling in the relevant forms. Two officers, Vikki Keenan and Stephen Kay, said they had seen him alive at 10.25pm on the night of his death. But another officer said there had been no other officers present. Andrew Tweddle, the Durham coroner, said he did not accept the evidence of the two officers. Nicki Rensten, from the Prisoners' Advice Service, said they had received numerous complaints about conditions in segregation units, particularly in high-security prisons such as Full Sutton in North Yorkshire, Long Lartin in Worcestershire and Whitemoor in Cambridgeshire, where prisoners had also taken part in dirty protests. Speaking after the verdict, Pauline Day said her son was not proud of his past as an informer, but that he had hoped to start a fresh life after this sentence. She said her son had left a suicide note saying that he wanted to "go home". "His ashes are at home now," she said, "and now that the inquest is over, we will scatter them."