The woman whose husband staged his own death in a canoe accident told police he had begged her to let him come home, a court heard today.Anne Darwin told police investigating her role in a £250,000 fraud that her husband, John, had cried and pleaded to be allowed to return, but said she had been minded to leave him where he was hiding.Jurors at Teesside crown court were read transcripts of interviews between Darwin and police in which she said her husband could be "very manipulative''. She said staging his death had been "a ridiculous idea", adding that she had told him they should have declared themselves bankrupt."But he just wouldn't hear it," she added. "He said we had both worked hard all our lives and he didn't want to lose everything he had worked for."He was not violent, but could be very manipulative. He had a way of making me feel quite small."The 56-year-old denies six counts of deception and nine money laundering charges linked to insurance payments received after her husband disappeared from the seafront at Seaton Carew, near Hartlepool, in March 2002.The court heard that she had written a loving email to him hours before he walked into a police station, claiming he had amnesia and saying: "I am a missing person.''In the email, sent from Panama and dated November 30 2007, she wrote: "Hope you had a good flight and everything okay with the family. Love you, missing you already. XXXXXX" Cleveland police accessed his account, opened under his assumed name of John Jones, and found a total of 1,012 emails, of which 923 were unread, the court heard.Police regulations mean that officers cannot open any unopened emails, meaning they could look at only 89 of Darwin's messages.His wife told police that answering questions at the inquest into her husband's death had been "quite a difficult ordeal"."It was not easy but, as I say, John was very manipulative," she said. "From the day he came home, I tried to persuade him to come clean."He couldn't, he wouldn't and, if I tried, he would say I was in it from the start."At first she had denied jointly planning his disappearance, saying she had been shocked when he turned up in February 2003, the court heard.However, in later interviews she admitted she had not told the truth and said she had helped him stage his death by picking him up from the beach and driving him to Durham railway station.She told police he had thought he would only have to be away for two or three months and had phoned her to ask whether he could come home in the weeks after he vanished.Eventually, she said, the time was right for him to come back."He phoned me and gave me directions to where he was," she said. "I wanted to leave him there. I didn't want to go and pick him up, but I couldn't leave him."At one point, he was literally crying on the telephone. I couldn't see him hurt."Police asked her whether the most difficult deception to carry out had been that of her sons, Mark, 32, and 29-year-old Anthony."That is extremely painful … always has been," she said."I found myself leading a double life. I accept I am an adult and I had a choice and, in hindsight, I wish I had taken the proper choice."The trial continues.