Blood samples from the Portuguese apartment where Madeleine McCann was on holiday with her family will reach a British laboratory today for analysis.The samples, which are understood to have been found in the apartment by a team of sniffer dogs operated by police from Leicestershire, will be examined by scientists from the Forensic Science Service, based in Birmingham, the Guardian understands. The first task for scientists will be to try to get a DNA sample from the blood, reported to have been found on a wall of the villa in Praia da Luz where the McCann family was staying.If they are successful, the profile will be checked against the DNA of the missing four-year-old and against the national DNA database, set up by the FSS.The database contains the DNA details of anyone who has been taken into custody for a recordable offence. But if whoever abducted Madeleine is not from the UK the samples will have to be tested against databases run by other countries, including Portugal, Spain and Belgium, where police are checking a recent sighting of a girl who resembled Madeleine.Police from Leicestershire, where the McCann family live, are leading the UK contingent of officers in Portugal helping detectives. Leicestershire police refused to comment yesterday on whether it was their officers who discovered the blood smears. But reports from Portugal suggest Leicestershire officers used specialised equipment and their own sniffer dogs to re-examine the two-bedroomed apartment at the Mark Warner holiday complex. The blood was reportedly found on a wall in the bedroom where Madeleine had been sleeping with her younger brother and sister on May 3, the night she disappeared.A source was quoted as saying one of the dogs stopped dead at the spot and barked. Reports in the Portuguese press yesterday suggested police had known for some months that Madeleine died in the apartment on May 3.The Diario de Noticias (DN) quoted a source close to the inquiry who said the police had discounted kidnap. The source alleged detectives from Britain and Portugal had been closely monitoring the movements of the parents, Gerry and Kate McCann, since Madeleine's disappearance. Police sources allegedly told DN that they were concentrating "on the family circle and their friends", some of whom had allegedly been under surveillance in the UK.The new suspect, says DN, is a man about 40 years old, about 1.70-1.75 metres tall, brownish hair, who could be African or English. He was seen with suspect Robert Murat and, before the disappearance, in the company of the McCann family. He was later photographed by journalists. He is now under surveillance. Mr Murat's lawyer said he would sue for wrongful arrest after his client was proved innocent.Mr McCann told Sky News yesterday that he and his wife "strongly believed" Madeleine was alive when she was taken from the apartment. Coming under scrutiny from detectives was "difficult" but they were "more than happy" to cooperate. "We expect the same thoroughness and to be treated the same way as anyone else who has been in and around this."