The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Saturday January 24 2004 Giovanni Lombardo, an Italian lawyer whose firm, Studio Legale Internazionale Lombardo, has offices in London and Rome, has asked us to point out that neither he nor his practice has anything whatsoever to do with Giovanni Di Stefano or his firm Studio Legale Internazionale, mentioned in Di Stefano 'never acted for Shipman'. Mr Lombardo's firm is fully registered in both cities. The London solicitors who acted for mass murderer Harold Shipman and also represent his family said yesterday they had no links with fraudster Giovanni Di Stefano and that, to the best of their knowledge, he never acted for any of the Shipmans.Mr Di Stefano appeared on several television programmes on Tuesday last week, the day Dr Shipman hanged himself in prison, claiming to have been working on a possible appeal for the serial killer. Last week, the Guardian disclosed that Mr Di Stefano, jailed for fraud in 1986, was under investigation by the police and the Law Society. He claims his conviction was overturned but has not provided evidence to support this and the Guardian has a copy of the 1987 judgment rejecting his appeal. He also claims to be an avvocato - an Italian lawyer with rights to practise occasionally in the UK under EC rules. But he has repeatedly failed to provide any proof of his legal qualifications. But yesterday, Michael Schwarz, a partner with Bindman & Partners, said: "My firm has absolutely no connection so far as I am aware with Giovanni Di Stefano, the 'lawyer' who recently held himself out as Harold Shipman's lawyer.""I can confirm that we advised Harold Shipman about a number of issues, including a possible appeal against his conviction and the Shipman public inquiry. We are also advising members of his family about issues arising from his death."Mr Schwarz said another firm of solicitors, Paul Martin & Co, based in Romford, Essex, who described themselves as the "London agents and associates of Studio Legale Internazionale in Rome, of which Avvocato Giovanni Di Stefano is a principal" wrote to Dr Shipman last May offering their services. He said: "In a letter to me, dated January 13 2004 Paul Martin & Co told me that 'Studio Legale Internazionale was requested to cover grounds of appeal, if any, for Mr Shipman, early last year.' " But Mr Schwarz said he understood that Dr Shipman had declined the offer in May 2003. "Neither I nor members of Harold Shipman's family, on whose behalf I act, are aware that [he] instructed them [Paul Martin & Co and/or Studio Legale Internazionale] either before or after that date." The Guardian approached Mr Di Stefano and Mr Martin for comment yesterday but neither replied before the paper went to press. On the day Dr Shipman died, Mr Di Stefano said on television that he had been working on an appeal for the serial killer. James Purnell, Harold Shipman's constituency MP, has written to Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor, urging him to investigate Mr Di Stefano.