Patrick Stewart, who plays Captain Jean-Luc Picard in the television series Star Trek, spoke today about the domestic violence he witnessed at home as he was grew up.Stewart, who grew up in Huddersfield, Yorkshire, made his comments as Amnesty International launched a global campaign to cut violence against women.The 63-year-old admitted feeling "shame, guilt and responsibility" after witnessing his mother being abused by his father and saw how violent language could easily escalate into physical violence. He said: "I saw the self-loathing of my father, due to his inability to control his violent outbursts. I saw society, police, doctors and neighbours conspire to hide the abuse with comments like 'She must have provoked him' and 'It takes two to make an argument'."Endorsing the campaign Stewart said he had decided to speak out after gaining the support of his two brothers. "Last night I spoke to my 79-year-old brother who said that what had happened had blighted his life. Violence must be controlled. If you fail to raise your hand in protest, you are part of the problem." Amnesty claimed that at least one in three women in the world would suffer serious violence in their life time and up to 70% of the world's female murder victims are killed by male partners.It said that violence against women in the UK was at "crisis point" with one call to the emergency services every minute, and two women killed every week.The charity's 122-page report, It's in our hands - Stop violence against women, said there were 14,000 recorded rapes in the UK last year, an 8% increase on the previous year. But, it pointed out, only one in five rape attacks were reported to the police and one in four women would experience violence at the hands of a partner during their lives.Amnesty's secretary general, Irene Khan, said: "Violence against women is a human rights atrocity." The report challenged governments to act to prevent millions of women being raped, murdered, assaulted and mutilated.It focused on so-called honour killings - currently running at 1,000 a year in Pakistan alone - and other cultural practices including female genital mutilation. The report revealed that most of the 15,000 "dowry deaths" a year in India were disguised as kitchen fires; marital rape is recognised as a crime in only 51 countries and in the US a woman is raped every 90 seconds.