Tony Blair yesterday threw his weight behind a policing revolution in London which will involve the most concentrated campaign yet against neighbourhood nuisance crimes, such as littering and rowdy behaviour.The prime minister joined London's mayor, Ken Livingstone, and the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, for the launch of the Safer Neighbourhoods scheme, which will see teams of six officers permanently deployed to neighbourhoods throughout the capital. Ninety-six teams will be introduced over the next year. The officers will be briefed to be visible to tackle a range of offences but to pay particular attention to crimes including graffiti writing, fly-tipping, flyposting and noise disturbances. They will be told to make full use of anti-social behaviour orders and will be able to issue fixed penalty notices with fines at various levels. The mayor said he had drawn inspiration from the Broken Windows policies to cut crime famously exploited by the former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani. The theory assumes that major crimes more readily occur in areas where lesser crimes go unchallenged. Mr Blair said: "This is about reclaiming communities for the decent law abiding communities that live in them. It is about the idea of community policing and that people should be able to feel that when they go out of their doors they are not hassled by people and don't have to see things that are revolting on the streets. "There is no doubt that more visible police on the streets helps in terms of reducing fear of crime and as a deterrent to the criminal." Mr Blair said people want "rules and order" and interest has also been expressed by officials in Newcastle, Manchester and Leeds. Sir John Stevens said the move heralded "a new era" for the Met and would be applauded by Londoners. "We know that 68% of Londoners will pay for extra policing if they see those police officers on the streets," he said. Mr Livingstone, who interrupted paternity leave to attend the launch, said the new tactic could stop youngsters drifting into a life of crime. "My generation didn't get involved in crime," he said. "If you were a kid on the streets and got caught causing vandalism, you thought twice about doing it again. If there is no certainty that you will be caught people drift from vandalism into a life of crime." The neighbourhood teams will consist of at least one sergeant, two constables and three community support officers.The policy was launched on the Stonebridge estate in northwest London, already the focus of community and regeneration projects.Despite some heckling as the dignitaries left, there was a broad welcome. Bryan Anderson, 32, of the estate radio station Life FM, said: "It has all happened very quickly but it will do a lot for community confidence."