Among the broken, the defeated the damaged and the deranged who make up the majority of a prison's population, armed robbers have traditionally been considered the aristocracy. Not the drug-fuelled desperados who vault counters with fake guns seeking the means to keep the fixes coming. Nor the cowboys who stick up corner shops with decrepit shotguns or wartime revolvers. But those who are organised, professional, courageous it has to be said, to a certain extent, and, of course, callous and often brutal. The gang who stole up to £40m in used banknotes from the Securitas depot in Tonbridge, Kent on Wednesday will certainly enjoy the highest positions in the prisoner hierarchy, if and - as is usually the case in such high-profile, high-value crimes - when they are caught and locked up for at least a couple of decades.Not that such men value their status in prison. They are too serious and too sober. When they do end up behind bars they tend to do their time well, using the gym and mixing in the main with only their own kind. But contrary to popular belief, men who carry out this type of crime do not see prison as an occupational hazard. In this sense the police were absolutely correct to emphasise the dangerousness of the Tonbridge gang. A spokesman said the raid was "organised crime at its top level", and that it was carried out with "military precision".Here the police are dealing with men for whom prison is to be avoided at all costs. When they step out to go on their "bit of work", their mission is to do or die. Like Robert De Niro in Michael Mann's seminal heist film Heat, they are men for whom life is lived on the very edge and for whom nothing counts but the winning of the prize.During the years I spent in prison as a high-security category-A prisoner, I encountered a number of men who operated in what amounted to this premier league of crime. They were rarely unintelligent. Some behaved like captured soldiers, prisoners of a war waged against the civilised world. They would only speak to prison staff when absolutely necessary and would barely acknowledge any of the lower ranks of those they considered "prison fodder". Others used their time constructively, attending educational classes and putting their abilities to positive use in sport and charity work. I heard their stories. One man went on trial for eight security-van robberies and was found not guilty on all counts. He left court and on his drive home encountered a security van and on the spur of the moment decided to hold it up. This time he was caught "bang to rights" and received 18 years for it. Another man prodded a security guard on the back of the head with his faulty shotgun to prompt the guard to get in the back of his van. The gun went off. The robber was lucky to get 22 years for manslaughter.Bob the Dog was a typical member of this fraternity. He was the coolest character on the wing by far . Even in his prison clothes he looked dapper - shirt always pressed, hair neatly trimmed. And in spite of the fact that he was serving a 22-year sentence for armed robbery, he always appeared cheerful. He and the three others in his gang had been prolific bank robbers for several years during the 1980s. Their MO (modus operandi) had been to pose as workmen in the vicinity of the target bank: a window cleaner, a postman, a telecoms engineer. The Dog, as his confederates referred to him affectionately, was the getaway driver and dressed up appropriately, as he saw it, as a chauffeur, complete with peaked cap. Once in position they would lie in wait for the bank's cash reserve delivery. As soon the security company had dropped off the money they would pounce before it could be locked in the vault. Their total haul over the years was estimated by the police to be in the region of £5m, enough to provide a reasonably comfortable retirement for the four men you would have thought.But robbery at that level is never just about the money. "We ended up doing it for the buzz as much as anything else," the Dog told me once. From what he said, it seemed that armed robbery could be a dangerously addictive activity. The Dog's gang was only stopped when they were ambushed outside a bank by a unit from SO19, the armed response wing of the Metropolitan police."It was a ready eye," the Dog explained, meaning that that the police had prior information about the raid and had been watching the bank, ironically also dressed as workmen. The subsequent shootout left the Dog wounded and one of his gang dead. The other two escaped. The Dog's wound enhanced his prison status, as did the fact that he never "grassed" on his associates. He had real connections, and was treated on the landings like a modern day Mr Bridger, the prison Mr Big famously played by Noel Coward, the mastermind behind the robbery in the 1969 film The Italian Job.The police say the Kent robbery may have involved as many as 10 gang members. This strength of arms is the gang's main weakness. In 20 years of prison, I never met 10 criminals, serious or otherwise, who could trust each other completely. In almost all the cases of the men I met, there had been a snitch in the gang, or in a member of the gang's family, usually seeking the reward. The notion of there being honour among thieves, even at this level, is a flaky one.Arguably the best British film about armed robbery is Antonia Bird's Face, written by Ronan Bennett (who consulted experienced robbers while writing his screenplay). At the heart of Face, which stars Robert Carlyle and Ray Winstone - and, incidentally, features a raid on a security company compound - is the truth about the robbery game. Winston plays the robbers' staunch leader, whose treachery ultimately brings about the gang's destruction.The reward for the capture of the Tonbridge gang is £2m. With such a sum on offer it is only a matter of time before the police know the men's identities. The greed of the robbers will be nothing compared to the greed of the turncoat that hands them in. And the end when it comes will be far from glamorous. The fear for those hunting them will be that some of the gang will be so desperate to avoid capture that they will choose to go down fighting like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. God help anyone who gets caught in the crossfire.· Erwin James's books about prison life, A Life Inside and The Home Stretch, are published by Atlantic Books.