Gunmen who held more than 30 hostages inside a Venezuelan bank negotiated their getaway in an ambulance and sped away with several captives tonight, leaving the remainder inside.Under the deal, the four gunmen were permitted to leave with five hostages, and they slipped into an ambulance that backed up to the entrance. As the gunmen and hostages stepped out, they held up file folders and paper bags to cover their faces.The five captives had agreed to leave in the ambulance, said Gu치rico state governor, Eduardo Manuitt, who announced the gunmen's agreement with police. He said the gunmen would not be followed and that one of the hostages was assigned to drive.It was not immediately clear how many hostages were freed as relatives massed as the front door of the bank and some were led to waiting ambulances. Hundreds of heavily armed troops were positioned across the road facing the bank in Altagracia de Orituco, in central Gu치rico state, while helicopters flew overhead.Four gunmen entered Banco Provincial, a subsidiary of Spain's Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA) just before 11am (3.30pm GMT) yesterday.They appear to have been disturbed when a uniformed police officer tried to use the bank's cash machine. In the following hours, six captives were either released or escaped, including a security guard who ran from the building as the gunmen fired at him but missed.A seventh hostage, a female bank employee was released earlier today and a man identified as one of the gunmen said they planned to release at least one more, but later an apparent gunshot rang out - police said it hailed from inside the bank - breaking a window and sending reporters and officers scattering.The remaining hostages consisted of bank employees and customers including a two-week-old infant, a 10-year-old boy and a woman who is eight months pregnant, bank executive Leon Enrique Cottin told the Venezuelan television station Globovision.He urged the hostage-takers to "be conscious that it's very different to face a trial for kidnapping and for homicide".A man identified as one of the gunmen, who gave his name today as Jorge, called up Colombia's Caracol Radio and said the kidnappers planned to free the pregnant woman."People have the sense that we're going to leave," he said. "We're fine. We're waiting for a visit by a priest."General Antonio Rivero, head of Venezuela's emergency management agency, said no one had been hurt in the siege. Police were negotiating with the gunmen and emergency teams had been deployed outside to help hostages and their families, he said.The justice minister, Ramon Rodriguez Chacin, said the gunmen were in their early 20s and that they had been taking drugs, making the situation volatile."They appear to be new at this," Manuel Granadillo, a regional security official told Uni칩n Radio. "They could do something crazy and then anything could happen."Hostages held up signs at the windows of the bank pleading for the authorities to provide the ambulance requested by the gang and to reconnect water supplies that had been shut off. One read: "We are in real danger. They can kill us. Please help."One woman held inside, Vanessa Saavedra, spoke to Caracol Radio yesterday. She said of the gunmen: "We don't want them to shoot ... We don't want them to open fire. Please."Some sent text messages to relatives saying they and their captors were tired, according to local media.The gunmen reportedly accepted deliveries of food, water and nappies.Several hundred onlookers initially gathered in the hours after the standoff but their numbers dwindled at night. Many of the hostages' families maintained their vigil and urged the authorities not to use violence to end the siege.Crime is a big political issue in Venezuela, which is believed to have one of the worst gun-related death rates in the world; the police stopped issuing crime statistics in 2003. Opinion polls show crime is Venezuelans' biggest concern.President Hugo Ch치vez vowed to tackle the problem after crime was widely perceived to be one of the main reasons for his surprise defeat in a referendum last December, which he had hoped would grant him new powers and the right to be re-elected indefinitely.