"One of the things stalkers do," explains Alexis Bowater, chief executive of the Network for Surviving Stalking (NSS), "is wrap their victims in a cloak of darkness and make then feel no one will believe them." Bowater should know – in 2009 a then 25-year-old man called Alexander Reeve was jailed after launching a sustained stalking campaign against her.The former ITV newsreader was sent more than 50 emails with violent and sexual content, some threatening her and her unborn child, and even fake bomb threats. She feared she was being followed home, and installed a panic button in her house.oday her persecutor is out of jail, but Bowater still considers herself lucky. "I had an excellent police force, CPS and a fantastic judge – they understood the crime."Too often, she says, victims of stalking are not believed or their fears are brushed off. This could be set to change after new legislation was introduced this week, which makes stalking a specific offence for the first time. Previously, such behaviour was dealt with under existing harrassment laws – the same legislation, Bowater points out, that covered neighbour disputes.This, she says, "led to confusion among victims, but also police officers, in properly identifying the crime. One of the big problems is encouraging victims to come forward. Some wait until they have experienced 100 incidents of unwanted behaviour before reporting them. Then they can find it hard to be taken seriously when they go to the police. Stalking leads to serious crimes such as rape and murder but it was being lumped in with disputes over hedges."Part of the problem, she says, is the fact that stalkers are too often seen as rejected suitors rather than criminals. "We are socialised through romantic films to think that the guy will always eventually get the girl," Bowater says, "but stalking is not a romcom gone wrong – it is serious and pathological. Experts will tell you that most normal, healthy people at the end of a relationship will indulge in romantic behaviour, begging and pleading and trying to get your partner back. What's not normal is when it goes on beyond two weeks – that's when you tip into pathological behaviour." About half of all stalkers are complete strangers.With one in six women, and one in 10 men, subjected to stalking within their lives, Bowater says the new legislation – which can lead to prison terms of six months, or five years for convictions that involve a fear of violence or serious distress – could help people realise the seriousness of the crime."Since working at the NSS, I have learned stalking is a much bigger problem than I ever realised. It is a crime that steals people's lives from them, and sometimes even causes them to take their own lives. It is a precursor to so many other, major crimes. As long as it remains invisible people won't recognise it for what it is."Victims, she says, often need considerable courage to break their silence. "Stalkers are highly manipulative people. They lock themselves in to a relationship with a victim, against the victim's will, and then frighten them."This is why, she says, the new legislation must not be the end of the road. "This is just the beginning of a wide range of measures that need to be brought in in order to tackle this problem seriously. Stalkers will repeat-offend until they are treated. So there needs to be mandatory treatment, and there needs to be better support for victims, when they are going through the courts, and also counselling services. They need help to get their lives back on track."• If you've been affected by the issues raised in this piece, you may want to contact The Suzy Lamplugh Trust's stalking helpline, the Network for Surviving Stalking or Protection Against Stalking.