The Church of England was today criticised for failing to report a self-confessed child abuser to police, enabling him to continue to work closely with children.Instead of contacting officers after choirmaster Peter Halliday admitted sexually abusing a boy, the church forced him to leave.The 61-year-old was then able to gain positions of trust within a prestigious church music school, where he worked alongside children and became a governor.He was today jailed for two and a half years for abusing three boys. Sentencing him at Winchester crown court, Judge Ian Pearson said it was "unfortunate" that the church had not contacted police."These young men are still badly affected by what you did," he said. "You were in a position of trust and responsibility to these young boys. These children would have looked up to you as their choirmaster ... you repeatedly and systematically abused these boys and groomed them."He also banned Halliday, who is married, from working with children, telling him he would be put on the sex offenders' register for life. Halliday was ordered to pay £2,000 compensation to each of his victims.The choirmaster, from Farnborough, abused the three boys who were in the choir at St Peter's church in the Hampshire town between 1985 and 1990. He pleaded guilty to 10 counts of indecent assault.Ruth Bowskill, prosecuting, told the court Halliday had indecently assaulted the boys during swimming lessons, at camps and at his house. On one occasion, a boy was indecently assaulted in the shower as he washed himself after sports, she said.Ms Bowskill said Halliday's victims described him as a "fierce man, [a] bully and a revolting character".She added that the charges he pleaded guilty to were samples, and that some victims had said they had been indecently assaulted up to 30 times.The first victim, aged around 11 or 12, said he went on holiday with Halliday and his family. He was invited to call him "daddy", but did not do so. Another victim said he had been assaulted 20 or 30 times.The third victim said he was assaulted in a swimming pool, during a church outing to Winchester and also while in bed at Halliday's home.Ms Bowskill said the victim "felt earmarked and groomed", adding that Halliday had kissed him goodbye and said "I love you" on one occasion.In 1990, the victim informed a leader at a Christian camp. The then Bishop of Dorking, David Wilcox, and the Rev Alan Boddington, a vicar, were told what the victim had said, and Halliday admitted abusing him.Susan Evans, defending, said Halliday was effectively placed "on probation" and told to leave the church immediately. She added that Mr Boddington had only been aware of one allegation at the time, and that the boy's parents had not wanted to contact police.Halliday moved on, taking jobs in a bank and at a hospital, but continued to work as a volunteer for the Royal School of Church Music (RSCM).He sang alongside children in the RSCM's Southern Cathedral Singers group, becoming pastoral assistant to the group in 2001. A year earlier, he became the honorary chairman of the RSCM's Guildford area, and also worked as a secondary school governor.In 1993, a former choirboy encountered Halliday at a residential course where he was singing with the RSCM, and told the RSCM about Halliday's past. The organisation said it checked the claims but was reassured there was nothing to worry about."We are aware that a concern was raised with a course director in 1993 based on an emotive allegation made by a teenager," a spokesman for the organisation said."It was raised by the course director with the church in question, which, we are told, assured the course director that there was no cause for concern. The matter was therefore taken no further."The spokesman said that, had the RSCM known of the risks posed by Halliday, "his contact with children would have been terminated immediately".Halliday was finally brought to justice when one of his victims saw a television programme about child abuse and went to the police. It was only when charged last year that he gave up his work at the RSCM.A Church of England statement from the Guildford diocesan spokesman, Mark Rudall, said: "We are completely satisfied that what was done at the time was the way things happened in those days when child protection awareness was on the cusp of serious change."Church officers at every level acted in good faith in accordance with what they perceived to be in the best interests of child and family at that time, in that setting, before the law and government guidelines were as they are today."Mr Wilcox said he was "absolutely clear" there had been no cover-up. "I believe that we sought to act in the best interests not only of the church but of the family and everybody concerned at that time," he said."Things were very different then. I think that we make the mistake of trying to read back what we now know and how we now do things."However, the Churches' Child Protection Advisory Service, which advises churches in child protection practices, today said church leaders had "seriously mishandled" the case.