Lord Irvine of Lairg is reported to be leaving the Government in the forthcoming reshuffle. If so, he will be remembered for matters beyond his Pugin wallpaper and affinity with Cardinal Wolsey. His attention to human rights has been laudable, his role in reforming the House of Lords less so. But the central problem of his tenure lies elsewhere. Role-creep has made the 800-year-old office of Lord Chancellor look increasingly anachronistic.A modern constitutional democracy must maintain a watertight division between the executive, the judiciary and the legislature. The Lord Chancellor's role as a member of Cabinet, the head of the judiciary, speaker of the Lords and a sitting judge defies that essential separation of powers. To parcel out his functions would be straightforward. Judges should be appointed by an independent commission. The Lord Chief Justice should lead the judiciary and the upper chamber could elect its own speaker. Finally, a newly created Secretary of State should fill the Cabinet seat currently occupied by Lord Irvine, whose influence differs from that of his predecessors. His department has become a major spending department with a £2.8 billion budget, a vocal controversialist at the helm and a history of clashes with the Home Office. There have been other difficulties. Tension between the judges and the Home Office have bedevilled justice issues and culminated in Lord Woolf's latest charge that the Government is to blame for the prisons crisis. The solution is to combine the current Lord Chancellor's department and some Home Office functions in a dedicated Ministry. Its brief should encompass civil and criminal law, the courts, the judges, the prosecution service and constitutional reform. Removing justice affairs from two competing departments would make for better policy. It might improve the ill-framed CriminalJustice Bills rolled out by successive Home Secretaries. Hiving off some responsibilities would also create space for the demands on Mr Blunkett. A Home Office looking after crime prevention, the police, prisons, national security and immigration would have no shortage of work. In the interests of democracy and good governance, Mr Blair should use his reshuffle to announce a new Department of Justice and declare Lord Irvine the last Lord Chancellor.