For starters, we'll have the pig's anus masquerading as calamari followed by the potentially fatal puffer fish pretending to be monkfish, all washed down with urea-adulterated milk and some relabelled sparkling wine passed off as champagne. On the side, we'll have a faux artisanal sourdough roll made with normal flour substituted for organic and road salt for sea salt. It's a menu culled not from hell's kitchen but from the more egregious examples of food fraud recorded around the world over the past year.That some of these may be unquestioned urban myths – the porcine deep-fried squid, for example – serves only to highlight how little we know about the provenance of our food and the fact that we will blithely concede even the most outlandish frauds on our palates are plausible. This epicurean fatalism should be a cause for both deep regret and alarm. There are few things more fundamental to our existence than food and yet we appear to live in a world that increasingly neither knows nor cares what goes into its stomach.There is a grave risk that we will pay heavily for our indifference. The horsemeat scandal of 2013 proved how vulnerable our food chains are to blatant fraud perpetrated on an industrial scale. Sixteen months later, the fact that no one died or was taken seriously ill as a result of the contamination of processed beef products has seen the issue demoted as a cause for concern. But, as in China in 2008, when an industrial chemical, melamine, was added to increase the protein content of baby milk, and in the Czech Republic in 2012, when vodka was laced with methanol, it is tragically evident that food fraud can be fatal.It is to be hoped that it will not take something catastrophic to make us pay attention to the findings of the forthcoming Elliott report (the independent inquiry set up by the government in response to the horsemeat scandal) into the integrity of our food chains. But we note that, since the scandal broke, only a couple of individuals have been charged, despite manifold evidence of fraud perpetrated by organised criminal gangs. This, it can be suggested, reflects the limited importance that law enforcement, both in the UK and further afield, attaches to food crime. Indeed, it is noticeable that there is no unit within the major police organisations, such as Acpo or the Metropolitan police, that speaks out on the issue. The National Crime Agency's national strategic assessment of serious and organised crime threats 2014, published last Thursday, made no mention at all of food crime.And yet the evidence of its ubiquity is there for all to see. In February, Interpol's annual blitz against criminal networks engaged in food crime, Operation Opson III, recovered 1,200 tons of fake or substandard food and nearly 400,000 litres of counterfeit drink seized in 33 countries across Europe, the US and Asia. Reports of food crime to the Food Standards Agency (FSA) are rising sharply year on year. In April, it emerged that roughly a third of lamb takeaways sampled by local authorities' trading standards teams contained meat other than lamb.One reason why food crime is not given the priority it deserves is down to a paucity of evidence. As the interim Elliott review noted: "Estimates of the extent of criminality in food provision vary widely. In the UK, we don't know the scope or extent of the problem. Data collection and well-structured surveys should be considered as a matter of urgency to fill in this knowledge gap." If this observation were true for any other crime there would be a national outcry. And yet politicians and food retailers appear phlegmatic, calculating that the public will lose interest in the subject.This must not be allowed to happen. It seems plain that there is an urgent need for a dedicated and well-resourced food crime unit that can both collect data and evidence so that outside agencies such as the police can be brought in at a later stage to pursue prosecutions.Whether the government will have the appetite to pay for such a unit – expected to be a central recommendation of the final Elliott report – is questionable. The government's record in this area is, after all, not good. It has cut back the budgets of the FSA and of the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. Local authorities complain that there is now hardly any money for their food-testing teams.Not everything has to cost money, though. One relatively inexpensive initiative that would be welcomed by Elliott is the creation of a dedicated whistleblower hotline that would record anonymous tip-offs about malpractice within the industry. A reward-based incentive system, similar in ambition, if not largesse, to that employed in the US, could ensure people who would have been prepared to stay quiet speak out.But we also need to acknowledge that successfully tackling food crime means recognising that it transcends physical boundaries. The horsemeat scandal stretched across time zones and involved middlemen and anonymous companies in tax havens around the world. A good place to start would be for Europe's member states to agree a common legal definition of food fraud. The current system allows multiple interpretations of what constitutes food fraud, making it difficult to impose uniform standards, which can be exploited by middlemen. Clever use of technology, such as isotope testing to confirm the provenance of a particular foodstuff, can also play a part, although this should not be relied on as a panacea: criminal gangs will exploit any new technology to their advantage.Ultimately, though, we consumers need to be our own policemen. Put bluntly: we need to become more curious about our food. Cheap food is often cheap for unpalatable reasons but we don't ask ourselves what these could be. For example, only around 1,700 tons of highly valued manuka honey are produced in New Zealand each year and yet some 1,800 tons of it are apparently sold in the UK and 10,000 tons worldwide. This is fraud on a grand scale and many people should be angry that they are being ripped off not just because they are paying a premium for an inferior product but because of the wider consequences for the food chain.If we are what we eat, then we are at best supremely ignorant right now. At worst, we are the victims of a sustained and disturbing deception that threatens to put honest food producers out of business. This is a prospect that we should all fear very much indeed.