Tony Martin, the farmer jailed for shooting dead a teenage burglar, received an "unsafe and unfair" parole hearing because prison service officials failed to pass on crucial documents, a high court judge was told yesterday.Martin, 58, is challenging the parole board's refusal to free him in January because it did not examine reports on his mental health or the judgment of the court of appeal, which reduced his conviction from murder to manslaughter. Martin killed Fred Barras, 16, during a break-in at his remote Norfolk home in August 1999. He is also challenging the board's subsequent decision not to review the case despite disclosure of the psychiatric reports. Opening the case, Bitu Bhalla told Mr Justice Maurice Kay that there was more chance of winning the lottery than of Martin offending again. But the board had been unable to consider the nature and circumstances of his case fully, because it lacked the necessary material. "If the secretary of state does not give the parole board documents necessary for them to consider parole, it is difficult for them to obtain them themselves," said Mr Bhallu. Yet an "overwhelmingly significant" document was seen by the board without Martin's knowledge. "The curiosity ... is that they had a secret document which was not disclosed at that time to Mr Martin, but they did not have knowledge of public documents they should have had: the court of appeal judgment and psychiatric reports. That seems bizarre," Mr Bhalla said. "It makes it unsafe, it makes it unfair on Mr Martin, and it causes a positive injustice. Simply put: it would be a brave man to judge my mother-in-law by my comments alone. "It was an occluded, one-sided picture upon which no reasonable tribunal could have exercised any reasonable view on something as important as the liberty of the subject." Pushpinder Saini, for the board, pointed out that Martin was able to submit any documents he wished to it. But Mr Bhalla said that prisoners should expect documents relating to their cases, appeals and sentences to be in their dossiers. "There was no balance there ... There is no document which indicates anything substantial said in defence of Mr Martin," he said. Mr Bhalla was shown the secret document for the first time yesterday on condition that it was not disclosed to third parties. After reading it in a brief adjournment, he told Mr Justice Kay that its contents showed that Martin had "behaved with discretion and cooperation", ultimately indicating that he was suitable for early release. Martin was jailed for life following his conviction for murdering Barras and wounding Barras's accomplice, Brendon Fearon, 33. His sentence was reduced to five years when the appeal court reduced his conviction to manslaughter due to diminished responsibility in October 2001. He is due to be freed on July 28 after serving two-thirds of that time. The board ruled against releasing Martin early after considering reports that he showed no contrition. It is understood that it will oppose the challenge partly by arguing that burglars are members of the public who need protection from violent householders. Mr Bhalla said the case had become "the province not only of the chattering classes, but of every household up and down the country," and argued that Martin posed a "purely reactive" risk. No danger existed unless someone forced entry to his home to "burgle, murder or otherwise terrorise" him. Because the board had not seen psychiatric reports, "they rather treated [Martin] as if he were a madman who would shoot someone if they stood on his foot in a bus queue". The hearing continues today.