A conman nicknamed "the chameleon" who befriended victims then swindled millions of pounds from them to fund a lavish lifestyle was jailed yesterday.Kenneth Broad targeted successful people, persuading them to hand over savings and promising he would make a profit for them. But instead he used the money to buy fast cars - including one with the personalised number plate KB 4 CON - pay for expensive holidays and fund his extravagant gambling habit.Two of his victims tried to kill themselves and police believe Broad may have swindled as many as 50 victims. Officers fear many people, including prominent entrepreneurs, have not come forward because they are ashamed or embarrassed at being caught out.Janet Savage, 58, one of those who tried to kill herself after she lost almost £100,000, said: "My life has been totally ruined by this man. I lost my home, my business and my sanity. I thought losing my husband to cancer was bad enough but to be deceived by somebody I'd classed as a friend was devastating."Broad, 44, pleaded guilty at Truro crown court to four specimen charges of obtaining a total of nearly £130,000 by deception between 2001 and 2005, relating to three victims. He was jailed for 15 months. Police believe the total amount of money he made ran into the millions.Detective Superintendent Andy Boulting said: "He was like a chameleon. He could be quite charming - he could be all things to all people." Detective Constable Bev Stanton added: "He was a chav pretending to be a big shot and he loved designer clothes and loved to flash the cash and be the centre of attention. When we interviewed him he was charm itself until he realised we were taking him to court and then I saw the other side and he turned nasty and threatened me. We believe there are up to 50 victims and we are talking about a total of millions."Broad, who described himself as a professional gambler, lived in a mansion at St Keyne, near Liskeard in Cornwall. He drove a £75,000 Mercedes and took holidays in Florida, Las Vegas, Dubai and Spain.He would carry plastic bags stuffed with £30,000 into casinos across the country and gave his partner £800 a week pocket money. To maintain his "Mr Big" image in Devon and Cornwall he employed chauffeurs, runners and minders and even after he was arrested he asked for permission to take part in a world poker championships in Las Vegas.Broad was caught following a two-year police inquiry code-named Operation Feral.Broad befriended Savage, told her he was a successful moneylender and convinced her she could double her money if she invested it with him.After an initial "investment" of £50,000 in November 2003, Savage handed over smaller sums until Broad had received a total of £92,000. But the money was repaid in such tiny amounts that Savage was forced to move out of her home and beg Broad for payments to survive.Savage said: "I have no money at all and I feel I have let down my family and my late husband because we worked so hard to get the money Broad stole. "It is devastating to think that he could have put all that we worked for into a plastic carrier bag and taken it into a casino and lost it."