Britain's prison and probation services are to be merged, in a radical streamlining of the penal system announced today by the home secretary, David Blunkett.The two existing bodies will be subsumed into a new National Offender Management Service (Noms), in what the Home Office is promising will be a measure to cut both reoffending and prison numbers.Announcing the plan in the Commons, following a press conference this morning, Mr Blunkett said the aim was to "reduce crime by radically transforming the performance of the prison and probation services". A shake-up of sentencing will also see a focus of "robust, intensive community programmes" - such as fines based on the ability to pay - rather than short prison sentences, which had proved "ineffective". Judges and magistrates would also be expected to make efforts to meet guidelines to reduce the "drift" to longer sentences and cut huge regional variations. Mr Blunkett also said racism and bullying in the services would be tackled and disclosed that former prisons chief Martin Narey would head Noms. The reforms should create a more "effective, consistent and transparent" criminal justice system, he added. Many of the changes were welcomed by the shadow home secretary, David Davis, but he warned the services were too overstretched. The proposals, in response to a review by troubleshooter Patrick Carter, were an "admission of failure", his Tory opposite number said.  The home secretary said he and the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, would look at the increased use of fines and fixed penalty notices.  The government predicted its radical proposals could reduce the projected 2009 prison population from 93,000 to 80,000. Many offenders currently given community sentences would receive fines instead which would reduce the overall numbers under supervision in the community by a fifth. Ministers also believe a new focus on rehabilitation could cut reoffending rates by more than 10%. Martin Narey, currently the commissioner for correctional services, has been appointed chief executive of NOMS and will be accountable to ministers. A yet-to-be appointed national offender manager will report to Mr Narey. Nine regional offender managers and one for Wales will be responsible for "end-to-end" management of prisoners from the point of sentence to completion whether in prison or in the community. They will be held responsible by ministers if reoffending is not cut. Noms will have a budget of £3.2bn this year. Mr Blunkett said: "This is a once in a generation opportunity to transform the way we manage offenders to make sure they pay back the community they have harmed, to reduce reoffending and to cut crime. "This radical approach would not be possible without the very significant progress we have already made in investing in and improving the performance of the prison and probation services in recent years." Mr Blunkett's critics will seize on the measures as proof of a lack of prison places. But Mr Blunkett said the number of prison places has increased by 15,000. He said: "Public protection remains my top priority. "Those who commit the most serious crimes need to be locked up - in some cases for very much longer than they used to be in the past - but we are also committed to implementing radical changes that can help rehabilitate offenders and reintegrate them to the community." Mr Blunkett also said that later this month would see the start of the first pilot projects where offenders undertake community programmes whilst spending weekends or evenings in prison. Today's overhaul of the probation and prison services follows a seven-month review by Mr Carter, who identified the two services as "silos" and said they needed to be joined up.