A lesbian prison warder who helped expose sexual bullying and intimidation at Holloway Prison has spoken for the first time about the chilling regime controlled by a gang of gay officers dubbed the Magnificent Seven.Terry White, who spent nine years at Britain's largest women's jail, was one of a number of officers who sparked an investigation into racism at the prison, which in turn led to the discovery of a gay clique that had, in effect, taken over the jail. Last week, a report following a top-level Prison Service investigation identified a group of lesbians who were frightening, bullying and oppressing junior female staff whom they treated as little more than sex objects. More than half the staff, including many male officers, claimed to be victims of bullying. The seven, plus nine middle managers, have now been transferred to other prisons and disciplinary inquiries have begun. 'The Magnificent Seven liked to intimidate,' says White. 'They would march around like little Hitlers and strike fear into people. They had a way of speaking to the inmates which involved treating them like pieces of shit. But they spoke to the new officers in exactly the same way. 'Once those gates are closed, you're locked in with nowhere to go. In many ways the staff are just as trapped as the inmates. If they didn't like you, the clique would make your life a misery. Almost the only way to get accepted or move on was to sleep with one of them.' White was not targeted but she regularly witnessed their activities. 'They were not interested in me. They wanted the challenge of turning straight women. They would target the best looking and most feminine of the new recruits, especially the young ones from outside London.' 'It starts with a hug and then it progresses from there. The seduction was always subtle, never blatant. It would be a case of, "You've had a hard day, let's go to the club for a couple of drinks.' Then later: "It's too late for you to go home, why don't you come and stay at my quarters?" 'In the end many of the straight women went along with it. If you wanted to get your foot in the door, that was the way to do it. Some women left their husbands and boyfriends to get involved in gay relationships. They would parade around with identical haircuts and wear matching wedding rings to show they were an item. But the relationships would never last more than a month. 'Suddenly the ring would be gone, the haircut would change and the member of the clique would be with someone else. They wanted the thrill of the chase, nothing else. It was just a game to them: the new recruits were fresh meat and they treated them as sex toys.' Attempts to 'turn' straight women became a game, with some officers taking bets on who would be next. Those who resisted seduction would be given poor work reports, transferred to less favourable duties or pressured into leaving. This gave Holloway one of the highest rates of staff turnover in the country. In one 18-month period, 60 staff resigned and 53 demanded transfers. The focal point for much of the activity was the prison officers' social club, now closed, in the grounds of the prison. Many members of the clique lived in staff quarters and new recruits would be encouraged to stay with them overnight. 'It was incredibly incestuous. Although they were pursing the new recruits, the members of the clique were also involved in relationships with one another. That was how they kept their activities a secret for so long. It meant it was easy for them to keep things away from the governor. He had no idea what was really going on. It also meant it was impossible to complain without one of them finding out so everyone kept quiet.' Straight male officers were treated with 'hostility. 'The Magnificent Seven hated it when we had an influx of straight men because they knew they would be targeting the straight women and they wanted them all for themselves.' Although the report claims that officers did not turn their attentions on the inmates, White says this is simply not true. White herself was forced to resign after she began an affair with a prisoner. tony.thompson@observer.co.uk