  Undated Warwickshire police handout photo of Paul Smith who was killed on his way back from the pub one night in Rugby. Photograph: Warwickshire police/PATwo teenagers were jailed today after being convicted of killing and robbing a grandfather described by the judge as "a gentle, amiable man".Matthew Armstrong, 18, named as the "main player" in the crime, was sentenced to life with a minimum of 19 years after being convicted of murder and robbery. Ryan Smith, 14, who can be named after the court lifted the usual reporting restrictions, was sentenced to three and a half years' imprisonment for manslaughter and robbery.The pair, both from Rugby, Warwickshire, were "looking for someone to rob" on the night they killed 54-year-old Paul Smith, Stafford crown court heard.During the trial the court heard Armstrong murdered Paul Smith by hitting him in the face and neck with a large, heavy piece of stone. Jurors heard that the defendants robbed Paul Smith of his wallet and mobile phone as he walked home alone from a pub. The grandfather was found in a pool of blood on a pavement in Rugby on 17 October last year.Justice Maddison, sentencing, said Armstrong and Smith had been "on the prowl" on the night of the attack."You were, quite simply, looking for someone to rob," he said. "Eventually you found your target, Paul Smith, a gentle, amiable, inoffensive man ... walking home from the pub where he had spent the evening in the company and surroundings he enjoyed, unaware of the fate that was to befall him."Addressing Armstrong, he said: "You needlessly and for your own selfish reasons took away the life of a man who was considerably older than you at 54 but, nevertheless, at 54 would have had many years of life in front of him."Today Detective Superintendent Adrian McGee from Warwickshire police praised the bravery of the victim's family and the "huge part" the local community played in the police investigation."My first thoughts are with Mr Smith's family who I hope can take some comfort from the conviction of both Matthew Armstrong and the 14-year-old. The family have supported the police investigation from the first moment and have acted with dignity and respect throughout," he said."This type of attack is a rarity but the help the police received from individuals, local businesses and partner agencies from within the local community of Rugby played a huge part in the success of this investigation."But speaking after the hearing Paul Smith's former wife, Yvonne Mitchell, said the family felt the sentence given to Ryan Smith was not long enough."We are happy with Armstrong's sentence but it will never be enough, it will never bring Paul back. He [Armstrong] has shown no remorse," she said."We would have liked Ryan to get a bit longer. We realise his part was smaller but even so, it's still resulted in a man's death and I think he needs longer."