At reception, the locks click and buzz and let me through. I pick up my keys and unlock the first security gate. Then there are the fences and the wires and the tight rows of windows and the noise.This morning, in philosophy, we are going to talk about Bentham and Mill. About happiness. About pleasure. I'm a little bit afraid that the guys might think I'm winding them up.On the way in, I pass Terry, looking even glummer than yesterday, standing there with all that weight on him, smoking a roll-up he doesn't want. "You all right, Terry?" "Yeah," he says, "I'm doing all right." He tries out a smile.When I get to education, John is already there, waiting. He's doing life. Well into his 60s now, he has just a few scraps of grey hair left on the pink of his scalp. When Oliver comes in, John starts a fight.Not a real fight, of course. This is a fight that lifts your heart. John, in his trainers and his roll-bottom jeans and the prison blue-striped shirt, is dancing in under Oliver's guard and giving him one-two in the ribs, laughing all over his face, one-two-ing him again. Oliver is cracking up and flicking a couple of slow ones at John's head, just touching him. Oliver is six-six, so John has to reach up to whack his ribs. Big fists dart all round John's head. Laughing, both of them. Is this happiness?Alistair's going off his head. He can't stop talking, telling stories, laying down the law, so that Doc has to say: "Shut up.""Doing it again, am I?""Yeah, just button it for five minutes. Give us a break."Darren's growing paler every week. And Tim has vanished behind his door. It doesn't suit everyone, prison.Of course, they think Bentham's pleasure calculus is a strange notion and, of course, it is, all that weighing up of the higher pleasures against the low."Is this a higher pleasure, then?" Richard asks."Is what a higher pleasure?" asks Del."This. Us doing this. Philosophy.""Well, I think it is," I tell him. "What would you rather be doing?"And off we go with a long list of blondes and spliffs and a large scotch and an afternoon in bed with the Cheeky Girls.Colin stops them with the dreadful idea that it might be possible to be happy in prison. "I suppose I am, you know, contented. I keep to myself, get on with my studying. I've got all my life in a few footsteps. I go from my pad to the servery, my pad to the gym, my pad to education. I was lying on my bed and thinking, no, this can't be right. I can't be happy in prison. That's wrong.""I know what you mean," says Del. "You just get used to the life, and then you panic because it's not a life you should get used to.""The utilitarians might think you'd cracked it," I suggest.Then David puts his head round the door. "Do you want to see what I've done?""What have you done?""I've made this lamp." It's in the shape of a thatched cottage. "I reckon it's brilliant. I'm gonna give it to my mum."He holds the lamp up and beams."Where'd you do that, then?""In the pottery. Pottery Sue showed me how to do it. Fired it, glazed it, everything.""Are you happy about doing it?" Colin asks, and it goes quiet.David looks a bit worried at the way the whole room is hanging on his answer. "Yeah," he says, "of course I am.""And would you," says Colin - and you could cut the tension with a knife - "swap the lamp and the way you feel about it for a nice blonde and a pint of lager in the pub?"David looks puzzled. "What are you asking me that for?""Would you?" says Richard.David thinks about it. He shakes his head. "No, of course not."