A suburb of Manchester with a bohemian reputation is today named the theft capital of Britain in a survey of home insurance claims.One in 11 households in the M21 postcode area around Chorlton-cum-Hardy made a claim for theft during 2009, said moneysupermarket.com, which analysed more than 1m inquiries. Ten of the 20 worst postcodes were in London, with Blackheath, Hammersmith and Finsbury Park close behind Chorlton-cum-Hardy.The figures paint a curious theft map with highly affluent areas such as Roundhay, Leeds, and Gerrards Cross, Buckinghamshire, named alongside areas more synonymous with crime such as Brixton, south London.In Chorlton-cum-Hardy, residents were bewildered by the figures. Pete Williams, a worker at the Unicorn Grocery, an organic food co-operative, said: "I think they have got it wrong. This is one of the safest places in Manchester. It has become a very sought after area, with a lot of people who can't afford Didsbury moving here. I lived in London for 10 years and was burgled twice, I've lived here for 15 years and never had a burglary."The area has gained a reputation as a bohemian part of Manchester, with independent shops and restaurants and more affordable house prices attracting BBC workers, students and a large lesbian and gay community.Many proudly boast that a local newsagent is the biggest seller of Guardians outside of London.But the Liberal Democrat councillor for Chorlton, Paul Ankers, said: "We did have a spike in burglaries 12 months ago. A lot of that was down to a small number of career burglars and working with the police we've achieved some arrests."He added that the M21 postcode area was a highly diverse district encompassing extensive middle class housing alongside a number of social housing estates. "If you look at the M21 area it is has some of the worst areas of deprivation in Manchester. Nell Lane is one of the top 1% of most-deprived estates in the country," said Ankers. Chorlton neighbourhood police sergeant Steward Chitty said bicycle theft was a significant problem but added: "Without knowing how these figures are put together it is difficult to say how accurate they are in terms of actual crime reports."I will accept that burglary is an ongoing issue across Manchester and every burglary that takes place is a burglary too many, but all crime is coming down year on year."Moneysupermarket.com said it produced the analysis to encourage households to buy adequate home insurance. But nationally, theft and burglary figures have been on a downward trend for more than a decade.Property crime peaked in 1993 and has more than halved since then, according to the British Crime Survey. Fears of a recession-inspired spike in burglary have also turned out to be unfounded.The 20 UK districts most likely to claim for theft on their home insurance:1 Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Firswood, Manchester, 8.65%2 Blackheath, south London, 8.17%3 Hammersmith, west London, 8.06%4 Finsbury Park, north London, 7.94%5 Roundhay, Leeds, 7.88%6 Bestwood Village, Nottinghamshire, 7.82%7 Wythenshawe, Northenden, Manchester, 7.82%8 Chiswick, Gunnersbury, Turnham Green, west London, 7.74%9 Austhorpe, Leeds, 7.71%10 Battersea, south London, 7.66%11 Upper Holloway, north London, 7.62%12 Gerrards Cross, South Bucks, 7.59%13 Southwark, south London, 7.55%14 Bishopston, Bristol, 7.53%15 Beckenham, Kent, 7.49%16 Apperley Bridge, Bradford, 7.46%17 Forest Hill, Honor Oak, south London, 7.43%18 Enfield, north London, 7.42%19 Brixton, south London, 7.27%20 Redland, Montpelier, Bristol, 7.27%Source: Moneysupermarket.com 