An independent inquiry into the treatment of a man with paranoid schizophrenia who randomly stabbed six people, killing one, has condemned the care he had before the attacks and found that a nurse had altered notes relating to his case.The report, due to be published today, has been passed to the Guardian and catalogues a damning series of failings in the care of Ismail Dogan. In March 2006 Dogan, 32, was found guilty of attempting to kill five people in December 2004. He admitted the manslaughter of Ernest Meads, 58, on the grounds of diminished responsibility and was committed indefinitely to Broadmoor psychiatric hospital.Meads' relatives and the survivors repeatedly pushed for an independent inquiry into the events leading up to the stabbings. Tony Blair, then prime minister, promised an independent inquiry in April 2006, but it is only now, more than four years after the attacks, that a report has been completed.Dogan seriously injured Roger Levy, 51, Victoria Cann, 32, David Symes, 31, Raymond Day, 78, and Jeffrey Arthur 52, and killed Meads during a one-hour stabbing spree across north London between 8am and 9am on 23 December 2004. Dogan had stopped taking anti-psychotic medication six months earlier and said he could hear God telling him to stab people. He was well-known to mental health services and had had four psychiatric in-patient admissions. The inquiry into Barnet, Enfield and Haringey mental health trust and Haringey teaching primary care trust was commissioned by NHS London. It highlights the opportunities professionals had to prevent the breakdown in Dogan's mental health in 2004, which caused him to carry out the six stabbings.No fewer than 23 "critical junctures" were identified in Dogan's care and treatment. Of particular concern was the failure to use the Mental Health Act effectively, failure to engage with Dogan, lack of a contingency plan (he was known not to always take his medication) and poor communication between those looking after him.The investigation found that key factors in Dogan's mental breakdown included the failure of authorities to provide adequate care in the community and a failure to put "coherent" procedures in place. There was an apparently lax attitude to monitoring his medication, especially at times when new drugs were introduced.The psychiatric nurse who was Dogan's "care co-ordinator" altered medical records. "The investigation team is of the opinion that the weight of evidence available suggests this whole entry is likely to have been added at a later date. The apparently amended notes ... would lead the reader to think that Mr D received a more robust assessment and treatment package than the one he did actually receive." The inquiry team has called for the nurse's records on other patients to be examined in case there are problems there too, and has called for further investigation into the care provided by this nurse.Other key findings include: • GPs vilified for failing to make a home visit to Dogan and temporarily forced to stop practising, were exonerated.• Risk behaviours were identified in Dogan's notes but not acted on. • Dogan's parents tried five times to ask for help as he became increasingly violent but no help was forthcoming, partly because the mother could not speak much English and the healthcare professionals only called in translators "sporadically".• Non-existent communication between in-patient and out-patient departments. The professionals appeared to be working in separate "silos".•Condemnation of health professionals for not offering victims counselling until three years after the event.• Poor communication between the police and the health trust, especially relating to Dogan's convictions for actual bodily harm, and criminal damage.The inquiry team concluded Dogan's care was "severely compromised by a lack of consistent medical management throughout the period of his care and treatment at Barnet, Enfield and Haringey mental health trust".'To us, he's a murderer'Roger Levy, a dentist and one of Dogan's victims, later wrote about the attack: "I knew I'd been stabbed. I looked at his hand, to see what he was holding and saw something quite thin and short, but I'd lost my glasses. Then I was on the ground, on my back, and he was pulling at my left leg. The next stabs I can't remember feeling at all ... I was on the pavement half sitting, half kneeling. There was blood underneath me, steadily pooling between my legs, which I couldn't move. I saw the blood spreading, but not in a swift tide and I wasn't losing consciousness, so I was pretty sure it wasn't arterial flow. But I was also screaming: 'Help, I've been stabbed, please help me!' "Pamela Stuart, the sister of Ernest Meads, said: "It's been very hard for us to get this inquiry and it's taken four years for it to finally come out. That's a long time to have to wait. We've been told to think of Ismail Dogan as a patient, but to us he's a murderer."