The Prison Service contributed an excessive share of mayhem to the industrial relations turmoil that marked the end of James Callaghan's Labour government in 1978-79. During this fraught period, Michael Gale, who has died aged 85, provided the cohesion and purpose that enabled the system to survive.As undersecretary of state in charge of operational administration in the Home Office prisons department - and a former prison governor of distinction - he maintained a calm sense of proportion throughout a storm that threatened the service with breakdown. Gale's appearance and demeanour were decidedly old-fashioned. He was reserved by nature, yet his gracious courtesy and formal manner concealed a slightly quirky eccentricity, understandable perhaps, given that he came from several generations of a clerical Anglican family. Indeed, he was born in the rectory at Dymchurch, Kent. Educated at Tonbrige school, he won an open scholarship to read history at Oriel College, Oxford, in 1937. Two years later, his studies were interrupted by the war, during which he served with the Royal Fusiliers and the Queen's Own Royal West Kent Regiment in north Africa, where he was wounded, and in north-west Europe. Promoted to the rank of major in 1944, he won the Military Cross in 1945, at 26. Gale's postwar career was shaped by a lecture he attended by Alexander Patterson, a charismatic prison commissioner and renowned recruiter, and, from 1946 to 1948, Gale was a housemaster at Rochester borstal, a young offender institution with 350 inmates. The hours were long, and the duties included pursuing absconders along the Medway valley. Significantly, Gale suffered from pneumonia in both his first two winters. He was soon promoted to be deputy governor of Durham prison, though no sooner had he taken up the post than he had to quell a disturbance involving a serious assault on staff: the result was the flogging of the perpetrators, which Gale was required to witness. It was an incident he was always reluctant to discuss. More happily, he met and married the governor's elder daughter, Philippa Ennion. In 1949, Gale was transferred to the Imperial Training School, Wakefield, as staff course tutor, working on the six-month programme preparing selected prison officers to become governors. Although he perhaps included rather too much Tudor history in his teaching, those who undertook his courses acknowledged his thorough methods. The following year, he was appointed principal of the training school. In 1952, he became governor of the Verne, a medium security prison, and, in 1957, was promoted to be governor of Camp Hill prison, on the Isle of Wight. This housed 350 young potential recidivists, undergoing a process - later abandoned - called "corrective training". It was a lively experience. Rapid promotion followed in January 1962, when Gale became governor of Wandsworth jail, an institution then housing 1,500 inmates and fraught with problems. He was just 42, and by far the youngest senior governor. It is a pity that the escape of the great train robber Ronald Biggs - Michael described, in rueful detail, a mournful, midnight visit by the home secretary to view the scene of escape - should have detracted from the work Gale pioneered at Wandsworth, such as the innovative regime on H & K wings. Clearly, however, the Biggs disaster was not held against him because, in 1966, after five years at Wandsworth, he was promoted to be an assistant director of prisons. Three years later, following a major reorganisation of the prison department, he became controller of planning and development. This was significant since, until then, promoted governors had been restricted to becoming professional advisers to the administrative grade civil servants; now Gale had executive authority and personal accountability. The experiment of his appointment was successful, and was the forerunner for the present structure, where professionals with relevant experience are in charge of the prison system. In 1972, Gale became assistant undersecretary of state at the prison department, and, from 1975 until his retirement four years later, he was controller of administration, at the heart of the organisation. Curiously, he never received the honour he was recognised to have deserved. Exceptionally, a small group of senior governors saw the director general of the prison service and requested that Gale's services be appropriately acknowledged, but it was not to be. In retirement, he studied ecclesiastical history and gave devoted service to Winchester cathedral. On one occasion, he chased - and caught - a thief escaping across the Cathedral Close with the day's takings. He is survived by Philippa, whom he married in 1950, and three children, Catherine, Patrick and Jonathan. Another son, Matthew, predeceased him. · Michael Sadler Gale, prison governor, born February 5 1919; died April 29 2004