A music teacher who led a double life while posing as a "perfect" family man to neighbours and friends has been convicted of murdering his fiancee and hiding her body in a suitcase.Andrew Lindo was described in court as a charming but inveterate liar. The jury did not believe his defence that he strangled and battered Marie Stewart after losing control because of her alleged mistreatment of their young daughter.Lindo, 29, had been conducting serial affairs with women whom he duped into believing he was single. Bradford crown court heard he would remove all trace of Stewart when other women came round, convincing them that his home in Holmfirth, near Huddersfield was a bachelor pad.He bowed his head but showed no emotion as the jury of eight men and four women returned the unanimous guilty verdict after less than an hour's deliberation. Members of Stewart's family, including her mother Helen and sister Katie, were in tears in the packed public gallery.Lindo admitted manslaughter and did not give evidence in court, but his counsel tried to convince the jury that the brutal attack was a freak loss of control.The court heard his statement to police that he had tried to strangle Stewart, beat her with a child's chair, choked her with a belt and finally stabbed her 12 times with a kitchen knife.The prosecution detailed a complex cover-up which started at once, as Lindo comforted their daughter and son – who were in the house at the time – and then invited his latest girlfriend, Angela Rylance, to spend the night there. Rylance had no idea what had gone on or that Stewart's body was hidden in the garage.Suspicions were only roused seven weeks after the murder, on 18 December last year, when Lindo's attempts to convince people that Stewart had left the country, including posts on her Facebook page and messages on her mobile, began to arouse suspicion. Her family contacted police, who searched the house and found the body on 13 February.Mr Justice Andrew Smith, who will pass sentence on Wednesday, heard that Rylance had become suspicious of Lindo's claims to be a single father. But he had told her that Stewart had left him, maintaining the fiction through Christmas, which he told her had been his "best ever".She said: "He told me I was amazing – I was beautiful. I actually believed him and thought we would get married."Lindo had the same effect on a number of women, including two school colleagues with whom he had affairs at the same time. The court heard he had swept Stewart off her feet and appeared to neighbours to be a model father in a "perfect little family".Originally from Stockton-on-Tees, Lindo met Stewart while studying music at Huddersfield University. He worked at the private Take 2 music school near Barnsley. Its directors, Susan and Geoff Whitfield, described him as "very charming, very confident, very chatty and a ladies' man".Fellow teachers Alison Doram and Amy Wilde said they had confronted Lindo together after he began relationships with them simultaneously.Doram said: "I believed I was in a relationship with Andrew exclusively. The more I got to know him, the more I fell for him. He seemed a nice person and a charmer but he was a liar and a cheat."