Changing public attitudes is the most difficult task facing any government - moving money between programmes is much easier - but the past three decades have demonstrated that attitudes can be changed. Thirty years ago there was little public concern about child abuse; now people from all walks of life have been alerted to the danger. Yesterday will be marked as the day when social attitudes towards domestic violence began to make a similar significant shift.The ultimate aim is to ensure the public become as concerned about violence against partners as violence against a child. All three main political parties signalled their support for a green paper on the issue published by the Home Office yesterday. A draft bill has been promised for later in the year - the first significant change in the law for 30 years. It is the biggest victory yet for the large intake of women MPs who were elected in 1997. The political agenda is being feminised. Plain facts underline the urgency of changing the current law. The British crime survey suggests domestic violence accounts for 27% of all violence. About 650,000 incidents are recorded every year - 81% of the victims being women, 19% men. Surveys suggest women can suffer 30 incidences or more before reporting their partners to the police. About 150 people are killed each year in these confrontations - some 120 of them women. The effects on children can be equally serious, making them fearful, withdrawn and anxious. About one in every six women seeking homeless accommodation for themselves and their children is a victim of violence. They account for 130,000 placements in the last seven years. For all too many women, home is not a safe or secure place to be. Yesterday's sensible package is three pronged. It involves more prevention, better protection, and wider support. It covers the spectrum from better education at school - a worrying proportion of young people still believe domestic violence is permissible - to tougher restraining orders, earlier arrest powers and more stringent court action. Victims could be given anonymity to encourage more prosecutions, pilot specialist courts extended, and a register of civil orders set up so that the police are better informed. Perhaps the most important goal in the package is the drive to ensure it is the perpetrator of violence who is required to leave the home, not the victim and the children. Homes should be safe havens.