I started the Night Jack blog back in February last year after discovering a police blog called Inspector Gadget. I read it and I agreed with it. My comments on there started to get so long that one evening I sat down with my laptop and started a blog of my own. If anyone had told me then that I was going to win the Orwell Prize I would have asked them to stop being silly. It is still a bit of a nosebleed experience up here. But I am grateful to the Orwell Prize for noticing Night Jack and for choosing to do so in a year that has seen political blogging become a more important part of the wider political process. As you may know, the blog was put up on bricks this month because I want to concentrate on writing a book, but these are some of the posts people seemed to like.Darkness at the Edge of Town17 June 2008I've written about the Patton Hall Estate before. It is on my way to the weekly shop, and on a whim I dropped in off duty last weekend to take a look round and see how things were 10 years on. This is a place that we wrested back out of the hands of the "Evil Poor" by the direct use of an informal Police and Community partnership.It is safe to say that the estate is still in the safe hands of the Tenants Association. I saw lots of neat gardens, washing hung out to dry, hardly a piece of litter, happy laughing kids playing out, people washing their cars. There were many reliable visual indicators of a thriving community. The Housing Association has even built some sheltered accommodation for the elderly where the low-rise single-occupancy rat nests used to be. It felt like what it was, a good place to live, bring up children and grow old with dignity but without fear.Two miles up the road is where the "Evil Poor" roost. Now I don't say that everybody who is poor is evil or that all evil people are poor. When I say "Evil Poor" I mean the multi-generational families of wasters, self-sundered from the worlds of work, education, law or personal responsibility. I mean the people who have entirely bought into a life of chaos, violence and crime. All police bloggers end up writing about them, and we all know them and their works. There festering on the edge of town is the Cannonrail Estate, bodged together using cheapest available material in the early 1970s by an ambitious council. They have never been able to fill it, and half of it has been knocked down and turfed over these past 10 years. What remains are warrens of boxy "modern terraces" built using a cheap yellow brick that has stained badly. You can see the original idea, modern dwellings, open spaces, play areas, shops, library, community centre, it was all there.I went there for a look as well.Nobody was washing their cars here, they have had them up on blocks, for years. No kids playing out, just the odd skinny abandoned devil dog trotting up and down looking for trouble. There were rotting disposable nappies in gardens and in the street. Every windy corner was a-rattle with empty lager cans and fag butts. Dog shit, broken bottles and deep motorbike and car tyre tracks disfigured the dying, untended and unused football pitches. These were Euro funded and opened with such pride and hope just a few years ago. Every aparatus on the children's playground was bent, broken and useless. Every tile in the happy happy mosaic installed at the opening has been lovingly chipped, broken and destroyed. Nothing stays good on Cannonrail. The council had given everybody new wooden garden fences last year and within a month they were ripped apart and useless. Nobody living there gives a flying one. They didn't care about the old broken fences in the first place.Every time a tenant moves on, you need a fumigation crew and a complete redecoration at minimum. Every third house is "tinned up" to prevent the locals getting in to strip out anything left of value. It doesn't have to be like that, it's not the place, it's not the poverty or the local schools, there are jobs. There are so many social workers to help you, but no, in the end it is the people. In Cannonrail is concentrated the most rapacious of the "Evil Poor" and all they can do is destroy and spoil everything around them. It's not a minority of anti-social trouble-makers causing the problems here because damn near every resident is anti-social. Maybe I am demonising them and their children. Well, that's what I do to demons.There are the shops, an off-licence and a general store, each festooned with after-market security additions, razor wire, steel doors, cameras, security lights and the like. The shopkeepers always look on edge. Outside, burnt-out bins and more of the detritus of living the "Evil Poor" life, a broken child's bike, pizza boxes, crushed cigarette packets and half a dozen black bin bags weeping dirty cheap kiddies' clothes.There is a Community Centre that, if anything, is more forbiddingly spiky than the shops. Nobody from the Community goes there but at least it gives the social workers somewhere to hide from their clients during the day. The saddest thing there is the shell of the little branch library, closed, roof tiles stripped and lying broken in the high weeds around. It never stood a chance.These are the places of the people that we are talking about. These are the homes they return to after a day or a night spent ruining yours. This is where they swagger and brag of the beatings and robbings. This is where the drugs go. This is the pathology. This is where the Evil Poor live. Even when the sun is cracking the paving stones, this is the darkness at the edge of town.Only 24 Hours to Crack the Case (Part One) 21 March 2008Twenty-four hours sounds like a whole lot of time to deal with the investigation of an offence. Jack Bauer can save the world, or at least a medium-sized city, in a day. A day can apparently make a great difference. A day is what we get to sort out a job."Lee", the "hardest" member of the "Kappa Sports Massiv", is waiting in the cells for me when I arrive for work. Lee downed his standard ration of pills and potions last night. Along the way he shared a bit of meaningless casual sex with "Gemma", a 14-year-old who sees him as her ticket to the top. She thinks he really loves her. She is in fact just another clip on his mobile phone. Lee was just itching to show off the hard-earned skills he'd picked up from a couple of attendances at the local kick-boxing class and a lot of video games. Nothing personal, it's just that Lee has bet his mates that the next person to come walking along the street, Lee can knock them out with just one spin kick to the head. Lee has watched UFC [Ultimate Fighting Championship]. Lee knows where to land the kick for maximum effect."Mike" is drunk, coming home from a party, walking to the taxi office when he has the misfortune to pass Lee. The first kick actually doesn't knock Mike out. It just drops him to his knees like the good Sergeant near the end in Platoon. Mike slurs "I'm not from here" as his periphery starts closing in. He's thinking that it must be mistaken identity. It is Lee's second kick that sparks Mike out, face down. Lee takes his watch and wallet as trophies. Stamps on Mike's head, more for the sake of completeness than anything. I mean, that's just what you do, you stamp on the head when they are down. Everyone does that. It's soft not to. Gemma gets his mobile. Stand by your man. It is 2am.Passers-by call the cops and the local Response Team know absolutely who has done this. Some passers-by even name Lee. Response also know where Lee is really living rather than where he told the social worker, the job shop and the custody office. Response also know that Lee is on curfew. They go to the address where Lee and Gemma are usually found. Sure enough there they are, upstairs in bed, fully clothed apart from trainers, trying to run the "What, I've been here all night" routine. We don't know about the mobile yet so only Lee gets lifted and lodged. He reeks of booze and he is slurring. No rights till morning. It is 3.30am.Mike gets the blue light special to A&E, and what with everything else that's going on we aren't going to speak to him again tonight. Response will collect witness names and contact numbers. This team will leave an adequate night note but they are strapped out with other jobs. Mike is "not likely to prove" [fatal] and so they aren't going to be doing anything about getting statements or anything beyond a scribbled first account.Night Jack arrives at the nick. It is 9am and already I have lost a big chunk of those 24 hours. Lee is still not fit, I have to find the witnesses and the victim and get some proper 8-10-page statements from them. I have to track down the CCTV, make sure that clothes are seized and booked in for forensics. It is 10am and we have a plan.By the time all is safely gathered in and we have gone back to get the lovely Gemma for her part in the events, it is 3pm and we have a juvenile and her numpty boyfriend to interview. I'm not likely to be going home on time today.24 Hours to Crack the Case (Part Two)23 March 2008Four days after the event, "Melissa" (14 years old) is admitted to A&E with an overdose. It is one of those real I-want-to-end-it-all overdoses. The sort involving tubes and beeps and lights and readouts. We only find out about it when she recovers. She speaks to Mum, and alleges that her boyfriend got her very drunk, took her to a seaside hotel and raped her whilst she was passed out.So on day six, the police are called. Day seven Melissa is sensitively and appropriately interviewed to find out what happened to her. She is not sure of her boyfriend's name, it might be Bilal (we will learn that this is not the truth) . She is not sure what sort of car he has, just that it is "well wicked" and customised. She thinks he is 21 (we will learn in the end that he is well over 30). She does know that she went with her friend "Cara" and her boyfriend Qasim. Melissa thinks hearts and romance. Bilal thinks just another goray [pejorative term for white British].Mum thought she was sleeping over with Cara, vice versa obviously. Into the car, one stop to get a bottle of vodka and a bottle of gin. Glug glug glug in the back of the car. Next stop the rent-by-the-hour Bedbug Towers hotel in a convenient seaside town. Melissa wakes in a strange bed to the inevitable and thoroughly planned molestation.Some eight days after the event and it's time for the detectives to get involved. OK, one lucky lucky lucky (and I say again lucky) break. All of Melissa's laundry from the night is still lying mid way up the heap on her bedroom floor. We have forensics, maybe. A pair of us are despatched to find Cara. Cue two hours tramping the streets of a run-down estate. We do find her in the end via a grandparent. With distressing inevitability Cara is now enjoying the dubious benefits of "Bilal's" attentions. She is 17 but she looks a lot lot younger. That's probably why Bilal gives her a second glance. Cue three hours of talking, cajoling and persuading Cara to stand up for her mate. The tipping-point comes when she MMSs a picture of Bilal to my phone. She tells it like it was, sort of. Turkeys don't vote for Christmas and Cara is never going to say that she knew what the plans for Melissa were. She can also give us an address for Bilal. It is not the address where Bilal's wife and three children live. The jackpot is when we drive Cara to the seaside ourselves and against the run of play she picks a hotel and she gets it right. Twelve pages of statement follow, from which she will later try and recant when Bilal declares his love to her again.Further enquiries at the hotel confirm Bilal's presence on the night with a girl who was sick outside and again in the lobby. The Lithuanian night porter remembers Melissa being carried upstairs by Bilal, Qasim and Cara. Disturbingly, the staff recall having to put the mirror door from the wardrobe back on the next morning.The interview was a wash-out. No forensics yet, no comment but Viper [ID procedure] is a hit and CPS Direct authorise charges.We will get more statements showing where the booze came from and proving that Bilal took Melissa to the hotel with evil on his mind. We seize the mattress from Bedbug Towers. In time this will give us a DNA hit. Bedbug Towers ain't keen to ever have it back when they learn about Bilal's Hep A status.Last but not least, Bilal actually gets bail checked, by a very good bobby with the mobile numbers for Bilal as known to Cara and Melissa on speed dial."Hello Bilal, I'm here to check your bail. Oh, what's that ringing sound? Oh it's your mobile. I'll have that. Thanks."Now me, if I had video of me molesting a 14-year-old on my phone, if I had used a well positioned door mirror to video my grinning evil self on the job and I was charged with raping her, I would delete it. Thank you, Bilal, you stupid, arrogant child rapist.Bounty Hunters21 February 2008It began with a few reports of large, rough men from Yorkshire in a smart new Mercedes. They were touring the parts of our fair town where young Asian lads hang out. The all-weather pitch, the arcade, the snooker hall.These men were asking questions, flashing cash if cash would work and flashing a little muscle if it didn't. They had a picture of an Asian girl, early 20s, traditional dress. The guys from Yorkshire were bounty hunters. Ex-rugby league players, bouncers hired to seek and return the runaway daughter of some Asian Yorkshire businessman. Somehow, somewhere, they had heard that she was in my town.I later learned this team had brought her back home before. First time Daddy beat her a bit, second time Daddy beat her a lot, stove her ribs in, put her in hospital. It was all for her own good. Daddy sees only two possibilities for his daughter: live the cultural life as decided by him or become a crack whore. No father wants his daughter to be a crack whore. Daddy absolutely positively 100% believes he is doing his paternal duty. Next time Daddy brings her back it'll be Diazepam and a jet plane to the sub-continent.Next report that comes in to us is about the unfortunate lad who has been sold out by his "mates" as knowing where the missing daughter might be. He doesn't know, he just chatted with her earlier in the day, but as I understand it he had a hard time selling that to the Reservoir Dog wannabes."Where is t' lass stoppin', son?""I don't know where, innit."SMACK."Now then, lets try t' question again, son." SMACK."Ahhh! Ahhhhh! I really don't know."Etc etc. No, he never did make a complaint and I can't say I blame him.We found her first and quietly shipped her on. She is still out there I believe, an incident comet, appearing in your skies and portending doom. Her tail is grim men in leather jackets leaving blood bruises and the odd tenner in their wake. My Sarge spoke to the posse and told them that there was nothing for them anymore. I spoke to Daddy on the phone. I have not looked into his eyes but I believed everything he said. He will never give up. He will do whatever it takes up to and including killing to save his daughter from herself.Afterwards I get to wondering whether this multiculturalism idea that we are trying is ever going to work and I conclude that it won't, which is sad.From Truncheons to Tasers16 May 2008 Look at us now. Fifteen years ago my protective equipment was a wooden stick and some floppy cuffs. I had a black Gore-tex anorak with a police badge and a big hat. Boots were black Docs, everyone wore them. For public order I had riot kit and for football matches a yellow vis-tabard.Then came Quick Cuffs and a side handled baton with a blue Nato jumper covered in chequerboard pattern strips.Then they gave me CS spray and replaced that with PAVA spray. I got a stabbie [ballistic/stab-proof vest] as well.If I went back on the streets today, I would have a metal ASP [expandable baton], quick cuffs, bright yellow stab vest, PAVA spray, maybe a Taser and the kind of boots worn by members of the SAS with bullet proof soles. All this offensive kit is on the outside, on show, whereas my old truncheon and cuffs were away out of sight but handy if I needed them ...... Having gone truncheons to tasers in a generation, I have to wonder what purpose the current police service has been built for. We are told that we need to engage more with the public and neighbourhoods. Unfortunately it looks like we have been built to violently confront and overcome people. I am not saying that is our mindset, but it is without doubt what we are equipped to do. Once people get over the quasi-military kit, we are mostly approachable and pleasant people, it's just that we dress like Imperial Stormtroopers.READ ON Find more of the award-winning blog at: nightjack.wordpress.comDo you recognise the description of policing revealed here? Give us your thoughts at: review@observer.co.ukNight Jack's top 5 recommended blogsWorking with the Underclasswinstonsmith33.blogspot.com Winston is a residential social worker right out at the sharp end. His blog is a good way to get a look at what is going on under the hood. 200 Weeks200weeks.police999.com200 Weeks started blogging when he had 200 weeks left in his police career. Since then he has blogged every single day. He has now retired and come back as a civilian communications officer. It's the sort of blog that is good for a smile after a rough day.Police Inspector Bloginspectorgadget.wordpress.comThe Daddy. This is the reason why I am blogging and probably the most-read and best-known police blog in the country. There's a reason for that: Inspector Gadget tells the truth and he tells it very well. A Blog from the Back Roomhopisen.wordpress.comThis is written by a Labour Party supporter and political thinker called Hopi Sen. We have had some good discussions on our respective blogs. I suspect that 20-year-old Jack and 20-year-old Hopi were quite similar. One of us went over to the dark side. Which End Biteswhichendbites.wordpress.comThe blog of a police dog-handler. He is someone who clearly thinks about our job a lot. I check this on a daily basis.• Jack Night is not the author's real name