Two brothers who were cleared this week of the murder of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor are to face a retrial for manslaughter, it was decided yesterday. This will be the third trial in connection with the death of the schoolboy in south London in 2000.The brothers, aged 17 and 18, were acquitted at the Old Bailey on Tuesday of murder and assault with intent to rob but the jury was unable to decide on a third charge of manslaughter.The judge, Mr Justice Leveson, discharged the jury of seven women and four men after they told him they were deadlocked on the manslaughter charge. A third defendant, Hassan Jihad, aged 20, was acquitted on Monday of all charges.The retrial of the brothers on the manslaughter charge will begin on June 21.The judge reconvened the court yesterday to decide whether the two should face a retrial.Victor Temple QC, prosecuting counsel, told the court: "The crown has had sufficient opportunity to consider the nature and extent and quality of the evidence available for the purposes of a possible retrial on the allegation of manslaughter."Taking all these matters into consideration and having consulted other interested parties, the crown seek a retrial against both defendants with respect to the allegation of manslaughter."Mr Temple's statement followed consultations with the Crown Prosecution Service and police about the merits of proceeding to a third trial. Four other youths, who also cannot be named for legal reasons, were acquitted of Damilola's murder in 2002. A reinvestigation of the case followed the acquittals and this led to the latest trial.Before the new trial begins at the Old Bailey, there will be an interim hearing on May 15.In separate hearings, the two brothers were yesterday granted bail under strict conditions. They are to live at an agreed address, observe a curfew from 9pm to 7am, and are excluded from designated areas of south London.The Metropolitan police welcomed the decision to go to a retrial. Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur said: "We welcome the new prosecution and remain committed to working with the CPS and prosecution team to bring justice for Damilola and his family. Our thoughts, of course, remain with the family at what continues to be a very difficult time for them."Damilola Taylor had been in the country for only three months, following his arrival from Nigeria, when he was killed. He was on his way home after using computers in a public library in Peckham when he was allegedly stopped and attacked. He was stabbed in the leg with a broken beer bottle and bled to death in a nearby stairwell. The case has attracted international attention.