A 12-year-old boy who was raped as a child was detained for life yesterday for raping a special needs teacher as she tried to help him in one-to-one sessions.The child with severe learning difficulties will be held in secure accommodation for at least 21 months but was warned by a judge that he could face a much longer term. Teesside crown court heard that he had caused severe mental scarring for his young victim, who was left locked in a lavatory. He stole her car and drove 30 miles before he was caught. Mr Justice Grigson told the boy, who sat in the well of the court rather than the dock, but guarded by three security officers: "You know better than anybody what damage you were causing. You were the victim of such an attack yourself. "These problems are not of your own making but it is plain that until they are dealt with you are very likely to commit other offences as serious as this, so the public has to be properly protected until then. Despite your very young age, it is quite clear that you knew what you were doing." The court heard that the boy, one of Britain's youngest convicted rapists, admitted rape and stealing the car at an earlier hearing. Shaun Dodds, prosecuting, said the boy had attended previous sessions with the teacher. He had waited until they were alone before jumping up from a desk and pouncing on his victim as she sat on a sofa. Mr Dodds said: "She describes a wild look in his face. She tried to calm him down and stop him and was asking him why he was doing this." But the boy, who at 5ft 3ins stood two inches taller than his victim, carried on with the attack. The court heard that the woman called police from her mobile phone after the boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, had stolen her car keys, driven off, and abandoned the car in Gateshead. John Evans, defending, said the boy had been a victim of sexual and physical abuse from a very young age. "When he was barely three-and-a-half-years-old, concerns were being expressed about his sexualised behaviour and the possibility that he was under the influence of illicit substances," he said. "By 1995, when this boy could not yet have been four, he was being mistreated and indeed encouraged to engage in misuse of alcohol and cigarettes. Hopefully there will now come a time when he is no longer the risk he currently is and can be released back into the community." Judge Grigson said that he was required to set a minimum term before he was considered for parole, and 21 months was appropriate. He said: "You attacked a young woman, a very young woman who had done you no harm, indeed whose only intention was helping you overcome your particular problems. She was a very young woman who had her whole life ahead of her." The boy, originally from Darlington, county Durham, was in the care of Gateshead council at the time of the offence. Simon Hart, chair of the area child protection committee, said: "There appears to have been nothing at the time to indicate that this boy was a risk to adults. "A number of agencies ... had worked intensively with him over the past few years and we have commissioned an independent barrister, specialising in child protection, to review the case."