A family of five including three children were held hostage at gunpoint by a gang targeting a Next store in Northern Ireland, police say.The children, one aged 15 and the other two both aged eight, were put in their bedroom after two assailants, one carrying a handgun, entered their house in Lagmore, west Belfast, shortly after 9pm on Sunday. Their parents were held in another part of the house and at 6.45am today the father was forced to go to his branch of Next in Royal Avenue, Belfast, and hand over cash.It was the second such robbery in Northern Ireland using women and children as hostages in less than a fortnight.A police spokesman said detectives were interested in anyone who had seen the family's silver Mitsubishi Charisma car, registration NCZ7782, in the Lagmore area early yesterday. This was the car the father was forced to use to drive to the store and transport the stolen cash for the gang. Although the family of five were not physically harmed they were very upset by their ordeal, he said.The Police Service of Northern Ireland also issued an appeal to businesses to put in place safety measures to counter the growing threat of such kidnappings. "Any key personnel who see something suspicious either at their business or at their homes should call their local police station immediately," the PSNI spokesman added.Ten days ago robbers stole £90,000 from a Marks & Spencer store at Sprucefield, near the main motorway out of Belfast. Armed, masked men took a mother and her two young children from their home and held them overnight in a van while their father, a manager at the store, was forced to drive to the premises and take the cash from a safe. In May another 'gang held the family of a security company manager hostage. He was forced to take about £200,000 from the company's headquarters in Killough, Co Down, before his family was released unharmed.Staff arriving at the Next store this morning were unaware of what had happened. Many were locked out while forensic science officers searched the premises.A spokeswoman for Next said: "The PSNI are investigating an incident that occurred in our Belfast Donegal Place store this morning. Next is co-operating fully with the ongoing police investigation. At this point in time, our main concern is the welfare and support of the individuals affected by the incident." The store reopened during the afternoon.Security sources in Northern Ireland suspected former paramilitaries were involved in these type of kidnappings, given the level of organisation and ruthlessness.The most infamous kidnapping was the £26.5m Northern Bank robbery in Belfast in December 2004, blamed on the IRA, in which two bank workers' families were held captive.