It was 9am on New Year's Day in Hackney, east London, and still party time. A flat in an unremarkable side street had been rented by two Ethiopians for the festivities. The cost of admission had been £5 on the door and the music to welcome in 2002 was to be provided by DJ Creation, the name used by a young man from Deptford in south London called Ashley Kenton.There was an argument. As partygoers told it later, Kenton was planning to leave the party and someone was unhappy about his departure. "No one ain't going nowhere," was what he was told.A gun was produced and Kenton was shot through the neck, severing an artery. The bullet went through a thin partition wall and also killed another partygoer called Wayne "Titch" Mowatt, who was not part of the argument.Six years later, that double murder is at the centre of the current storm over anonymity of witnesses which has prompted the justice secretary, Jack Straw, to introduce an emergency bill on the subject which will be rushed through the Commons next week.The bill is still being drafted but it is likely to be based on a statute in New Zealand, which provides that the trial judge considers carefully whether the anonymity measure is necessary, assesses the credibility of the witness and investigates whether the witness might have a motive for incriminating the defendant. There will be a presumption that trials should be fully open if possible.The Hackney double murder six years ago was typical of the cases that the police were having difficulty in solving. While the clearup rate for most murders is about 80-90%, fewer than half of the killings within the black community were being solved. Under the Metropolitan police's Operation Trident, a strategy evolved. Witnesses would not only be granted anonymity in court, they would also be able to give evidence behind a screen and with their voices disguised. The clearup rate in such cases has increased, according to police, to about 85%. In this case, none of the 30-40 guests at the party wanted to give evidence but seven were persuaded to do so on a guarantee that their identities would never be known. The person eventually charged with the two murders was a young Brixton man called Iain Davis. He had skipped the country on a false passport and headed for Long Beach, California. He was to say later that he had fled the country because he knew the police were after him for another, unrelated offence. Davis was deported from the US back to Britain and charged with the murders of Kenton and Howatt. Three anonymous witnesses gave evidence that they had seen Davis fire the shots. Davis denied the shooting and said that, although he had been at the party earlier, he was not there when the shot was fired. He was convicted of both murders at the Old Bailey in 2004.Now the law lords have ruled that Davis received an unfair trial that breached the age-old principle that an accused should be able to confront his accuser. An estimated 40 cases are likely to go to appeal on the grounds that anonymity was an issue. This, say the police, would be a catastrophe and would undo all that they have achieved in tackling the issue.The Met's assistant commissioner, John Yates, estimated that up to 60 cases in London could be affected. "Although we have absolute respect for the law lords' decision, the implications of this judgment for the policing of London's most dangerous criminals are potentially catastrophic," he said. "Special measures are an essential part of our tactics against serious and organised crime but particularly around [Operation] Trident areas we have worked in over the years." Defence barristers are unhappy with the way the argument has been framed.One experienced barrister who has handled many gun cases said: "This [total anonymity] has been overused for a long time. I have felt that the police were pushing the door further open all the time. "I don't blame the witnesses, but the police have been promising anonymity irresponsibly. You find yourself in the position of cross-examining a disembodied voice and it is very unfair for a barrister to be unable to see the person they are cross-examining."