The mother of the missing four-year-old Madeleine McCann was subjected to a marathon questioning session by Portuguese police yesterday as the investigation received new impetus with the arrival of forensic evidence from Britain.Kate McCann arrived at the police station in Portimao yesterday afternoon at about 2pm local time accompanied by her lawyer, Carlos Pinto de Abreu, for what was her first formal police interview for four months. She emerged 11 hours later amid a media scrum. Visibly exhausted, she made no comment but Mr de Abreu told reporters that she was interviewed as a witness.Madeleine's father, Gerry, is due to be questioned separately today."Kate McCann has returned to Portimao to be questioned by the Portuguese police, to assist them in their investigations," a family spokeswoman said. "Kate and Gerry are happy to help the police in their investigations to find their daughter, as they have since she was taken."The decision to reinterview them appeared to be a direct consequence of test results sent from the Forensic Science Service in Birmingham late on Wednesday.Portuguese police, who have remained tight-lipped during the investigation, said yesterday that they have new evidence to work on. "Part of the tests have arrived," a source close to the investigation told the Portuguese news agency Lusa.Evidence analysed by the Birmingham laboratory reportedly includes blood samples and other evidence gathered in the Ocean Club holiday apartment in Praia da Luz where Madeleine went missing while her parents ate at a nearby restaurant.The evidence was gathered when British officers helped their Portuguese counterparts carry out a review of the case three months after Madeleine disappeared.The Portuguese press speculated yesterday that the scientific evidence provided further strength to theories that Madeleine possibly died on the night she disappeared and in the apartment itself. But there was no confirmation of that and the respected Publico newspaper, while quoting unnamed police sources prepared to back the speculation, also warned that previous leads had come to nothing.In a statement yesterday, Mrs McCann said she still believed her daughter was alive. "I miss Madeleine so much," she said. "Gerry and I want to appeal again to the person or people who took her ... to do the right thing. It is not too late - please let her go or call the police."Mrs McCann's only other formal interview was on May 4, the day after Madeleine, then three, went missing. Mr McCann has been questioned twice.The McCanns have remained in Portugal to help search for their daughter but have recently indicated that they are considering moving back to the family home in Rothley, Leicestershire.Mr McCann, a hospital cardiologist, has said he would like to return to work while his wife, a GP, reportedly wants to devote herself to her twin two-year-olds, Amelie and Sean.The McCanns, have raised £1m to help them search for Madeleine. They are expected to spend much of their time in future campaigning for improvements in the way police services across Europe treat cases in which children go missing.