For months the message from the prime minister downwards has been unequivocal: the criminal justice system was tilted too much in favour of the offender. The goal was equally unequivocal: it was time to tilt it back. Yet, thankfully, yesterday's criminal justice white paper is more subtle than many of the leaks and speeches that preceded its publication. It too talks tough, but it also recognises the need to reduce the huge numbers being sent to prison for short sentences. No other group has a higher reconviction rate, yet still the courts continue to cram the inadequate, inappropriate and innumerate into already overcrowded jails.Under yesterday's 10-year plan - for which ministers deserve applause - most prison places would be reserved for the violent and dangerous. Most of the people currently receiving 12-month sentences or less - two-thirds of the total - would spend most or all of the time under intense supervision and community programmes, addressing the various problems (illiteracy, innumeracy, drugs, homelessness) that led to their court appearances. Hardliners who think this is wrong should answer one question: is a prison cell costing £37,500 a year the right place to address such problems? On a wider front, there are many other shortcomings in the system that need addressing: a police detection rate that has dropped to 23% and languishes at 9% for rape; the 13% of cases which are passed to the crown prosecution service that are discontinued; unending court delays; the 40% of witnesses who attend court to give evidence but then are not called on the day to do so; victims who still receive too little protection; the unacceptably wide variations in court sentences; and a 50% reconviction rate of offenders within two years of being released. Yesterday's package leaves the jury system in place but tilts the balance too far towards the prosecution with proposals, which are much wider than originally canvassed, for ending the double jeopardy rule, the admission of previous convictions, use of hearsay evidence and the introduction of an indeterminate sentence for serious offenders who do not qualify for life. Equally serious, the home secretary has still not secured funds from the Treasury for his community programmes that will lift the inadequates out of the prison system. This is economic madness: Labour has already built 11,000 cells at a cost of £500m. It is time a different approach was tried.