The Conservative party wants to introduce US-style elected police commissioners as part of its plans to combat crime.Michael Howard, the Tory leader, launched the second part of the Conservatives' "rolling manifesto" in Manchester after a shadow cabinet meeting yesterday.Setting out the party's law and order agenda for its election campaign, Mr Howard said he wanted the public to have more of a say in how the police do their job.He promised a Conservative government would get tough on "yobbery" and crime, with more police on the beat and less "political correctness".He cited the zero-tolerance approach to policing by the former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Teesside "Robocop" Ray Mallon as the way forward. The police had become remote and out of touch and weighed down by paperwork, he added.Mr Howard said declining personal responsibility, the "proliferation of human rights" and the government's failure to draw a distinction between right and wrong had left communities unable to get a grip on rising crime.He said he would scrap unelected police authorities, which would be replaced by police commissioners accountable to local people."Imagine the galvanising effect of a contest between two or three candidates for the job, each of whom published a manifesto to which local people could then hold them."Police commissioners will reflect the concerns of people who elect them. They will be able to put police musclepower behind the public's priorities, tackling crime and dis order, vandalism, rowdiness and thuggery."Police commissioners would have the role and functions currently exercised by police authorities. They would draw up with their chief constable annual and three-year strategies to tackle crime. They would also appoint the chief constable and his or her deputies and monitor the effectiveness of local policing.The exception would be the new Metropolitan police commissioner for London, because of security and counter-terrorism concerns. The Tories plan to leave that appointment to their shadow home secretary, David Davis, in consultation with the mayor of London. The non-elected Metropolitan police authority would be abolished and the commissioner made responsible to the elected mayor and London assembly.The manifesto commits the party to a tougher sentencing policy and to increasing the prison population from a record 80,000 places to 100,000. Third-time burglars would face a minimum of three years in prison, and third-time drug dealers seven years. Sentencing would be more transparent, with judges and magistrates making clear the minimum time a person would serve, and electronic tagging would be used to supplement rather than replace part of a jail term.The Conservatives would provide more rehabilitation by increasing the number of places from 2,500 to 25,000. This should provide 50,000 hard drug users each with a six-month place.Other measures include a clampdown on binge drinking by giving councils greater powers to refuse licences.