Two men have died and a third has been injured in a shooting at a farm and equestrian centre.The body of a 59-year-old man, named locally as farm owner Peter Thompson, and that of a 53-year-old man were found after emergency services were called to Meadowhead farm at Auldhouse near East Kilbride in South Lanarkshire, on Tuesday morning.The injured 36-year-old is thought to be Thompson's son John, who is understood to have raised the alarm after driving to the nearby Auldhouse Arms pub to get help. He is in hospital being treated for leg wounds.Police are not looking for anyone else in connection with the incident, which took place within the area of the farm, which is a licensed equestrian centre offering riding lessons and livery stables.The 53-year-old, who is not related to the other two, is said to have a firearms licence.Armed officers later attended a location in Clarkston, near Glasgow, in relation to the incident and are questioning a male witness, who was not at the farm at the time of the shootings.A police spokesman said officers found the bodies of the two men on arrival. "At 8.10am this morning Police Scotland received a call from ambulance control. They had had a report of a male having been shot in Meadowhead farm in the East Kilbride area," said Superintendent Elaine Ferguson."Specialist firearms resources attended, backed up by local officers and we can confirm that a male aged 59 and a male aged 53 have been fatally injured."A 36-year-old man is currently in hospital being treated. We can confirm that the 59-year-old and the 36-year-old are father and son."The incident happened within the farm area."When we were dealing with this incident we received information that led us to the Clarkston area. We deployed further resources and a male is now a witness in relation to the first incident although he wasn't at the farm at the time."We are not looking for anybody else in relation to this incident and all the firearms are contained to that farm and there is no danger to the public."Ferguson added: "The scene has now been handed over to the CID officers. They have attended there with a number of other specialist resources. They will conduct their inquiries to find out exactly what the circumstances were that led to this tragic incident."Neither of the dead men has yet been named by police. A floral tribute left at the scene read: "RIP Peter. A true gentleman. You will be sadly missed."One neighbour said he was awoken by the sound of a helicopter, then heard a police car and ambulance."I went out and spoke to one of my neighbours who said someone had been shot. More police arrived and closed off the whole area. Soon word spread that it was Peter Thompson who had been shot."Another neighbour said: "I couldn't believe it when I had heard there had been a shooting. When I heard that it had been Peter Thompson I was shocked."The neighbour added Thompson had had some run-ins with residents over his tipping trucks and had been in dispute over illegal dumping near the farm. It is understood local residents had complained to South Lanarkshire council about him.In April he was fined £10,000 for dumping on an infill site despite enforcement notices to prevent tipping.