An inquest into the death of Stephen Lawrence , the black schoolboy killed by a gang of white youths, was adjourned yesterday after it was revealed that 'dramatic' new evidence had been discovered. The evidence, which was not detailed during more than two hours of legal argument in the absence of the jury, prompted the Southwark coroner, Sir Montague Levine, to delay the the inquest until there had been a full police investigation.  Discharging the jury, Sir Montague said: 'In the interests of fairness and justice and being mindful of the possible prejudice to a future hearing in another court, I am going to adjourn. It is a small price to pay if there is a possibility of some new vital information.'  During the submissions Michael Mansfield, QC for the family, said that police had been passed new information on Monday, but had not considered it worth following up, and as a result the Lawrence family intended to mount a private prosecution.  But after two adjournments, Sam Wiggs, representing the Metropolitan Police, said the information passed to the police had become 'more specific'.  He added: 'In those circumstances it would probably be right to adjourn.'  After the hearing, Imran Khan, solicitor for the Lawrence family, said: 'We would have liked to have seen the police make an application to adjourn on the basis of the new information they received on Monday, rather than reluctantly agreeing to our application today.  'I'm not going to go over old ground about criticisms as to the way the police are handling the case. But it is clear by the way the coroner adjourned it that he recognised there was information that the police could have acted on.'  Detective Supt David Weeden, leading the hunt for Mr Lawrence's killers, said: 'I would refute any suggestion that we were slow to react or reluctant.  'New evidence was given to us today, on top of the more detailed evidence. This will be thoroughly investigated, in the same way as all other information has been diligently pursued.' The coroner, sitting at Southwark crown court in south London, used the opening of the inquest to renew an appeal for witnesses to Stephen Lawrence 's murder last April. Sir Montague said: 'We are dealing without a doubt with a very serious offence. There may be a reluctance and a fear of many to come forward, for many reasons.  'I would ask anyone with any information, no matter how tenuous or possibly trivial, to come forward in the interests of justice and fairness to all concerned.  'Some person or persons know what happened on that night. I would ask them to search their hearts and consciences to come forward and given any information to the police.'