It was 1am when the phone rang and I heard the voice of my teenage son: "I'm downstairs. Bring ice." By the time I reached the front door he was there with three friends, one of whom had been bottled and beaten up in an unprovoked attack as the boys walked home from a school friend's party. There is much wringing of hands over violent crime among teenagers. Everyone bemoans the number of kids who now carry knives and after each incident pronouncements are made on the need to give the police new powers to deal with the problem. But is that really what is needed? This week it was announced there have been more allegations made against the police than at any time since the introduction of an independent complaints procedure. Some 22,000 of these complaints were over "neglect or failure of duty". Therein, I believe, lies a crucial clue to what is really needed. When Nick was bottled, my son tried to help him, but was beaten back by the assailant's numerous mates. Another of my son's friends ran to a safe distance and dialled 999. He was told to go to a police station. As soon as they were able to, that is what the boys did – only to be greeted by a locked door. It transpired that all but two police stations in our borough are closed at weekends. Yes, shut on Saturday nights. Teenage crime, of course, happens at 10am on Tuesdays, doesn't it?The following day (having first checked Nick's health of course) we drove to one of the two open police stations. The police were pleasant and took the boys seriously but the computer was down and details were noted in pencil. They police tried to take photos of Nick's injures but none came out – they were using an ancient Polaroid camera. We provided the police with: the broken glass retrieved from the scene (using rubber gloves and a clean container); digital photos of the injuries and of where the attack took place; the name and telephone number of the owners of the CCTV camera that pointed straight at the spot where it happened; and (with help from mutual acquaintances and Facebook) the name and school of the main perpetrator and two of his accomplices. Confident they had handed the police a strong set of evidence, the boys were pleased to think this violent young man would soon learn you cannot treat people like that. Various letters arrived for my son informing him of victim support and giving him a name and phone number for police follow-up. Neither the name or phone number were correct. When I finally reached the right person they told me proudly that they had found CCTV that looked right at the spot. Unfortunately, they'd got the wrong spot. When I asked what they had found on the glass there was almost a laugh at the other end: "That takes many weeks," I was told. "There's a queue. Murders and rapes will go before y . . . It's all a waiting game in the CID." So we waited. Four months. Finally, I made a fuss, pointing out to the police that their delay and apparent disinterest was not sending a great message to law-abiding teenagers. Too late. The CCTV we actually needed had been taped over. Four months is forever in the life of a teenager and the boys – now in the middle of public exams – had put the incident from their minds. In an ID parade only two out of four of them picked out the (cleverly disguised) main culprit. The Crown Prosecution Service, quite rightly, said the evidence was too weak to take to court. It happens that I occasionally sit in criminal courts (for professional not family reasons!). Of the last three trials I have heard, two have fallen because the police did not collect the necessary, and available, evidence. In one case there were over a dozen eye witnesses. Not one had been contacted by police. Asked why, the police officer replied: "The victim didn't give us any names." New draconian police powers are not what is needed. What we need is for the police to have sufficient manpower, resources, and commitment to do their existing job properly. After yet another news story of teenage knife crime, my son shrugged his shoulders and said: "Well, lets face it, you can't rely on the police to do anything, can you?"• All names have been changed