The immense political difficulties surrounding any serious attempt at penal reform were amply illustrated on last week's publication of the government's bill designed to put an end to the courts' "love affair" with prison. Buried at the heart of the new management of offenders bill is a modest measure requiring Lord Woolf's Sentencing Guidelines Council to take account of "the resources that are, or are in the future likely to be, available, including the capacity of the prison and probation services" when setting out the going rate for every major crime. For the Conservatives and some newspapers, including the Daily Mail and the Sun, this is nothing less than a "criminal" proposal that amounts to Labour ministers telling judges not to sentence offenders on the basis of their crime but to "spare cons if jails are full". It is an interpretation that angers the prisons minister, Paul Goggins. "It is completely wrong," he insists. "Any idea that we will be saying to the judges that 'you only have so many places', is nonsense. They will have all the places they need. There will always be a prison place for those who deserve it. But we don't want to waste prison places on less serious offenders where it is not going to have the impact we want in terms of reducing offending." He adds, though, that the new sentencing council should not send everybody to prison for non-serious, non-dangerous offences and then complain there were not enough prison places. "We want prison to be reserved for the serious and the dangerous." Goggins says it is not a matter of capping the growth of the current prison population at 80,000 and then turning everybody else away, but of "rebalancing the system" so that numbers can be held below that number. Appeals from the most senior criminal justice figures to the courts have helped stabilise the prison population at just under 75,000 for the past nine months, but it is clear that this new-found restraint by the sentencers is fragile. The last published prison population projections suggest that if numbers are not held down, the population could spiral as high as 109,000 within four years. The thinking behind the new legislation was put forward by the criminologist Rod Morgan, who chairs the Youth Justice Board. He demonstrated that the collapse in the courts' confidence in the use of fines at the bottom end of the "sentencing menu" had led to a "ratcheting up" of the sentences handed out by the courts. Those who should have been fined are getting community punishments, while those who should be on community punishments are being given short prison spells. The package of measures in the new bill, which will have its Commons second reading early in February, includes a controversial system of income-related "day fines", which puts community punishment programmes through "contestability" competitions to improve effectiveness, as well as an instruction to the sentencing council. Goggins believes that the added ingredient of "offender management" provides the opportunity to achieve a sustained reduction in reoffending rates - the aim of correctional services. "This bill will put in statute the responsibility for an individual to manage each offender throughout the system. Before, you have been on probation or in prison or have been out on licence and different people have had the responsibility at different times." This goal of delivering an effective individual sentence plan for every offender, whether they are in or outside prison, will depend on efficient computer systems now under development. The threefold increase in the maximum fines - from £5,000 to £15,000 for more serious offences - to link them to the disposable income of the offender has already attracted criticism for appearing to treat the middle-class motoring offender more harshly. But Goggins says the income scale has been drawn far less steeply than back in 1993, when a wealthy man fined £1,200 for dropping a crisp packet brought the previous system into disrepute. The bill has caused concern in probation circles over its proposal to introduce outsourced probation programmes. But Goggins points out that the government has boosted the probation workforce by 50% since 1997, with more resources than ever going into the service, demonstrating that it has no intention of winding it down. "If we were privatising the service the public sector would not be allowed to compete," he says. "It will be encouraged to demonstrate how it can be even more effective at delivering programmes. Why shouldn't the private sector and the voluntary and community sector also be able to come and say: 'We can do this work better'? That is what contestability is about." Goggins hopes that joint private-voluntary partnerships will come forward to compete to run probation programmes. He cites the example of a joint project between a private security company, which provides electronic monitoring, putting together a supervision package with a community organisation providing mentors. The minister also confirms that the bill is not the last word on the structure of the new National Offender Management Service, and that local probation boards may yet find their future in doubt. "In the long term, there may be a different organisational framework," he says. "What is not in this bill is a proposal for that new framework. We need longer to work with probation boards to work out the appropriate structure. We have made clear that there will be further change." Since the original proposal to scrap the local probation boards produced such a feisty response that Goggins was forced to withdraw it in July, that also promises to be a source of new friction. Who said penal reform was an easy business? ·  The management of offenders bill is at www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/ld200405/ldbills/016/05016.i-vi.html ·  More on the Sentencing Guidelines Council at www.sentencing-guidelines.gov.uk ·  Q&A guide to the management of offenders bill at SocietyGuardian.co.uk/crimeandpunishment