Gordon Brown's hopes of forging a political consensus over extending detention without charge beyond 28 days are expected to be dealt a heavy blow by the former attorney general Lord Goldsmith. In a meeting with the home affairs select committee next week, he is expected to say he has seen no evidence to justify the extension, and reveal that he was close to resignation when Tony Blair pushed for 90-day detention in 2005 before being thwarted by a backbench rebellion.Goldsmith left the government when Brown took over as prime minister, but is now conducting a review on citizenship. He is expected to say he remains committed to alternative courses such as the use of phone tap evidence and post-charge questioning.Sir Ken Macdonald, the director of public prosecutions, is likely to tell the committee at a separate evidence session that he has not been calling for an extension.Home Office ministers are working to find a compromise formula to put to the opposition parties next week at the earliest. Influential backbenchers believe Brown may need to back away from a planned extension to 56 days, or propose the legislation in a form that will require a further affirmative parliamentary vote before an extension could be introduced.The cabinet is largely behind the prime minister, but only so long as he continues to seek to make progress by consensus. Many cabinet members were unimpressed by Blair's aggressive approach. Brown has already seen the director of Liberty, Shami Chakrabarti, twice informally to discuss the issue, including possible forms of judicial and parliamentary oversight.The home affairs select committee, due to report in mid-December, is not yet persuaded there is a case for an extension, and its recommendations will be influential with wavering backbenchers.The government is unlikely to publish its bill before the committee's report. The committee's chairman, Keith Vaz, said yesterday he welcomed "the approach the government has taken", adding it was very different from that of Blair.The committee has been told by the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, that the police would like to see an extension to between 50 and 90 days.He told the committee that since July 2006, when 28-day detention was introduced, 204 people have been arrested under provisions of the Terrorism Act. Of those, 11 have been detained for 14 to 28 days, of whom eight were subsequently charged.He is arguing that new legislation is now needed on a precautionary basis. Committee members are looking to a closed-door meeting with the director of M15, Jonathan Evans, next Wednesday to see if the security services can provide instances in which detention beyond 28 days might have been needed. One MP said: "If there is a silver bullet, he has it".The committee did ask Evans to give evidence in private in parliament, but he has insisted the committee members meet him at M15 headquarters, partly to avoid a media scrum. In a speech to the Society of Editors on November 5, Evans warned the number of potential terrorists in Britain had grown to 2,000.