A martial arts enthusiast who waved a gun at officers yesterday became the first woman in Britain in modern times to die after being shot deliberately by police. The 37-year-old was given first aid after being hit in the chest by a single bullet, but died at the scene in a car park in Sevenoaks, Kent, in the early hours yesterday.Police were alerted after reports of an armed woman in the high street at 1.20am, but sources said it took 90 minutes to track her down. She was eventually cornered in a car park, where she waved a firearm, said to be a ball bearing gun, at Kent police officers. She reportedly refused to drop the weapon.She did not fire it, said the Independent Police Complaints Commission, which is investigating the incident, as is standard in fatal police shootings.Nicola Williams, the IPCC commissioner, said: "There was only one shot discharged during the incident and that was from a police firearms officer. We will be looking to see what happened, to see if any police officers were at fault. Cases like this are very rare. It is very unusual for a woman to be involved."Ms Williams said: "I send my sympathies to the woman's family and friends and also to the police officers involved."The IPCC added that eight officers were involved in the incident but the operation was not part of a wider police inquiry.A police source said: "The weapon recovered from the scene, which the woman was holding, was a ball bearing gun. It looked realistic and that is why the officers had to take direct action." Ball bearing guns are capable of causing significant injuries, such as blinding a victim.The only other recorded incident of a woman being killed by a police marksman recently in England and Wales is that of pregnant 17-year-old Gail Kinchin, who died after being hit by three bullets during a siege in Birmingham in 1980, when she was used as a human shield by her boyfriend.A woman was injured by police fire in Ilford, Essex, in November 1997, after witnesses reported seeing a female carrying a gun.In 1985 Dorothy "Cherry" Groce, a mother of six, was paralysed below the waist when she was accidentally shot by police seeking her son Michael, during a raid on her home. The incident led to rioting in Brixton.Kevin Taylor, a school caretaker whose home backs on to the car park in Sevenoaks, said he was awoken by shouting in the early hours of yesterday. There was a stand off between police and the armed woman, he said. "It was all over in about 20 minutes. I heard someone say 'Drop the weapon'. As soon as the shot rang out, I knew it was serious. It was very, very loud - it sounded like a real meaty weapon."The shooting took place only yards from Sevenoaks police station, which is closed overnight. The armed officers were drafted in from Tonbridge. Yesterday police conducted fingertip searches in a large area behind the high street.Residents in Sevenoaks, which was voted the happiest place to live in Britain in 2004, expressed surprise at the incident in the affluent commuter town.A college student, Elliott Enos, said: "The only underworld in Sevenoaks is a couple of small time drug dealers."Vera Smith, 75, said she had lived in the area since 1975 and had never seen so many police in the town before.Another resident, Helen Brown, said the news was unsettling. "My husband sent me a text because he'd heard it on the radio and I thought he was joking."