A leading human rights lawyer who has defended Irish republicans and al-Qaida supporters accused in terrorist cases was yesterday named as the new director of public prosecutions.The decision to appoint Ken Macdonald QC attracted immediate Conservative accusations of "rampant cronyism" as the new DPP is based at Matrix chambers, where Cherie Booth also practises law. The Tory frontbench spokesman, David Davis, claimed that many people would find it astonishing that after the appointment of Tony Blair's former flatmate as lord chancellor the new DPP was a founder member of the same legal chambers as the PM's wife. "There appears to be no institution which is safe from the prime minister's rampant cronyism," claimed Mr Davis. The Liberal Democrats' spokesman, Simon Hughes, also asked for reassurance that the decision was impartial: "I have no reason to doubt that Ken Macdonald is up to the job, but this is a provocative appointment." The decision to appoint Mr Macdonald also caused surprise in human rights circles. He is a leading criminal lawyer who specialises in serious fraud, corporate corruption and money-laundering cases but has also appeared as defence counsel in high-profile domestic and international terrorism and sanctions-busting cases. Mr Macdonald was a junior defence barrister in the Matrix Churchill arms-to-Iraq trial and in the appeal over the OrdTec arms-to-Iraq case. Earlier this year he represented one of Britain's first convicted al-Qaida terrorists, Baghdad Meziane, who was jailed for 11 years at Leicester crown court for raising funds and recruiting supporters of Osama bin Laden. Mr Macdonald has also focused on the fair trial issues arising out of the government's emergency anti-terrorist legislation. As chairman of the Criminal Bar Association he has strongly criticised the home secretary, David Blunkett's attempt to abolish jury trials in serious fraud cases. He is to replace Sir David Calvert-Smith who steps down in November after five years in the post. The panel which appointed him to the £145,000-a-year job included Sir Hayden Phillips, permanent secretary at the former lord chancellor's department; Sir David Omand, permanent secretary for the Cabinet Office; Sir Robin Auld, a lord justice of appeal and Lady Usha Prashar, the first civil service commissioner. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, said the new DPP would oversee the crown prosecution service taking over the charging of suspects from the police, which has already led to a 15% increase in conviction rates in pilot areas: "I look forward to working with him to continue the reform of the CPS and to enhance the role and status of prosecutors." Mr Macdonald said he believed it was now time for prosecutors to take their proper place at the heart of the criminal justice system: "We shall release the full potential of the immense reservoir of talent that is to be found within the CPS. A transparent, fair and effective prosecuting authority is one of the hallmarks of a great liberal democracy".