 Hundreds of people armed with brooms, binbags and rubber gloves turned out across London to help clean up the damage caused by a third night of rioting, looting and arson.Co-ordinated online on Facebook and Twitter, volunteers mobilised in the worst-hit parts of the capital to sweep streets, help local shopkeepers and show solidarity with communities thrown into turmoil by the violence. Though their efforts were thwarted in many parts by police work, their presence on the streets gave a valuable morale boost to those seeking an end to the disturbances."I feel impassioned to help in anyway I can," said student Athena Stravrakis, 24, a resident who gathered with around 300 others at Clapham Junction in south London. "It is inspiring. There is a community here that is not going to stand back."Like many in the area she was keen to clear up the rubbish and debris strewn across the main street left by Monday night's violence.But while police took evidence and made the site secure, much of the damage remained off-limits to the public and the volunteers had to wait until mid-afternoon to put their rubber gloves to good use. In the meantime they raised their brooms in the air.When Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, turned up and praised their "spirit" they demanded to know: "Where's your broom?" So he took up a green brush and held it aloft.Many of those at Clapham Junction had been directed to the area from other parts of London by the online clean-up campaign, tagged on Twitter as #riotcleanup, and by councils such as Hackney and Camden whose street-cleaners had been out in force since the early morning. By 8.30am Mare Street in Hackney was already clear of broken glass and other debris."It feels a bit like we've got an over-efficient council," said Andrew Knight, who had come from Finsbury Park to help out. "I guess I felt it's not good enough not to do it. I've lived in London for 10 years and finally my moral conscience has woken up," he laughed.After swelling to around 200, the group outside Hackney town hall was urged by the borough's rector, Father Rob Wickham, to "reclaim these streets" and walk to Clarence Road, scene of looting and car torchings on Monday night. There they held a two-minute silence and began cleaning up the blackened remains of two torched cars. "It's nice to be useful," said George Sandison, 28, an editor at a publishing company who had arranged with his boss to take the morning off work. Along with dozens of others he tackled the mess with brushes, brooms and trowels.Next to the cars the impact of the looting was clear to see: the Clarence convenience store, which had been ransacked was a mess of trampled magazines, packets of nappies and other items discarded by vandals. The owner said: "I watched it on television. It is everything, everything gone." A man stood next to him in tears.Clean-up volunteers also turned out in Peckham, south London, to tackle the damage inflicted on their local shops.And in west London Ealing residents rallied to the cause, meeting in the centre to clear smashed glass from the main street with brooms bought from nearby poundshops. At the Green, where a local supermarket was set ablaze on Monday night, police kept the volunteers behind a cordon for fear of falling material from the building.Alerted to the operation by Twitter and Facebook, residents Ricki and Martena took part. "We were shocked to see this happening here," said Ricki. "Most of this you wouldn't expect to come to west London. The community came together very quickly over this, what happened was down to people from outside this area."Many saw the clean-up operation as a fitting riposte to the vilification of social media, which played a key role in the organisation of the riots. It had a huge online presence: data from analytics firm Brandwatch found more than 29,000 tweets mentioning the tag by late afternoon. The trend took off around 8am London time and peaked with 5,666 messages between 11am and noon.The origins appeared to be the Twitter user @sophontrack who suggested a #riotcleanup operation shortly after 6pm on Monday. It was, however, a tweet from @BenDylan which found its way to Dan Thompson that set the trend going.Thompson, who runs a social initiative encouraging people to use empty shops and open spaces, decided to use social media to co-ordinate those looking to help. By 10am the tag was the top trending topic in the UK and the second worldwide."There are now people on the ground all across London," he said. "Even just putting on some gloves, picking up a dustpan and brush and clearing one broken window on the way into work. People are saying, 'We're Londoners, we're resilient and getting on with it.'"Thompson, from Worthing in West Sussex, was particularly keen to encourage people to help local independent businesses. "It's local traders who need help," he said. "Councils have done a good job getting the streets clear and removing a lot of the debris. Local shops find that harder."