Colin Stagg today received the apology from the Metropolitan police that he has waited 16 years to hear."It has been a long time coming," the 45-year-old said. "It would have been nicer if the Met could have looked me in the eye while they did it, but I'll take what's on offer."A letter signed by the Met's assistant commissioner, John Yates, was hand delivered this morning to Stagg's solicitors's office. It said the police would like to make it a matter of public record that Stagg had nothing to do with the murder. "I must offer you an unreserved apology for the proceedings instigated against you in 1994. I acknowledge the huge and most regrettable effect this has had on your life for the past 16 years," Yates wrote.Yates, who also gave an apology to Stagg outside the Old Bailey, also wrote that the procedures and processes in place today meant it would be unlikely that the police would repeat the mistakes made during the Nickell investigation.Stagg said he had forgiven the detectives who implicated him in the murder of Rachel Nickell, and reserved his bitterness for the senior officers and prosecution team who allowed the case to go ahead against him with no evidence. His anger is directed in particular at Paul Britton, the forensic profiler who in 1992 was hailed as the man with the key to unlock tough murder investigations. From Britton he has had no apology."It was Britton, the Crown Prosecution Service and the senior officers who refused to say the magic word, 'sorry'," Stagg said. "All I ever wanted was for the Met to admit their mistakes. I have never had an apology from Britton, I doubt he will ever admit he was so wrong about me."At the time of the Nickell murder, Stagg was a 29-year-old single man with no sexual experience. He was a man who fitted the very general profile of the killer drawn up by Britton.Stagg came to police attention as a result of a neighbour who said he had behaved in a very excited manner when he heard about the killing. A number of other witnesses identified him, or a man like him, as the person they had seen on Wimbledon common at the time of the murder.That was the only evidence against him, but when officers turned up at his flat and found the notice on the door saying "Christians keep away - a pagan dwells here", the detectives let their imaginations take over. Here was the loner with an interest in paganism who fitted the psychological profile like a glove. As far as they were concerned, they had their man.After his first arrest, they had to release him without charge because of no evidence. But police did not drop their obsession with Stagg. Instead, they spent seven months building a case against him with a honeytrap involving a beautiful undercover officer.Guided by Paul Britton and with the approval of those at the top of the Met, they used "Lizzy James" to befriend Stagg through a lonely hearts ad. In increasingly salacious letters, she confessed to bizarre sexual practices and demanded that Stagg do the same.She promised him sex and a relationship should he prove to be the killer of Rachel Nickell. Stagg never implicated himself, instead flatly denying he had was the killer. "I'm sorry," he said, "but I'm not."The police, the CPS and the director of public prosecutions believed they had enough to present to a jury. Their only other evidence was Britton's psychological profile: having examined the letters to the undercover officer, he concluded Stagg and the killer both had "sexually deviant-based personality disturbances".Stagg was held in prison for 13 months on remand. For four of those months, Robert Napper was held on remand in prison for the murder of Samantha Bissett and her daughter, Jazmine, 12 miles away from Wimbledon Common.Police sources said officers saw the similarities between the two murders – both were random, motiveless knife attacks on blond women with children present. But the senior officer in the Nickell inquiry decided to let the legal process go ahead despite the questions the Bissett killing had raised.When the case reached court in September 1994, Mr Justice Ognall threw it out – to the fury of the tabloid press, all of whom had already convicted Stagg. In his judgment, Ognall said Britton "was pulling the strings"."This operation was sustained in constant consultation with the psychologist ... the policewoman was acting under orders and the police in their turn were being guided by the psychologist," he said.He condemned the police for attempting to "incriminate a suspect by positive and deceptive conduct of the grossest kind".Stagg left the court a free man but in the 14 years since he continued to be viewed as a man who got away with murder. In August this year, Lord Brennan awarded Stagg £706,000 in compensation for his ordeal. Brennan said the police operation had involved manipulation and deception of a highly reprehensible kind.Jim Sturman, Stagg's counsel in 1994, said today: "This was a miscarriage of justice waiting to happen, it had every conceivable element of a miscarriage of justice, a wrong identification, a high-profile murder, a scandalous allegation and expert evidence that was seriously flawed. They should be begging Stagg to accept their apology."