Chief constables could be recruited from abroad as part of improvements to police leadership under proposals from the Home Office revealed in a leaked document last night.The Home Office confirmed that ministers had seen the consultation document Getting The Best Leaders To Take On The Most Demanding Challenges which was leaked to the BBC. It had been prepared for the police leadership development board, and handed out to senior police. The proposal is expected to cause controversy among senior police ranks. "The project did not arise out of dissatisfaction with the people currently leading the police forces," a Home Office spokeswoman said. "We make no apology for opening up this debate. It's very important for new ideas to be aired and discussed." The document was reported to have also recommended performance-related pay for chief constables and an overhaul of the way chief constables are appointed. One proposal was that chief constables in difficult areas should be given higher salaries and that senior officers should take up secondments in outside organisations to broaden their experience. It also recommended that retired senior officers should be allowed to rejoin forces. The Association of Police Authorities expressed concern last night that the proposals could lead to attempts to centralise control over the forces."What matters most to me is the local accountability of policing through chief officers of the force to a local community," Ruth Henig, the chairwoman of the association told the BBC. "I think that's the bedrock of British policing and I think anything that is proposed must not undermine that important principle." The Home Office would not reveal any further detail on the proposals last night, or when and how they might be put into effect. The spokeswoman said the document was about "expanding experience at the top of the service to ensure as many new ideas are being brought to bear as possible". "The report is shown to authorities and a major consultation period is now underway," the spokeswoman said. She said that the police leadership development board included representation from the Association of Police Authorities and the Association of Chief Police Officers. Section 82 of the Police Reform Act 2002, introduced by the home secretary, David Blunkett, which allowed foreign police into UK forces, had also made it legally possible for chief constables to be hired from other countries, the spokeswoman said. She said since the passage of that act, there had yet to be any police from out of the country recruited in England or Wales although she understood that there had been attempts to recruit police to Northern Ireland. Last year, it was reported that police forces in Scotland were to launch recruitment drives in eastern Europe, Germany and France to meet a predicted shortage of officers. Before the act's passage last year, there had been a 170-year-old ban on foreigners joining the British police and only citizens of the UK, the Republic of Ireland and Commonwealth countries were eligible. There was criticism at the time Mr Blunkett announced the change from the Police Federation of England and Wales, which questioned whether the vetting procedure for recruitment would be up to the task of dealing with overseas applicants.