It was hardly escape from Alcatraz. But yesterday a 28-year-old man made his a small imprint on penal history by becoming the first inmate to escape from a British prison ship.David Beech, from Guildford, Surrey, was a category C inmate serving two years aboard HMP Weare for threatening behaviour when he made his bid for freedom. Last night the Home Office was reluctant to release details of his great escape in case any of the remaining 400 prisoners aboard the six deck vessel decided to follow suit. A spokesman said that a full inquiry had been launched and that Dorset police were "actively searching for him". The ship - the first of its kind in Britain for 200 years - is moored in Portland harbour, Dorset. When it was established there was controversy from residents who expressed concern about having convicts in the locality. However, according to the Home Office, Beech is not thought to be dangerous. The vessel was brought in as an emergency measure in 1997 under the Tory government. A former warship, it was towed across the Atlantic from the United States and was initially considered only as a temporary response to prison overcrowding. After two years in use, the facility was given a glowing inspection report by the then chief inspector of prisons, Sir DavidRamsbotham, who said it delivered "the best possible treatment and conditions for prisoners under difficult circumstances". At that point, the only debate surrounding HMP Weare concerned its long-term future, since 70%-80% of the inmates were expected to qualify for Labour's proposed curfew scheme. But the facility has continued to be usedand recently it reported that it too was "running close to full". It is up for review again this year. Last year, a second ship was being considered for mooring at Barrow-in-Furness to help the situation in the north-west, where the pressure on prisons is most acute. The National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders has been critical of Weare in the past: "We should not kid ourselves that locking up prisoners on a refitted warship is sensible or desirable," said Graeme Sandell of Nacro.