Twelve years on from the 1991 criminal justice bill, the Commons meets today for a final two-day debate on a bill that was initially intended to repeat the 1991 exercise and produce a more rational and proportional sentencing system. Twelve years ago, with a prison population touching 45,000, there was considerable concern among Conservative ministers of the excessive numbers being sent to prison. The brave initiative by Douglas Hurd, Tory home secretary, succeeded in achieving its goal. Prison numbers fell by more than 5,000. Indeed, a fall in prison numbers began even before its enactment, which confirmed what criminologists had long suggested: ministerial messages are heard and taken on board by judges.More than a decade on, Labour's new sentencing strategy coincides with more propitious criminal trends - the biggest and most sustained drop in crime for 100 years, including a one third fall in burglary and car crime in the last eight years. But, alas, that is a fact which ministers all too infrequently mention. The main emphasis remains on the first half of Labour's old mantra: tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime. There are several reasons why the current criminal justice bill will not be as successful as Douglas Hurd's in halting the rise in prison numbers - even though the most powerful people at the top (the lord chief justice, the director general of the prison system, the chief inspector of prisons and even the home secretary and lord chancellor) have all said more people should be diverted from our grossly overcrowded prisons. First, because the bill is built on the mandatory minimum sentences for burglary, drugs, sex and violent offences enacted by Michael "prison works" Howard and unhappily implemented by Jack Straw for fear of Labour being seen to be soft. Second, because even before David Blunkett's outburst on the need to be even tougher with serious offenders, the courts are already much more punitive, with imprisonment rising from 49% of all indictable offences in the crown courts in 1993 to 64%. Third, because of David Blunkett's rhetoric - and his own tougher mandatory sentences for murder and a new indeterminate sentence for dangerous offenders. A further reason is that some well-intentioned proposals for diverting non-violent offenders from prison, such as community penalties, could lead to unintended prison increases if their conditions are breached. Moreover, the massive expansion of probation services needed to implement the plan has yet to materialise. Remember, current inmate numbers are 25,000 higher than in 1991. As though this is not bad enough, there is wider unrest among lawyers as well as on Labour's backbenches. The lawyers are rightly complaining about the shoals of amendments added by the Home Office to a bill which already contained 273 clauses and 26 schedules. Some of these are fundamental - like the new mandatory tariffs for murder - yet have not received any detailed scrutiny by a Commons committee. The backbenchers are concerned by the lack of a corporate manslaughter clause, proposed by the Law Commission and promised in Labour's 1997 manifesto, which would hold company directors to account for deaths caused by gross management negligence. Ministers are expected to respond to their backbenchers by promising a separate bill in the next session. They should respond to the lawyers, too, and refer the bill back to the standing committee so that the latest amendments are fully and properly scrutinised.