Violent crime rose 11% in the final three months of 2003 compared with the same period in 2002, Home Office figures revealed today.Latest figures show 271,500 incidents of violent crime were recorded by police in England and Wales from October to December 2003.More serious violent crimes such as murder and serious wounding rose by 13%, while "less serious" violent crime such as assaults increased 21% period-on-period to 106,000 incidents. The number of sexual offences rose 6% to 12,600 while robberies fell 7% to 23,900. Ministers said that much of the increase was down to "low level" thuggery, as they announced a new crackdown on alcohol-fuelled violence. The rise was also partly due to the continued effect of a change in the way police record crime, they suggested. Criminal damage also rose by 10% to 304,600 recorded offences. The number of house burglaries recorded during the quarter fell by 11% to 98,400, thefts of vehicles or from vehicles dropped 10% and other thefts and handling offences dipped 1%. In all, property crime fell 2% to 1,126,500 recorded offences. Recorded drug offences also dipped 2% to 36,800 in the three-month period. The market research-based British Crime Survey (BCS) reported that violent crime dropped 5% over the calendar year. All types of crime studied by the BCS - which excludes offences against children, businesses and other institutions - fell by 1% in the period, the Home Office said.The BCS also suggested there were "statistically significant" falls in the fear of crime.In interviews conducted last year, 13% of people reported a high level of worry about burglary, compared with 15% in 2002, while 18% reported a high level of worry about violent crime, versus 21% in 2002. Six out of seven different indicators in the BCS survey designed to measure anti-social behaviour suggested the problem was declining, the data said. The number of interviewees reporting a "high level of perceived disorder" in their local community fell from 21% in 2002 to 18% last year.Home Office minister Hazel Blears said: "These are encouraging figures. Crime overall is stable and I am pleased that ... crimes such as burglary, robbery and vehicle crime are continuing to fall significantly. "But it is clear from these figures that crime trends are changing. Property crimes, that constitute the vast majority of overall crime, continue to fall. "There are increases in violent crime and, as our research on violent crime makes clear, this needs to be put into context. Today we are publishing further guidelines and measures to tackle alcohol related crime and disorder including a police led campaign to cut down on under-age drinking and the chaotic drink fuelled scenes often found in our town and city centres at throwing out time." There will be "sting operations" to track down pubs, clubs and off licences who are selling to underage drinkers, she said. Irresponsible traders will be "named and shamed" and could be in jeopardy of losing their licence, added the minister. "Out of control drinking can turn a night out into a nightmare. Seventy per cent of weekend night admissions to casualty are due to alcohol and in 50% of violent crimes the attacker is intoxicated. "The time has come to say enough is enough. The Government is cracking down on irresponsible landlords who encourage binge drinking, we are going to put an end to no-go city centres - reclaiming them for decent, law-abiding citizens." Paul Cavadino, chief executive of crime reduction charity Nacro, said: "The Government is right to identify alcohol misuse as a key factor behind much violent crime. This is not just about violent incidents around pubs and clubs. Alcohol is also involved in a high proportion of violence within the home." Dr Ruth Henig, chairman of the Association of Police Authorities, said: "People are beginning to feel safer. And they are seeing less evidence of disorder. That is good news."Police authorities and forces have given high priority to tackling key crimes such as burglary, vehicle crime and robbery and as they continue to fall, people are feeling the benefits. We need to carry on the good work but we need the resources to do it. "Unless the Government meets the £250 million gap in police funding, we will see fewer police officers on the streets and the progress made in bringing down crime will be at risk." She added: "We are concerned about the rise in violent crime and authorities will want to monitor the situation closely. We know some of the increase is due to changes in recording standards. "Importantly, it also includes crime such as domestic violence and rape, where we want the figures to go up because it means that victims have greater confidence in the police and are prepared to come forward. And, of course, it includes much low-level thuggery which does not actually involve any injury."