With his smart tailored suits, dapper moustache and slicked-back hair, Phillip Hung Chan looks every inch the successful businessman.As manager of the popular Happy Gathering restaurant in Northampton, the softly spoken, 56-year-old had built a reputation for being polite and attentive. He played host to visiting dignitaries and local VIPs, ensuring his high standing in Britain's tightly knit Chinese community. But last week a very different picture of Chan emerged when he was sentenced to life imprisonment for organising and taking part in a vicious brawl between gangs armed with swords, machetes, knives and iron bars. The battle, which took place in a crowded casino in the heart of Birmingham's Chinatown, left one man dead and several others - including Chan - with serious stab wounds. The case has cast light into the darkest corners of the Chinese community, a world where even seemingly legitimate businessmen obey codes of conduct and respect loyalties that lead to violence. The event that provoked the bloody battle took place at the beginning of June last year when Chan attended a wedding in Nottingham. Among the guests was Mann Chung Li, also known as Michael Lee, head chef at the Tin Tin Cantonese restaurant in Wolverhampton. Like Chan, Li was a well-known and well-respected figure in the Chinese community. At one point during the wedding celebration Chan tried to talk to Li, who refused to have anything to do with him. The incident was witnessed by many of Chan's friends, which meant that he was seen to have lost 'face'. Face is a key notion in Chinese society. Loss of face, which usually comes about as the result of being embarrassed or humiliated in public, brings shame not only to the person concerned but to the whole family, including its ancestors. 'Having face is even more important than having money,' says Andrea Eng, an expert in Asian affairs. 'To have face is to be respected by others and to be treated as special. You no longer have to wait in line, chefs prepare you meals that are not on the menu. The perception of privilege is fundamental to face. To lose face is to lose one's good name and this is the ultimate taboo for Chinese.' The concept of face meant that what to Western eyes appeared to be a trivial dispute quickly escalated into something far more serious. Over the next few weeks the tensions between the two men grew to the point where it was agreed that their differences could be sorted out only with extreme violence. On the afternoon of 25 June 2002, after a bout of heavy drinking, Chan called a Vietnamese friend in London, Tuan Nguyen, asked him to put together a group of fighters and travel up to Birmingham as quickly as possible. Within two hours a two-car convoy of nine heavily armed thugs was racing up the M1. Chan called Li to tell him what he had done and set up a meeting. The two men agreed the venue would be the China Palace casino later that evening. Li immediately began to assemble a team of his own with more than a dozen hardened fighters from Birmingham's Chinatown collecting weapons and making their way to the casino. Ninety minutes before the men met for the last time, Chan called Li once more. Traditional Chinese insults - 'you die', 'wish you no money' - were exchanged between the two men, along with more universal curses of 'bastard' and 'fuck your mother'. Just before midnight, hearing that his team had arrived, Chan began to make his way to the casino. He bumped into a friend on the way who inquired what he was doing in Birmingham. 'I have a problem with someone in the casino,' Chan explained. 'I have to go there.' Chan and nine others entered the China Palace and immediately sought out Li, who was waiting in the bar area. Violence erupted almost instantly. Terrified gamblers ran for cover as around 30 men from the two gangs pulled out their weapons and rushed at each other. The members of both gangs had clearly been told to target those at the heart of the dispute. Within 90 seconds Li had been stabbed and slashed at least 16 times. As he collapsed near the casino entrance in a mass of blood, Chan screamed and staggered back, the handle of a ceremonial dagger sticking out of his stomach. The fighting continued. Another member of the gang, Feng-Ching Lim, was stabbed five times, three others were stabbed and one man was badly injured after being bludgeoned with an ashtray. One man tried to flee, but was set upon by two men with machetes who hacked into his body again and again. One blow penetrated his skull; more than a year later, he remains in hospital. Witnesses saw several men running out of the casino and hiding bloody knives and swords in their clothes as they climbed into cars to make their escape. Police arrived within minutes and saw a scene of mayhem. 'There was blood everywhere, and a full box of chef's knives that were taken to be used as weapons,' said Detective Sergeant Dominic Kennedy. Piecing together what had happened was a long process. Most of those involved did not speak English and many within the Chinese community were reluctant to speak about what had happened, for fear of reprisals. During a three-month trial, the dock at Birmingham Crown Court was crammed with defendants, interpreters - translating into Vietnamese, Mandarin, Cantonese and Hakka - and security guards. The court had to split the trial into two - a second set of defendants will be tried later in the year - as there was not enough room to fit all the accused in the dock at the same time. In his defence, Chan claimed that Li was far more than a chef. 'He was a very dangerous man. He had many men under his control. He was involved in running prostitution, illegal gambling clubs and in bringing illegal immigrants to the UK. He was a leader of the Triads. I was very frightened of him,' he told the court. Police uncovered evidence that Li regularly provided accommodation and work to illegal immigrants who had been smuggled into the country by Snakehead gangs and also ran a number of illegal gambling clubs, but they were unable to say if Li definitely was a member of a Triad gang. Other defendants said the exact opposite was true and that it was Chan who was the Triad leader. This, they explained, was the reason that his restaurant was so favoured by dignitaries and the reason he was able to recruit a band of hardened fighters within a few hours. Chan was sentenced to life for the murder of Mann Chung Li. Seven others were convicted of offences ranging from attempted murder to conspiracy to commit grievous bodily harm.