Three white teenagers were yesterday found guilty of the racially aggravated murder of an Asian taxi driver who was lured to a secluded spot, dragged from his car and beaten to death.The jury at Leeds crown court heard how Mohammad Parvaiz, 41, was called to a cul-de-sac in the Huddersfield area last year after becoming unwittingly involved in an earlier dispute. As he pulled up, the gang of youths threw stones at the taxi, smashing the windows, before dragging him out.Mr Parvaiz was punched, his head was stamped on, and he was kicked in the body and face.Graeme Slavin, 18, of Lindley, Huddersfield, Christopher Murphy, 18, of no fixed address, and Steven Utley, 17, of Golcar, Huddersfield, were all found guilty of his murder. A fourth teenager, Michael Hand, 19, of Longwood, Huddersfield, changed his plea to guilty earlier in the trial. Two other defendants - Michael Beeby, 16, of Longwood, and Jason Harris, 17, of Longwood - were cleared of murder and of an alternative count of manslaughter. Beeby was found guilty of violent disorder, a charge which all the other defendants had previously admitted.Following the convictions, trial judge Dame Heather Steel lifted reporting restrictions which had prevented the press from identifying the juveniles involved in the case. The judge said it was in the public interest that all those involved in the "dreadful incident" were disclosed.Sentencing was adjourned, but Hand and Murphy were told they faced a life sentence. All were remanded in custody.During the six-week trial, the court heard that Mr Parvaiz, from Birkby, Huddersfield, had inadvertently been caught up in a dispute between rival Asian and white youths on June 11, weeks before he was attacked.A woman with an Asian boyfriend, whose flat door had been smashed the previous day, hired Mr Parvaiz's minibus taxi and drove to her address with some Asian friends. The rival groups shouted abuse at each other and threw bottles, and Murphy's scooter was damaged.The gang of white youths did not forget Mr Parvaiz's taxi, and in the following weeks they hatched a plan to lure him to Field Head, near Golcar, Huddersfield. On the night he was killed, July 22 last year, a girl used Murphy's mobile phone to call Mr Parvaiz's taxi to Field Head. A large group of youths gathered, drinking and smoking cannabis. Shortly after arriving he was pulled from his car and beaten to death. The court heard that £80 in takings was stolen, along with Mr Parvaiz's watch. Witnesses recalled seeing the group of boys in a local pub. Murphy bragged that his shoes were covered in blood, the jury heard. He said: "I wonder if I've got Paki juice on the bottom of my shoes?"One witness heard Michael Hand boasting "I've bricked him in the face twice", and saying: "It deserves the Paki bastards right." Mr Parvaiz's murder prompted almost 2,000 taxi drivers in Kirklees to strike in a show of solidarity with thier dedad colleague last summer.Detective Superintendent Tim Forber, who led the investigation into Mr Parvaiz's death, said outside court: "This crime has had a devastating effect on Mr Parvaiz's family. The investigation team has been moved by the strength and dignity of his family during the investigation and the trial."Mr Parvaiz's widow, Naheed Kausar, 33, said in a statement after the verdict that her husband was a "very caring, happy and fantastic" person. "My life revolved around him and the children. We are all so lost without him. There is no meaning to life anymore."