An internet paedophile who was caught through an international police website as he tried to groom his third schoolgirl victim was jailed for nine years yesterday. Lee Costi, a media student, had already enticed and had sex with two girls aged 13 and 14.Costi, 21, from Haslemere, Surrey, was the first person in the UK to be caught through the Virtual Global Taskforce website, which allows children targeted by sex offenders to report their abusers. He was arrested after arranging to meet his third victim, a 14-year-old, at Nottingham railway station for sex.The court was told earlier that the schoolgirl had been flattered by Costi's attention and wanted to impress her friends with her online relationship. But she eventually told her mother, who tipped off police through the website.Judge Jonathan Teare jailed Costi for nine years: three years each for having sex with the two teenagers, 18 months for inciting his third victim to perform sex acts over her computer web cam, and a further 18 months for possession of more than 40 indecent images of children. One of those images the court heard was of the most serious level of abuse of a young girl. He also admitted two counts of taking indecent pictures of children.Judge Teare told him: "You developed a totally unhealthy and depraved interest in young girls. Those girls who you talked to and abused were 13 or 14, but I have seen some of the images on your computer and that shows a totally depraved interest in girls very much younger."You took those girls' virginity. It must be made clear to people that to groom, meet and have sexual intercourse with young women in this way is unlawful and severe punishment must follow."Detective Superintendent Jackie Alexander, head of the sexual exploitation unit for Nottinghamshire police, praised the schoolgirl for reporting Costi's actions. "We were fortunate that a young Nottinghamshire girl was brave enough to tell her parents. It can be very difficult for them. They can realise their foolishness after the event, but do not go on to report it. There may be other girls out there in a similar position. It is impossible to say how many victims there may have been. If this case alerts any other victims, we would encourage them to come forward. "Police found 355 log files detailing Costi's conversations with young girls on the teenspot.com and MSN Messenger chatrooms, mostly detailing his interest in underage sex, the court heard."She says she complied so she could tell her friends so they would not continue to think of her as boring," Det Supt Alexander said.Police were waiting at the train station for Costi's expected arrival for a meeting with his third victim in January last year, but he did not show up. Computer records checked by the taskforce traced him to his parents' house.Nottinghamshire police's analysis of his computer has identified two other paedophiles, one in Poland and one in Hawaii, who had links with Costi.Rupert Hallowes, defending, told the court that Costi was a socially isolated young man, immature for his years, who had been bullied at school. He has since been diagnosed as suffering from depression. "He had developed a significant addiction to the internet, and chatrooms in particular, and has to accept that he was developing paedophilic tendencies," Mr Hallowes said.Jim Gamble, head of the Virtual Global Taskforce, which trapped Costi, received around 90 reports a month from children and their parents in the UK. The website, www.virtualglobaltaskforce.com, is monitored around the clock by law enforcement bodies from Interpol, Britain, Australia, Canada and the US."Paedophiles go online, they engage their victims, they seduce them, because of their tender years," he said. Costi's jailing sent out "a very clear message to people who prey on children to sexually abuse them - get help or get caught".