The spate of suspected killings has taken place in an area already scarred by the 'Yorkshire Ripper' murders. The maps accompanying this week's stories are a reminder of the tight West Yorkshire geography of the Peter Sutcliffe killings. The river Aire was at the centre then too.The memory of the 1970s killings seems to hang around and people, women especially, seem to be talking again of being afraid to go out alone at night. It made me wonder whether there was something fated about the place, something that would not go away.All those years back, it seemed as if Sutcliffe's paranoia, his work as a gravedigger, his hearing voices, the atmosphere of anxiety that his deeds and manner of operating unleashed, had a connection, however mysterious, with West Yorkshire and its past: the death-dogged Brontës, the moors, the industrial depression, the waste it left behind and the violence it generated.Does any of this have relevance to the killings that have happened in and round Bradford, and if so, how?Does the prevailing contempt for prostitutes shared 30 years ago by the police and Sutcliffe's friends in an area where there were more than 20 terms of abuse for them – the widespread feeling that they were "littering the streets" – still hold?Or, as seems to be the case, is there little prostitution today? Is it mainly connected with addiction? Thirty years ago, quite a few women became prostitutes out of a basic need for money.From what I can gather, a lot has changed. Huge efforts were made by the police authorities after the Ripper case. It sounds as if the media, police vocabulary and attitudes have improved: the talk is of sympathy and support for the families of the women killed.The women who have disappeared are written about as people with lives and loves and families, not as an exciting series of skittles that have been knocked over.And Jawaid Akhtar, the assistant chief constable, seems to have a sense of distance. No longer dour George Oldfield, fascinated by the "monster" or public enemy number one, whom he saw as mocking and challenging him, as if they were twinned or mirror images. This somehow made it impossible for him, and the police in the late 1970s, to see their man.That does seem progress. What is not progress is that such types of crime should still happen. That they should turn into a series. And that we as asociety should still be producing people who commit them.What are we meant to learn? What can we do to change things? Change ourselves first?• Nicole Ward Jouve is the author of The Streetcleaner: The Yorkshire Ripper Case on Trial