Lawyers for a lead member of the band So Solid Crew may take legal action against the home secretary and the culture minister following a decision yesterday to drop gun and drugs charges against the singer. Shane Neil, 24, walked free from Southwark crown court seven months after he was accused of possessing a gun, ammunition and offering to supply drugs. He spent four months in jail on remand. Though none of these items were found during an extensive search of his home, Neil was arrested when police instructed a lipreader to transcribe a conversation involving the star which was caught on CCTV cameras. Reports from two experts used by the defence flatly contradicted the evidence, undermining the whole case against Neil, whose stage name is Kaish. His solicitors yesterday criticised the police and the crown prosecution service, but also the ministers for remarks they made in January following the murder in Birmingham of two teenage girls. The culture minister Kim Howells rounded on the "hateful lyrics of those boasting, macho idiot rappers". He singled out So Solid Crew, arguing that certain bands had helped to create a "culture where killing is almost a fashion accessory". The home secretary, David Blunkett, supported him, saying that the lyrics of some rap stars were "appalling". Neil's lawyer, Michael Schwarz, said yesterday that the comments had potentially created a climate which affected his right to a fair trial under Article 6 of the Human Rights Act. This could have contributed to him spending four months on remand unnecessarily, he said. "There is an issue around the effect the ministers' comments had on the atmosphere at the time crucial decisions were made in Shane's case about whether to prosecute and whether to continue charges. "There is a responsibility on the government to make sure people are dealt with fairly. We might be raising this with the ministers. It's too early to say whether we would consider legal proceedings." Mr Schwarz said they had contributed to the "frenzy" and hysteria surrounding rap music and black youth culture. Neil was arrested in Leicester Square on November 14 last year after attending a premiere of a Sony video game. He was held on remand from December to April this year. "No class A drugs or guns were ever found on Shane or at his home addresses, even though they were meticulously searched by the police," said Mr Schwarz. "The case against Shane turned on ground-breaking lipreading evidence supposedly proving that Shane had made incriminating remarks in the street. The defence obtained two expert reports which flatly contradicted that evidence and highlighted the dangers of using lipreader's evidence drawn from observation of street CCTV footage, shot at night." There has been persistent controversy over So Solid Crew. One of the 30-strong band, Asher D, was jailed for having a gun. Earlier this year Megaman, a founding member of the group, made an impassioned plea for an end to shootings on inner-city streets.