The things people say about the boys in blue. "You join the army and you expect to do what your senior officers tell you," remarked a person of influence in the running of London the other day. "But you join the Met and you expect to be able to do whatever you like."The sentiment chimed with observations often made by members of the Metropolitan Police Authority, which scrutinises the service's performance. Eyes roll so often over the Met's inability to learn lessons, effect change or even cough up information that it's a wonder they haven't dropped from their sockets. A report by the authority's civil liberties panel into last April's G20 demonstrations remarked that not one officer has been disciplined for failing to display an identity number on the days concerned and that some didn't even know there was a rule against it.Such views could cause you to mistake London's cops for their distant Keystone cousins, shorn of the endearing comedy: disorganised, incompetent, lacking the most rudimentary disciplines of public service. But take a little comfort from those same critical sources – which come from across the mainstream political spectrum – also detecting signs of improvement in the past year or so.Almost all regard the still-new commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson as a good thing: straightforward, receptive, keen on raising professional standards, wise to have asked Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary to review the policing of public protest. They note that the handling of August's Climate Camp protest in Blackheath suggested that some large pennies had dropped.There is optimism too about enhancements of day-to-day efficiency, with warranted officers and PCSOs alike being seen patrolling singly rather than in pairs or chattering packs. Any causal link proclaimed between the rate of recorded knife crime – unchanged overall in the past year following a 13% fall the one before, and with a reduced number of deaths – and the escalation of stop-and-search should be treated with great caution, but that doesn't mean it's having no useful effects, including some indirect ones. No young person relishes the stop-and-search experience, but it does seem that the policy is being executed with more care and consideration than in the past. If this helps to increase rather than damage the confidence of young Londoners in the enforcement of the law on the street, it could be a significant gain.For all its tardiness and troubles, the inquiry ordered by Boris Johnson into the slow career progression of officers from minority ethnic and religious groups may yet produce recommendations that can be embraced as practical by a conservative institution like the Met and a Conservative MPA chair such as Kit Malthouse (who is Johnson's successor in the MPA chair, and has been its true occupier all along). When Malthouse offered his thoughts to the inquiry panel, his line was essentially that a rigorous career-management regime would be the most effective way to clear out lurking prejudice and matey old Spanish customs that impede advancement on the basis of merit. With luck, helpful cultural changes would follow.I point out these hopeful signs in the knowledge that many will not be impressed. Despite a gracious response by the Met's top brass to the MPA's work on G20, the perception that London's cops – anywhere's cops, for that matter – are never held fully to account, especially when the stakes are high, can only have been strengthened by the recent acquittal of territorial support group sergeant Delroy Smellie and the refusal of Stephenson to apologise for the acknowledged illegality of a raid on a group of protesters. Meanwhile, the family of Ian Tomlinson still waits. Against such a backdrop, the Met's need to reform and be seen to be reforming has become no less urgent.