'We don't have to think or guess," Kit Malthouse, one of London's deputy mayors, told the Today programme yesterday. "We know from America that compliance rates are extremely high." He was talking about the 24/7 Sobriety Project, in South Dakota, with its 99.6% compliance rate. People convicted of crimes in which alcohol was involved are breath-tested twice a day – if they fail, they go to jail.Malthouse is suggesting an adapted programme, to be piloted in London, in which the testing works either in conjunction with a prison sentence – as a condition of parole, say – or operates instead of prison. "The joy of it is that those people who are being tested pay for their own testing," he continued. "Don't forget the critical thing, which is that it's self-funding. It will cost the taxpayer nothing." It has the unmistakable crackle of total nonsense.First, if you're looking for tips on your penal system, the United States is the last place in the developed world that you would go. There are 576 people in prison per 100,000 in America – nearly five times higher than here: so even if any given scheme of theirs does reduce the prison population, that is against a backdrop of a judicial system that is much readier to imprison people in the first place. Their system is more racist than ours (which is far from perfect), and it is more barbaric (many states, including South Dakota, still have the death penalty). I'm not saying don't take advice: our prison culture has been quietly revolutionised by lessons learned from Canada. Just don't look to the US, unless you're trying to find out how not to do it.Second, the self-funding aspect, of which Malthouse was so proud that he called it a "joy" (just as an aside, this guy is a twerp). Any parole officer will tell you that the first thing not to do to prisoners on licence is make their life financially harder than it is already. They may go straight into a job from prison; they probably won't. Even if they do, it is unlikely to be a very good job. I don't believe even Jonathan Aitken went straight from Belmarsh into a very good job. The very least we can do to reduce recidivism is not slap a penalty on to people the moment they are released.OK, so let's say the breath test was instead of a prison sentence, and the convicted boozer is able to fund the test with the money he would have spent on alcohol. You're still on shaky ethical ground. Alcohol per se is not illegal, in whatever quantity you consume it. There are pilot schemes in which people can have their blood or urine tested to judge their truthfulness or competence – in some areas of the family court system parents are drug-tested. But the first precondition for this invasion of privacy is that the court is testing for an activity which is illegal.The crimes that Kit Malthouse wants to tackle are domestic violence and high street brawling on a Saturday night. The South Dakota scheme is specifically there to deal with drink drivers. There is no mistaking it. It's right there on the website: "This is more than just a program but a commitment to working with chronic Driving While Intoxicated defenders into changing their behavior and prevention of additional DWI arrests."Suddenly, all their improbable statistics, that 99.6% compliance, the 14% reduction in prison population, start to make sense: this is a totally different cohort to people who brawl in town centres. It's a crime committed by people who have the proven financial wherewithal (and probably, alongside, employment history) to learn to drive, buy a car, maintain it, get insurance. It would seem reasonable to expect that many of these people will be able to afford a twice-daily alcohol test, and will have enough sense of deferred gratification that this would be persuasive – and a year of enforced sobriety might effect a positive change in the longer term. The same assumptions cannot be made of people who are committing violent crimes.And this is besides the obvious point that driving while over the limit is illegal, because this is an established term under which we accept our driving licences. Fighting in a town centre is quite different: it's illegal in itself. If you intend to argue that the nature of the infraction changes when it occurs in conjunction with alcohol, you need to define your terms. How much alcohol does it take for that relationship to be causal? Are you going to breathalyse people at the scene? Would you go with 0.08% volume of alcohol per volume of blood in the body, as it is for driving? If so, are we technically all expected to keep below this limit throughout our lives, because any higher will impact upon our legal status?It reminds me of Ken Clarke's scheme to make prisoners work full-time, that their wages might fund the benefits claimed by their families: it sounds tough but fair, but in fact is tough but stupid. It costs more to get prisoners working than it does to keep them in cells, because they have to be supervised. Back of the envelope is one thing; this is policy making done after a night watching The Shawshank Redemption. One phone call to a junior civil servant could have put it right. I think members of the coalition should be blood-tested every time they make an erratic suggestion.