A man who killed a three-year-old girl in a house fire during a revenge attack at the home of his former girlfriend's family was convicted of murder today.Graham Heaps, a 44-year-old labourer, was convicted by a jury at Liverpool crown court of murdering Francesca Bimpson at her home in Liverpool last December. He will be sentenced tomorrow.Francesca suffered 85% burns when she was unable to escape the smoke and flames. Petrol had been poured through the letterbox and ignited. She died from complications as a result of her burns in Alder Hey children's hospital three weeks later.The jury heard that Heaps, who had gone out with Francesca's aunt, Linda Skelhorne, started the fire deliberately.Brian Cummings QC, prosecuting, had told the court that at the time of the attack Francesca's parents, Kieron Bimpson and Eleanor Skelhorne, and three siblings were in the house. The couple had been asleep and were woken by smoke alarms.Mr Bimpson jumped from a first-floor window and left his panic-stricken partner holding their 17-month-old baby, Anne-Marie.Although he injured his legs and broke an ankle in the fall, Bimpson was able to reach the front of the property and climb on to a porch canopy to try to rescue his daughter Christina, eight, who shared a bedroom with Francesca.The children's uncle, Frankie Skelhorne, who lives nearby, heard about the fire and kicked the front door in, finding his sister in the main bedroom holding her baby "in a state of panic".Cummings said: "The baby was taken from her and dropped to a next-door neighbour who caught her. Frankie assisted his sister before he was able to jump down."The prosecutor told the jurors that Christina was not strong enough to lift Francesca to safety from the front bedroom and her father could not reach her. As Mr Bimpson carried out the rescue, the guttering gave way beneath him.Another sibling, 14-year-old Kieron Bimpson, jumped from a bedroom window but was unable to help his sister.Heaps, who used to live nearby with his mother, denied murder and an alternative charge of manslaughter.The court heard that Heaps was an onlooker at the scene and briefly entered the house in an apparent rescue attempt, setting his trousers alight. But he was attempting to destroy petrol on his clothing and there was no good reason for him to be there.A fire crew reached the house four minutes after receiving the emergency call. Francesca was removed from the house and was breathing faintly but had severe injuries.She was given oxygen, taken to hospital and later transferred for specialist treatment at Alder Hey.Heaps was found laying face down on the lawn outside the house. Nearby was an empty plastic fuel container that was on fire. He had suffered burns and was semi-conscious. He was later cautioned and arrested while in hospital.It later emerged that he had been in a relationship with Linda Skelhorne which ended acrimoniously. He had stolen a sim card from her mobile phone and, according to the prosecution, "bombarded" her sister Eleanor with obscene text messages and phone calls. Eleanor Skelhorne, 37, broke down while giving evidence against Heaps and the trial was adjourned briefly after she launched a verbal assault at him.Heaps told police he had visited a takeaway on the night of the attack, yet CCTV footage disproved this, the court heard.As Heaps, now of Crumlin, Newport, south Wales, was led out of court, Eleanor Skelhorne became distraught and shouted at him: "That's wiped the smile off your face, hasn't it?"