Britain has reached new heights in teenage hatred. We've gone from "hug a hoodie" to "mug a hoodie" in headlines over the weekend. What prompted them is that David Cameron is going to give a speech outlining his new attitude to crime and order, with the catchphrase "Tough but intelligent".We were both speaking at the Centre for Social Justice Conference in June 2006 when he gave his speech about modifying our attitude to young offenders. He referred to robust management combined with reparation and, yes, that dreaded word "love". The media spun it into the "hug a hoodie" catchphrase that was wrongly attributed to him.The prime minister's attempt to be more subtle about the approach to young offenders was motivated by his awareness of Iain Duncan Smith's work in relation to the implications of childhood maltreatment on brain development. Scientists were becoming increasingly aware of the significance of loving care in sculpting the brain's management of behaviour. The prefrontal cortex responsible for pro-social behaviour acquires its capacities according to how much attuned care an individual has received, hence the appropriateness of love in the context of crime prevention.We need to be tough on crime and its causes, but the question is how morally brave can a prime minister be? The role of a good leader is to identify a social philosophy, clearly articulate the problem, and generate solutions that may not be popular. At times leaders have to carry the anger and disbelief of their followers until the evidence of their good choice changes perspectives.It looked as if Cameron was going to be morally courageous. He was telling us we were walking into austerity and was suggesting we needed to approach our most disturbed young people with balanced interventions, which included tenderness towards them.As anxieties grow about the government's reputation, there may be a propensity to give in to the crowd for popularity. Leaders who short-change their philosophical vision always end up losing even if, in the short term, they're elevated in the polls. So what might the intelligent solution be?Under numerous governments, reoffending rates – either through custody or community sentences – have been averaging about 80% within two years. Undoubtedly, our approach isn't working. The natural response is to be tougher which, invariably, translates as enhancing legitimate revenge. So we're told inmates should have their TVs withdrawn and community sentencing should involve an aspect of degrading the criminal.But who is this criminal? Mentally ill people, addicts, individuals who, through lack of care, have developed personality disorders, those with hidden head injuries, those who have been sexually and physically abused, and those with learning disabilities constitute the majority of our offenders. Only a small percentage of those in our criminal justice system are pathologically dangerous or psychopathic.Kids Company operates centres to which 97% of children self-refer; 82% arrive criminally involved. We don't refer to them as "criminals", we recognise them as being children in need. Once their complex life issues have been addressed, they rarely reoffend. We have collaborated with UCL, the Anna Freud Centre, Cambridge University and the Institute of Psychiatry, among others, and preliminary results show children who were assessed presented not only with shocking life adversities – one in five had been shot at and/or stabbed – but also had neurophysiological damage secondary to the maltreatment.The question is: who should we be tough on? It is not accidental that more than 90% of prisoners have mental health difficulties and have been abused as children. Meanwhile, how do you explain Birmingham city council failing its child protection inspection last week? Prime Minister, which crime should we be intelligent about?