Basiru GassamaBorn in Gambia, west Africa in October 1977, the father-of-one was living with his French wife at a house in Radstock Avenue, Hodge Hill, when he was arrested. During the surveillance operation, Gassama, who had known Khan for at least 18 months, was given the codename Regal Velvet.The former security worker, who was unemployed at the time of his arrest, had a daughter from a previous relationship. It is known that Gassama held several discussions with Khan concerning the soldier plot, although the prosecution found no evidence that he actually provided details of a Gambian serviceman to Khan.One such conversation took place as early as July 29 2006 - when Khan told Gassama that the plot would terrorise British soldiers and send Tony Blair "crazy". The same topic is also known to have been discussed between Khan and Gassama the following month and again when films of beheading were played to Gassama on November 6 2006.Prosecutor Nigel Rumfitt, QC, said: "Gassama was of Gambian origin and he had the right contacts with the Gambian community, which is no doubt why Khan approached him in the first place. "In fact, Gassama never came up with the details of any particular individual. He appears to be torn between his support for Khan's cause, on the one hand, and his own conscience on the other. "To his credit, as I've said, there's no evidence that Gassama ever did help and no evidence that he ever visited Khan again after he was shown those films in early November." Zahoor IqbalBirmingham-born Iqbal, a tall, apparently clean-cut married man, came across to colleagues at the school where he worked as a paragon of moderation who abhorred extremism. A talented cricketer who played for a local village side, the 30-year-old told his trial that he believed his trips to wholesalers with his long-time friend Khan were to buy relief aid for the victims of the Kashmir earthquake in October 2005.Iqbal, a full-time school attendance and mentoring officer at Birmingham's Saltley school, told jurors he was Muslim but not practising and that he did not pray.The former doorman, of Elmbridge Road, Perry Barr, also told the jury he believed the invasion of Iraq "was the right thing to do" and called the September 11 attack on the New York a "holocaust" in which innocent people died. Former colleagues of Iqbal described him as a moderate Muslim, popular with staff and pupils. Headteacher Anne Cole told the court: "I would describe Zahoor Iqbal as one of the most moderate Muslims I have ever met." Mohammed IrfanPakistan-born Irfan, 31, lived at Asquith Road, Ward End, and was referred to during the surveillance operation as Festival Break.A former delivery driver, Irfan was detained in an upstairs bedroom at the property at 4.28am on January 31 2006 by officers who also searched a neighbouring property.Several computers were found at his home, including a laptop. More than 1,000 incriminating files were found on the laptop, including details of "household torture techniques" and documents detailing how to get rid of a body or make a garrotte. Documents were also found which revealed Irfan's involvement in helping Khan gather material to send to Pakistan. Hamid ElasmarCasablanca-born Elasmar, the oldest defendant, lived at Century Tower in Edgbaston and was codenamed Haunted Room. A 44-year-old father-of-four who drove a white L-registered Peugeot, he was known to associates as Abu Tariq.Elasmar is thought to have married in the UK in 1992, but divorced in 2005 and remarried a Moroccan woman. His flat in Edgbaston contained extremist material, as well as a whiteboard and a set of highlighter pens near the lounge window.Surveillance established that the board was being used on January 14, 2007, just a fortnight before police broke up the terror cell. In court, Elasmar refused to stand before Mr Justice Henriques until a conversation through the dock screen with his barrister.