Politicians last night called for a public debate on whether the police should be routinely armed at all times.A survey for the Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers, is expected to show this week that more than half its members believed violent crime was now so serious they should become an armed force.Oliver Letwin, Shadow Home Secretary, warned that it was too serious an issue to rush to judgment, but added: 'I am all in favour of a public discussion.' The former Labour Minister Tony Banks has already tabled a Commons motion noting the increasing number of armed police now walking the streets and calling for 'the widest possible debate in Parliament and elsewhere in a proposal for the routine arming of the police', and a referendum of serving officers on the issue. Sources close to the Home Secretary, David Blunkett, said he remained to be convinced there was a case for routinely arming officers. 'This would be a very big step and it is irreversible, so we would have to be persuaded,' said a Whitehall source. Letwin said he would seek cross-party discussions on the subject. However, the real issue was police numbers, he insisted, arguing that it would be no good 'providing every officer with a tank' if there were not enough of them to do the job. This week Blunkett will address the Police Federation's annual conference in Blackpool. He is expected to raise the issue of gun crime, praising police for their co-operation in the recent gun amnesty which recovered thousands of firearms. He is also expected to highlight the battle looming over justice reform with the Criminal Justice Bill. The Bill contains a number of measures popular with officers seeking higher conviction rates but controversial among Labour MPs. These include the abolition of the 'double jeopardy' rule preventing people being tried twice for the same crime. The Association of Chief Police Officers has opposed the arming of the police force and, until now, the majority of Police Federation members have taken the same view. However, a Federation official said opinion had shifted, particularly for officers in inner-city areas.