It is significant that the two Doncaster boys who were facing charges of attempted murder have had their lesser guilty plea of grievous bodily harm accepted even though it can carry the same sentence.So much about this case was different to the tragic killing of James Bulger in 1993 but it has invited comparisons none the less. Not least in the cruel, almost sadistic nature of the violence, its sexual content and the apparent lack of emotion in the faces of the attackers at the hearing. "The Devil Brothers" one newspaper called them when the events were first reported back in April as if such brutality did not belong to a realm that was human. But despite the parallels, this time it appears as if the criminal justice system has learned something from the case of James Bulger's death.Moderate adaptations have been made to the court process. The absence of crimson robes and wigs makes it less intimidating for youngsters facing serious criminal charges and the assistance of four social workers in this case guided the boys through complex proceeedings.There is also a sign of a break with the past in the fact that a charge of grievous bodily harm was proffered and not attempted murder. It is not uncommon for this to happen because intention to murder is difficult to prove. But it reflects a particular difficulty of whether the deliberate intention to kill, in the same sense as we might think of it applying to adults, plays any part in crimes committed by children so young. Modern psychology highlights the difficulties of attributing conscious or deliberate intent to the brain and personality of a developing child.From what is known about the backgrounds of these boys there is every reason to suppose that something went disastrously wrong with their emotional and moral development. Children – even very young ones – can learn to feel for the suffering and vulnerability of others, but no such capacity seemed to exist in these two. Who knows what private torment they were enacting through these appalling crimes. Perhaps, just as in other cases like that of Robert Thompson and Mary Bell, the details of what their home lives concealed will only emerge later.Yet given the extent to which police and social services knew the circumstances of the attackers why did each agency fail to respond to the glaring signs that the boys were at risk of perpetrating serious violence? Research into previous cases of the last two centuries shows that in almost every instance of children who kill the very same children were known to the authorities as victims of violence. This is one striking lesson that has not been learned by the examples of the past. The idea that a child who is a victim of violence could also be a perpetrator seems hard for certain adults to entertain even when there is clear evidence of it.We know that children can be cruel but we often tend to view it as idle mischief. When it enters the realm of sadism we switch away in horror. Childhood innocence is one of the most cherished ideas of western culture. Rousseau introduced it, 18th century portrait painters depicted it and William Blake identified what threatened it. For him it was adult exploitation in the form of child labour that he conveyed in his affecting poem about the plight of the chimney sweep. Because of this ideal there is nothing more separate in our minds than children and violence – and this prevents us from tackling this distressing issue of violence in children with greater insight.