Fears that organised crime gangs are targeting the government's £16bn tax credit system were heightened yesterday after ministers admitted there had been a surge in fraudulent claims.Paymaster general Dawn Primarolo said almost 40,000 applications were halted in eight months last year - about half because of suspected organised crime. She said HM Revenue & Customs, which runs the tax credit system, was aware of "persistent attempts by organised criminals to obtain tax credits by using stolen or fictitious identities". HMRC put in place "robust strategies for tackling fraud" and stopped claims when fraud was suspected.The department also admitted that a jump in claims for the disability element of tax credits was likely to be the work of fraudsters and had begun a separate inquiry in that area.The revelations follow a succession of tax credit security breaches and have renewed pressure for a full inquiry into the system's safeguards.Last month the online system for claiming tax credits was suspended after the identities of staff at the Department for Work and Pensions were stolen to make illegal claims. Separately, a claimant was convicted of a £1.3m tax credit fraud, discovered only when he was pulled over by police for speeding and his car, which was full of stolen identities, was searched.Liberal Democrat spokesman David Laws, who secured the latest figures through parliamentary questions to the Treasury, said they could just be "the tip of an iceberg"."Revenue officials have openly admitted that they have little idea of the full extent of the fraud - only that they have been subjected to virulent attacks. The paymaster general has been far too complacent about the weaknesses in the system," he said.Mr Laws said the answers to his questions showed the government had known for more than a year that fraudsters were attacking the online applications service before taking action. "It cannot be acceptable that it took so long to take action. Even now we do not know to what extent security checks have actually been tightened up," he said.Frank Field MP said he had recommended a series of security checks when he was minister for welfare reform in 1997, before the introduction of tax credits, but these were not taken up. "After I resigned, the counter-fraud measures were not carried out and now it shows in the figures."In her replies to Mr Laws, the paymaster general said that between April and November last year HMRC intervened in 38,924 claims where fraud or error was suspected. "HMRC estimate over half have been as a result of organised attacks," she said. In 2004-05 there were 17,164 interventions.Another 22,284 claims already being paid were stopped because of suspected organised fraud between October 2004 and November 2005, she said.HMRC said: "Anywhere that the government, like any other large financial organisation, pays out money there will be some people intent on defrauding the system and we designed tax credits with that in mind. HMRC constantly adapts its methods in the light of evidence on attempted fraud. It has introduced more sophisticated checks, and announced in the 2005 pre-budget report that it is doubling the number of pre-award checks."Separately, HMRC is planning to apologise to 10,000 businesses wrongly fined at least £400 each after a computer error.