The sadistic son of an affluent Saudi official was jailed for five years yesterday for imprisoning and torturing a pregnant teenager.Sammy Shadukhi, 22, whipped the girl and subjected her to a series of "punishments" during her month of captivity. Finally he threatened to "slaughter her like a sheep", the inner London crown court was told. The 17-year-old decided she must escape, but almost killed herself in the process. She climbed out of a second-floor window of the Thamesside flat and eased herself on to a drainpipe, then slipped and fell 18.5 metres (60ft) to the bank, breaking her back, leg and ankle. Neighbours heard her cries for help after she came to, and she was airlifted to hospital. Had the tide been in, she would undoubtedly have drowned, the court heard. She spent weeks recovering, and, later, fearing the fall might have damaged her unborn child, decided to have an abortion five months into her pregnancy. Shadukhi, who was studying English in London, was described in court as the son of an affluent official who retired recently from the Saudi interior ministry. During the two-week trial his victim, who cannot be named for legal reasons, said her ordeal began after he invited her to his flat in Rotherhithe, south London, in January last year. He refused to let her leave, and in the weeks that followed whipped her repeatedly and subjected her to water tortures and other "punishments", she told the jury. "He would enjoy it," she said. Sometimes he bound her, dumped her in the bath and, despite her obvious pregnancy, straddled her stomach to push her under the water, she recalled. "Then he would start drowning me," she said. Beatings often followed, including whipping and blows with a mop handle. At times Shadukhi also forced her head into a bucket of hot water, telling her: "This is the last day of your life. You don't deserve to live. I have got to get rid of you." Afterwards, he would throw her on to the bed and "start strangling me". She also recalled being forced to stand for up to 10 hours at night. "He never let me sleep the whole night... he would never have pity on me." One day, after suffering another morning of torture, she decided she had to escape. She acted as soon as Shadukhi had locked her in the flat and left for his English class. Shadukhi insisted at his trial that the teenager had lied, and her injuries were either the result of "self-harm" or sustained in the fall. He was convicted of sample counts of false imprisonment, making threats to kill and causing actual bodily harm, but he was found not guilty of rape and causing grievous bodily harm with intent. He was also cleared of unlawful wounding and a second charge of actual bodily harm when the jury failed to reach verdicts. Passing sentence, Judge Jonathan van der Werff told him: "You kept her under your control at all times and you subjected her to various sorts of torture... " "It was a terrible time for her, a period of her life she will never be able to forget... she even had her pregnancy terminated." "You made threats to kill... holding a knife to her throat and causing an injury that was still visible a month later. You threatened to slaughter her like a sheep. She believed you. That was the main reason that she eventually tried to escape." He added: "These were deeply unpleasant crimes for which you have shown no remorse." He recommended that Shadukhi be deported after serving his sentence.