Chris Grayling, UK justice minister, recently imposed a blanket ban on prisoners in England and Wales being sent books in the mail. Obviously the decision has been defended, being explained as part of a new regime of rewards and punishments (or is it to cut drug smuggling?) but many still see it as a needlessly harsh and unmotivated punishment for prisoners, so it has still backfired somewhat. The suddenness of it does suggest that not a lot of thought has gone into this. Perhaps the policy is the result of some other factors? Is there a rumour going round that paper and ink are crucial ingredients in a type of moonshine? Has there been a dramatic rise in lethal paper-cuts in prisons? Maybe the policy was meant be the somewhat-obvious but well-meant “under no circumstances should prisoners receive bombs”, but an overzealous autocorrect caught the last word, and they decided to press ahead without proofreading? But the general consensus seems that this move is designed to punish prisoners purely to show potential voters that the government is tough on crime. But if you look into the science and psychology behind such things, it actually makes little sense. In psychology, punishment has quite a specific definition; basically, it’s any change or response to a behaviour that is intended to reduce that behaviour. There are two types of punishment, positive and negative (often confused with positive and negative reinforcement, which are similar but intended to increase occurrence of behaviours). Positive punishment, counterintuitively, is when an unpleasant stimulus is applied following an undesirable behaviour. Spanking a child for being naughty, putting someone in jail for a crime, these would be positive punishments. Negative punishments are when something nice is removed in response to an undesirable behaviour. The removal of access to books would be a good example of this (unless prisoners are being constantly sent the works of Dan Brown or Stephenie Meyer, in which case it could be seen as a reward).But it’s the “response to a behaviour” part that causes problems here. Studies suggest that for punishment to be most effective it has to be contingent and contiguous. Respectively, this means it has to be associated with the undesirable behaviour (ie “I’m in jail. This must be because of all those robberies at gunpoint I did”) and has to happen soon enough after the undesirable behaviour for the two to be associated. This second one is especially tricky with crimes as the interval between committing the crime and being punished can be very long (figures suggest that the time between arrest and going to trial alone is over a month). That’s plenty of time for other behaviours to occur and confuse the associations. This may explain why imprisonment is often ineffective at preventing reoffending. Studies suggest that prison sentences are ineffective at preventing several sorts of crime, and that increasing arrest rates is a much better deterrent than longer sentences, and this is consistent with what has already been said (arrests = relatively immediate, sentences = much later). At this point you might be asking yourself “what the hell has this got to do with banning books?” Which is sort of the point. What has a sudden and blanket banning of books got to do with how punishment and deterrence actually work? Not a great deal. Unless every prisoner was beating someone with a pillowcase full of paperbacks at the moment the ban came into effect, it seems essentially random. If there’s no specific event associated with the punishment, other associations will be made. In this case, prisoners can no longer have books, so they’re being punished for what they do with books, so “reading and learning”. Call me a woolly liberal, but “sitting quietly and reading about stuff” is the sort of behaviour I’d want to encourage in convicts, not punish. The assertion that this move is based on a “new regime of rewards and punishments” does nothing to reduce concerns; the very introduction of the policy in this manner shows that those responsible really don’t have any idea how such things actually work. In fairness, this piece has thus far focused on more fundamental psychological processes underpinning punishment, and humans are significantly more complex than that. For example, there are philosophical and cognitive differences between punishment, justice, revenge etc. Many would argue that punishment needs to be delivered by the relevant authority in order to count as such.It’s the public perception of such things, rather than the scientific rationale, which seems to be behind the book ban. By and large, people care about justice (some more than others) and want to see those who break the rules deterred from doing so. Arguments over whether prisoners should be punished or rehabilitated have been around forever, but there is still a substantial chunk of the population who want to see prisoners suffer. There are many possible reasons for this, one of which is the just-world hypothesis (in short, people believe the world is fair, so those in unpleasant situations must somehow deserve it). Prisoners, people who are “bad”, having things like books when they should be being punished is unfair (no matter how useful to society). People who believe this are likely to have an authoritarian personality. Such people are very likely to hold right-wing views. So if you’re a right-wing government, publicly sticking the boot in to prisoners is a potential vote-winner, so who cares if there’s any sense behind it?And in fairness, the justice department hasn’t banned books from prisoners outright. They can still get them from prison libraries (big fans of libraries, this government) and can work and buy their own books (just like how people always get jobs once their benefits have been cut). Hopefully those behind such cynical and harsh policies will eventually end up behind bars themselves. It’s a just world, after all.Dean Burnett feels that reading his meanderings are punishment enough, but he is also on Twitter, if you’re into that sort of thing. @garwboy