The barrister Sir Michael Ogden, who has died aged 76, will best be remembered as the chairman of the 1982 working party that produced what are known as the Ogden Tables, an actuarial basis for the courts to quantify damages in cases of personal injuries and death.He also appeared for two notoriously dishonoured financiers: he successfully defended Bernie Cornfeld over an allegation of attempted rape, and in a libel case; then, in 1971, he represented Robert Maxwell during his troubles with the Department of Trade and Industry. Generously, or ingenuously, he regarded both men as intrinsically honest. Ogden was born in Hove, Sussex, where his father, a member of that almost extinct species, a man of independent means, had a large house. His devout Catholic parents had him educated at Downside, where he won a history prize and chaired the debating society. From 1944 to 1947, he served in the Royal Gloucester Hussars and the 16th/5th Lancers, becoming a fine skier. Demobbed as a captain, he then read law at Jesus College, Cambridge, where only a skiing accident prevented him obtaining his half blue. Called to the bar at Lincoln's Inn, of which he later became a bencher and treasurer, in 1950, Ogden took a pupillage with the libel specialist Patrick O'Connor, a member of the fashionable chambers of Ronald Armstrong Jones, the father of Lord Snowdon. He joined the south-eastern circuit, of which he was later leader, from 1975 until 1978. His practice was a general one, common enough then, when a barrister appeared on a murder case one day, a road accident the next, and a libel action the third. Ogden was deputy recorder of Southend from 1964 to 1971, then becoming recorder of Hastings for the short period before those appointments were swept away. He then sat as a recorder, from 1971 to 1997, and was a deputy high court judge for 19 years from 1977. Elected to the bar council in 1960, he served on the executive committee which produced what became the Criminal Procedure (Right of Reply) Act, 1964. Until then, the defence had only been allowed the final speech in a trial on indictment subject to technical and unfair rules, such as having to call a witness of fact in addition to the defendant. During a brief flirtation with politics, he stood unsuccessfully for the Conservatives at Walthamstow West in 1964, and later at more marginal Epping. He took silk in 1968. Ogden was in demand as counsel to a number of public inquiries, notably into the third London airport in 1963, the 1973 Summerland funfair disaster on the Isle of Man, and the Popplewell inquiry into the Bradford stadium fire of 1985. He chaired the criminal compensation board from 1975 to 1989, and, from 1972 to 1974, sat on the lord chancellor's advisory board on legal education. In 1982, he led the working party which produced the tables that bear his name, enacted as the Ogden Tables Civil Evidence Act, 1995. From 1978 to 1989, he was also an independent assessor on compensation for miscarriages of justice. He was knighted in 1989. In his later years, Ogden, a trenchant letter-writer, was fiercely critical of Labour's 1995 suggestion that the power to remove high court judges should be taken away from parliament and given to an appointment and training commission - he believed that, far from guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary, the move would have the reverse effect. He also wanted to see more independence at the BBC, suggesting, in July 2001, that it had become the government broadcasting corporation. He advocated cutting welfare payments, arguing that technology would lead to the longterm loss of jobs, and that future generations would face an increasing financial burden. His thinking was that people should pay more towards their pensions now, rather than retiring later or receiving smaller sums on retirement. Nor was he keen on the plan to give rights of audience in the higher courts to the crown prosecution service, fearing a lack of independence. With some foresight, he warned that promotion would depend on an individual's success rate, and of the well-known temptation to fail to make proper disclosure to the defence. Ogden criticised the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, for failing to make an order which avoided the disparity in awards made to the seriously injured, believing that a proper rate of return was not being paid to them, something which could result in a reduction of several hundred thousand pounds in damages. Nor did he think enough was being done to stop the flow of illegal immigrants into Britain, suggesting that the government should bring in compulsory searches of vehicles at ferry ports. A gregarious man, he was to be seen regularly at Glyndebourne with his wife Joan, whom he married in 1951. They had two sons and two daughters. · Edward Michael Ogden, barrister and judge, born April 9 1926; died January 31 2003