A comic book trader was today jailed for life with a recommendation that he serve at least 30 years after being convicted of the murder of schoolgirl Lesley Molseed more than three decades ago.Ronald Castree, a 54-year-old former taxi driver from Shaw, in Oldham, Greater Manchester, was arrested by police last year following advances in forensic science.Lesley was 11 when she went missing from her home in Rochdale in October 1975 after going to run an errand for her mother. Her body was found on moorland three days later.Stefan Kiszko was wrongly convicted of her murder in 1976, and served 16 years in prison.Kiszko was released in 1991, following a second appeal, suffering from psychological damage. He died, aged 44, of a heart attack shortly after being released, and is buried yards from Lesley's grave.The guilty verdict came after 11 hours and 38 minutes of deliberations at Bradford crown court. It was a majority decision.Castree shrugged his shoulders but showed little other emotion as the foreman returned the verdict. Members of Lesley's family shouted "yes" and hugged each other in the gallery."This was a truly dreadful crime," the judge, Mr Justice Openshaw, told Castree. "Lesley Molseed was only 11. She was vulnerable, not just because of her age but because of her learning difficulties."You repeatedly stabbed her. You left her for dead, drove back to Rochdale and carried on with the rest of your life as if nothing had happened. It was a pretence you kept up for 32 years. Your past has now caught up with you."Castree got to his feet and tried to address him, crying: "My Lord," but was cut off by with the words: "No. You have had your say." He said: "I did not do it," as he was led from the dock.Ann Kiszko, Stefan's aunt, said she felt sorry for Castree's family, who were unaware they were living with a "monster". However, she added that the man who had deprived her nephew of his freedom for much of his adult life could "rot in hell"."Everyone who knew Stefan didn't believe he was guilty," she said. "He was well brought up, very polite and had a respectable job. He was never capable of doing something like that."Castree has ruined a lot of lives. The poor family of Lesley Molseed suffered 32 years before finally getting justice, while Stefan spent the best years of his life in prison."The investigation into Lesley's death was relaunched in 2001. DNA taken from Castree had been found to be an exact match with that taken from sperm found on Lesley's clothing, the jury heard.The court was also told how the defendant admitted abducting and sexually assaulting a nine-year-old girl within a year of the 11-year-old's death.Lesley suffered 12 separate stab wounds in the attack, a pathologist told the jury. He said the most likely weapon was a knife around 2.5in long, adding that the blows to her chest appeared to be "targeted, not random".Castree denied the charge, telling the jury he had no idea how his DNA had ended up at the scene of the murder.His conviction is likely to add to the debate over whether DNA samples taken from suspects who are released without charge should be kept on the national database.Castree was caught after his DNA was taken following his arrest in Oldham in October 2005 for what was described in court as an incident "unrelated and irrelevant" to Lesley's murder.No details have been officially released about why he was arrested, but it is understood to have been over an allegation that he committed a serious sexual assault on a woman.Castree was never charged with any offence in 2005 and was released. Under current legislation, despite no criminal proceedings resulting from his arrest, the police, as is routine, added his DNA to the national database.