Cities can be paradoxical places. In the mornings they buzz with commuters, in the evenings they come alive with diners and partygoers, at weekends the streets fill with shoppers and market traders. But amidst the hustle and bustle, even the greatest city can be a lonely place. Surrounded by millions of others, we often retreat into our own worlds.The morning commute is perhaps the most obvious example of this. We erect barriers around ourselves with newspapers, magazines and blaring headphones. We look down awkwardly if anything unexpected breaks the silence. We avoid eye contact with the same people we travel to work with each morning. So when a city comes together it is a special thing. That happened when Londoners filled Trafalgar Square with hope that the Olympics would come to their city. It happened spontaneously just one day later, when London stood in defiance against terrorism. And it will happen again next month, this time in deliberation, as London chooses its mayor for the next four years.As with all politics, it's easy to reduce that choice to a beauty contest: "Ken" vs "Boris". Two personalities, nothing more. But in truth, the choice on May 1 is something much more important than that: it is about what kind of city Londoners want to create for themselves. At the last two elections, Londoners have set their sights above their own daily lives to think about their city as a whole. They elected a mayor who would use his planning powers to create more of the affordable and social housing that London desperately needs. They voted for a greener city, with quality public spaces, less congestion and more energy-efficient homes. And they voted for a better life for London's pensioners, who would benefit from freedom passes on London's transport and community policing to keep them safe.The London I see now is a world away from the London that I grew up in during the 1980s, but much of the progress is also reversible under the wrong leadership. London also faces new challenges that mask some of the progress made - crime is down overall, but knife and gun crime leave people with a sense of insecurity. What used to be a minority concern for the inner city is now on everyone's list of priorities. The question now is whether we can continue, as a city, to make progress towards becoming a safer, more successful and inclusive place to live and work. Will a Tory mayor really champion social housing - and stand up to the nimbyism of some Conservative councils? Will he really understand knife crime in parts on London he had probably never visited before this campaign started - and the role of apprenticeships in providing young people with the structure and direction they need in their lives? Has he got the deftness both to feel part of London's diversity and to challenge separatism at the same time?To meet the challenges ahead we need to keep hold of the idea of a London that is greater than ourselves. That means giving people practical opportunities to make a difference to universal issues like climate change - empowering people not preaching at them. It means building a sense of civic pride from zones one to six, so that no one feels like their area is a secondary concern to the bright lights of the city centre. And it means restoring a sense of civic decency, with clear expectations about what Londoners should demand from their mayor and from each other. A city built on mutual respect: from good housing conditions for all, to consideration for others on London's streets and personal safety on our buses.In the face of these challenges, the risk is not just that Boris Johnson is incompetent, but that he lacks any real vision for the nation's capital. This election comes down to something more fundamental than two personalities: it is the politics of "me" vs the politics of "us". With three weeks to go the message to Ken is this: remind people what they are really voting for.For more Cif blogs about the London elections, click here