A mother who crammed her 13-year-old son and six of his friends into her car before crashing it at high speed, killing three of the boys and another driver, was jailed for two years today.Angela Dublin, a 46-year-old nurse from Headington, Oxford, had to be sent to prison even though this would affect her recovery from physical injuries and depression caused by the crash, Judge Mr Justice Crane told Oxford Crown Court.Dublin, who last month pleaded guilty to four counts of causing death by dangerous driving, was taking her son Anton and his friends - at least one of whom was in the boot of her car - to a restaurant to celebrate his 13th birthday.Three of the boys, all aged 13, died when Dublin's Citroen Xsara crossed the central reservation of Oxford's eastern ring road and veered into the path of another car. The driver of the other vehicle, Howard Hillsdon - a 21-year-old graduate who was about to start teacher training - was also killed. Dublin and Anton, along with the three other friends aged 12 and 13, suffered serious injuries. Only one of the boys was wearing a seatbelt at the time of the crash. Witnesses saw one and perhaps two in the boot section of the hatchback, the court was told. Dublin was seen weaving between lanes without indicating before losing control of the silver car at around 70mph. Three other vehicles were also caught up the crash. All the boys except the one wearing the seat belt, who was sitting in the front passenger seat, were thrown onto the carriageway. Josh Bartlett, Liam Hastings and Marshall Haynes were killed. The judge told Dublin that he accepted a jail sentence would make the treatment and convalescence she still needs more difficult. "It will, according to the evidence of the psychiatrist which I accept, be likely to worsen your depression quite markedly," he said, but argued it would "not be appropriate to suspend the sentence".Several relatives of those killed in the crash shouted in protest and stormed out of the court when the verdict was announced.Earlier today, defence barrister Frank Burton told the court that Dublin had completely accepted responsibility by pleading guilty. "She wishes to apologise to the bereaved families and friends of Liam and Josh and Marshall and Howard Hillsdon," he said. "She knows that nothing that she can say and nothing that she can do will ease their pain, but she expresses her sincere condolences to the various families and friends for their losses."Dublin sat with her head bowed and eyes closed throughout the proceedings. Earlier this year, Oxfordshire county council built a concrete crash barrier separating the stretch of the ring road where the crash happened. It has also imposed a new 50mph speed limit.