The dramatic release of Sally Clark, the mother whose convictions for murdering her two baby sons were quashed by the Appeal Court last week, has raised strong fears of a backlash against doctors and social workers investigating such cases.The country's most senior child pathologist, Professor Tony Risdon, told The Observer that he fears it will become impossible to conduct proper inquiries in the face of such strong public hostility towards professionals involved in the cases. 'The idea that people who are involved in child protection are on a crusade to convict innocent mothers is a ridiculous but dangerous idea,' said Risdon, NHS consultant pathologist at Great Ormond Street Hospital and the only paediatric pathologist licensed by the Home Office to do forensic work. 'People like myself spend a lot of time dealing with the deaths of children. In order to protect other children and for the good of society, we have to investigate properly. There is now great unease about how we're going to do that.' Risdon said that the diagnosis of Munchausen's syndrome by proxy, where a carer or parent may try to harm the child in order to attract attention to themselves, was not 'a figment of doctors' imagination. There is good evidence from covert CCTV surveillance that this happens. 'But the problem is that many find it hard to accept that this happens. Society doesn't always want to face difficult truths. It's becoming clear that paedophilia really exists and is not uncommon at all, but for years people denied its existence.' His concerns come in the wake of calls for an overhaul in the way sudden infant deaths, or cot deaths, are investigated. MPs have demanded a review of the way medical evidence is handled and others want only paediatric pathologists to carry out post-mortems on babies. Clark was released after serving three years, because it transpired that the pathologist in the case, Dr Alan Williams, had not disclosed that her eight-week-old son Harry had a staphylococcal infection around the time of his death. The appeal judges ruled that 'serious questions' had been raised about the evidence presented to the jury and that her conviction was therefore unsafe. Clark had been found guilty of smothering Christopher, aged 11 weeks, and a year later shaking to death Harry at their home in Wilmslow, Cheshire. The post-mortem carried out in 1998 by Dr Williams at Macclesfield Hospital concluded that Harry had been 'shaken on several occasions over several days - he had brain, spinal and eye injuries'. Experts later suggested these could have been caused by the resuscitation attempts. The release of Clark has led to speculation that six similar cases in Britain may now go to appeal. Solicitor John Batt of Clark's legal team, claims it is impossible for such women to have a fair trial, and accused medical experts of being on a mission to prove that many cot deaths were murder. He said of the other six cases: 'The circumstances are similar - no previous history of abuse, experts saying these cases aren't natural and doctors saying they don't know.' One of the appeals which may be strengthened by Clark's case is that of Angela Cannings, sentenced to life imprisonment at Winchester last month for the murder of her two young sons.