Two armed robbers convicted of murdering a Sicilian millionaire's wife while stealing her expensive watch were jailed for life yesterday.Daniel Whyte, 24, and Jason James, 29, both from West Ealing, London, were found guilty of murdering Giuseppina Martorana, 46, in Hoddesdon, Hertfordshire, in August 2000. At St Albans crown court James was sentenced to five life terms for murder, two charges of attempted murder, and two charges of robbery. Whyte was given three life-terms for murder and two charges of robbery. He was cleared of two charges of attempted murder against his victim's son, Steven, and the son's girlfriend. The trial judge, Mr Justice Bell, recommended that James served a minimum of 25 years, and Whyte 20 years, before eligibility for parole. Both had long criminal pasts. Whyte, a father-of-one, and James tailed the Martoranas to their home after the couple completed a shopping trip in London, looking at jewellery in Harrods in preparation for their silver wedding anniversary. As Giuseppina, and her husband, Giusseppe, arrived home, the men jumped from their stolen Renault Laguna and began their robbery which ended in the cold-blooded murder of Mrs Martorana. Whyte handed his co-defendant a silver revolver, then James opened fire shooting his victims. As Mrs Martorana lay dying outside her home, James straddled her and snatched her £13,000 Rolex watch from her wrist. Then he escaped. On Monday, the jury of six men and six women convicted James, by unanimous verdict of murdering Mrs Martorana. The self-confessed drug dealer was also convicted of two counts of attempted murder and two counts of robbery. Whyte was yesterday convicted of murder by an 11-1 majority verdict. He admitted one charge of robbery and was convicted of a second charge of robbery. Michael Pert QC, prosecuting, described the robbery as a "determined and cynical attack fuelled by greed and showing a complete disregard for human life". Both men were arrested eight months after the shootings. James, a father-of-two, denied any involvement in the attack and maintained he had been at the Notting Hill Carnival. Whyte told police he had been involved in the robbery with James, but his colleague had carried out the shootings. Whyte told the court that he asked his friend why he had shot and James was alleged to have replied: "I just started when people came out of the house, and couldn't stop." From the attack, Steven suffered a wound that will leave a permanent scar; the bullet remains lodged in his spine. His girlfriend, Isabella Agnes, now 22, had her left kidney and spleen removed after the shooting. Mr Justice Bell said: "It is difficult to imagine a more lawless and heartless crime - this was an exceptionally awful crime which must be met with a long period of actual imprisonment. No sentence can begin to compensate her family for her loss." Press Association