Elite police firearms units are facing a recruitment crisis that threatens to reduce dramatically the numbers of armed police available to patrol Britain's streets.The problem is most acute in London, where the number of new recruits who want to join Scotland Yard's specialist SO19 firearms unit has fallen by almost 90 per cent in the last five years. At the same time the number of officers quitting firearms units is rising. Serving armed officers blame the crisis on frustration within the ranks over the way they are treated after any shooting incidents. They are immediately removed from firearms duties and become, in effect, suspects in murder investigations. Many feel there is little sympathy from senior officers and the public. 'I know of one officer who cannot listen to the incident in which he fired being related without crying,' said Roger Gray, who spent eight years as a sergeant in the Metropolitan Police's Armed Response Vehicle. Speaking anonymously last week to The Observer, serving and former SO19 officers said few people understood their difficulties. 'Put yourself in the position of being the one to confront a suspect,' said one officer. 'He is armed with something which you believe is a firearm, you challenge him and he then points what you believe is a firearm at you. 'What would you do? Can you read his mind? Is the gun real? Why won't he put it down? Too late. He's pulled the trigger and you're dead.' The immediate response to a fatal incident varies depending on the officer involved. 'Usually they go quiet,' said one former inspector. 'Or they may start asking "Is he all right? Is he dead?" 'You know there's going to be a big investigation and that a lot of senior people are going to spend a long time dissecting what you spent a fraction of a second doing. The frustration starts to make you believe that you're on your own.' Some officers involved in shootings have suffered from post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), regardless of whether they pulled the trigger. Officers are expected to write up their notes almost immediately. That account often forms their only defence against murder charges. A common complaint is that in many operations police could have just wounded a suspect, shooting them in the leg. But the 'hit rate' is low because the majority of police shootings involve handguns. Armed officers' more accurate MP5 carbines are kept in the car boot. In emergency situations officers have to rely solely on their handguns.