Soaring global demand for copper is a growing threat to the British railway network leading to a surge in trackside metal theft, police have warned. Copper theft caused more than 240,000 minutes of delays for train passengers last year after a near-fivefold rise in robberies at tracks and depots.Rail customers are the victims of an economic crime that is being driven by the insatiable demand for industrial material in China and India, said Andy Trotter, deputy chief constable of the British Transport police. "It is a growing problem," he said. "You have only got to look at the rising copper price on the metal market and the theft of copper matches that rise almost absolutely. Unfortunately, the impact on the infrastructure is beginning to bite."Copper theft is a major problem in north-east England, accounting for nearly two-thirds of the delays related to metal thieves in the UK and wreaking havoc with the Northern Trains franchise. Mr Trotter said the regional bias of the problem may reflect the north-east's industrial heritage. "The north-east has a tradition of heavy industry and of people who know how to deal with copper and metals," he said. "There are also lots of people who know how to trade in it."Police also blamed copper thieves for the demolition of a bungalow in Bradford yesterday. The unoccupied house exploded after copper gas pipes on the outer walls were fractured, apparently by someone trying to rip them out. Police are looking for two boys, aged 10 and 11, in relation to the explosion."The copper is going through larger scrapyards, then to smelters and then by ship to China, which has an incredible demand for copper, particularly with the Beijing Olympics coming and the demand for telecoms infrastructure," Mr Trotter said.The global price of copper has risen fivefold since 2001 and has risen above $8,000 (£4,000) a tonne this year, driven by demand for its use in car production, building and power grids. China accounts for about 20% of global copper consumption and the US for 13%. Such is the demand that 2p pieces are more valuable if they are melted down for their copper.The British Transport police have launched Operation Drum to crack down on cable theft and are liaising with Network Rail to ensure that copper is not left unguarded at the side of tracks, as used to be the case, and is not stored in easily accessible parts of depots. The clampdown has also led to stakeouts at suspect scrapyards, which have emerged as key outposts in the cable crime food chain.A Network Rail spokesperson said the railways were "increasingly falling victim" to cable theft, but the organisation was working hard with the transport police to stop the trend. "In the fight against cable thieves, we use CCTV, lineside patrols and the Network Rail helicopter. All our people at work on the railway network remain vigilant for cable thieves - and many have foiled thefts and helped the British Transport police catch offenders," the spokesperson said.The delays caused by copper thieves contributed to a reduction in the annual bonuses for Network Rail's 32,000 employees last year, after the infrastructure company failed to meet targets on reducing the number of minutes of delays in services.Stripping cable from railways causes delays by activating a fail-safe system that turns all signals in the area to red, bringing all trains to a halt. Network Rail had set a benchmark of 9.1m delay minutes for the year to March 31, but missed the mark by some distance and recorded 10.5m delay minutes, the same level as the previous year.Copper theft is also spreading to other industries. Earlier this month, Northumbrian Water said it had stepped up security after a spate of thefts from some of its sewage works in the north-east which it said would cost the company £100,000.It said it was introducing round-the-clock patrols and increased CCTV coverage of rural works in County Durham to try to combat the losses.The company said thieves had targeted 15 sewage works, taking heavy equipment, plant, steel plates, safety covers and hatches, screens, troughs and metal ladders. It added that it believed much of the equipment was being stolen for its scrap value. The company warned that not only were the thefts costly and inconvenient, they were also creating a threat to health and safety and the environment.