Eight men who were part of a failed £33m "inside job" robbery of diamonds, gold and cash at a Heathrow warehouse were jailed yesterday for a total of more than 66 years after being foiled by police.Kingston crown court had heard how the masked men reversed a van through the shutters of the Swissport cargo warehouse in May last year when a consignment of Peruvian gold bars which had been flown in from Amsterdam and then unloaded from a Brink's-Mat van was judged to be at its "most vulnerable".The men emerged from their van wielding hockey sticks, an axe, a claw hammer, a baton and knives but were met by more than 100 armed police officers who had been lying in wait. Six were captured but two escaped.John Kelsey-Fry QC, prosecuting, said: "Clearly they were well-informed. They knew where to hit, when to hit and they knew what they were looking for. Unfortunately for them, police were ahead of the game."He said the gang's alleged Swissport informant took part in a dummy run 13 days before the raid, involving the same van and at about the time other valuable cargo was being unloaded. On the day of the robbery, he went out on the cargo floor at the critical time "to give them the right information at the right time to say to them, 'the goods are in place, go for it'."Det Supt Barry Philips of the Metropolitan police said: "Operation Cartwright prevented one of the biggest robberies ever attempted in the UK. The gang had spent a lot of time planning this robbery but the Met's flying squad had demonstrated that they were able to stay one step ahead of them."Judge Edward Southwell told the court he accepted that most of the members of the gang had been "foot soldiers" but added: "This offence could not have been committed without foot soldiers. They were motivated by greed and they played their part willingly."Three men were not arrested that morning. They included Martin Nolan, 30, of Horton near Heathrow, who, the judge accepted, was one of the organisers. Nolan had been outside the compound at the time of the raid, monitoring police activity, and fled to the Midlands where he was arrested in July. He was jailed for 13 years. His younger brother Steven, 24, of Wraysbury, near Heathrow, commandeered a nearby lorry, taking its driver on a hair-raising ride along surrounding roads, the M25 and a country lane, smashing through at least two gates, and hitting other vehicles before crashing to a halt after driving through a field of livestock. He was arrested an hour after he arrived back at his home, close to where he had abandoned the vehicle. He was jailed for eight years for his part in the conspiracy and a consecutive six months for aggravated vehicle taking. A ninth man fled on foot and has never been tracked down.The judge accepted that two men - Christopher Smith, 29, of Eton Wick, Berkshire, and James Fox, 31, of Ascot, Berkshire, were closer to Martin Nolan than the rest of the gang, illustrated by the fact that each had a mobile phone with no registered user. They were both jailed for eight years.John Davis, 22, of Datchet, Berkshire, Derek Sheehan, 33, of Hammersmith, west London, and Alan Larmont of Langley, near Slough, Berkshire, were each jailed for seven and a half years. The van driver, Anthony Charles, 36, formerly of Shepherds Bush, west London, was jailed for six years and nine months as he had pleaded guilty earlier than the others.Martin Nolan had denied the charge of conspiracy to rob Swissport but was found guilty by earlier this year. Steven Nolan, Larmont, Charles, Sheehan, Smith, Fox and Davis all pleaded guilty to conspiracy to rob and Steven Nolan also admitted aggravated vehicletaking.Britain's biggest successful haul was the 1983 Brink's-Mat robbery, when raiders stole more than £26m in gold bullion and gems from a warehouse near Heathrow.