A nurse who prompted an international search because of fears he could have malaria has been detained under the Mental Health Act for sexually assaulting a waitress.The alarm over Matthew Lloyd, 36, was raised in October 2010 when he failed to keep a hospital appointment and it was feared he could die without medical treatment for the malaria he was thought to have contracted during a drugs trial.At the time of his disappearance, Lloyd had been arrested for attacking a 20-year-old woman as she walked home in the city two months previously, but he had not been charged.Lloyd, who was eventually found in the Netherlands and returned to the UK, was found guilty of the attack by a jury at Southampton crown court on Friday . He did not contract malaria.The court heard that Lloyd had been diagnosed with schizophrenia and would require long-term care.Judge Susan Evans QC sentenced Lloyd to a hospital order and an unlimited restriction order over concerns that he was a danger to the public. He was ordered to sign the sex offenders register for life.The judge told him: "Your victim was clearly vulnerable ... She thought she was going to be raped by you. You are in a state of complete denial about what you have done and that is of concern to this court."Because of the nature of the offence and the risk of you committing further offences when set at large, I take the view that it's necessary for the protection of the public from serious harm to make a restriction order."Under the order the secretary of state for justice is ultimately responsible for the risk assessment that might lead to the subject being freed.During the three-day trial, the victim, who cannot be named for legal reasons, said a smiling stranger grabbed her bottom hard as she walked in Southampton city centre. She told the jury she pressed her fingers into his windpipe to try to fight him off as he continued to sexually assault her.She said the only thing he said was: "How are you doing?" She got away but encountered Lloyd again later. She fended him off and managed to get home. "Both times he was smiling," she told the trial, which took place last year. "He enjoyed me being in fear."The court heard she called the police the same day and picked Lloyd out of identification photographs but Lloyd denied to police he was the attacker.The staff nurse at Southampton general hospital went missing after failing to attend an appointment in Oxford connected to the drugs trial. He had phoned in sick to work in the days before the appointment.