Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner, warned yesterday that he will not be able to police London "with confidence" if the number of officers in his force continues to fall.Sir John spoke of a "recruitment crisis" in London which he blamed on government cuts."We have reached a point where I am going to have to say publicly that unless we get some massive changes we do not have enough officers to police London with confidence," he told a lunch at the Westminter press gallery.Home secretary Jack Straw will respond to Sir John's warning today by announcing that the government is to restore the housing allowance for Met officers which was withdrawn by the Tories in 1994.But Sir John's intervention will damage the government which has spent the past year fending off Tory attacks on dwindling police numbers. Ann Widdecombe, the shadow home secretary, said Sir John's speech showed how the government had let down the police and the public.Sir John said his force was failing to attract enough recruits because of low pay and poor conditions. He welcomed the restoration of the housing allowance but said this did not go far enough."Recruitment in the Metropolitan police is at its lowest number of officers for 20 years," he said. "We have 25,480 officers to police London - five years ago there were 28,200. I need to maintain at least 25,600 officers if I am to police London with confidence. Unless we sort out the pay issue, my classrooms at Hendon will remain empty and shifts all over London will be stretched to breaking point."Sir John said that a recent £2.5m recruitment campaign to boost numbers had been a failure. Hundreds of officers were also trying to leave the Met - 68 officers have joined a queue to join a force in South Wales.Many officers were determined to leave because of the Met's "poor image". Sir John said: "I wonder if at times the press is institutionally downbeat on what we achieve. We have some incredibly courageous and breathtakingly brave officers doing amazing things but we see little of it in the press."Sir John qualified his stark warning over recruitment by talking of the progress made by the Met since the publication of the Macpherson report on the investigation of the murder of the black teenager, Stephen Lawrence. "I believe we have come a very long way into the way my force dealt with the murder of Stephen Lawrence," he said. "We cannot change history but we can learn from it and use the lessons learnt as a platform to take us forward."Miss Widdecombe said that Labour had cut police numbers in London by 1,700 officers, leading to an upsurge in violent crime."Labour have created more victims of crime and fear of crime across our capital," she said. "Their arrogant failure to heed the concerns of people like John Stevens are a damning indictment of three years of New Labour and a hammer blow to morale."Fred Broughton, the chairman of the Police Federation, warned last month of a crisis of confidence over police numbers.In a speech to the federation's annual conference, Mr Straw announced that he would accelerate plans for forces to recruit 5,000 more officers over the next two years. There would be £59m for new recruitment this year, allowing for an extra 3,000 officers nationally.Mr Straw dismissed Tory attacks on the government over falling police numbers, saying that the decline started under the last government.