A "controlling and dominating" husband stabbed his estranged wife and her close friend to death eight days after police served him with a harassment notice, a jury has been told.Builder Neil Langmead murdered the women in a frenzied knife attack before setting fire to the house they died in, the court heard.Ten days previously, Debbie Langmead made contact with the police for help in "dealing" with Langmead. The next day, Ms Langmead, 35, made a statement to police and a decision was taken to serve her husband with a protection from harassment notice, which was done the next morning.But Michael Fitton QC, prosecuting, alleged that Langmead attacked his wife and her friend, Donna St John, also 35, at a rented house in Barnstaple, north Devon, in August last year.He told Exeter crown court: "Each woman had been repeatedly cut and stabbed, and was killed by those stab wounds. There is no possible lawful reason or excuse for what he did. He did so deliberately and in anger."A motorist later saw smoke coming from the house. Firefighters found the two dead women side by side in the kitchen.The jury was told that after Ms Langmead had left her husband, he rang and sent texts to her repeatedly, begging her to return because he could not accept the marriage was over. She tried to keep her new address a secret but Langmead starting to follow her and her mother to find out where she was living.He would turn up uninvited at her door and "plead, beg and cry" to be let back into her life, it was claimed. Fitton said: "He was trying to wear her down. What he was doing was harassing her and grinding her down."When she went to the police, Ms Langmead told police her husband was a Jekyll and Hyde character, and she was scared of him.Five days before she was killed, she went to her lawyer and told him that Langmead was playing mind games with her.Two days before she died, Langmead approached her, put his hands on her car bonnet and told her he was sorry. Fitton said no criminal offence was committed and no arrest was made. The court heard that on the same day, Ms Langmead's father, Brian Hooper, fixed additional security bolts at her home because she felt so insecure.Langmead is to argue his wife was to blame for her death and for that of her friend.Fitton said: "His case is that Debbie and Donna had a fierce row, that Debbie attacked her friend Donna with a kitchen knife and Debbie caused the stab wounds that killed Donna."Langmead claimed he had to act in self-defence and if he caused wounds or stabbed his wife, he did so to protect himself and his wife's friend.Langmead denies two counts of murder and one of arson. His trial continues.