The government must act urgently to avert a growing crisis in the legal aid system, the Law Society urges in a report today.GP-style contracts for legal aid solicitors could help to stem the exodus into better-paid private work, suggests the professional body for 85,000 solicitors in England and Wales. The society says the network of legal aid solicitors throughout England and Wales is under threat, with increasing numbers abandoning publicly funded work. Government plans to introduce "Tesco law" - allowing supermarkets, banks and other companies to offer one-stop legal services - could be the last straw, argue the report's authors. The proposals threaten to remove the more lucrative work, such as conveyancing, which helps firms subsidise more poorly-paid legal aid work. The report highlights dismay among solicitors about legal aid pay rates and the government's "perceived lack of interest" in providing help for the poor. Nearly one in four offices doing family-law legal aid work dropped out of the scheme between January 2000 and June 2003. The society says struggles between the government as funder and solicitors as suppliers over how legal aid should be delivered and accounted for are increasingly marginalising the poor. The growing cost of criminal and asylum cases is squeezing the budget for debt, housing and other help, increasing social exclusion. Spending on immigration and asylum cases rose from £35m in 1997-8 to £174.2m in 2002-3. The society concludes that bringing the budget under control is "an impossible task within the current arrangements". Overspends on the criminal legal aid budget, which has to be uncapped, erode the budget for help in civil cases. The report calls on the government to ringfence the criminal and asylum aid budgets "as a matter of urgency" to stop the drain on the budget for general legal help. It suggests that the government should look at a range of options for curbing the cost of litigation, including no-fault compensation for medical negligence cases, better controls on barristers' and expert witnesses' fees, and a move from the adversarial approach to a more European-style inquisitorial approach for certain types of cases. Other ideas floated include: · A tax on the financial services industry to help pay for debt advice. · Bypassing the criminal courts in some director fraud cases and instead imposing administrative penalties such as disqualification and fines, to save the cost of fraud trials. · More use of mediation and arbitration. The new contracts for GPs, due to be introduced next year, could operate just as well for solicitors, the report concludes. They would be barred from doing private work except as set out in the contract, and would know their budgets in advance. Janet Paraskeva, the society's chief executive, said: "A model such as the new general medical services contract for GPs would enable resources to be targeted on areas of greatest need and give solicitors more flexibility in the use of resources. "However, this does not take away from the need for government to invest further if it is to achieve its social exclusion objectives."