The man accused of murdering 18-year-old model Sally Anne Bowman today told the court of his regret at having sex with her dead body. Mark Dixie, 37, admitted taking "full advantage" of the teenager but claimed he had initially believed his victim had "passed out or fallen over". The former pub chef told how he had been on a four-day cocaine binge when he spotted Bowman lying outside her home in the early hours of the morning.He said he did not know "what went through my mind" but that all he saw was a pair of legs "with a shirt put down to the waist".Speaking at Dixie's Old Bailey trial, his counsel, Anthony Glass, QC, asked him: "Do you mean you had sexual intercourse with her?" Dixie replied: "Yes." Glass asked: "Did you think she was dead or unconscious?" Dixie said: "I would not have expected to see anyone dead in that street. I thought she might have passed out or fallen over." Bowman, who was working as a hairdresser and part-time model, was found in a pool of blood in the driveway of her home in Croydon, south London, in September 2005.The prosecution says Dixie stabbed her seven times and raped her as she lay dead or dying.Today, Dixie told the jury he considered himself the "life and soul of the party" with a large appetite for illegal drugs. "I am like a vacuum cleaner when it comes to cocaine. I always need more," he told the court. Dixie described how he had left a friend's flat at around 4.30am on the night of the incident to buy more cocaine. He saw Bowman lying in front of her house in Blenheim Crescent.Asked what he thought, he said: "I have gone over it during the last three years. I don't know what went through my mind. "I crouched down from behind where the legs were. I took full advantage of someone and I should not have done it. All I saw was a pair of legs, shirt put down to the waist and I took advantage of her." Glass asked him: "Did you, in fact, realise she was dead?" Dixie replied: "After a while." The court heard how Dixie then panicked and attempted to hide traces of his DNA by placing cement dust on the victim's body.He ran back to his friend's flat where he smoked cannabis to try to calm down, slept for a few hours and then went out drinking. Bowman's mother, Linda, sat in tears a few feet away from Dixie and later left the court as he continued his evidence.Earlier in the trial, prosecutor Brian Altman said the defendant had murdered Bowman for his own sexual gratification and then concocted a "ludicrous" defence "borne out of desperation". Dixie, of no fixed address, denies murder. The trial continues.