Kenny Richey, the Scottish former marine who has spent 17 years on Ohio's death row for allegedly killing a two-year-old girl, has won an eleventh-hour appeal which may save him from a lethal injection.Richey - whose claim of innocence has been backed this month in a Commons motion signed by more than 150 MPs - was just one hearing away from execution. Now the federal appeals court for the US Sixth Circuit, one tier below the Supreme Court, has sent his case back for reconsideration by state judges in Ohio. In its ruling it suggests prosecutors broke the law when they sought the death penalty at Richey's trial, and he should therefore be tried again or released. But the Ohio court still has the power to reject the federal judges' analysis. The stage is set for a final round of intense and technical legal argument, which for Richey is a matter of life or death. On Friday, Alistair Carmichael, Liberal Democrat MP for Shetland and Orkney, who put down the Commons motion, wrote to Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, calling on him to help Richey's chances by filing a formal legal brief as a 'friend of the court'. 'It would be a very concrete and useful indication to the American judicial authorities that the British Government and our wider society are deeply concerned about the previous conduct of this case, and for the future of this British citizen,' said Carmichael. Richey, now 39, was 18 when he left his mother's home in Edinburgh to live with his American father in Ohio, where he joined the US Marines. He was planning to return to Scotland in July 1986 when he was arrested for the murder of two-year-old Cynthia Collins, who died from smoke inhalation in her mother's apartment. The prosecution claimed Richey started the fire by pouring petrol and paint thinner on the carpet. His estranged girlfriend, Candy Barchet, and her new lover, supposedly the real target of the attack, lived in the apartment beneath. There were no witnesses and no trace of flammable liquids on Richey's clothing. Richey had broken his hand, which was in plaster, and to enter the apartment he would have had to climb on to a high, sloping roof. Protesting his innocence, he refused a plea bargain which would have led to an 11-year sentence. In 1997 Richey's new lawyers, led by Ken Parsigian in Boston, compiled a dossier of fresh evidence that appeared to demolish every plank of the prosecution case. It included affidavits by leading forensic scientists who said the fire was consistent not with arson but an accident, and it emerged Cynthia had started three accidental fires in the weeks before her death. Moreover, the scientists said, the carpet had not been doused with flammable fluids - the state crime lab had produced 'false positives' using flawed techniques. Amnesty International said Richey's claim of innocence was the 'most compelling' it had ever seen in a US death case. But the Ohio appeals court, whose three-judge panel included the same judge who had presided over Richey's trial, refused to admit any of the new evidence. It accepted the argument by prosecutor Dan Gershutz that 'even though this new evidence may establish Richey's innocence, the Ohio and US constitutions nonetheless allow him to be executed because the prosecution did not know [at the time of the trial] that the scientific testimony offered at trial was false and unreliable'. Until now, this decision has been upheld at every stage of the US appeals system, and it is not challenged in the new ruling by the Sixth Circuit. Instead, the federal judges have given Richey hope by examining the idea of 'transferred intent' under Ohio law at the time of the 1987 trial. Richey's sentence rests on the doctrine that, although he intended to kill not Cynthia but his former girlfriend, he is guilty of premeditated murder because his intent was 'transferred'. Although Ohio law appeared to allow an intent to kill to be transferred in non-capital cases, they went on, this could not happen with the capital crime of which Richey was convicted - aggravated felony murder. Although the federal judges have so far only asked the Ohio Supreme Court to clarify this matter, they also said that condemning him on ineligible grounds would violate his rights. American legal experts said the Ohio judges were now in a very difficult position. Richey's release - once unthinkable - was now a real possibility. If the prosecution tried to force a retrial, all the new evidence denied in 1997 would be admissible. The Observer interviewed Richey at Mansfield Correctional Institute in October 2002. He said then: 'I'm not the same person any more ... I shouldn't be here, but I am. After all this time it builds up on you till you're about ready to explode. 'At times I've felt like taking my own life. I'm tired of the courts dragging it out. I'm not 21 any more, I'm 38. I've lost most of my life.'