A teenager who raped an 11-year-old girl in the toilet of a busy supermarket was sentenced to nine years detention yesterday. The boy, who is 15 and cannot be named for legal reasons, dragged the girl into a toilet cubicle at a Sainsbury's store in Leamington Spa. He was also sentenced to four concurrent 18-month custodial terms for a string of minor sex attacks.At Coventry crown court, Judge Marten Coates told the boy, who appeared in the dock wearing a blue tracksuit and a crucifix, that the rape had been aggravated by the fact that the victim was "abducted" from her mother in an environment that was usually safe.According to police, the girl told her mother after the attack: "Mum, I thought he was going to kill me."Despite widespread media coverage, the boy was only caught after he was spotted by his victim on two occasions while she was out driving with her mother. She picked him out in a crowd and was also able to identify his face from CCTV images taken at the supermarket.At a press conference, the girl's mother said the child had once been "bubbly and outgoing", but had now lost her confidence and wanted to be escorted to the toilet. Her daughter had told her about the attack immediately, crying and saying: "Someone in the toilet has done naughty things to me," the woman said.She added: "I think: how can somebody of 15 take a child's confidence away, especially when she's moving schools? She's got to go to school where there will be boys of his age in September. You can't imagine what's going to go through her mind when she starts to have boyfriends. What goes through her mind now, I dread to think."The victim's mother called for the boy to be named. The identities of child offenders are not usually disclosed, although courts occasionally lift anonymity in exceptional cases. The girl's mother said: "If he is able to do such an adult thing, then I think why not name him?"Detective Chief Inspector Adrian Pearson, of Warwickshire police, described the offence as "every parent's worst nightmare".The girl was praised by police for her composure in picking out her attacker and recalling details of his appearance. She described him as suffering from bad acne. This turned out to be a condition which meant that when the boy was stressed, his face went bright red and blew up like a balloon. It happened when he was interviewed by police.Mr Pearson said the boy went to Sainsbury's on a shopping trip, but then saw the girl going into the toilet and "quite spontaneously decided to, in his own words, 'do something sexual with her'."The detective said there had been a history of "sexual dysfunction" in the boy's background. "There were things of major concern he had done to people in his social group and family circle, none of which was reported to police but all of which pointed to the fact he was a very dangerous young man," he said. "As it transpired, more than one adult in his family group said 'Yes, I immediately thought it was him' and [shortly before his arrest] a group of his peers gathered around him and chanted 'Rapist, rapist'."Police said the boy had denied the rape in eight interviews but relented on the ninth occasion when he submitted a prepared statement admitting raping the girl, and several other attacks, committed before and after that crime.