 Independent  Editorial, November 24"[Tuesday's] Queen's speech, with its almost exclusive emphasis on law and order, was a shameless piece of electioneering. For a supposedly left-of-centre party to come up with this catalogue of illiberal and mostly unnecessary measures would have brought blushes even to the cheek of Harold Wilson. But it was also extremely effective in outflanking the opposition. How could the Tories oppose tougher measures to combat crime, and new laws to increase security, without abandoning their claim to be the traditional party of law and order? And how could the Liberal Democrats bang away about the loss of civil liberties without putting off those Tory voters whom they must target in the next election?" Times  Editorial, November 24   "The principal line of criticism from the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats was ... that ministers were determined to foster a 'climate of fear' in Britain. That charge is at best hyperbole and at worst irresponsible ... Ministers find themselves in the strange position where the failure of the likes of al-Qaida to launch attacks here is taken not as evidence of an effective, if stretched, intelligence and policing operation, but as proof that no danger existed in the first place. It has become fashionable to express distrust in politicians. A little more faith on the matter of terror would be sensible. "In reality, what unites most of the proposals is not fear but their pragmatic nature. Many could easily have been shaped by a decent Conservative administration. Most seek to deal with obvious anachronisms in existing law or react to challenges that have become more pressing. There is not much in this collection that can truly be labelled 'Blairite', 'Brownite' or 'Howardite'. There is a sense of Whitehall doing its business."  Daily Telegraph  Editorial, November 24   "On the face of it, the prime minister is now principally concerned with security, and making Britain safe from the threat of global terrorism ... The trouble is that only a fraction of the Queen's speech is really about security. Of the 37 bills and draft bills it mentions, only two relate specifically to fighting terrorists (although another five deal with crime) ... "More worrying are the other 30 bills in the Queen's speech, which are mostly a ragbag of bureaucratic measures, alarming to anyone who is not a human rights lawyer, animal rights activist or lobbyist. Coming hot on the heels of last week's brouhaha about banning smoking, hunting and salt in food, they are a manifesto for big, fat government ... "The Queen's speech adds to the impression that Labour's political discipline is slowly breaking down, allowing a retreat to its instinctive ground - on the left. A prime minister with more authority over his party than Mr Blair ... would have filed at least half of [Tuesday's] ideas in the bin."  Evening Standard  Editorial, London, November 24  "[David Blunkett] is offering a controversial bill to establish a national system of ID cards, which could become compulsory by 2012. There will be many civil liberties objections to this scheme, especially now that Mr Blunkett has admitted that the government will bring in other swingeing anti-terrorist measures if it is re-elected ... "We await the evidence that will show how ID cards will combat terrorism, given that many likely terrorists are not UK citizens, and a convincing explanation of why this will not turn into yet another government IT disaster like that recently unveiled at the Child Support Agency."  Sun  Editorial, November 24   "The principal duty of any government is to protect the lives of the people. The raft of new laws set out in the Queen's speech show that the government is not shirking that responsibility. Two measures stand out: the creation of the British equivalent of America's FBI to fight serious crime and the introduction of a hi-tech national identity card to combat terrorism. "Those who say the government is fostering a climate of fear are hopelessly wrong. Where have they been since 9/11? The world is a dangerous place and voters demand the strongest security ... "Some say [ID] cards will be an attack on personal liberty. To which Mr Blunkett has the perfect, and undeniable, reply: What is your liberty if you're bombed by a terrorist? It's just a pity we won't get compulsory ID cards until 2012. We could all be in kingdom come by then."  Daily Mail  Editorial, November 24   "If we are to believe the hype, this is a government full of vim and vigour, fairly bursting with ideas ... Nobody, of course, would deny the seriousness of the terrorist threat. But Mr Blunkett has already been robust in tightening the law. So is there really any urgency in his new package - which raises worrying questions about civil liberties - or is Labour just playing the Bush card and trying to terrify the public into voting for it while pulling the rug from under the Tories? ... "This is thin gruel for a party that came to office amid such high hopes ... Frenzy, frenzy, frenzy. New Labour's torrents of parliamentary bills are quite cynically calculated to disguise the fact that nothing of substance is changing."