The explosion in gun crime in England and Wales appears to have passed its peak and has been falling since last November, according to Home Office figures published yesterday.The official figures show that there were 10,250 firearms offences in the 12 months to March 2003, a 3% rise over the year compared with a 35% increase the previous year. The detailed Home Office figures suggest that the increase in gun crime peaked in autumn 2001 and has been falling since November 2002. The figures show that shots were fired in 17% of the incidents involving firearms. Last year 80 people were killed in shootings, compared with 95 the year before. Nearly 400 people were seriously injured. The detailed gun crime figures are not due to be published until January, but a Home Office spokesman said a summary was published yesterday at the same time as the quarterly crime figures, because of "the heightened public interest at present around the issue of gun crime". While the increase in gun crime appears to have levelled off, the crime figures recorded by police show a 9% increase in violent crime in the year to June 2003, including a 12% rise in violence against the person, and a 5% increase in sex offences. But there was a 7% fall in robberies. By contrast, the more authoritative British Crime Survey, which is based on interviews with 36,000 people about their experience of crime, shows that violent crime fell by 5% over the same period. The risk of becoming a victim of violent crime is unchanged, at about one in 25.A Home Office spokesman said that the overall level of violent crime remained stable and much of the rise in recorded violent crime was due to better reporting and logging of low-level thuggery as well as more willingness by victims to report sexual assault. The two sets of figures show a slightly different picture for the overall crime rate for England and Wales. The police figures show the rate unchanged, while the BCS records a 5% fall. Both show that burglaries and car crime are continuing to fall, with one in four of the adult population at risk of becoming a victim of such crime each year - about the same as in 1981. The BCS shows that the fear of crime, particularly of burglary, violent crime and car crime, is beginning to abate, but there has been no change in concern about the high level of disorder in neighbourhoods. Vandalism, rubbish and teenagers hanging around streets, are seen as big problems. Alan Green, the deputy chief constable of Manchester, said gun crime was the biggest worry: "We can target offenders, investigate, and support victims, but we can't alone improve education, alleviate poverty and remove the apparent need for 'status' felt by some young people in some areas." Hazel Blears, the Home Office minister, said the increase in serious violence would be countered by more intensive policing and the new measures to tackle gun crime. "The risk of a fatal shooting in England and Wales is still one of the lowest in the world, but every crime involving a firearm is a serious concern and every life lost to gun crime is a terrible tragedy." But the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said that no amount of statistical manipulation could disguise the rise in violent crime. Paul Cavadino of Nacro, the crime reduction charity, said the increase in gun crime could not be stemmed by "get tough" mandatory five-year sentences but only by reducing the supply of illegal weapons and the demand fuelled by a macho, glamourised gun culture. Although for most people the chance of becoming a victim was at the lowest for 10 years, there remained genuine concern among the socially excluded and those in deprived areas.