Two men accused of kidnapping and murdering a British couple whose dream of finding a retirement home in the sun went tragically wrong went on trial at a court in Alicante in eastern Spain yesterday.Anthony and Linda O'Malley, aged 42 and 55, were on a trip to find their dream home when they were kidnapped, tied up and murdered in the Mediterranean hillside town of Alcoy. Their bodies were found six months later, buried in the cellar of a villa they had tried to buy, after one of the alleged killers contacted police and demanded money to act as a go-between to free them from a kidnapping, the court was told.Brothers-in-law Jorge Real Sierra, 56, and Juan Antonio Velázquez González, 42, are accused of murder, false imprisonment, extortion, car theft and falsifying documents. Relatives of the two victims, including Mrs O'Malley's two daughters, were in court yesterday."We are hoping the Spanish authorities will get it right," said Mr O'Malley's brother, Bernard. "We just want it over and to try to move on."The couple disappeared in September 2002. They had travelled from their home in Llangollen, north Wales, to the Benidorm area in August to pursue their dream of moving to Spain.Prosecutors have alleged that, after several weeks of house-hunting, the couple fell into the hands of Mr Real and Mr Velázquez, who tried to sell them a house that was not theirs.The two men, who were later found to own a pistol, then allegedly kidnapped them, keeping them bound and gagged in the dank basement of a villa in Alcoy. After five days Mr O'Malley was taken to a bank in Benidorm, where he was forced to take €25,000 (£17,000) out of his account.The couple are both thought to have died by the end of that day. Mr O'Malley was allegedly asphyxiated shortly after returning from Benidorm with the money. Mrs O'Malley "died because of the stress of her captivity", prosecutors said. The couple were buried beneath a 25cm (10in) layer of cement in the villa's basement.Attempts by the family to track them down were unsuccessful until a man describing himself as "Felix" contacted Britain's National Missing Persons Helpline five months later. "He sent an email to the British agency that indicated that he knew where the couple who had disappeared were. He offered himself as a negotiator," a police witness said.The man then sent, by email, copies of their passports and credit cards. Spanish police tracked the emails to a cybercafe in Valencia and obtained a telephone number, which was traced to Mr Real. Police said he originally pinned the blame on Mr Velázquez. Prosecutors said the two men, who are Venezuelan, took the O'Malleys' documents and a Fiat Stylo rental car. They allegedly spent €28,000 of the couple's money. In court, both men denied any involvement in the kidnapping or the killing. Prosecutors have demanded sentences totalling between 54 and 62 years for the accused. The trial is expected to last until next Wednesday.