The government faced calls from teaching unions yesterday to consider stepping up security in schools to address "the growing weapons-carrying culture" after the fatal stabbing of schoolboy Luke Walmsley.The National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers (NASUWT) warned that crime involving weapons was spilling over from the streets into schools. It pressed for a government working party on school security - set up after the murder of the headteacher Philip Lawrence - to be reconvened. Parent-teacher associations went further, suggesting that schools may have to follow the American example and install metal detectors in schools to check for pupils attempting to smuggle in knives or guns. But there were also many in the education world who stressed the extreme rarity of fatal assaults in schools, and warned of the dangers of talking up the levels of violence involving pupils. The general secretary of the National Union of Teachers, Doug McAvoy, said: "This is an absolutely tragic incident, but there are 7.5 million children in our schools 190 days a year and our surveys show the number of weapons being brought into our schools is absolutely minuscule." He rejected the option of metal detectors, saying that schools should seek to create a secure environment without becoming fortresses, and that parents should play their part in ensuring their children did not carry weapons. A key difficulty in assessing security issues in schools is that there is no central register of the numbers of violent incidents in the classroom. But statistics from the NASUWT on serious physical assaults on its members - whether by a pupil, parent or other assailant - show a significant, though not steady, rise to 64 incidents last year. Chris Keates, NASUWT's deputy general secretary, called for the security working party run by the Department for Education and Skills and the Home Office with schools and police representation to meet again to review whether current measures are "sufficient, reasonable protection against the growing weapon-carrying culture". While fatal assaults were rare, there had been a rise in violence in schools, and schools should at least be reminded of guidance on issues such as securing premises from intrusion and ensuring a swift police response to incidents, she said. But she added: "It is very difficult if people conceal weapons [to act] without turning the school into a fortress. I don't think there is any system anywhere which is foolproof." To try to improve deterrence, there was a case for adopting a similar approach to that used with drugs in schools, where police are automatically called if drugs are found, she said. The same would apply with weapons, whether they were used or not. Schools have been struggling to find a balance between security and openness for years, especially since the 1996 Dunblane massacre, in which Thomas Hamilton shot and killed 16 primary children and their teacher.A report on the tragedy by Lord Cullen focused on the need for schools to draw up plans to minimise risk from intruders, and governments have since provided support for security measures such as single entrances, CCTV and even police officers on school sites. However, the problem of pupil violence, and particularly weapon-carrying, is harder to crack, relying on discipline within schools and parental input. The Department for Education and Skills said it would give "careful consideration" to the NASUWT's call for the working party to meet to consider boosting school security.