The mother of a schizophrenic man who was shot dead by police while wielding a samurai sword has claimed he was not a danger to the public.Marie Kernan is demanding answers from Merseyside police surrounding the circumstances of her son Andrew's death. He was shot dead on Thursday night in Liverpool after he refused to drop the sword he was waving. Mrs Kernan, 59, heard her son shout: "Mum, mum," shortly before two shots rang out which killed him. But she was sitting in a locked police car and was unable to help. Her 37-year-old son was shot dead outside the Wellington pub in Wavertree, Liverpool, after he became ill during the evening. She described her son as a gentle giant who would not hurt a fly. "You don't kill somebody with a mental illness," she told a press conference yesterday. "What sort of society is that?" Clearly angry, she said: "I demand justice for Andrew. He was a beautiful man and I won't rest until I get an answer to why my son was shot. "They shot to kill - twice in the chest when they should not have shot at all. Why did they not shoot him in another part of the body?" Mrs Kernan called on police to be armed with stun guns instead of live ammunition. She is annoyed that she had managed to barricade Andrew in the flat for more than an hour, but at least six police officers were unable to detain him there. "They didn't do their job. "There was no member of the public in danger from him," she claimed. If the police had used CS gas inside the flat, she believes they would have been able to contain him there. The family had contacted Broadoak hospital, where Andrew was a patient. "I was so grateful when the police came because I thought I was getting help and no one from the hospital had turned up," she said. "I did not expect that they would shoot him. I was expecting to see Andrew come out of the house in handcuffs." She accepted that it was not appropriate for her son, who had suffered from schizophrenia for 14 years, to have a samurai sword on his bedroom wall. But she said it was an ornament which had been given to him years ago. His uncle, Ted Devlin, said yesterday: "Why did they shoot him when he was asking for his mother? This was an over-the-top reaction." Merseyside police voluntarily referred the incident to the police complaints authority. The PCA will supervise an investigation by Greater Manchester police. Mr Kernan was under the care of North Mersey community NHS trust. A spokeswoman said an investigation into his death was taking place. A Merseyside police spokeswoman said they could not comment while the PCA investigation was taking place. The home secretary, David Blunkett, is considering bringing in tranquilliser guns - which incapacitate people - to reduce the number of fatal shootings. Mrs Kernan's lawyer, Rex Makin, said: "It was a foolish decision and they should have shot him elsewhere on the body." He described the police as trigger happy, adding that there must be a revision of regulations for providing police with arms. Mrs Kernan is considering taking legal action, depending on the outcome of the PCA investigation. She added that she was not asking for justice, she was demanding it and she would not rest until she was given answers.