Friends complain that Bob Gisemba walks too fast. The 27-year-old wishes his stride was longer, for Gisemba has one of the most terrifying jobs around. He is a traffic warden patrolling some of Britain's most violent streets. Jars of acid have been hurled at colleagues, others have been attacked with baseball bats. Many have quit because of the intimidation.Every day Gisemba (not his real name) suffers verbal abuse, often racial. His crisp white shirt is frequently stained with phlegm. In his second week as a warden a motorist threatened to 'chop' him up. Thankfully his assailant changed his mind, opting instead to throw a flurry of punches. Drivers slow down to glare witheringly, the faces of passing shoppers harden. Even children sneer. A chorus of expletives follows Gisemba down the congested streets of Forest Gate in East London, a place notorious for the violence routinely dispensed to traffic wardens. Protection from police is now being offered to wardens here. Anti-stab protection vests and body armour are also being discussed. 'I would like body protection,' says Gisemba. Ahead, another pair of wardens comes into view. They are no longer allowed to go out alone. The problem in Forest Gate is not unique. In London's West End, wardens have also been offered police escorts, while one of Britain's biggest parking companies, NCP, has identified a network of 'hot spots' where employees have been repeatedly attacked. The problem is that parking has become big business. Last year local authorities raised £861 million from parking fines, meters and resident permits, the equivalent of almost every car in Britain receiving a £40 fine a year. Studies show that a third of the traffic crawling through Britain's major cities is seeking somewhere to park. Clearly there is money to be made out of these drivers, and London illustrates how savagely those profits can be pursued. In the past five years, the amount paid in car park charges, meters and parking enforcement notices has soared from £405m to more than £500m. Parking has become a major revenue-raising operation for cash-starved councils. 'It has become more about persecution than prosecution. It has to stop,' said Tony Vickers of the Association of British Drivers. Critics say that by shifting responsibility from the police to local councils, then on to private contractors, the emphasis has been shifted from traffic control to swelling town hall coffers. Their suspicion will not be quelled by new figures showing that traditional wardens are being replaced by those working for private firms. Between 1999 and 2003, Dorset sacked all its 41 traffic wardens, North Yorkshire similarly axed its entire complement of 19 and in the West Midlands more than 100 have collected their P45s. In total 750 traffic wardens have been sacked in the past five years, leaving just over 2,000 in England. 'We are offloading the duties of the state on to private contractors and that cannot be right', said John Thurso, Liberal Democrat transport spokesman. Rising antagonism between wardens and motorists is also blamed on the fact that many companies which have taken control of the nation's parking are foreign-owned: Central Parking System, the German-owned APCOA, and Vinci Park Services, which is owned by a French transport conglomerate and employs Gisemba. Accounts reveal they have enjoyed a 25 per cent increase in profits. At the same time, stories of abuses by wardens have rocketed. Motorists have been hunted, duped and bullied by attendants, it is said. Cars are pounced on moments after a meter runs out. Buses at stops are given tickets. Such urban legends are exaggerated and are putting lives in danger, says NPC. Luke Blair, a company spokesman, said a depression has gripped the industry. 'We are talking about the need for wardens to wear helmets. What an indictment that is. At the end of the day, this is about motorists' behaviour.'