A girl younger than 10 was raped by a stranger in her family home last week, detectives said yesterday.The intruder, who police believe may be as young as 18, got into the house in Basildon, Essex, where the girl's mother and five other children were sleeping. Specially trained detectives have spent the past two days trying to elicit details of the attack from the girl, who told her mother about it on Thursday morning. The police have not said where in the house the other children were sleeping or whether the girl may have screamed, but they have confirmed that no evidence of a break-in was discovered. Officers described the attack, which took place between 9.30pm on Wednesday and 8am on Thursday, as "every parent's worst nightmare". Chief Inspector Graham Carey, the senior officer on the case, said: "It is a horrendous incident for the family and the victim. "You have to remember that we are dealing with a very young child here who has gone through a nightmare ordeal and the process of gleaning information, which will be the key to this inquiry, will be slow." He emphasised the importance of working with specially trained support officers in order to gain as much knowledge as possible from the victim and the young possible witnesses. The police refused to release precise details of the girl. Mr Carey said: "As we have a unique situation with the location of the attack being the family home we will not, for legal reasons, be releasing the exact age of the girl." The victim and the other children are now under the care of specialist officers. Scientists are currently examining material from the house in the hope of discovering traces of the attacker's DNA, but Mr Carey said the process would be time-consuming. The girl has been able to offer a description of her attacker. Mr Carey said he was "black, aged about 18 to 20, with black hair, possibly Afro style". He continued: "She says he had dirty teeth with possibly one distinctive clean tooth. She has described him as being skinny and as wearing a grey top with lots of darker writing over it and loose-fitting, ripped trousers. "On the trousers she describes a belt with a metal loop of chain which hangs down to one side." The police are appealing for anybody who may know anything about the attack, or who may have witnessed somebody fitting the attacker's description in the area, to contact them. They are also looking for "anybody who knows of somebody who has been acting suspiciously since the night or revealed information suggesting that they may have some involvement in the attack". The police believe it is possible that the attacker knows the family. A spokeswoman added: "The feeling is he knows the area. He either lives here or has family here." Mr Carey added: "This is such a serious incident that Essex police would happily deal with hundreds of wrong answers that can be eliminated as long as the one right answer comes to them." To ease the concern of local people, Essex police have increased the number of officers patrolling the area.