Even though I played the character of Lavender Brown in the Harry Potter movies, I can't claim to know my co-actor Jamie Waylett – who was sentenced to jail this week for taking part in last summer's riots – that well. Our paths did not cross during my time filming. I was nonetheless sad to hear of his sentencing, and I worry about what will happen to him now. I don't know how things were going for him post-Potter and pre-riots; the last time I checked, he did not have any new projects on his IMDB page, and due to his jail time he now won't be able to make the grand opening of the Harry Potter studios in Leavesden, Watford. Which is a shame.Waylett appeared in all but the final Harry Potter films. A large chunk of his childhood would have been in and around a make-believe world, where wizards, potions and regimented call-times, as well as ego boosts, were all in heavy supply. My experience of children on a film set, especially on a big film set like the Potter one, is not wholly positive. The unbridled confidence in these young theatricals is terrifying to me, and it is unfortunate that the primary focus of the adults around these child actors is to make sure they can perform well and not get tired or hungry, or be rude to the director and get fired. This means the children tend to become a little bit entitled, expecting and in need of constant appraisal and applause. I have, however, met some lovely child actors, and my little sister is one.Children who have been in work for a long time suddenly get a thud down to earth once the cuteness fades, hips widen, voices drop and jawlines strengthen. I can understand the dilemma of growing up in a bubble, and then not knowing what to do when unemployment beckons and reality bursts in. But on 3 August last year, I doubt Rupert Grint would have been seen bashing into Sainsbury's in search of cider, strolling hooded through Chalk Farm in north London swigging stolen champagne, or proudly parading a petrol bomb, which he was just "looking after for somebody". I also find it hard to believe that Emma Watson could have been spotted in the queue outside Footlocker, where rioters had patiently lined up to try on a selection of high-tops.In my opinion, the riots were like a huge party that no one wanted to miss, but were not really sure how they got invited or why they were suddenly there, in a hood, with alcohol and fire all around them, surrounded by people singing and shouting. There were youths who got As at school, worked hard, who applied for jobs and more jobs, worked harder only to not have anything to show for it at the end of the day. There were youths with a capacity for self-destruction, and those who wanted to party. There were youths who were angry, maybe because they didn't know why they were angry. The youths who, like my friends and I, can't understand and can't relate, simply weren't there.I don't know where Waylett would have fitted in with these groups, but I like to think he was just at the wrong place at the wrong time. I also hope his IMDB timeline picks up once he gets out of jail.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree