Chief constables of 10 police forces are making weekly reports to a Downing Street taskforce on their progress in tackling street crime, it emerged today.The reports are sent to 10 ministers who are members of the Street Crime Action Group, launched by the home secretary, David Blunkett, in February, according to the Times.The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, accused the government of seeking to "nationalise the police forces of England and Wales". However, the Home Office insisted that the reports did not in any way infringe on the operational independence of individual forces. There was no question of imposing national control on forces from the centre, a spokesman said.He added that the weekly reports had been agreed at an early meeting of the group, at which police representatives were present. The prime minister, Tony Blair, chaired several meetings of the action group, set up to stem the recent steep rise in muggings and street violence. Statistics show that 80% of street crimes are committed in the 10 police areas involved in the group - with 78,071 street robberies reported in the forces' areas last year alone. Each of the 10 ministers - from John Denham and Lord Falconer in the Home Office to ministers for housing, art, education and health - has travelled to the areas involved to liaise with police forces on action to cut muggings. A Home Office spokesman said that weekly reports were filtered back to the action group via the ministers, but that this did not imply that they had been given any responsibility for the police forces. He said: "Operational independence remains with the police, absolutely. There is no question about that. It was agreed early on and collectively at the Street Crime Action Group meetings, at which the police are represented, that forces would submit weekly reports." The action group has previously floated ideas like the docking of child benefit from the parents of truants and the stationing of police officers at school gates at the end of the school day. Policing reforms credited with a dramatic fall in street crime in New York included a system of regular reports on crime patterns within precincts on a day-by-day and week-by-week basis.