In the shadow of the M60 in Eccles, a white Ford Sierra with smashed up windows and no number plate is the testament to a housing estate out of control. When night falls, gangs of up to 40 youths roam the Brookhouse estate, a place which has been cut off every evening since bus services were withdrawn after the vehicles were attacked. Teenagers regularly smash stolen cars into garden walls here. The brick wall in front of St Gilbert's RC church has been demolished three times by vehicles, and the church railings stolen. The railings were being replaced again yesterday. Terry McCann, the parish priest, believes curfews should operate as an option for the estate to curb the behaviour of the minority of troublemakers. "If curfews were introduced selectively, involving those individuals who had been causing trouble, it could be beneficial," he said. "And it needs to be in place for some time to have an impact." The proposal, being discussed by Salford city council and the Home Office, got a mixed reception from residents yesterday. A gang of bored teenagers soaking up the sun were unimpressed. "If they give us a curfew things will get worse," said one 16-year-old. "Because we will smash up the vans and it will be like Oldham." "We got told a few years ago that there would be a curfew on the estate," said aother aged 16. "But if I was under 16 and anyone told me that I couldn't go out after nine, I'd still go out. The cop cars are too slow to catch us and we think the police are scum. "If there is a curfew it will cause more trouble because people won't want to go home. It will be a waste of time." His friend claimed the police had branded him a ringleader. "They have no respect for us. They call me the ringleader of the Brookhouse, but I am not." David Lancaster, a Salford city councillor, said the council had been talking to the Home Office. "To make an application for a curfew order we have to satisfy the police that it can be policed and we have to satisfy the council. We can't do anything unless the community supports us." Edward Leonard, a retired grocer, has lived on the estate for more than 30 years. "There is no doubt about it, it's terrible here," he said. "Something has got to be done - it used to be such a lovely area. The main problems are with stolen motor cars which knock down garden walls. When I take my dog for a walk in the mornings there are always burnt-out cars on the field at the back." Mr Leonard, 81, said a lot of old people were too frightened to leave their homes. But he is sceptical about curfews. "The sort of people they target don't care anyway. They need some sort of discipline to make them toe the line." A woman with four children said: "I think a curfew is a good idea. Nine in the evening is late enough for most kids, but it's probably a bit early for those nearly aged 16. A lot of the trouble is caused by 13- and 14-year-olds creating havoc." She said that some of the young ones, aged six or seven, were behind the petty vandalism. Another resident said: "The trouble with the kids around here is that no matter what you do, everything is a challenge to them. Their parents must know what is going on, but they just turn a blind eye."