A woman who fought off a couple who tried to snatch her four-month-old daughter this weekend spoke about her ordeal for the first time today.Victoria Sawyer was on her way home from work at a bookmakers in Leigh, Greater Manchester, on Sunday evening when the man and woman attempted to abduct her baby, Jazmine, from her pram."As I got onto Hulme Road, they were either side of me," she said. "The woman was on my left, grabbing the pram, and the man was leaning into the pram trying to drag my little daughter out. "The lady kept saying: 'Get the baby out of the pram,' and the man kept saying: 'I am having your baby.' "At first I couldn't scream or anything, I was completely numb. Then I kept saying: 'You are not having my child.'Ms Sawyer, 30, said the man had his foot in front of the wheels of the pram, stopping her from pushing it. He pulled at the infant two or three times, "but luckily she was strapped in and there were blankets on top of her".The man then said something in a foreign language and ran off towards the park in Hulme Road, before the woman screamed at him and again tried to grab Jazmine from the pram."I smacked her in the face, then she ran off down Hulme Road," Ms Sawyer said, adding that she was not the sort of person to hit someone, but was "frightened of what they were going to do". "I just panicked and didn't know what else to do," she added.She said she could not remember running home, but recalled banging on her front door and asking her husband to get the pram into the house as quickly as possible. "At first Jazmine was screaming her head off - she was bright red and crying," she added. "When I got her into the house she was completely white - there was no movement, no expression. She must have been in shock. When my husband picked her up she started screaming again."She said Sunday's events were "the most horrific thing that had ever happened" to her, while her husband, 33-year-old Robert, said he wanted to see the would-be kidnappers caught."There are a lot of young mums in this area," he said. "Luckily Vicky didn't freeze and she was very brave, but I worry about the younger mums."Police warned parents in Leigh to be vigilant, and have stepped up patrols in the area to reassure residents.