Prison overcrowding and staff shortages have left north London's Pentonville prison with one of the "most impoverished regimes" in Britain's jails, the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, reveals today.Her "snap" inspection of the Victorian inner-city prison last September found "substantial deficits" in basic requirements for inmates, such as adequate access to showers and telephones, clean clothes, time out of cell, and education classes. A week of "concerted indiscipline" before the prison inspectors' arrival had led to a temporary shutdown of the regime at Pentonville but Ms Owers says the problems were caused by underlying factors, including a four-day week for staff and overcrowding. During the inspection, Pentonville was holding 1,161 inmates in cells designed for 897. The overall jail population in England and Wales is just below the record 73,000 level. "We fully recognise the difficulties that the prison was facing at the time of the inspection," says the chief inspector in her report. "To a great extent, they reflect the endemic problems in the prison system, particularly in the south, as a consequence of the rising number of prisoners and the difficulties in staff recruitment. However, it is not acceptable to hold prisoners in conditions that fall so far short of standards of decency and activity." She said governors had hoped that the arrival of 30 extra staff within a fortnight of the inspection would make a significant difference. "However, we suspected there were underlying issues of staff deployment, in combination with prison overpopulation, that will make it difficult to remedy the deficits we found." The inspection team said that inmates officially had four hours a day out of their cell but many received much less. Out of cell activities were "unpredictable and unacceptably low" with just 20% of prisoners able to attend education classes despite 70% suffering from writing difficulties. The sheer weight of prisoner traffic in and out of Pentonville meant that inmates at risk or vulnerable were not being properly identified and that proper risk assessments were not being carried out before cells were allocated. But the report does praise Pentonville's healthcare and its work with those trying to wean themselves off drugs. It also has a high proportion of ethnic minority staff. The director-general of the prison service, Phil Wheatley, said that the last six months had seen improvements at Pentonville which had exceeded its targets for out of cell activities and education. "It was unfortunate that four days before the inspection team arrived the prison had to deal with a series of serious acts of indiscipline which had required the temporary shutdown of the normal regime while the situation was stabilised," he said. "In my view, Pentonville today is a safe and decent prison, coping compassionately with the huge numbers passing through its gates every day." 