Friday is World Drug Day, intended "to inspire people to act against drug abuse and trafficking." Yesterday, to mark the event, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), which spearheads the campaign, launched its annual World Drug Report.If past years are any indication, however, this launch will not be the only event that hits the news. Last year, Indonesia marked the day by executing two Nigerians by firing squad. Since the early 1990s, China has chosen 26 June to carry out multiple death sentences, sometimes en masse, often in public.These executions lead us, on World Drug Day, to ask serious questions of drug policies – about their aims, directions and about the harms caused to security, development and human rights by our laws, policies and activities. There are many other such observances throughout the year, intended to remind us of specific issues crucial to these "pillars" of the international community.December 10, of course, is Human Rights Day. November 16 is World Day for Tolerance. March 21 is International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. August 9 is the International Day for the World's Indigenous People. On these days, we may reflect upon violent drug crackdowns, the hundreds of thousands of drug users confined to coercive drug treatment centres, extrajudicial killings, skyrocketing prison populations with massively over-represented black and ethnic minority groups, and the indigenous peoples of the Andean region, legislated out of the traditional use of their sacred coca plant by the UN Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.World Health Day is celebrated on 7 April, when it is worth remembering that 80% of the world's population has insufficient access to opiates for pain relief.The fact that this is caused, in part, by overly restrictive narcotics laws is shameful. Aerial fumigation campaigns to eradicate illicit crops may come to mind on 21-22 May on the Day for Cultural Diversity and Dialogue for Development, and World Day for Biodiversity. On World Aids Day, 1 December, ask why so many people continue to contract HIV through unsafe injecting, when we have known for two decades how to prevent it through needle and syringe exchange and opioid substitution therapy.Ask why the international community could not agree to support these interventions in the political declaration adopted at the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs in March to set the next ten years of international drug policy.The question of security is particularly pertinent right now. The World Drug Report describes as "catastrophic" the "the current disregard of the security threat posed by organised crime". It states clearly, however, that international drug control itself is responsible for "several unintended consequences, the most formidable of which is the creation of a lucrative black market for drugs and the violence and corruption it generates". Instead of calling for fundamental change, this revelation is used as justification for more of the same.On the positive side, the World Drug Report is critical of human rights abuses and calls for a greater focus on the right to health of drug users. This is very welcome, but is nigh on impossible when so many people are criminalised because of drugs.The UN itself is not to blame, however. It is nation states that are responsible. June 26 is a microcosm of the misguided approach to international drug policy that is damaging to human security, a barrier to sustainable development and has resulted in a range of human rights abuses. Under the guardianship of the UN, it is one that is counter-productive to the very reasons the organisation was established. Those reasons, reflected in Article 1 of the UN's Charter, are to maintain peace and security, find solutions to economic and social problems, and to promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. June 26, by the way, is also the day the UN Charter was signed in 1945.It is time to start counting the costs of drug control in terms of security, development and human rights. Without this, the current approach will remain self-justifying and therefore self-perpetuating.