The Moors murderer Myra Hindley died in hospital aged 60 today after suffering respiratory failure, the prison service said.She was taken to West Suffolk hospital at Bury St Edmunds with a suspected heart attack earlier this month. The prison service said that Hindley's next of kin had been informed. "There will now be a coroner's inquest as is routine with a prisoner who dies in custody," a spokesman said.Hindley, a chain smoker, had experienced ill-health for much of her 36 years behind bars, suffering from angina, suspected strokes and osteoporosis. It was revealed today that Hindley was gravely ill in West Suffolk hospital, and had the last rites administered to her this afternoon. Prison sources said Hindley's health deteriorated rapidly in the last 24 hours and that she had serious respiratory problems. Hindley, who had become a devout Catholic, was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday with a chest infection.Before being re-admitted this week, she had spent several nights at the hospital after a suspected heart-attack at the beginning of the month. It is understood that Hindley was cared for in a private room well away from other patients with prison staff keeping watch.Hindley, a chain-smoker, also suffered from angina and osteoporosis.Her illness came at a time when her prospects of release were growing due to a case which legal commentators expect will strip the home secretary of his power to keep prisoners in jail. The case is due to be heard next month and there was speculation that Hindley could have been freed within months. The serial killer was serving her 36th year behind bars at nearby Highpoint Prison, Suffolk. Hindley and Ian Brady, 64, were jailed for life in 1966 for the sexual abuse, torture and murder of three youngsters. In 1987 they confessed to two more child killings. Before an operation for a brain aneurysm two years ago, Hindley was understood to have given orders to her lawyers that she was not to be kept alive artificially if she lapsed into a coma. She also ordered that none of her organs should be offered for transplant if she died. Instructions were given for a cremation and for her ashes to be scattered at a secret location, it was reported. Earlier this month it was said that Hindley was being given free nicotine patches, worth £20 a week, on the NHS in an attempt to stop her smoking. She was reportedly taken to hospital for heart tests last month and specialists ordered her to give up the habit. The court case that could have had a bearing on Hindley relates to the convicted killer, Anthony Anderson, who went to the House of Lords last month. He is appealing because the 15-year minimum term his trial judge said would serve as a minimum was increased to 20 years by the home secretary of the day.The home secretary, David Blunkett, is expected to lose the case and his powers to set inmates' sentences. If the upcoming ruling goes against Mr Blunkett, a total of 225 inmates who have had their tariffs increased by a politician would be able to have them reviewed. Around 70 have already served more time than originally recommended by the judiciary and could be freed immediately. In Hindley's case, in 1982, the then lord chief justice, Lord Lane, advised she should serve no less than 25 years. But subsequent home secretaries fixed her minimum tariff at first 30 years and then "whole life", meaning she is one of 23 prisoners who have been told they will never be released.If Anderson won his case in December, Hindley was expected to apply to the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, for a new minimum sentence. However, Mr Blunkett has vowed to pass a new law to keep high-profile killers in jail - even if Strasbourg rules the current system illegal. Pauline Read was the first child to suffer the consequences of Brady and Hindley's actions. The 16-year-old vanished on July 12 1963 on her way to a disco near her home in Gorton, Manchester. It was not until 1987 that her body was found in a shallow grave on Saddleworth Moor after Hindley and Brady's jail-cell confessions. John Kilbride vanished four months after Pauline - the day after US president John F Kennedy's assassination in the United States. He was lured up on to the moor, sexually assaulted and murdered. A photograph taken by Brady of Hindley posing on the edge of John's grave holding her pet dog would later lead police to the young boy's resting place. The body of the murderers' next victim, 12-year-old Keith Bennett, has never been discovered. He vanished after leaving his home in Chorlton-on-Medlock in Manchester on June 16 1964. Lesley Ann Downey was murdered on Boxing Day, 1964. The 10-year-old - the youngest victim of the pair - was enticed from a fairground to the house Hindley shared with her grandmother in Hattersley. In Hindley's bedroom, she was stripped, sexually abused and tortured as they forced her to pose for pornographic photographs. The harrowing attack was recorded on audio tape by Hindley. The tape lasted 16 minutes 21 seconds.