A national charity providing support for victims of crime, witnesses and their families could face a funding crisis next year as its core £24m budget is devolved to the new UK police and crime commissioners (PCCs), its boss has warned.Victim Support is the world's most established victim and witness support network, but its chief executive, Javed Khan, said none of its budget would be ringfenced under the new structure, while a further £14m funding for the witness service would now be at the discretion of the Ministry of Justice."These are enormous threats to Victim Support which mean we may get funded or we may not," said Khan. "At the moment, the UK has the best system in the world, but that could disappear."The two budgets account for 90% of the charity's income, only 10% of which is generated by fundraising and grants. The Ministry of Justice has said it is due to update police and crime commissioners and victims' support charities this spring.The minister for courts and victims, Helen Grant, told the Guardian these support services should be locally commissioned because PCCs were well placed to understand the needs of victims in local communities."We value and will continue to work closely with Victim Support under current arrangements and as we plan for transition to the new commissioning structure," she said.Victim Support provides emotional support and counselling and advice on courtroom procedures, and arranges restorative justice projects. It helped 200,000 people in 2012.It has provided support in high-profile cases such as the murder, exactly 20 years ago, of Stephen Lawrence. In that case, the charity supported 29 direct witnesses and 89 others affected by the murder.Victim Support did not work with Alexandra Marie – a key witness to the murder, who spoke to the Guardian in this weekend – because she was a French national. However, a recent EU directive means that by 2015 victims will have the right to co-ordinated support between 27 EU states.Khan said: "Alexandra Marie's case is very powerful and reminds us all the impact of crime is not limited to those who are directly hurt but [also affects] those who witness crimes, and the relatives of victims. That trauma can exist for many years afterwards, affecting how they behave, and how people behave to towards them, and the life decisions they make."He said the UK system needed to be simplified further because victims were often caught in the gaps between the police, the courts, the CPS and victim support charities. "Many witnesses feel used by the criminal justice system, which is not about the victim but about the offender. Victims and witnesses often just need someone to listen non-judgmentally," he said.Flashbacks were common, and giving evidence in court could be terrifying for witnesses – especially giving evidence against offenders. Khan said family and friends were important to recovery but without professional help often lacked the time, expertise and independence to support victims.