In the photo he is the concerned husband, brandishing a missing person notice to draw attention to his wife's disappearance several months earlier.Robert Lund, bearded and wearing cloth cap and checked shirt, was pictured in April 2000 in his local village of Rayssac in the Tarn, in south-west France. Two smiling pictures of his wife Evelyn are visible on the sheet he is holding. Just below her is a photo of the Toyota 4x4 in which she was last seen.Two years after her disappearance, in October 2001, a horse rider spotted the red roof of a car in the Lac Bancalié, 15 miles from Rayssac. After a hot dry summer, the water level had dropped by some 30 feet.Inside the vehicle police found the badly decomposing body of Mrs Lund. Traces of blood were found on the front and back seats. The focus of the inquiry shifted abruptly: this was now a murder investigation.Yesterday, nearly eight years after his wife's disappearance, Robert Lund went on trial at the cour d'assises in Albi, charged with unpremeditated murder, the second most serious type of homicide under French law.The 55-year-old, originally from Darwen in Lancashire, described in the French press as a "sentimental and temperamental character of hippy appearance", denies the charges and claims his wife's death was a tragic accident.In court the examining magistrate, Maitre Barthe, told the jury that Robert Lund had told "manifest lies" to hide his crime, and that he had killed his wife to live off her insurance. "She died from violence, not as the result of a driving accident," he said."When her body entered the water she was no longer breathing, or breathing so little that she did not inhale any water, which indicates that she had already been smothered or knocked unconscious."Major Jean-Claude van Batten, who led the police investigation, told the cour d'assises detectives he did not believe Robert Lund's claim that Evelyn, 52, had simply run away.Relatives received no phone calls, and there were inconsistencies in the defendant's account, he said.Robert Lund told the court that police had been prejudiced against him from the start. He described how his wife had failed to adjust to life in France. "My wife had a bad problem with alcohol," he said. "When she had been drinking she would sometimes erupt into violence."He admitted once firing a gun in anger over a neighbour's roof to "protect" his wife after an argument."They had their ups and downs like any couple," Mr Lund's brother, Neville, told the court. "But I believe my brother has not done this. It's not in his nature - he's a pacifist."Evelyn met Robert Lund at a party in Lancashire in 1991, not long after the death of her first husband from lung cancer. The widowed mother of three had been well provided for in her husband's will.At first relatives were alarmed at her new relationship. Within weeks her new companion - a former tree-cutter for the local council - had moved out of his caravan and began living with her. They married in 1994.Three years later the couple decided to sell up and move to France. They called their 400-year-old farmhouse - set in 75 acres of grounds - Fin Voyage (Journey's End).On December 29 1999 France, like much of western Europe, was lashed by violent storms. That night, after a row with her husband, Mrs Lund fled to the house of a friend, Marianne Ramsey.Mr Barthe, the examining magistrate, said the 55-year-old had lied when he told police that his wife did not come home after storming out on the argument. Mrs Ramsey's husband told police that Mrs Lund was wearing glasses when she came to the house, which were later found in her handbag at the Lunds' farmhouse. Mr Barthe said this proved Mrs Lund returned home before her death.Mr Lund has always claimed that as the storm raged Evelyn must have taken the wrong turning in the woods. He claims that instead of finding the correct route to their house she must have driven down the unlit track 300 metres away towards the lake by accident.His wife, he has said, must have been unable to stop her car from reversing into the water.Major Jean-Claude van Batten, who led the police investigation, told the cour d'assises that detectives dismissed the idea that Evelyn had simply run away from her husband when she failed to phone her family for weeks on end.Inconsistencies in Mr Lund's account of events led them to suspect him, Maj van Batten said, and these suspicions grew when in 2003 Mr Lund took two British journalists to the exact - and very remote - spot on Lake Bancalie where Mrs Lund's 4x4 was found, despite claiming he had never been there.Responding to Maj van Batten's evidence, Mr Lund said the officer had been prejudiced against him from the start."In my first interview I asked what evidence they had against me, and I was told: 'In 99% of these cases it is the spouse of the disappeared person who killed them. You are guilty'," he said."For them there was no one else, no other possibility. It was me."Mr Lund was placed under formal investigation in November 2004, and remanded in custody.His arrest came shortly after he had made a visit back to England, to try to take legal proceedings against Evelyn's relatives, who were attempting to block his claims to his wife's estate.