Thousands of documents revealing the credit card numbers, addresses, phone numbers and signatures of guests were dumped in an open skip by one of Britain's best-known hotels in what one fraud expert described as "the biggest field day for identity fraudsters we have seen".The owner of the Grand Hotel in Brighton was forced to apologise after staff threw out registration forms and credit card slips - including those of several MPs - giving details commonly used by fraudsters to steal identities and buy goods online or plunder bank accounts.The Information Commissioner's Office said it believed the hotel had breached the Data Protection Act, while several MPs said they would be asking questions in parliament to determine if consumers needed further safeguards to protect them from negligent companies.The 200-room, five-star hotel has long played host to the great and the good and has staged countless party political conferences. In 1984 it was bombed during the Conservative conference by the IRA, injuring the then prime minister, Margaret Thatcher.Brighton residents walking past the city centre hotel last Thursday night were amazed to see a skip full of registration cards of guests who stayed at the hotel between 1998 and 2000. Each one lists the name, company, home address and credit card number in full. Most include a home phone number, and in the case of some foreign guests, passport numbers. After sitting in the street for 24 hours, open to any passerby, the skip was removed by a local company, Skip-it.The hotel, which typically charges £150 a night, is used by large companies for conferences, and the dumped registration cards read like a Who's Who of the corporate world. They name executives at Esso, Toyota, Ericsson, Bupa, the BBC, and BT. Although in most cases the credit cards have expired, many of the guests will still possess cards bearing the same number. Many will be living at the same addresses.One of the UK's leading experts on ID fraud, Professor Martin Gill of the University of Leicester, described the hotel's actions as "incredibly negligent".Wake-up call"This information in the wrong hands could be very dangerous. The credit card numbers in themselves aren't hugely damaging, but combined with home addresses and phone numbers, they could greatly help ID thieves to accumulate the sort of information required to pull off a really meaningful theft - the taking out of loans and the running up of debts in the name of person who stayed at the hotel."He added: "This could be the biggest thing of this type to hit business in the UK. It certainly should serve as a wake-up call to everybody dealing with this type of information."Dewi Morris, who stayed in the Grand in February 1998, was one of 400 staff from housing associations around the country who attended the National Housing Federation Conference there. Although now retired, he lives in the same house near Derby and still has a credit card bearing the same number as recorded on his dumped registration form. "I hope there will be a thorough investigation into how this was allowed to happen," he said, adding: "I, and lots of others, will be seeking an apology from the company."'Highly irresponsible'A spokeswoman for Apacs, Britain's payments trade association, said she was shocked by the hotel's actions, but suggested the possible damage through the fraudulent use of the credit cards was limited. "It seems incredible that a hotel could do such a highly irresponsible thing. There is little point in consumers shredding personal documents at home if other bodies are going to behave like this."Phil Jones, assistant commissioner for the Information Commissioner Office, said: "It would appear that the Grand Hotel has been negligent in disposing of documents which contain important personal information ... The Information Commissioner's Office takes breaches of people's privacy very seriously and we will be contacting the hotel about this."Peter Manby, the operations director of De Vere Group, which owns the Grand, said: "We take this issue very seriously and are very concerned at what's happened. The company's practice is to dispose of confidential material in waste sacks which are then destroyed by a secure waste company. The hotel acknowledges that on this occasion this policy was not strictly adhered to. We apologise to all our customers affected - a full investigation is under way to ascertain exactly how the situation arose and with immediate effect, measures have been taken to ensure this does not happen again, both here and at all our hotels."A spokeswoman for the hotel said: "Following an internal investigation the company can confirm that prior to being placed in the skip all the documents had been sealed in envelopes and then placed in sealed boxes. The company can confirm that all documents in the skip have been destroyed." But half the documents were not in sealed envelopes, and even if they were this would most likely not have complied with the Data Protection Act, which requires all documents to be disposed of securely, preferably by shredding.The spokeswoman added: "The company would like to apologise again and stress that their guest's confidentiality is at all times a priority."BackstoryAccording to CIFAS - the UK's fraud prevention service - 120,000 people are affected by identity theft in the UK each year, while a Cabinet Office study carried out in 2002 estimated that crime facilitated by identity fraud cost Britain £1.3bn a year. This remains the most recent research on the problem, though in reality the figure could be much higher. The Home Office has put together a steering committee to tackle the issue. The committee's website, identity-theft.org.uk, offers detailed advice on protection from ID theft.Useful linkCheck your credit rating