He is a former borstal boy who became Britain's most successful cocaine smuggler, befriending the rich and the famous along the way. His friends in showbusiness declared him to be a warm and generous man, while his underworld drug dealing associates nicknamed him The Milkman - because he always delivered.Brian Wright and his gang flooded the country with enormous quantities of cocaine throughout the 1990s. In just one year, 1998, they are thought to have imported almost two tonnes of the drug, with the result, according to one Customs investigator, that "the cocaine was coming in faster than people could snort it".A life-long gambler, Wright used some of his drugs fortune to bribe jockeys and arrange for racehorses to be doped. He would then bet £50,000 or more on rigged races, and use the proceeds to conceal the source of his wealth. Despite his notoriety, Wright felt able to taunt one Customs officer that he was prepared to "bet my £1m to your £1 coin" that he would never be successfully prosecuted.Today Wright, 60, is preparing to spend the rest of his days behind bars. After a two-month trial, he was found guilty at Woolwich crown court yesterday of conspiracy to evade prohibition on the importation of a controlled drug and conspiracy to supply drugs. Wright's counsel, Jerome Lynch QC, said: "The reality will be that he knows, as does his family, that he will probably die in jail." In the public gallery, his family wept uncontrollably.BorstalThe trial followed an 11-year investigation spanning four continents codenamed Operation Extend. Among the 20 people convicted were Wright's son and son-in-law and several other family members. Paul Rogers, a former Daily Mirror journalist and expert yachtsman, was jailed for 16 years.Wright's main south American contact, a 56-year-old Brazilian economist called Ronald Soares, received a 24-year term. Another person drawn into the fringes of the gang was Bill Frost, a Times journalist who developed a cocaine addiction and died, aged 50, six years ago.The Milkman was born in Dublin and moved to the UK at the age of 12, growing up in Kilburn, north-west London. He was sent to borstal for two years after repeatedly truanting from school to work on market stalls. He is thought to be largely illiterate and by his own admission has never paid a penny in tax in his life. Nor has he ever had a bank account, credit card or National Insurance number. "On paper," one investigator said yesterday, "he simply doesn't exist."British Customs officers first came across Wright after their Irish counterparts seized 599kg of cocaine, with a street value of around £80m, from a converted trawler which docked at Cork in September 1996. The drugs were destined for Wright, who was already the subject of inquiries into race-fixing by the Jockey Club and Scotland Yard.As the investigation developed, and more gang members and vessels came into the picture, Customs officers realised that Wright was "coopering", a technique employed by smugglers for centuries.Cocaine would be dispatched from south America or the Caribbean in a large yacht, which would sail to Devon or Cornwall. That vessel would attract the attention of Customs officers. Before docking, however, it would rendezvous with a smaller yacht which appeared to be making a day trip from a south coast resort.The drugs would be switched, or coopered, from one vessel to another. And while the first yacht was being searched on arrival in the UK, the second would be offloading the cocaine to waiting cars. Much of it was stored at a house in the New Forest, which has never been found.Customs officers eventually identified six yachts which crossed the Atlantic this way, bringing three tonnes of cocaine between 1996 and 1998. Some of those eventually arrested admitted they had been running the Caribbean-Cornwall route as early as 1993.Celebrity friendsWright was able to buy a large house in Frimley, Surrey, and a villa near Cadiz which he named El Lechero - The Milkman. He had a box at Ascot, rented a flat in Chelsea's luxurious King's Quay development, and conducted most of his business from the adjoining Conrad Hotel. But most of his wealth was held in cash, stashed in the lofts of relatives.By the late 1990s, Wright was close to celebrities who would laugh off any suggestion that he was an international drug smuggler. Jim Davidson, the comedian, asked him to be godfather to his son. Mick Channon, the former Southampton and England footballer who became a racehorse trainer, agreed to be a character witness at his trial. Wright boasted that Frank Sinatra had also been a friend, and rubbed shoulders with Clint Eastwood, Michael Caine and Jerry Hall. All were unaware of his criminal background.Customs officers, meanwhile, say they had established that Wright was masterminding the biggest international drugs trafficking operation ever to target the UK. They had travelled to the Caribbean, Venezuela, Australia, South Africa, the US and Europe. Dozens of gang members and suppliers were identified.While most of the gang was rounded up in 1999, Wright fled from Spain and flew to Northern Cyprus, which has no extradition arrangements with the UK. Two years ago, for reasons which remain unclear, he returned to Spain, where he was arrested and brought back to the UK.Yesterday, after his legal team was asked if they wanted to submit any mitigating evidence, Wright addressed the judge. "Excuse me your honour," he said. "There is no mitigation."The gangGodfried 'Pappy' Hoppenbrouwers 66, an ex-skipper in the Dutch merchant navy who began smuggling drugs and money aboard his yacht to fund the construction of a hotel in Brazil. He owned the Cyan, one of the vessels used by Wright's gang, and would attend meetings at which he would be asked for advice about smuggling operations. He was arrested in the US, where he is now serving 30 years.Brian Anthony Wright, 39, the Milkman's son and one of his most trusted lieutenants. He would arrange the transportation of drugs from the Caribbean. Now serving 16 years for importation of cocaine.James 'Popeye' Goodrich, a prize-winning Californian yachtsman who had been smuggling drugs since the age of 19. Currently serving an 18-year jail sentence in the US, he gave evidence against Wright. Goodrich bought 600kg of cocaine on behalf of the gang in a deal that took place at a derelict hotel on an island off the coast of Venezuela. Before he was allowed to assume this role he was interviewed at length by several gang members.