A man who planned the murder of a former friend from his cell in a high-security prison was jailed today for a minimum of 30 years.Delphon Nicholas, 29, from Lewisham, south London, organised the execution of 26-year-old Andrew Wanoghu while an inmate in Belmarsh prison, south London.Wanoghu was shot in the street after being lured to an address in Brockley, south London, in April 2006. The gunman, Trevor Dennie, 33, was jailed for life at the Old Bailey today and will serve a minimum term of 30 years.Nicholas is believed to have ordered the execution using a mobile telephone from inside the prison after Wanoghu punched Nicholas's father in the face and took his car. At the time, Nicholas was on remand for an unrelated matter for which he was later cleared.  Andrew Wanoghu. Photograph: Metropolitan police/PANicholas and Wanoghu, described by police as career criminals involved in drugs and robberies, had been friends until seven weeks before the murder.Aftab Jafferjee QC, for the prosecution, said Wanoghu had "delivered a slight" that led to him being "set up for execution". He said Nicholas had "orchestrated the execution from inside Belmarsh security prison by using a mobile telephone he had access to".The judge, Richard Hone, told the jury that the weapon used in Wanoghu's murder had been used in four other shootings investigated by Operation Trident, the police team that investigates gun crime in black communities. "It is a travelling gun, handed from hand to hand in the community which, in circumstances like this, responds with a wall of silence," he said.Wanoghu is said to have had a number of enemies and was accused of murder in 2002 after the shooting of Damian Cope, 24, outside a club in Holborn, central London. He was cleared after two witnesses refused to give evidence. No one else has been charged.Hone told the court that Nicholas was handcuffed in the dock because he had punched a co-defendant, Sereata Barrie, 29, while the jury was considering its verdict. "Even by the standards of court one at the Old Bailey, it was an astonishing outburst," the judge said.Sentencing the convicted men, Hone said: "You are two cold-blooded killers. You exude an aura of violence. You are both extremely dangerous."Barrie and two other men, Michael Williams, 28, and Erron Cato, 25, were cleared of murder.