The reaction of Carl Mills as the house where his baby daughter, girlfriend and her mother were trapped burned to the ground chilled onlookers and police officers.One neighbour recalled how he had smirked as he sauntered past; another said he had told her the "weird" child was inside – baby Kimberley was born blind and deaf and had only arrived home a few hours before after spending the first six months of her life in hospital. A police officer said Mills seemed calm and spoke as if he was "talking about the weather".The three members of the family – six-month-old Kimberley, her mother, Kayleigh Buckley, 17, and the child's grandmother, Kim Buckley, 46, had no chance of surviving.It was an awful end to a tragic story that began when Mills, 28, groomed Kayleigh online and culminated in him feeling rejected and jealous because she had less time to spend with him while she looked after their poorly child.Contacts that health and social services professionals and other agencies had with the family will now come under scrutiny. The court was told that social services were concerned about Mills's heavy drinking and he had been banned by officials from seeing baby Kimberley alone in hospital. A serious case review has been commissioned by the Torfaen safeguarding children board.Mills met Kayleigh on Facebook in the summer of 2010 when she was just 15 He was living in Manchester but moved to Cwmbran in south Wales in 2011 to be near her. Police believe he groomed the girl for sex.Kayleigh's mother, Kim, was deeply concerned about the relationship but took Mills in because she feared her daughter would run away with her boyfriend and live rough otherwise. Jobless Mills, who has previous convictions for dishonesty and making threats, would travel back to Manchester every fortnight to sign on.Kayleigh became pregnant by Mills with twins, who were born in March of last year. One of the girls, Angel, died aged just two days but doctors were able to save Kimberley, who was born deaf and blind and with lung problems.Mills visited in the first few days but could not accept the baby and his behaviour was so bad that the hospital stopped him going on to the ward. He was kicked out of the family home but allowed to sleep in a tent in the garden.He was jealous that Kayleigh spent more time with the child than him and began to believe she was having affairs with other men. In August last year he texted Kayleigh: "I fucking hope that she [the baby] dies."Kayleigh still dreamed of a happy future with Mills. In early September she said she loved Mills and Kimberley, writing on Facebook: "I love you both so much and I wish Angel was here,"But in the days leading up to the fire Mills sent a string of threatening texts and hours before the attack messaged: "I'll burn your house down," and: "I hope you fucking get burnt."He carried out his threat on 18 September last year just hours after Kimberley had been brought home for the first time.The balloons and streamers were still in place when Mills used an accelerant to light a fire in the porch as the baby, her mother and grandmother slept.The fire quickly spread and neighbours rushed to help. Trapped upstairs, Kayleigh yelled: "I'm burning, I'm on fire" but refused to jump or throw the baby down to neighbours. "Kayleigh said she could not let the baby go," neighbour Sarah Sweeney told the jury at Newport crown court.At this point, Mills, who had been drinking strong, cheap cider, walked past. Sweeney said he told her that the "weird" baby was inside. A second neighbour, Stephen Jones, said Mills was smirking."He was just talking as if he was talking about the weather," said PC Natasha Counsell. He didn't appear concerned at all."Mills was quickly arrested after police spotted his blackened hands. They did not believe his explanation that he had been picking up cigarette butts.Detectives recovered the text messages he had sent even though Kayleigh's phone was destroyed. They also found a piece of bunting that had been put up as part of the welcome home celebrations with Mills's fingerprints on it - though he had not been invited to the party.In the witness box Mills claimed he had sent the texts while drunk and regretted them. He continued to insist that he had not set the fire and claimed that he had been drinking and "chilling" elsewhere at the time of the fire. He said he and Kayleigh were in love and planned to marry.Gregory Bull QC, prosecuting, said he was a "cold, calculated killer". By its verdict the jury clearly agreed.