Canada has been left in shock after a gunman who walked through a quiet suburban neighbourhood dressed in camouflage, a black headband and carrying two high-powered rifles and a bow shot dead three members of the mounted police.The small east coast city of Moncton, New Brunswick, went into lockdown on Thursday as police searched for the suspect, named by the force as 24-year-old Justin Bourque. Bourque was spotted three times early on Thursday morning, police said, but officers were unable to apprehend him and admitted they did not know where he was.The shootings began on Wednesday evening. "It was really warm in the house, so we opened up the windows in the family room and there he was going across through the back with this rifle on his shoulder," local politician Joan MacAlpine-Stiles told CBC Radio. "And it looked like a bow he had with him. And I mean – he was just through our backyard."The multiple shootings – one of the police force's worst ever losses of life – have shocked a nation whose gun laws are strict relative to the US. Canada prohibits ownership of certain firearms and requires that restricted weapons be registered.The shootings – in which two other Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers, known as mounties, were wounded – were the first homicides in Moncton, a usually quiet city of 70,000, since 2012. City councillor Dawn Arnold said it had received notes of support from cities throughout north America. "We are not alone," she said. "This will not define us. While it is a temporary challenge, this will not break us. We will recover and we will be stronger."  Roger Brown, commanding officer for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in New Brunswick, wipes his eye at a press conference in Moncton. Photograph: Marc Grandmaison/APNew Brunswick's top RCMP officer, Roger Brown, described it as the "darkest day" in the provincial force's history.The Canadian prime minister, Stephen Harper, said in a statement the deaths of the officers would be honoured and remembered.As the manhunt for the 24-year-old continued on Thursday morning, the streets of Moncton were quiet and the mood at workplaces sombre. Schools were closed for the day. Many businesses were closed and public transport was shut down because of the "potential risk from this person". "Naturally there's a very high degree of concern and anxiety over this," Mayor George LeBlanc said.The hunt for Bourque began at 7.20pm on Wednesday after the RCMP received a call about a heavily armed man walking through the suburban neighbourhood.One resident, Vanessa Bernatchez, posted a video on Facebook she filmed from her living room window at the moment the gunman opened fire. From where she stood, Bernatchez said it appeared the mountie did not see the shooter until he fired.Soon after, more police and a tactical team arrived on the scene. Mounties scoured the area looking for the shooter while warning residents to stay in their homes, lock their doors and even go to their basements as a precaution.  The aftermath of the scene of the shootout in Moncton. Photograph: Matt Arsenault/Barcroft USAResident Colleen Maguire said she had hurried home to be with her teenage daughter Kate, and, after reading on social media that the suspect had been spotted nearby, grabbed blankets and pillows and headed to their basement. "What a way to spend a night, hiding from a madman," she said.On Thursday morning, mother and daughter remained in their apartment. A graphic designer, Maguire said she was afraid to work at home because her computer was next to a window. "I'm so paranoid to walk through the house, there's so many windows. I know that seems excessive but apparently there are some people still hiding in their basements."Just before the shootings began, residents received what appeared to be an ominous warning from Bourque himself. The last post on his Facebook page displays the lyrics of a song by the heavy metal band Megadeth describing a "little man with a big eraser, changing history".There was a sense among residents on Thursday that Moncton will be forever changed by this event."We will never feel the same about our safe neighbourhoods," city councillor Brian Hicks said."[I'm] at a loss for words this morning." fellow councillor Paul Pellerin said. "As a representative of Moncton, I would have never would have imagined such a tragedy happening here."For some the shootings brought back the horror of another ruthless murder that rocked the city 40 years ago, when two officers, Corporal Aurèle Bourgeois and Constable Michael O'Leary, were abducted and handcuffed to a tree as two open graves were dug then each shot in the head. "I remember the absolute dark pall it put over the city," wrote local blogger and columnist Brian Cormier. "Tonight has eclipsed that horror."As the hunt for Bourque stretched into a second day, additional police resources from across New Brunswick and the neighbouring province of Prince Edward Island were in Moncton to assist the RCMP.In an emotional interview with media, RCMP Constable Damien Theriault broke down as he spoke of the loss of "three friends". Despite the tragedy, Theriault said Moncton officers were focused on capturing their killer. "We need to pull together and locate this individual as quickly as possible to ensure everyone's safety. We are professionals and we have a job to do right now. We will have time to grieve after."Four RCMP officers were killed in March 2005 by a gunman on a farm in Mayerthorpe, Alberta – the RCMP's worst single-day loss of life in more than 100 years.