The home secretary, David Blunkett, is planning to give judges new powers to try a case without a jury where it is believed there is a serious risk that an attempt will be made to bribe or intimidate jurors.The decision is likely to reopen the controversy over the government's commitment to jury trial, after Mr Blunkett retreated on plans to deny the right of a defendant to choose a crown court trial for a range of middle-ranking offences earlier this year. The government is to extend its plans to restrict the right to a jury trial in the criminal justice bill, which the prime minister has said will form the centrepiece of next week's Queen's speech. Home Office ministers have decided to go further than the white paper proposals to have "judge only" cases in serious and complex fraud trials and when there is clear evidence that there has been an attempt to intimidate or tamper with the jury. Critics are likely to compare the move to the introduction of the emergency Diplock courts in Northern Ireland in the 1970s to try terrorist cases. Home Office ministers believe there is a real danger of attempts to interfere with juries in a small number of cases involving international terrorism, drugs trafficking and organised crime. In the five to 10 cases a year where this happens jurors are given police protection, in some cases involving armed officers, but the trials often last months and the protection can prove extremely disruptive for jurors. In the most serious cases it can involve the police providing protection 24 hours a day. The specially equipped Kingston crown court in south-west London is often used for major drugs cases for these reasons. The trial of property multi-millionaire Nicholas Hoogstraten is the most recent case that would probably have gone ahead without a jury under this proposal. In that case jurors were brought to the court each day in a special bus. Home Office ministers have now decided it would be better to give judges discretion to try the case by themselves instead of swearing in a jury and then ordering police protection. The courts stop a number of cases every year because an attempt has been made to interfere with the jury. Judges then dismiss the jury and order a retrial. In these cases the criminal justice bill will give judges the power to conclude the trial by themselves after dismissing the jury. The government has defused most of the earlier arguments surrounding jury trials. Critics argued that the proposal to increase magistrates' sentencing powers from six to 12 months would mean 6,000 cases a year would no longer be tried by a jury. But ministers pointed out that defendants in these cases would still have the right to insist on being tried at a crown court. But the new move to do away with juries in cases where the police or crown prosecution service suspect tampering may take place is likely to reignite the battle. The Bar Council and the Law Society have warned that such a move would amount to a serious erosion of jury trial. Lawyers claim that it will not be possible for a judge to give a fair trial to a defendant or his associates who are regarded as likely to try to bribe the jury. Home Office sources deny this will be a problem, arguing that judges are used to having information which they are obliged to disregard, such as evidence that becomes inadmissible. 