Two men who sent miniature vodka bottles laced with lethal solutions of caustic soda to a journalist and a councillor as part of campaign to get the English out of Scotland were both jailed for six years yesterday.Wayne Cook, 46, and Steven Robinson, 42, who were neighbours in Tyldesley, Greater Manchester, sent the Smirnoff and Vladivar bottles on behalf of the Scottish National Liberation Army.Cook, who is English, was last week found guilty under anti-terrorism legislation of two counts of using "noxious substances or things to cause harm and intimidate".Robinson, a Scot, had pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing. As he was led away from the dock, he shouted to his family in the packed public gallery: "God bless Scotland. We will never surrender."Dr John Jackson, a toxicology expert, told the court that the concentration of the caustic soda was so high that the worst-case scenario for the intended recipients was death. He said it could also have caused blindness, nerve damage or serious burns.The first bottle was sent in April 2007 to John Wright, a Blackburn with Darwen councillor. Cook had become involved in the plot as part of a campaign for revenge after his son Shane died in council care.The second bottle was sent at the same time to a former Scottish Daily Express news editor, Myra Philp, who has been harassed by the SNLA for a number of years.A note enclosed with the bottle sent to Philp read: "We want to demonstrate our intent to kill English people at random and with no discrimination or compunction. This is necessary to convince the British government that we will lethally poison England's water supplies if [the English] do not withdraw totally from Scotland."Judge Robert Atherton told the men: "What you did was to prepare packages into which you placed bottles, miniature vodka bottles, from which the vodka was removed and caustic soda placed. The reason you did that was in furtherance of a campaign by a group calling themselves the Scottish National Liberation Army ... People are entitled to their views. They are not entitled to the sort of actions which that organisation carries out."The court heard how Robinson had claimed he was acting under instructions from a man who claims to lead the SNLA. "You say he in effect gave you instructions and you carried them out and you were pressurised by him," said the judge. "If you get involved in organisations like that you will get pressurised."What you did was very dangerous indeed. You, Mr Robinson, through a letter, have expressed remorse. I query the extent to which that remorse was genuine. You boasted of what you could do, you expressed hatred of the English. I find it hard to believe that you have changed so radically in the last few months."He told Cook that he accepted his role in the plot had been less than Robinson's, but his failure to admit the offence meant he should receive the same sentence.In a statement after the verdict, Philp, 45, said: "There were dozens of threats and warnings sent to me by email over a period of several months, all of them centred on the Greater Manchester, Bolton and Liverpool areas."There was even a cynical claim that the SNLA had caused the Cumbrian train derailment which left a passenger dead. These people are so despicable they also claimed responsibility for several sudden deaths in Manchester - gloating that they had left bottles of vodka laced with caustic soda on buses and the 'greed' of the named individuals who drank from the bottles killed them. The claims were untrue. All of this, emanating from these two individuals, was frightening and left me emotionally drained."Detective Chief Superintendent Tony Porter, head of the Greater Manchester police counter-terrorism unit, said: "This was not some clumsy joke. It was a serious attempt to cause real harm and intimidation. Robinson and Cook's actions would have caused serious injury to anyone who came into contact with the chemical. Had anyone drunk the contents they would, in all likelihood, have died."Not only were the people who the parcels were addressed to put into danger, so were the postal workers who handled the packages and anyone else that could have come into contact with them."