We welcome lord chief justice Woolf's criticism of the asylum and immigration bill (Woolf leads judges' attack on ministers, March 4), particularly the proposal to remove the ability to seek redress in higher courts, even where there has been an error in law. Asylum and immigration rights are basic human rights and this measure takes away the fundamental right of access to justice.The proposal contradicts the rule of law and is unacceptable in a civilised society. The Home Office has received criticism from many quarters, including a recent Amnesty report on its poor decision-making. This proposal has received criticism from cross-party parliamentary bodies such as the joint committee on human rights, and the home and the constitutional affairs committees. It is time for the government to listen to the breadth of opposition to this bill, rather than to assert erroneously that it has already done so. The Lords should voice its opposition to these proposals, which prompted one of the biggest Commons rebellions on the issue of asylum.Rick ScannellChair, Immigration Law Practitioners AssociationKumar MurshidChair, National Assembly Against Racism Lord chief justice Woolf's criticism of the proposed supreme court as a '"poor relation" begs the question of when it may be empowered to strike down legislation under a written constitution, which many of us hope for. However, it provides a misleading picture of the government's modest and overdue constitutional reform programme. Currently, there is no separation of powers and no supreme court; the government is proposing to set one up and end the corrupting arrangement whereby the head of the judiciary is also the speaker of the Lords and a member of the cabinet. Arguments that this is rushed are hilarious - such a move is centuries overdue.Graham Allen MPLab, Nottingham North It has been overlooked that government policy now requires the court service to be self-funding. Estimates for the cost of setting up the supreme court vary between £20m and £50m, which will be raised by increasing court fees. Those who need to use the courts are obliged to meet the costs. This constitutes a commercialisation of justice and a restriction of access to justice.Alexander MercourisSenior duty solicitor, Royal Courts of Justice The suggested change from Crown to Public Prosecution Service (Royalist fury as Blunkett 'ousts' the Crown, March 3), if anything, does not go far enough. Our commission on the future of the monarchy last year recommended that prosecutions should be made in the name of the director of public prosecutions rather than the Queen. Such a move would not undermine the crown. The current arrangements reinforce the view that the head of state, and by extension the state itself, is above the law - in contrast to other democratic countries, where prosecutions are conducted in the name of the people.Adrian HarveyFabian Society The point of the crown is that justice is served by impartial organisations loyal to a non-political monarch. This insulates the administration of law from popular opinions and actions designed to help a government. Calling it public instead gives a strong message to civil servants - ie they are there to serve the popular will, never mind if it is legal or not. What will this lead to? More of the type of thing suggested by New Labour, such as different rules for immigrants? Luke MageeTenterden, Kent