A former partner of the convicted serial killer Levi Bellfield, who says she suffered appalling abuse at his hands, has said she regrets not reporting him to the police sooner, as doing so might have saved the lives of some of his victims.Jo Collings expressed her remorse as details emerged of more cases believed to be possibly linked to Bellfield, in the wake of his confession that he abducted, raped and killed 13-year-old Milly Dowler in 2002. Bellfield was already serving life for the murders of two other women, Amelie Delagrange, 22, and Marsha McDonnell, 19, as well as the attempted murder of Kate Sheedy, 18, when convicted in 2011 of killing Milly, but had never previously admitted the crime. Collings, who met Bellfield when she was 21, claimed he turned up on her doorstep at around the time of Milly’s disappearance with blood on his hands, crying and saying that he had done something terrible. The 46-year-old told the Sunday Mirror: “I wanted to go to the police so many times, but could never find the courage. I will have to live with the guilt that Milly might still be here today for the rest of my life.“Every single day I think if I had opened my mouth maybe her, Marsha McDonnell or Amelie Delagrange wouldn’t have been killed.”Collings and Bellfield, who had two children together, had already been separated for five years when Milly disappeared, but Collings said he continued to terrorise and stalk her for almost a decade after they split. In all, Bellfield had 11 children by five women.Collings described the horrendous abuse to which she said the former bouncer and wheel clamper subjected her. “When I knew he was with another woman and not coming home it was a relief, but now I know what he was capable of, I feel guilty,” she said.“I did get an injunction against him, but it only made him even angrier.Even when I managed to leave him, he still stalked me.”Collings, who lives in Buckinghamshire, did eventually report Bellfield to the police, contacting them twice after seeing items on BBC1s Crimewatch and linking Bellfield’s white people-carrier to the attack on Sheedy.After Bellfield’s confession that he killed Milly, an undisclosed number of police forces are reviewing murder investigations.A lawyer representing another convicted killer, Michael Stone, said that he wanted to question Bellfield about the 1996 murders, in Kent, of Lin and Megan Russell as he seeks to clear his client’s name. Lin Russell, 45, and her daughters Megan, six, and Josie, then nine, were attacked with a hammer on an isolated footpath near their home in Chillenden, near Sandwich. Josie survived the attack. Stone’s original conviction was overturned, but he was subsequently found guilty at a retrial.His lawyer, Mark McDonald, said Bellfield knew the Chillenden area and Bellfield’s ex-partner Rebecca Wilkinson believes he was behind the attacks. “I want to see Bellfield and ask him if he did it,” said McDonald.