Police in Wiltshire investigating the murder of a pregnant woman today admitted the force had missed opportunities to arrest the man who is now the prime suspect in the case.Wiltshire's assistant chief constable Peter Vaughan said it was a "cause for concern" that the Portuguese ex-boyfriend of Hayley Richards had not been arrested after she telephoned 999 on June 5 to report that he had assaulted her. Five days later, the 23-year-old bar worker from Trowbridge was murdered. Police revealed today that her throat had been cut and confirmed they were looking for a murder weapon. Interpol is now involved in an international effort to arrest Mr Quintas, 23, who had been living and working in Trowbridge but who is now believed to have flown to Portugal. Mr Vaughan said efforts were made to track down Mr Quintas in the days after Ms Richards made a complaint of assault, and two opportunities to arrest him were not taken. He denied unconfirmed reports that Mr Quintas had not been arrested because there were no Portuguese translators available. The assistant chief constable told a new conference this afternoon: "I want to make it clear that interpreters are readily available to assist the police and the availability of an interpreter should not necessarily delay the arrest of an offender."Since Hayley's death, it has been discovered that during the course of the investigation there were potential opportunities for other officers, not directly involved in this investigation, to arrest Hugo Quintas, which were not taken. This is a cause of concern, which requires further investigation."Mr Vaughan told reporters that because of the police's previous involvement with Ms Richards, the matter has been referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), which is to carry out a full independent investigation.Three officers from Wiltshire are being sent to Portugal as part of the investigation into the murder. Police were sent to Ms Richards' home in Carders Corner, Trowbridge, on Saturday when she failed to turn up for work. They found her body there on Saturday afternoon.Mr Vaughan said that Ms Richards had dialled 999 just before 5pm on Sunday June 5, claiming that Mr Quintas had attacked her at her home and saying that although she was not injured, she was pregnant and frightened.Mr Vaughan said: "She was not felt to be in any immediate danger as her boyfriend had departed. A police officer called at her home address within an hour and recorded a detailed written statement of complaint from Hayley."He confirmed that Ms Richards had suffered "minor bruising" and, because she was also three months pregnant, was taken to her local hospital for a precautionary check-up before being taken home by police.Mr Vaughan added: "At this time the whereabouts of Hugo Quintas were not known and local inquiries started with a view to arresting him on suspicion of assaulting Hayley. During the following day, Hayley was kept personally informed of the progress of the investigation as efforts continued to locate Hugo Quintas."The domestic abuse charity Refuge criticised the force for not arresting Mr Quintas. The charity's chief executive, Sandra Horley, said: "This is a shocking example of inadequate police response in a domestic violence case."The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) has published detailed guidelines on how the police should respond to suspected domestic violence incidents, but its guidance is not binding on individual forces.The IPCC said it would use its own investigators to examine "concerns arising" from the murder and would examine the force's response to Ms Richards' claim of assault. IPCC Commissioner for Wiltshire Ian Bynoe said: "I would like to express my condolences to Hayley Richards' family and friends. The circumstances of her death are truly shocking."Our own investigators will examine whether Wiltshire constabulary officers carried out their duties properly. They will also seek to find out whether lessons can be learnt and force procedures have been followed and could be improved in the future."In a statement issued on behalf of the Richards family, Ms Richards' brother Paul said: "Hayley was a beautiful young woman, she hurt no one and was loved by all. She was always there when required, no matter what was asked of her. The family are in a deep, deep state of shock."Wiltshire police has dedicated more than 50 officers to the investigation. Forensics specialists are examining Ms Richards's home as well as an address at Seymour Court in the town. Detective Chief Inspector Kevin Capstick, the deputy senior investigating officer appealed for any members of the public who were in the area of the two addresses between around 10pm on Friday and 6am on Saturday to contact Wiltshire police on 01380 735735.