Senior probation sources last night warned that a promise by the home secretary, John Reid, of "controlled access" by parents and schools to the home addresses and other personal details of released child sex offenders could lead to "lynch mob law".Over the weekend, 70 convicted child sex offenders were unexpectedly moved out of 11 probation hostels close to schools across England and Wales amid warnings that this could jeopardise plans to keep them under supervision.The Home Office said that hostels for released prisoners near schools would now operate a restricted admissions policy excluding sex offenders.Mr Reid's promise to consider a British-version of the controversial American Megan's law, under which local parents are given full details of child sex offenders released into their neighbourhood, follows a six-year News of the World campaign to name and shame paedophiles and publish the addresses of all 101 probation hostels that house offenders. The campaign raised fears of vigilante attacks and warnings that paedophiles were going underground.The home secretary is sending his prisons minister, Gerry Sutcliffe, to the US over the summer to look at the operation of Megan's law in different states to discover the best way of ensuring the controlled release of information to the public. "I start from the position that information should no longer remain the exclusive preserve of officialdom. I believe that the public have the right to protection and they have the right to information. We must make sure that we get the balance right, though, and that the flow of information does not undermine the public's safety."Mr Reid is the first home secretary since the murder of Sarah Payne, aged eight, by the released paedophile Roy Whiting in 2000 to concede that the names and addresses of released sex offenders should be circulated beyond the police and probation staff. At present the multi-agency public protection panels which decide on how released paedophiles should be supervised inform parents and schools on a strict "need to know" basis.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said he backed the government's approach, but it needed careful consideration: "We must also make sure we don't end up with some lynch mob law," he warned.Harry Fletcher, of Napo, the probation union, said there was no evidence that sex offenders in hostels had preyed on children in local schools. "Virtually all hostels are in residential areas. The advantage of a hostel is that we can maximise supervision and moving them to different locations can jeopardise those plans. They will be in therapy programmes that are going to be disrupted," said Mr Fletcher.The tougher attitude towards released sex offenders comes as Mr Reid has to make some difficult decisions about how to cope with overcrowding in prisons. This month, he is due to publish detailed plans for the 139 prisons in England and Wales which were supposed to incorporate Charles Clarke's promised move towards community prisons. But it is believed that Mr Reid has already ruled out a programme of "administrative release" of less serious offenders to create more space.Instead, plans for a new "custody plus" sentence to be introduced in November, which would have removed tens of thousands of short-sentence inmates from prisons, have been postponed because the probation service does not have the capacity to deal with them.The former home secretary Jack Straw said yesterday that more prison places were needed, and the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, warned that the 139 prisons in England and Wales were close to putting up "house full" notices.After a fortnight of intense political debate over sentencing, the prison population, which is now rising by 148 a week, hit a record of 77,785 on Friday - with room for only a further 1,715 inmates."We are looking at a system where prison numbers are rising inside what is already a hugely pressured area. That may hit the buffers soon at a point where there are not any more spaces," warned Ms Owers. "I think the point will come at which prisons have to put up 'house full' notices." The Conservatives yesterday promised to build more prisons, paid for by ditching the national identity card scheme due to be introduced from 2008.What is Megan's law?American parents are informed when a released child sex offender moves into their neighbourhood under legislation known as Megan's law. It was introduced in some form by all 50 states after being signed into law by Bill Clinton in 1997 after the murder and rape of Megan Kanka, seven.Fifteen states list offenders' details on the internet, allowing parents to check if anybody has moved in nearby. In Oregon sex offenders can be forced to display a sign in their window while in Washington state police call at every house in the neighbourhood to warn people when an offender moves in. Critics say that only 80% of released offenders comply with registration requirements in the US as a result of Megan's law, compared with 97% in Britain.