Ian Huntley claimed in prison that he had mental "shutdowns" which prevented him remembering what happened the day Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman vanished, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.But he also told his mother, when she visited him more than two months later, that he had suddenly remembered. He recalled, he said, that they had entered his house because one had a nosebleed. He said, he clearly remembered them leaving, the court was told. He suggested someone must have been following the 10-year-olds, had abducted them, and planted evidence at the school to implicate him as the school caretaker. Mr Huntley denies murdering the children. The jury was told he had spoken to his mother, Lynda Huntley, at Woodhill prison in Milton Keynes in October last year. The conversation was secretly recorded. Mr Huntley, 29, told her he had "remembered everything" about Sunday, August 4 when the girls disappeared. His mother told him: "It's the police that need to know." Mr Huntley insisted he would "love to speak to them", but a doctor had said he was not fit to do so; the day before her visit he "just shut down". Mr Huntley said: "I couldn't stop it. You have no idea what that feels like to have no control over what you do, to be so scared that you find yourself huddled up next to a toilet on the floor." Mrs Huntley turned the talk to the girls: "Ian, how can you be sure nothing happened?" "Because I can remember them leaving the house." Mrs H: You remember that? Mr H: Yes, and I know why they came into the house as well... One had a nosebleed. His mother pressed him about his "shutting down". Mrs H: How often do you know... this happens to you? Mr H: I know it's happened a few times. Mrs H: That's the fright, the thing that's frightening me, Ian. Mr H: No. I remember them girls leaving my house... I am adamant. I am 100%. The court has been told that Mr Huntley now accepts that the girls died in his house at Soham Village college, and that he dumped their bodies in a ditch. Yesterday for the first time it also emerged he now accepts he burned the bodies. But, at Woodhill, Mr Huntley told his mother they had left at 6.35pm. He knew because he ate dinner at 7pm and watched a Robert Redford film. He put forward a theory someone had been stalking them: "I think somebody's been following them girls - seen them girls at my bloody house; knowing full well they might find some DNA in my house, bugger off, and, er, put the clothes down at the school to make it look like it's me; and that's really what I believe happened." Mr Huntley told his mother the girls had sat on the edge of the boot of his car. This, he suggested, could explain why fibres from their clothes were found in the car. He added: "I couldn't fit two girls in my boot, I can hardly fit six shopping bags in." He went on: "I don't think I'm strong enough to restrain two screaming kids especially without someone hearing something." He instructed his mother not to tell his brother Wayne, of the conversation. "If this comes from Wayne to the police, rather than me, it's just hammering nails in my coffin." Later in the two-hour conversation, he said: "All I can do is just be patient, and pray that I get my mental strength back, so I can sit in front of police officers without shutting down." He added: "If I hadn't been doing this shutting down malarkey I would never have been here in the first place. They'd have seen from the very start that I didn't do anything wrong." He knew police would arrest him "because I was accused of that business in Grimsby". The court has heard Mr Huntley was accused of rape in 1998. The extract concluded with an exchange about whether their conversation was being recorded. Mr Huntley said: "If they are listening, there is something I would like to say to them - I'm gonna fuck them over when all this is over, and I'm gonna sue the arses off them."