The family of teenager Georgia Williams, whose body was found in woodland last week, have paid tribute to their "gorgeous tomboy" and revealed that she aimed to join the RAF as a paramedic.Steve Williams, a police detective, and his wife, Lynette, said: "We always describe her as a gorgeous tomboy, someone who is much happier dressed up in her Air Cadets uniform rather than dressed in glamorous clothes ready to go out."West Mercia police confirmed on Tuesday that the body found at a mountain pass in north Wales was that of Georgia, 17, who went missing from her home in Wellington, Shropshire, last month.The confirmation came as Jamie Reynolds, 22, also from Wellington, appeared at Stafford crown court via video link charged with her murder. He has not entered a plea and is due to appear again in September.On Wednesday Georgia's family paid tribute to the teenager in statements released through the police. Her parents said: "We are devastated by the events of the past 10 days but have taken great comfort from the impact Georgia has clearly had on the lives of so many people."We have been blown away by the number of messages we have received and the outpouring of love and support we have been shown."Although many tears have been shed, and will continue to be, if anything good can come of this we hope it is that the community spirit that has developed in Wellington over the last week grows even stronger. We will be remembering Georgia as she is rather than as she was, and what she is is a fantastic girl who we are blessed to have in our lives."We always describe her as a gorgeous tomboy, someone who is much happier dressed up in her Air Cadets uniform rather than dressed in glamorous clothes ready to go out."Referring to glamorous images of her and talk of her wanting to be a model, they said: "The modelling she has done was to help her sister's business and the Facebook reference to her being a 'wannabe model' is a tongue-in-cheek joke between her and Scarlett relating to this modelling."They said she had wanted to join the RAF and had been researching qualifications that would allow her to become a paramedic. "She was most put out when she discovered she couldn't join the RAF Regiment, the arm of the RAF of her choice, as they do not admit women and therefore she decided that training as a paramedic is her way of getting to the frontline."Georgia is into everything and we couldn't be prouder of everything she has achieved. We are blessed to have her in our lives and the happiness she brings will remain with us forever."Georgia's sister, Scarlett, added: "Georgia is the best little sister you could ever wish for, although it's fair to say we can annoy each other on a daily basis. We are like chalk and cheese. We always joke that I am pink and she is blue because we are into such different things. As children I was into ballet while all she wanted to do was go off with the Air Cadets and do outdoor stuff."My dad rightly describes her as a gorgeous tomboy – she is a beautiful girl but so much more comfortable covered in mud while dreaming of being in the RAF. She would do anything for anyone and I am going to do everything for her from now on. She is my little sister but beyond that she will always be my best friend too."