A national register of violent offenders could be set up in an effort to keep the public safe from dangerous criminals, the home secretary said today.Charles Clarke said the database could be modelled on the existing sex offenders' register and would contain the names of prisoners who had served their jail terms but were still considered a threat. Mr Clarke revealed the idea as he formally unveiled plans for new "violent offender orders" which would seek to control the movements of violent offenders after they leave prison.The moves are part of the Home Office's response to a series of failures in the supervision of offenders, including a number of high-profile murders by men who were on probation. The orders could ban high-risk offenders from certain locations and impose a range of other conditions, although these do not include curfews. Breaking the orders could lead to up to five years in jail, Mr Clarke told MPs. Details of the orders have yet to be finalised and Mr Clarke said these would be announced before the summer. He accepted the orders could be subject to legal challenges.If the plans are adopted, it would be the first time probation conditions have been imposed on offenders who have served their full sentences and are technically free. "At the moment there is no power of the court, Probation Service or anyone else to supervise and control these people who are dangerous or thought to be, until they commit another crime," said Mr Clarke. "That is a serious weakness in the system."The home secretary announced separate moves to ensure that all released prisoners are supervised by probation officers until the end of their original sentences. Currently, people who committed crimes before April 4 2005 are only under the Probation Service until three-quarters of their sentence has passed. Mr Clarke had promised tough action following critical inquiry reports into the murders of the London financier John Monckton and 16-year-old Mary-Ann Leneghan. Mr Monckton was fatally stabbed by a man who had been released early from prison, and Ms Leneghan was tortured and killed by six men, of whom four had been on probation at the time.Today, shortly before Mr Clarke spoke to the Commons, a known paedophile who repeatedly raped a nine-year-old girl while under community supervision was jailed indefinitely at Lewes crown court. Kevin Hazelwood, 40, from Brighton, was already on the sex offenders' register for downloading child pornography when he carried out the abuse. Mr Clarke told MPs his measures were "an important step forward in protecting the public", but he acknowledged that "no risk can ever be eliminated".He said he had also commissioned a review of the process of assessing the risk posed by prisoners ahead of release.The Conservative home affairs spokesman, David Davis, said his party welcomed some of the Home Office moves but added that they "failed to address the real problems in the Probation Service". Mr Davis said that criminals prepared to murder and rob would not be deterred by "some kind of super-Asbo".Around 100 former prisoners commit serious crimes while on licence every year, according to Andrew Bridges, the chief inspector of probation. Mr Bridges said around one-fifth of those had been assessed as "high or very high risk", adding that the figures were very small compared with the 200,000 under supervision at any one time. The recidivism rate of the general prison population is around 66%.Victor Bates, whose wife Marian was shot dead by raiders - one of whom was under supervision - in a Nottingham jeweller's in 2003, said violent criminals should remain "locked up"."Do not let violent criminals out early under any circumstances," he told the BBC Radio 4's Today programme.But Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of the probation union Napo, said violent criminals jailed for a set period had to be released back into the community at some point, adding that 95% of those released on parole did not reoffend.