A paedophile who sexually abused four young girls after abducting them as they played outside their homes has been jailed for 17 years.David Bryant, who committed a series of assaults on children as young as three during the 1980s and 90s, was caught after cold-case detectives made a breakthrough using DNA.The 65-year-old, originally from Ulverston in Cumbria, kidnapped children over a 13-year period of "escalating" crimes.He snatched a five-year-old and a three-year-old from the Hampshire area in August 1982 and May 1983. In the first case he grabbed the girl after her mother had gone into their house to get drinks for the children. Shortly afterwards a couple reported they had found her and a man had run away.After a period living in Saudi Arabia, Bryant returned to the UK and in May and September 1995 abducted two girls, aged five and four, in Newcastle-upon-Tyne. All four children were indecently assaulted.At Newcastle Crown Court on Tuesday, Judge James Goss, the Recorder of Newcastle, said there had been a "distinct pattern" in Bryant's crimes – grabbing his victims from near his workplace at the time and assaulting them.Bryant's offending became more serious as he continued to evade capture, with the mother of his final victim believing her daughter was dead after she had been missing for 17 hours.Bryant was arrested last year after a DNA breakthrough was made. He denied he was the abductor during earlier court hearings, but pleaded guilty in January to four charges of kidnap and four of indecent assault.The court heard Bryant had convictions for similar offences against women aged 16 and over, stretching back to 1975.Francis Fitzgibbon, in mitigation, told the court that because of Bryant's age the chances of any re-offending were greatly reduced.But Judge Goss questioned Bryant's sincerity. "You now say you are remorseful, something to which I do not attach a great deal of weight. You were clearly not accepting your guilt at an earlier opportunity because of your desire to get away with it."There was a distinct pattern to your offences. In each case you approached your victims near to where you were working at the time. You took them to a private place where you assaulted them."Bryant was sentenced to 17 years in jail, placed on the sexual offenders register indefinitely and barred from working with children.Speaking after the sentencing, Detective Chief Inspector Steve Binks of Northumbria police said: "For 30 years, Bryant left these victims and their families traumatised by his despicable actions and has shown absolutely no remorse. I can't praise the families and victims enough for their support and strength through this long and traumatic ordeal."Our investigation led us to presenting evidence to Bryant, including a positive DNA match, which left him unable to deny his heinous crimes any longer."I hope it brings solace and reassurance to others that no unresolved case is closed. We continue to investigate historic cases and with advances in science and technology we can bring justice for victims, sometimes many years after crimes were committed."