Details of an alleged rape by a 15-year-old boy of a 13-year old girl in south-east London last Tuesday were misleadingly splashed on the front page of Monday's Daily Mail as "the most depraved incident to emerge from the riots".The boy from south London appeared before Camberwell Green magistrates court on Saturday, charged with robbing the young girl of her BlackBerry mobile phone and then throwing her to ground and raping her in Woolwich, one of the worst-hit areas in last week's civil unrest. The newspaper reported the incident happened "at the height of last week's riots" and said the boy "allegedly used the chaos as cover". After hundreds of cases of youngsters charged with looting bottles of wine, trainers and flat screen televisions, the serious charges of rape, sexual assault and robbery appeared to reveal a more sinister edge to events.But in fact the alleged incident is not being treated by the police or prosecutors as in any way linked to last week's civil unrest. It did not happen during the riots in Woolwich on Monday night, but much later – at around 9.30pm on Tuesday when London was relatively calm with 16,000 police officers deployed on the streets. A spokeswoman for the Metropolitan police confirmed the police log showed no rioting or looting in the Woolwich area on Tuesday night.After the Daily Mail described the incident as "rape at riots" and said the alleged crime took place "as police fought pitched battles with rioters", the Crown Prosecution Service released a statement stating that it was not making the case that the riots and the assault were connected."A 15-year-old defendant has been charged with robbery, rape and sexual assault following an incident late in the evening of 9 August in Woolwich, London, and has appeared in Camberwell Green magistrates' court," a spokesman for the CPS said. "We did not allege in court that there was any connection between this incident and the public disorder that had taken place earlier in Woolwich."On the night of the 8 August and into the early hours of 9 August, Woolwich had been the scene of intense violence; rioters charged police and a pub was burned out. When the alleged incident took place, the debris was still around. The court heard that the boy threw the girl onto the glass and rubbish-strewn ground before raping her. But the disorder had finished many hours earlier."[The alleged assault] is not being dealt with as disorder related," a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan police said. "This is a stand alone investigation."On Sunday, a second 15-year-old boy was arrested on suspicion of robbery in connection with the incident, which is alleged to have taken place near Grand Depot Road. He remained in custody on Monday night.It is alleged the two boys approached two 13-year-old girls and demanded their phones, before one of the boys raped one of the girls on grassy wasteland off the main road.The boy who has been charged will appear before a youth court on Friday.