The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, came within days of being assassinated in the 1980s for his alleged Republican sympathies, a former loyalist gunman hired to carry out the hit claimed today.Michael Stone, who was sentenced to 850 years in jail for a string of murders, said he planned to "clip" Mr Livingstone using a 9mm Beretta pistol as he entered the London Underground.Stone, 51, who was released under the Good Friday agreement, told the Evening Standard that he had carried out two surveillance operations stalking Mr Livingstone, then the leader of the Greater London Council."The guy was a gift," he said. "On my first reconnaissance trip I ended up following him on the tube. There was no sign of any security at all. He was on his own, with a kind of attaché case slung over his shoulder. I thought I'd clip him on the steps of the tube."Loyalist bosses tried to keep the plot secret by placing Stone in a Scarborough hotel, where he worked as a bar manager. On a second trip to the capital he carried out a "dry run"."I followed him to Westminster tube station, jogging behind him," he told the paper. "He's a fast walker, so it was easy. I decided I would run up behind him when he was on the steps going down, fire one shot in the back of the head, then a double tap into his torso - to make sure. He'd go down headfirst and I'd turn around and jog out of the station, towards the Embankment, and drop the gun into the river."Afterwards, Stone would lie low in a loyalist safehouse in London before travelling to Scotland and returning to Northern Ireland with Rangers fans who had been to Glasgow to watch a football match.However, a few days before the planned murder, Stone found out the operation had been compromised and called his handlers in Belfast."It was unravelling. I was within three days of doing it, but the whole thing was suddenly very iffy. From what I'd learned later, if I had gone ahead, I would probably have been ambushed by Special Branch."He returned to Belfast "frustrated and disappointed" because Mr Livingstone was a "high-profile and worthwhile" target.He told the Evening Standard that he was going public with the story now because a former loyalist accomplice had tried to blackmail him into paying £30,000 in return for his silence. Mr Livingstone became a loyalist target after he invited the Sinn Fein leaders, Martin McGuinness and Gerry Adams, to County Hall. A Greater London authority spokesman said Mr Livingstone had no comment to make about the claims.Stone went on to attract worldwide attention in 1988 when he attempted to kill Mr McGuinness and Mr Adams, at the funeral of three IRA members shot dead by the SAS in Gibraltar. He emerged during the televised funeral armed with two pistols and a hand grenade. His shots missed their targets but he killed three mourners during his failed attempt to escape from the angry mob. Beaten and bundled into a car, he was rescued by police while being driven to an IRA execution.He said he told police then about the plan to kill Mr Livingstone but no charges were brought. Instead he was charged with six murders and three counts of conspiracy to murder. Stone continues to live in hiding.