The husband of a special constable stabbed to death outside her home was arrested yesterday in connection with her murder, police sources said.Fadi Nasri, 33, was taken into custody by detectives investigating the murder of his wife, Nisha Patel-Nasri. He was arrested at an address in north London and taken to a west London police station for questioning. Mr Nasri, who runs a limousine business, is the fourth man to be arrested in connection with his wife's murder last year.Following his wife's stabbing, Mr Nasri made a heartfelt appeal for help to catch her killer. "Obviously, someone has got a guilty conscience - they shall be worrying about what they have done, or be shocked - or maybe it was an accident or mistake, or whatever," he said. "We know that someone has to know something who lives around them, a neighbour, or seen some blood, or someone acting suspiciously or nervous. It might not be important, but just give us a call and let us know."His wife, 29, died after being stabbed in the leg by an attacker outside her home in Sudbury Avenue, Wembley, north-west London, on May 11. She was found barefoot and bleeding, dressed in her nightclothes. One explanation for her killing was that she had gone outside after hearing a disturbance, possibly an attempt to break into cars outside her home.Five days before the stabbing her house had been targeted by burglars, an incident which her husband said had left her "scared".Three men had come to her porch door, but when she challenged them they said they had the wrong address and left. Immediately afterwards, one of them returned, but by then she had secured the door. But the motive for the attack remains unclear. She was killed with a distinctive 11.8in John Lewis Evolution cook's knife which was missing from a block set in her kitchen after the attack.It was later recovered by police who believed it carried not only Mrs Patel-Nasri's DNA, but also that of her suspected attacker.Mrs Patel-Nasri had been a special constable for 3½ years. She spent her last evening having dinner with her husband at their home to celebrate their third wedding anniversary and was attacked just before midnight after her husband had gone out to play snooker.At her funeral at Golders Green crematorium in north London more than 100 police officers formed a guard of honour for the coffin and Mr Nasri read a eulogy to his wife.Two men have already been charged with Mrs Patel-Nasri's murder. Tony Emmanuel, 41, of east London, and Jason Jones, 35, a doorman, from east London are next due at the Old Bailey on March 16. Another man, who is 37 and was arrested last year, was also being interviewed again yesterday in connection with the case.