The Soham defendant Maxine Carr will be granted early release if Prison Service chief Martin Narey approves the decision to put her on an electronic tag, it was confirmed yesterday.The former girlfriend of the killer Ian Huntley has been put forward for early release by the governor of Holloway prison in north London. Mr Narey is considering whether to use new powers to refuse permission to grant release, on the grounds that it would undermine public confidence in the tagging scheme. The 26-year-old was sentenced seven weeks ago to three-and-a-half years for conspiring to pervert the course of justice after Huntley murdered the 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. She has been in jail since August 2002 and would stay behind bars until mid-May if she were to serve half her sentence. But she could be released early under the home detention curfew scheme. She would be fitted with an electronic tag and alarms would be triggered if she left her house during the curfew. Ed Willetts, the governor of the women's prison at Holloway has approved Carr's application to join the scheme. She became eligible for release in early January and could walk out of jail immediately if Mr Narey decides not to use his new powers to overrule the decision. A Prison Service spokesman confirmed that Carr's papers were sent by the governor to Mr Narey, head of the Home Office's national offender management scheme, one week ago. "She could be out immediately if the decision is made to approve the governor's recommendation." He added that Mr Narey's decision was expected "sooner rather than later". Ministers last month granted Mr Narey the new powers to overrule governors in a direct response to the situation with Carr. Huntley was sentenced to life in December last year for the murders of the girls. The house where he murdered them is expected to be demolished in April, education authority officials said yesterday. The nearby storage hangar where he tried to hide the girls' clothes after killing them would be demolished at the same time.