The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday October 8 2007  Lawyers for Silvio Berlusconi have asked us to make clear that they did not seek to prevent evidence from being heard in a British court as stated in the opening of the article below, but rather they sought to prevent the evidence from being heard in open court, as the remainder of our article made clear.Lawyers for David Mills - the estranged husband of Olympics minister Tessa Jowell - and the former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi yesterday prevented pivotal evidence in their trial being heard in a British court.A district judge sitting at a London magistrates court agreed that much of the evidence being gathered for the high-profile Italian tax fraud case should not be given in public. Under Italian court regulations lawyers and accountants may invoke the privilege of client confidentiality to a greater extent than in British courts.The ruling by district judge Tim Workman at City of Westminster magistrates court was contested by counsel representing Italian prosecutors. Khawar Qureshi, QC, described it as a denial of "open justice". The clash came at the opening of what is termed a "mutual legal assistance hearing" aimed at gathering evidence from eight British witnesses.As well as the public and media, Italian judges who travelled to London for the cross-examinations were excluded by the court. The judges may hear the evidence at a later date when the main trial resumes in Milan. Mr Mills - who was not in court yesterday - and Mr Berlusconi are being tried in Italy on charges relating to the purchase by the former Italian premier's Mediaset empire of TV rights for US movies.Mr Mills is alleged to have set up off-shore firms that helped Mr Berlusconi's company avoid tax. Mr Mills has been accused of receiving £300,000 from Mr Berlusconi in exchange for false testimony in two trials against the media mogul. He has repeatedly denied the bribery and money-laundering charges.Hugo Keith, counsel for Mr Mills, said: "There's no public interest in this [hearing] being in public. I'm concerned [Mr Mills and Mr Berlusconi] will be subjected to a media circus about evidence that will never be submitted." Mr Qureshi said that Mr Mill's lawyers had "fired off salvos" of letters to "one or more witnesses" suggesting that matters relating to client confidentiality "may be invoked". But the court heard that most witnesses in the four-day London hearing were planning to request that their most sensitive evidence should not be heard in open court.Before going into private session yesterday, the court heard from Jeremy Scott, one of Mr Mills' partners in the law firm Mackenzie Mills. He revealed there had been disagreement between the firm's partners over the distribution of financial dividends from a company related to the trial.The hearing continues.