Police are urging men who visit brothels to contact them in confidence if they suspect women working there have been forced into prostitution. The move is part of Operation Pentameter - a major initiative to tackle human trafficking which involves law enforcement agencies and the travel industry throughout the UK and Republic of Ireland.Tim Brain, the Gloucestershire chief constable and Association of Chief Police Officers' spokesman on prostitution, said trafficking was a global problem, with hundreds of foreign women in Britain living in "modern day slavery". Many of them were abused, gang raped, imprisoned in tiny rooms and made to have sex with up to 40 men a day. A Home Office report five years ago estimated the number of victims at 1,400, but Dr Brain said the current figure could be double that.Operation Pentameter is aimed at raising awareness among victims and those who may encounter trafficked women on arrival in the UK. Port and airport workers are being encouraged to ask women - particularly from the Balkans and eastern Europe - whether they are all right, and report any suspicious activity.Police would also like to hear from customers, giving details of brothels. They could call the confidential Crimestoppers phoneline or speak to detectives directly. "I would like to reassure them we are concerned with freeing people from this horrendous slavery and not investigating the person that makes the report," Dr Brain said. But if a brothel was raided, men found would risk being investigated for using the services of trafficked women.Historically, trafficked women have been arrested for immigration offences, but Dr Brain said the emphasis was now on rescuing the victims and catching the perpetrators.But campaigners want the government to do much more to help. Kate Allen, UK director of Amnesty International, welcomed Operation Pentameter but criticised the government for not having signed the European convention against trafficking. The Home Office funds just one accommodation centre for trafficked women - the London-based Poppy Project - which has only 25 places.