The case of Peter Bryan outraged the papers yesterday. Bryan, who suffers from paranoid schizophrenia and a personality disorder, was convicted of manslaughter in 1994 and sent to Rampton high-security hospital. He was freed by a mental health tribunal in 2001 but in 2004 killed a man and ate part of his brain. He killed another man in Broadmoor secure hospital while awaiting trial for the previous killing. "Who let out the cannibal killer?" asked the  Sun, which noted Bryan was the ninth mental patient who had killed after being released by the East London and City Mental Health Trust. The identities of those responsible should be revealed. "The government should name them - then sack them." "Could they have been more wrong?" asked the  Daily Star, which recalled the killing of Jonathan Zito in 1992 by a care in the community patient. "Up to 40 people a year have been killed by mental health patients since then," it said. "Ministers must cut this appalling death toll by ensuring monsters like Bryan are locked up for good." In the  Daily Telegraph, Max Pemberton, a doctor working in mental health in the NHS, defended psychiatrists who while "trained in diagnosing mental illness, are not, contrary to popular opinion, able to read people's minds". But, he conceded, "mental health services are stretched to breaking point. There are not adequate services in place and care in the community has proved to be a disaster for many vulnerable patients." "It is true that mental health resources are over-stretched but surely they must be able to spot a psychopathic killer like Bryan," said the  Daily Mirror. "He is unlikely to ever change. If he does, he might be fit to be freed. But the benefit of the doubt can never be given to him and people like him." Quite right, said the  Daily Express. "He had already killed a girl in 1993 and was obviously a deeply disturbed man." Yet he was released. "What more evidence do we need that the policy of care in the community, introduced when it was fashionable to discredit institutional care, has failed?" It was time "to recognise that secure institutional care, away from the pressures of normal life, is the only place some dangerous individuals can function".