Two supporters of the Maoist cult leader Aravindan Balakrishnan have claimed he was framed for the rape and sexual assault of two followers and the false imprisonment of his daughter.Speaking before the 75-year-old London revolutionary was due to be sentenced on Friday, Josephine Herivel, who lived in his collective for 37 years, said: “It’s a total frame-up of him. He is going through political persecution.”Balakrishnan’s wife, Chanda Pattni, 68, earlier spoke out about his case for the first time also claiming a frame-up and defending the man who led the Workers’ Institute of Marxism-Leninism-Mao Zedong Thought at addresses across south London. She told the Times: “It was a frame-up. If [the women] were genuinely in fear they could have left at any time. They both went out to work every day.”Balakrishnan’s victims gave emotional testimony in last month’s trial. They said they were raped and sexually assaulted by the Indian-born Maoist. The jury accepted their accounts, finding him guilty on four charges of rape, six of sexual assault and two of assault causing actual bodily harm.Judge Deborah Taylor at the time warned him he faced a “substantial custodial sentence” for the attacks against the two women as well as the false imprisonment of his daughter and cruelty towards her. He secretly fathered the child, known as Fran, now 33, with Sian Davies, another collective member, who died following an unexplained fall from a window at the commune on Christmas Eve 1996. The trial heard how Balakrishnan ruled over his small coterie of mostly female followers with violence and psychological terror, including threatening them with death from an electronic satellite warfare machine he called Jackie, which, he claimed, would strike them dead if they stepped out of line. He predicted a world revolution inspired by China and the overthrow of the “British fascist state”. He ran the collective from 1976 until Fran escaped in 2013, with the assistance of Herivel. Herivel said she now regretted her decision and believed Balakrishnan, known as Comrade Bala, was innocent. She has also rejected a diagnosis that she is suffering from Stockholm syndrome.“Aravindan had a history of standing up to injustices in Britain and he has openly told what he thinks about the British state so how is that British state going to miss the opportunity to persecute him,” Herivel said. “Especially the Metropolitan police [whom] he has called fascists.”Balakrishnan’s wife also said she was shocked that her husband had fathered a child with someone else – but brushed it off as a mistake. She said: “For 99.99% of the time he is loving me and not these other people.” Balakrishnan has been held in custody at Wandsworth prison, London, and was visited by his wife on Monday. “He looked as if he had shrunk, he was lost,” she said. “I don’t allow myself to think about the sentencing. I am still hoping that he will come home.” 