A man shot dead by police had reportedly threatened a member of the public with an Uzi-style submachine gun, investigators said last night.Firearms officers were sent to the village of Stansted, near Sevenoaks, Kent, just after 8am on Saturday in response to a 999 call.The caller said a man was in the street "wielding an Uzi-type submachine gun", the Independent Police Complaints Commission said.Police later challenged a man before firing two shots, both of which hit him. He died at the scene.Residents speculated yesterday that the dead man might be a "troubled" stranger who had spent the night before the shooting drinking heavily in the local pub.The IPCC said the dead man was white, about 40, and from Kent, although he did not live in Stansted. Investigators believe they know his identity, but he is not expected to be named until Wednesday.Forensic evidence was being gathered from the scene.It is not thought that the man held a firearms licence or was a member of a registered gun club.The IPCC commissioner, David Petch, said the investigation would be looking at why the police were called and what happened when the officers were deployed.The shooting happened near the junction of Tumblefield Road and Wrotham Hill Road, not far from the A20 and the M20. A weapon matching the description given in the 999 call was recovered and a white Mitsubishi car believed to belong to the dead man was towed away from the scene.The two officers who fired their weapons in the incident have been moved to non-firearm duties.Anne Roberts, publican of the Black Horse in Tumblefield Road, said that a man not known to local people had spent all Friday night in the pub. He was on his own and drank heavily, but seemed quite sober and chatted to lots of people.However, a member of the bar staff noted that he seemed troubled and she twice asked him if he was alright.When last orders was called at about 11.20pm, the stranger ordered a double vodka before leaving the pub.Roberts said: "It was a quiet, local kind of night and our restaurant was closed, so he stood out. He was a man in his 30s. He told us he was originally from this area, but now lived in Wiltshire or Dorset. He said he was on a trip down memory lane."He was well-spoken and had told her that he had a well-paid job, possibly as an electrical engineer, she recalled. However he added that he was staying at a bed and breakfast in a nearby road where, she added, she knew there was no B&B.She described the man as white, balding and of average height, but added that she could not be sure whether this was the same man who was shot.The road had been closed "top and bottom" on Saturday, she said. People had been told that if they left their homes they would not be allowed back in.The IPCC sent three investigators to provide a scene assessment. Petch said he had decided on an independent investigation."I would like to extend my sympathies to the family and friends of the dead man," he said. "I would like to reassure them and the police officers that the IPCC investigation will be timely and proportionate.The incident was the second fatal police shooting in the area in six months. Ann Sanderson, 37, a stores manager, was shot dead by officers in Sevenoaks town centre in the early hours of June 11.