Hooligans can expect to receive on-the-spot fines from police from today as part of the government's drive to curb antisocial behaviour.In a series of pilot schemes, speeding ticket-style notices will be issued imposing fixed penalties of £80 and £40. They will help crack down on offences such as using threatening behaviour, being drunk and disorderly and making hoax 999 calls. Offenders will be able to pay by post. If they deny the charge, they can elect to go to court for a full trial. The pilot schemes starting today are in Croydon, south London; Essex; the West Midlands; and north Wales. British transport police will also take part in the scheme in the West Midlands. If the one-year trials are successful, the idea will be extended to the rest of the UK. The fines are designed to prevent police cells and the courts being clogged with petty offenders who receive only a "slap on the wrist" from magistrates. A Home Office spokeswoman said: "The scheme will give police greater flexibility to tackle low-level antisocial crime swiftly and simply. "It will provide police with an additional tool to tackle nuisance crimes and intimidating behaviour which blights the lives of so many people. "It will reduce the amount of police time spent on paperwork and courts' time in dealing with prosecutions, and yet provides a punishment for the offender." The higher level fines will be for offenders who use threatening behaviour or words causing alarm or distress, wasting police time, knowingly giving a false alarm to the fire brigade or sending false message under the Telecommunications Act 1984. Being drunk and disorderly or drunk in the highway, throwing stones at trains, trespassing on a railway, throwing fireworks, drinking in a restricted area, wilful obstruction of the highway and buying alcohol for children will set people back £40. Most tickets will be given out at police stations but they can also be given out at the time. Offenders can be arrested if they fail to take the ticket. The association of chief police officers and the pilot police forces have strongly backed the plan, according to the Home Office. But some rank-and-file officers have expressed fears that issuing a ticket could itself spark a confrontation, while taking down details of those detained would also waste valuable time on the beat. A further concern is that offenders will not carry identification and simply give a false name and address.Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan police federation, said: "Officers will soon be walking around like bus conductors, issuing tickets."