A third man has been arrested in connection with the shooting of five-year-old Thusha Kamaleswaran.The 18-year-old was arrested on Sunday and taken to a south London police station where he remains in custody, Scotland Yard said.He is also being held in connection with the shooting of 35-year-old Roshan Selvakumar in the incident last Wednesday at the Stockwell Food and Wine shop.Thusha's mother last week urged people to help the police and save another family from suffering the same tragedy. Sharmila Kamaleswaran said what had happened to her daughter had left her feeling empty inside."This incident has caused much shock for me and my family," she said. "As any mother, I have deep love for all my children and what has happened to my daughter Thusha has left me feeling empty inside."I cannot eat or sleep properly until she opens her eyes. My daughter Thusha is such a sweet, quiet and helpful child, always smiling and laughing. I cannot wait to hear her voice again and hold her."I thank everyone who is praying for her. I ask for any person who knows about those responsible for this to come forward and speak to the police. I do not wish this to happen to another family."She spoke as a man was remanded in custody charged with two counts of attempted murder following the double shooting. Anthony McCalla, 19, of Streatham, south London, will appear next at the Old Bailey on 10 June.He appeared at Camberwell Green magistrates court on Saturday charged with shooting both the girl and Selvakumar.McCalla, wearing a brown and white striped top and blue jeans, listened intently during the 15-minute hearing and spoke only to give his name, address and date of birth. District judge Sue Green refused an application for bail.On Friday night, a 14-year-old boy arrested on suspicion of attempted murder in connection with the shootings was bailed to a date later this month.Relatives are maintaining vigils at Thusha's hospital bedside while detectives build up a "continuity trail" of the attackers' movements. Police said both victims remained in a "serious but stable" condition.