A former British Airways steward who conned his friends, family and well-wishers out of more than £200,000 after falsely claiming he had a brain tumour admitted 25 deception charges yesterday.Glenn Rycroft, 27, pleaded guilty to the charges at Manchester crown court yesterday. He will be sentenced today and was told a jail sentence was "inevitable". He had claimed he needed money to fund lifesaving specialist treatment in North America and Australia. To make his story seem convincing, he shaved his head, faked seizures and used vampire blood from a joke shop in his ruse. He read up on the symptoms in medical textbooks. He conned a 72-year-old neighbour out of thousands of pounds of her savings. She had known him since he was two. Another victim was his best friend from school, and he also conned his brother, who lived in Germany, out of money. Rycroft left his cabin crew job with British Airways in November 2000 on unpaid leave after falsely claiming his mother was dying of cancer, although she had never been ill. He later resigned after he falsely claimed he had a brain tumour. His victims were also persuaded to invest in a so-called BA investment bond, which promised large cash returns ranging from 10% over 12 months to 15% over six months. But the scheme was phoney. Rycroft's barrister claimed he was acting under the influence of a cult that had become the centre of his life. None of the money has ever been recovered, but Rycroft took 11 holidays in a 13-month period. He took three friends for a three-night Christmas break at the five-star Sheraton hotel in London. He enjoyed holidays in Florida and the Bahamas, followed by an expensive golfing trip to the Algarve. Another of Rycroft's friends was taken to Denver and Las Vegas. During the holiday, he kept up a pretence that it was funded by a bribe he had received over illegal cargo when he worked at BA. But it was a lie. Rycroft used the money to set up businesses, including a loans firm, a hair salon and two newsagents. He was found out in October 2001 when staff at Willows social club in Salford, which had been organising a fundraising evening, became suspicious about his medical condition. Rycroft had told them he had been to two chemotherapy sessions in one day and they did not believe him. They checked his credentials on a document he had forged, purporting to be from a Dr Knowles at Stepping Hill hospital in Stockport, which said he had a brain tumour. The letter turned out to be fake and the doctor did not exist. An officer in the case said: "Rycroft was one of the most callous and cruel conmen we have ever dealt with. He conned all his friends and even his family. "It's a sickening thought that a man should cash in on cancer, let alone cash in on something which he didn't even have. He kept claiming he needed money for expensive treatment, but spent it all on a jetset lifestyle." The officer said Rycroft's friends had been so moved by his lies they had just wanted to help him. "People were bending over backwards to help him because they believed what he was saying and they just didn't realise the money was going on luxury things. "Entertainers would perform free at events for him. It was a truly appalling scam." After his deceptions were uncovered, Rycroft attempted to kill himself by pouring petrol over his body and car and deliberately driving into the central reservation of the A1(M) in West Yorkshire. He was pulled from the wreckage by two passing motorists. His counsel, Toby Hedworth, submitted legal argument that he should be allowed to claim he had been acting under duress because of his membership of the Community of Free Spirits cult. But Judge John Burke said such a defence could not be validly raised. Rycroft, from Salford, was told to expect a custodial sentence.