The judicial appointments system, which as late as April was described by Lord Irvine to be in "as good a state as it can be", was given notice of a radical restructuring yesterday by his successor as lord chancellor, Lord Falconer. Just how bad the current system is was set out last October by the commissioner for judicial appointments who, contrary to his title, does not make appointments but monitors the 140-strong departmental team that does. Its defects included being slow, opaque, unsystematic and unprofessional. Worst of all was the "anecdote, gossip, hearsay and irrelevant self-indulgent comment" the commissioner found in the "secret soundings" files, drawn from 4,700 responses on 456 candidates. Is it any wonder in such an unprofessional selection procedure that the system recreates itself. Some 78% of senior judges are white, male, public school and Oxbridge educated. No woman has ever reached the highest court, the law lords, and there are only three out of 33 on the court of appeal. The high court is still awaiting an ethnic minority judge.In three separate consultation documents, Lord Falconer set out the reform options with a clear signal of the government's preferred path. At the heart of the change is a new judicial appointments system based on openness and transparency. The first hurdle - who appoints the appointment board - is safely passed. It will be set up by an independent panel comprising the department's permanent secretary, a senior judge, a senior executive from outside the law and an independent assessor. This looks sufficiently robust to protect the procedure from political interference. The appointments commission itself is more disappointing. The current preferred option is a 15-member board com prising 10 lawyers (five judges plus five lawyers) and just five lay members. This is much too heavily stacked with lawyers, particularly in a commission which will be told to widen representation. Similarly, the position of the chair is left open, but must not be taken by a judge. Scotland has shown the way; its 10-member commission, headed by a lay person, has equal numbers of legal and lay members. The powers of the commission will also disappoint many. It will be a recommending commission, not an appointing commission, at the higher levels. True, the preferred option involves "severely circumscribed ministerial discretion", in which only one name will be put forward by the commission, but it still gives the secretary of state the power of rejection. In reality this would make a rejection difficult, but it does not look good if you are trying to keep politics out of appointments. The purported reason, the need to make the new commission accountable to parliament and the crown, looks specious. There is enough experience with executive agencies today to get round this challenge. Sensibly, there will be a statutory duty placed on the secretary of state to defend the independence of the judiciary, which would mean if a future David Blunkett decided to launch a crude and ill-informed assault on the judiciary, he could be put in his place. The best option for selecting the new supreme court, whose rule will be UK-wide, would be an appointing body with members drawn from the three national appointment commissions. Belatedly, the end of the fee-raising rank of QC also beckons. This will only continue if the bar can justify the public interest, a challenge which barristers failed to meet in their submissions to the office of fair trading. Its passing will not be mourned.