Scotland Yard's reaction to killings and attacks on gay, lesbian and transsexual people has historically been blighted by "institutional" homophobia, according to a report. A review of how detectives handled 10 murders of gay men or transsexuals says that in some cases inquiries were hampered by lack of knowledge, reliance on unfounded stereotypes and personal prejudices. Of the cases examined in a process sanctioned by the Met, four remain unsolved.The report, written by the independent Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Advisory Group, says the problems were mirrored and in many cases exacerbated by coverage in the mainstream media.The work is seen as so important by the Met that those involved are today expected to be commended. Some feel the research is equivalent to the Met's re-evaluation of how it dealt with racist crime after the Macpherson report on the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence.The review recognises that Scotland Yard has substantially improved its dealings with gay, lesbian and transsexual communities and its investigative processes since the 1990s. But the authors warn that more radical steps are needed.Their report calls for better intelligence procedures to track known and potentially violent homophobes and to better safeguard places used by such communities. They also call for a more effective system for warning people when particular sites become dangerous. While applauding the extent to which detectives have become more sensitive, they also call for a more coherent strategy.The report says: "If we borrow the terminology of the Macpherson report, historical police practice amounted to 'institutional' homophobia and transphobia."It adds: "There were several investigations where we have deep reservations about the way in which the identity of the victim informed investigative decisions at the time. We also found evidence of inappropriate attitudes to the circumstances of some murders."Among the cases examined were five murders in 1993 by Colin Ireland, who attacked gay men he met in a pub. The review finds that the inquiry was "hampered by a lack of knowledge of the gay scene in London and the special culture of S&M bondage. In particular, valuable time was lost before the police managed to recognise two common threads to the crimes. These links were established only after the death of the fourth victim."Police overlooked similarities between the way the bodies were found, and initially missed evidence that they had all met Ireland in the same pub. The report says police "failed at the time to deal adequately with ... [the] life and culture. The initial investigations seemed to us to be more focused on determining promiscuity and risk taking." More should have been done to warn communities. The result was "a serious failure of policing," the report says. Colin Ireland eventually turned himself in to police.Similar concerns surround the unsolved killing of Geoffrey Windsor, who was murdered in a south London park in 2002. The report finds that there had previously been homophobic attacks in the same area but that there was "insufficient communication of the level of risk associated with the cruising ground to the very wide range of people using it". The authors recommend more effective sharing of intelligence between borough police officers.The authors cite one notorious comment following the unsolved murder of actor Michael Boothe who was killed in 1990. A senior officer was quoted as saying: "A person born with any sort of colour doesn't have a choice in the matter. I would suggest that sexual preferences, however, are a matter of individual choice."The report draws a clear distinction between the 20th-century and the 21st-century investigations. Independent advisers, who began work after the Macpherson report, provided community expertise to the more recent inquiries. Liaison procedures dealing with the families of victims and their partners and friends have also been enhanced.Bob Hodgson, co-chairman of the review, says: "Things were awful but now they are better. Prosecutions are improving all the time. But our main point today is prevention. Preventing these murders from taking place is better than having the most brilliant prosecution."He adds: "It is important to assess how things were and how they are now if we really hope to move forward."Commander Dave Johnston of the Met's specialist crime directorate, says: "We have learned from past investigations, increased our understanding and introduced a number of initiatives."The victims  Disjointed inquiries and inappropriate appealsMichael Boothe, 49 The actor was killed in Elthorne Park, Ealing, west London. A gang of youths arrested and questioned because they were known to have made homophobic remarks could not be linked to the killing. The case has been closed. A Met review said his lifestyle was "destined to bring him into contact with his murderers". The new report says the killings might not have occurred if previous attacks had been "investigated seriously".Emanuel Spiteri, 41 Killed by serial murderer Colin Ireland after a meeting in the Coleherne pub in Earls Court, west London. Witnesses saw him with Ireland en route to his flat in Catford where he was later found strangled. Police released a picture of him in a leather jacket and leather cap which may not have been appropriate for a public appeal, the report said.Robyn Brown A pre-operative transsexual woman, the sex worker was found dead in her flat in Marylebone, north-west London. The murderer has never been found. She was identified to the public using different names which may have hampered attempts to connect with intended communities.Jaap Bornkamp The Dutch-born floral designer, 54, was stabbed to death in 2000 after leaving an all-night gay sauna in New Cross, south-east London. Detectives took independent advice. Despite deficiencies the level of family liaison and visible appeals were seen as "a model of good practice".Andrew Collier The housing warden, 33, was another Ireland victim. Murder was classified homophobic and linked with Peter Walker, his first victim. Police worked with a gay helpline but could have done more to warn the public once the link was made.