In this country's law and order debates, it has traditionally fallen to the London taxi driver, the tabloid editorial writers or the Conservative party conference to issue calls to "lock 'em all up" without the messy inconvenience of any kind of trial beforehand. So it was a sign of how far the civil liberties debate has slipped in the New Labour era to hear just such a proposal coming from the mouth of a judge yesterday. And not just from any judge, either. For the man who thinks we should now consider locking up our citizens even if they have committed no crime is the most liberal lord chief justice in modern times, Lord Woolf.Lord Woolf's idea is that some form of "protective custody" could be needed to defend the public from "a very small minority of people" who cannot be dealt with in any other way and who present such an overwhelming danger that the normal rules of criminal and penal procedure should not apply to them. In his mind are cases like that of Roy Whiting, the paedophile who murdered Sarah Payne only five years after assaulting another young girl. The Payne case has sparked national debate and a campaign for tougher controls against child sex abusers. It has rightly led to a wide spread questioning of whether the existing sentencing rules are adequate to protect children from paedophiles. But Lord Woolf has uncharacteristically come up with a truly barmy answer. The right to liberty from arbitrary detention is a cornerstone of any free society. It can only be set aside legitimately, if at all, in circumstances such as rebellion or war. Even in the days when the English law allowed children to be transported for stealing a loaf of bread, it still required that they had to have been convicted of an offence, however trivial. Fortunately, there are middle way options between the present danger from men like Whiting and the new threat to liberty suggested by Lord Woolf. But they must all focus on the individual offender. Paedophiles convicted of any offence could be subject to indefinite sentences, as suggested by Nacro. Some cases of sexual obsession, even among unconvicted offenders, might also be better treated as mental disorder, something Lord Woolf ruled out prematurely. Society needs to be proactive against sexual danger, but we must not sanction locking people up just because the state thinks they might cause future danger. Revolutions have taken place over less.