A historic and usually serene village in Gloucestershire was struggling yesterday to come to terms with the violent death of a popular pub landlord mown down by a car of teenagers.Eyewitnesses told how grandfather Bob Todd was thrown high up in the air and left for dead by a vehicle which had swerved and hit him. Mr Todd, 56, a community stalwart who raised thousands of pounds for charity, selflessly intervened after a gang of teenagers apparently attacked a group of young people on the village recreation ground in Pucklechurch, on the edge of the Cotswolds. He attempted to stop the gang's car as they tried to flee the scene but was hit by the vehicle. Mr Todd, a married father of two grown up children, was pronounced dead at the scene. A 16-year-old girl, two men aged 18 and three 17-year-old boys have been arrested on suspicion of murder, grievous bodily harm and violent disorder. Surrounded by rolling green hills and farms, Pucklechurch is a beautiful Saxon village of foliage-fronted 17th- and 18th-century stone cottages centering on the St Thomas à Becket Church, which is more than 700 years old. Residents yesterday expressed their disbelief that their peaceful country home had been hit by the latest in a string of violent crimes around Britain. Police believe trouble broke out shortly before 12.30am yesterday when teenagers from the Kingswood area nearby may have picked a fight with a group of young people on the recreation ground. One man in his twenties suffered a broken jaw and lost several teeth in the attack and is now recovering in hospital. According to witnesses, Mr Todd emerged from his pub, The Star Inn, which faces the recreation ground, and chased the gang. The teenagers piled into a blue Mazda 323 parked outside the village community centre and attempted to drive off, leading to the fatal collision. Amy Johnson-Eames, 16, who works in the village newsagents, claimed Mr Todd's sister and Kevin Flook, who lives in the village, had been attacked by members of the group. Now he is in hospital. 'Bob heard about this and asked them to move on. He then chased them down to the community centre. They got into the car and drove straight through him. He flew up into the air and cracked his head open.' Raj Birk, 16, who was being dropped off by a taxi near the community centre at the time, said: 'I was chatting to the taxi driver when I saw these lights in the mirror. I could see this car speeding up and Bob was standing in the road. I slammed the taxi door shut and the car that ran over Bob sped past us. The recreation ground was sealed off as forensic officers carried out a detailed examination. Superintendent Andy Francis of Avon and Somerset police said: 'This was a tragic incident that took away the life of a man who was extremely well-known and respected in the village.' Mr Todd is thought to have two grown-up children, Jamie and Hayley, and several grandchildren. His tearful wife Diane closed the pub as a mark of respect to her husband. Employees were also seen leaving the pub, many of whom were in tears. Outside the pub, villagers had laid bouquets. One message read: 'The heart of our village has been tragically taken.' Another read: 'Bob - RIP. The "star" of Pucklechurch has been taken.' Why?'