"I miss biking more than my leg," a leather-clad former motorcyclist, who lost a large chunk of the limb in a crash on the M1 near Luton, told the Guardian during the 2001 Bulldog Bash. "That's why I'm here now. If you did it, you'd know. If you don't, you can't know."The annual event, now in its 21st year, attracts up to 30,000 motorcycling devotees from across Britain and Europe. When the Guardian visited in 2001,  it reported  on a world where the tattoo parlour never seemed to close, beer flowed freely and stripping was a popular spectator sport. However, amid the motorcycling drag events and mini moto racing, one thing was clearly absent: violence.The spirit of "bonhomie", which organisers insist still dominates the event, has been overshadowed by the murder of a Hells Angel, as he rode home along the M40. The victim's membership of the legendary rebel club is yet to be confirmed by police, but is assured by "Bilbo" - the Bash's organiser - who says he knew him.Only a tiny fraction of the crowd at the bash would have been Hells Angels. The organisation founded in the late 1940s  and named after a US second world war bomber group, has an estimated 1800 members, but only around 200 in Britain. Despite the rebellious image associated with bikers - and cemented by the testosterone-fuelled antics of Marlon Brando in the Wild One - the Hells Angels follow a strict doctrine. They are keen to underline that the group is a club not a gang. There's even a FAQ on the  website  explaining the lack of an apostrophe in their name.In Britain, there are four main "outlaw" biker groups. The Hells Angels with their 200 members split among 14 regionally-based chapters; Satan's Slaves, with a similar number of members mostly based in northern Britain; the Outcasts, centred in London and East Anglia and the Outlaws, with around 150 members and focussing on the West Midlands.During the late 1990s, there were fears that a biker war could break out following the deaths of two Outcast members at the hands of Hells Angels in Battersea, south London. In January 1998, "Flipper" Armstrong was set upon by the Hells Angels as he parked his bike outside a concert at Battersea Arts Centre. His friend, Mal St Clair, went to help him and was stabbed to death. Armstrong died of a heart attack as a result of his injuries. The two-year feud between the rival gangs also featured shootings, arson attacks and attempted bombings. In 1999, the Observer reported police fears that motorcyclists were stockpiling weapons. One Outcast member was jailed for three years after police found a gun, ammunition and drugs in his car.Yet, for all the hype, most renegade bikers lead ordinary lives, the Guardian reported at the time. "The bikers I met there were tough men. Some played up to the image, wearing leather cut-offs and faded Levi's, and sporting big guts, rat-tail hairdos and cottony beards. Others were more circumspect. Their leather gear aside, they might have passed for bankers. Most were proud, and quick to take offence. A great many showed off their egos. Only a handful were overtly aggressive, and that only briefly. (And no one, incidentally, smelled.)," Melanie McGrath found.Little appears to have changed. "They're not the sort of guys who go round starting fights," a source close to the Hells Angels said today. "But they're the kind of people who if you start an argument with them they won't back down, and a lot of them are dangerous men if you start an argument with them." He added that while British Hells Angels were a largely peaceful group, chapters in eastern Europe and Scandinavia had a reputation for extremism and violence, and had been linked to far-right groups. That fierce reputation also continues in North America. Last year, Canadian police found the bodies of eight Bandido members - another outlaw gang - who appeared to have been killed as part of a battle for control of the group. All eight victims - white men from the Toronto area - had suffered gunshot wounds. Their bodies were discovered in abandoned cars in the brush, on an isolated field near the hamlet of Shedden in southern Ontario.