The government's community punishment programme to tackle the most hardcore teenage criminals has a failure rate of 91%, it was revealed yesterday.The Youth Justice Board, which runs the intensive supervision and surveillance programme, admitted yesterday that the reconviction rate was "very high". But it insisted the £98m scheme was working because those who had been on it were committing fewer and less serious crimes.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, last night branded the scheme an utter disgrace. He said: "Last year's figures were bad, but this year's figures are worse. With more than nine out of 10 reoffending, the government's flagship scheme must be called into question."The Liberal Democrats' Mark Oaten said that while the figures were disappointing the government should not give up trying to find tough alternatives to jail. He said: "They show that the projects need more thought. Locking up and throwing away the key should not be the alternative."More than 4,800 teenagers have been through the scheme in the past year. It was introduced in 2001 as an alternative to locking up persistent teenage offenders in juvenile jails. At a current cost of £12,000 a place, the YJB says the programme has been recognised as "the most robust and innovative community-based programme available for persistent and serious young offenders".Teenager offenders are put on the scheme for between six and 12 months as part of a community sentence, a bail package or a drug treatment order. They spend half the time on an electronic tag to monitor their movements and face a demanding programme of 25 hours of work and training each week.The scheme has spawned a new generation of community sentences, including the intensive control and change programme, aimed at those aged 18 to 21.An Oxford University study of 900 young offenders on the community punishment programme up to April 2003, published yesterday, shows that 91% of those who went through the scheme were reconvicted at least once within two years.The YJB said this figure was "not surprising given that the young people in the sample had committed an average of 11.6 offences in the previous two years". Indeed, it claims the programme has actually cut their rate of offending by 40% as the teenagers went on to commit an average of "only" 7.1 offences during the two years after they left the programme.The board said the aim of the programme was to reduce the frequency and seriousness of the crimes they committed."These are the most persistent offenders. The chances of them stopping offending completely is very, very slim."