Two Metropolitan police officers have been sacked without notice for gross misconduct over the Plebgate row involving the former chief whip Andrew Mitchell.Mitchell was forced to resign his post after he was accused of calling PC Toby Rowland a pleb when he was refused permission to cycle through the Downing Street main gate on 19 September 2012. The MP admits he swore, but denies using the word pleb. He attended the hearings of PC Keith Wallis and PC James Glanville as an interested party.Wallis, 53, was sentenced to 12 months in prison on 6 February having pleaded guilty to misconduct in public office following his arrest under Operation Alice. He had sent an email to his MP, conservative deputy chief whip John Randall, claiming to have witnessed Mitchell shouting obscenities at the police officers in Downing Street. Though a serving officer with the Diplomatic Protection Group (DPG), a police investigation found he was not present at the incident.The misconduct hearing also considered that since June 2011 Wallis had been running a business interest that was not disclosed to the Metropolitan police.Glanville was arrested on 31 January last year on suspicion of passing information about the incident to the Sun. No criminal charges were brought, but the Met and the Independent Police Complaints Commission agreed he had a case to answer for gross misconduct. He was not on duty at the time of the incident, but was present at a DPG base later that night. "The Operation Alice team found evidence that later that evening he passed information about the incident to the Sun newspaper," the Met police said in a statement."He later provided the newspaper a photo of PC Toby Rowland's email that he sent to his supervisors, which he got from another colleague who had been on duty at Downing Street that night. He subsequently lied about his actions in a statement given to detectives from the Alice team,"Assistant commissioner Simon Misconduct hearings are considered a private process with information treated as confidential. However, given the public interest in this investigation, the Metropolitan police has said it will publicise the outcomes of the hearing.Mitchell said after the hearings: "There is a limit to what we can say because these are private hearings."It would be better in our view because of the public interest in all of this if the hearings were held in public. But two police officers have been found guilty of gross misconduct and have been dismissed from the police," he told the BBC.More than 1,100 statements have been taken during the course of the Operation Alice investigation. In total 439 exhibits have been seized, including computers, laptops and mobile phones, and 78 relevant documents.Wallis, who was one year from retirement after a 30 year career, was intoxicated and suffering from mental illness at the time. Passing sentence Mr Justice Sweeney said his "devious" actions "fell far below the standards expected of a police officer".In a victim impact statement Mitchell described his devastation at Wallis's false statement which "gave traction" to the Downing Street story.Byrne found that the misconduct cases against both men had been proven as they had "breached standards of professional behaviour in relation to honesty and integrity, confidentiality, orders and instructions and discreditable conduct".The Metropolitan police said three outstanding gross misconduct hearings were expected to take place in April and May.