Let's face it: Rhyl isn't Chicago, even if it accounts for a third of all the crime committed in Denbighshire. It is a north Wales seaside resort whose candyfloss glory days faded when holidaymakers discovered that Spain was cheap and warm. But the town was named this week by the government as one of five areas to receive special help to reduce crime and anti-social behaviour. Along with inner city areas of London, Bristol, Stoke and Bradford, Rhyl will, according to the home secretary, David Blunkett, "receive the advice and support they need to engage the community and build partnerships to reduce crime and improve quality of life for all." As Rhyl's allure has declined, many guest houses on the west side of town where the posh people once lived have been converted into cheap bedsits, homes for locals and incomers united by poverty and sometimes drugs. "Most are on basic benefits but basic benefits do not meet their basic needs," says Barry Speake, a welfare rights officer. "Most people cannot afford their rents, clothes or a decent diet." Rhyl, says Chief Inspector Mike Mullis of North Wales police, does not have the crime problem that the other four pilot areas have. "Our problem is deprivation," he says. John Killion, development director of the local community agency funded by Denbighshire county council, agrees. He produces a league table, which shows that Rhyl West, a tight rectangle of streets between the railway line and the sea, is the most deprived ward in Wales. "There are two causes - the bad state of some of the housing and the lack of jobs," he adds. "There could be 12 flats or bedsits in one house. There could be a family of four living in a room this size. "There is nowhere for the kids to play and nowhere even to take binbags because invariably only one flat has access to the back yard. "So the family can be in there with a bag of stinking nappies and rotting food. The pressure these people are under is just tremendous." It does not take long to find an example. A man on his doorstep explains that he, his wife and four children live in the groundfloor flat; above them is a couple with five dogs; and above them another couple with four children. He cannot wait to move to a new home in Wrexham. "There are a lot of junkies round here," says Ian Higton behind the counter in the nearby corner shop. "We rarely have trouble with them but you can't take your eyes off them because they will take anything that is not nailed down." Rhyl has had its share of drugs horror stories. Last year a 14-year-old Liverpool boy, known as the Kinder Kid because he hid stashes of drugs in chocolate treats, was sent to a detention centre for two years for supplying in Rhyl. In 1994, an 18-month-old boy died of thirst after his parents accidentally died by overdosing on heroin. Down at the West Rhyl Young People's Project on Bedford Street, which offers advice and support to those under 25, John (not his real name) tells how he used ecstasy and cannabis and tried heroin. He is now steering clear of drugs. There are plenty of agencies offering help in Rhyl. Bedford Street is also home to Shelter, the Samaritans and the independent Benefit Agency Shop, where Barry Speake works. It serves the whole of Denbighshire but 25% of its work is with people of West Ward. Mr Speake says crime is inexorably linked with housing, poverty and drugs and says the poor are feeding off each other. "It's not only people with Rolex watches who are crime victims," he says. "The poor are probably targeted more often than the middle or upper classes." But the Rev Simon Walkling, minister of nearby Christ Church for 10 years and chairman of the local Citizens Advice Bureau, hangs on to a belief that no problem is irredeemable. "I have hope because there are people who care, give their time, make the connections that make the difference." He has set up a bond scheme, which guarantees the security deposits demanded by landlords from tenants who often haven't a penny. He talks of Rhyl's warm heart and his wish to bring the town's communities together, to draw on the stability of the old established residents who love the town to help the in comers whose dreams turn sour. But he has few illusions. "The truth is that you cannot live on benefits and West Ward is loaded with people on benefits. The result of that is generations of deprivation, generations of drug users." It is not all gloom. Veronica Longden and David Henderson of the West Ward residents' associations, are proud to have each brought up six children in the area. "When we were buying our house 13 years ago," says Ms Longden, "our solicitor said, 'I really don't think you appreciate where you are buying. It has a dreadful drugs and crime problem. I feel you should not go through with buying this property'. "I told him I didn't think Rhyl would frighten me off. We have been happy here. There are lots of ordinary residents, ordinary people living in ordinary houses."