Justice is supposed to be blind, but apparently it's also a bit slow on its feet – and it lives in inconvenient places. So the Magistrates' Association has come up with a new idea: take it on the road, and speed it up.This, as revealed in Tuesday's papers, is their proposed solution to a serious problem. Even small courts are expensive: they require dedicated facilities and a specialist staff. When not in session, they are a waste of space, and they can be hard for witnesses and families to get to. Cases can take ages to schedule and even longer to prepare for. But with 103 magistrates' courts and 54 county courts currently threatened with closure, an overhaul is needed.What the Magistrates' Association suggests is to take courts out of their hallowed premises, and reinvent them as ad hoc, mobile affairs. Magistrates could hear cases in rented commercial offices, or in empty shops in shopping centres – perhaps even behind a glass shopfront, so that everyone can see what is going on. Judicial proceedings would, literally, be more transparent.And if someone has been picked up for shoplifting in a Westfield mall, what could be more convenient than to try them in that same mall, on the same day? Security guards and other witnesses can go along to give evidence at once, instead of waiting to be summoned. "Summary justice," as the deputy chairman of the association, John Howson, rather alarmingly phrases it, "should be about dealing with people where they actually are."The word "summary" sounds shocking here, and so does the idea of the glass window. Young offenders are already demonised by the media; are they now to be physically paraded in front of Saturday shoppers? Will some relish the chance to show off? And how long will it be before summary punishments become public too? Will those found guilty be dragged straight from the court to the pillory?In fact, there is nothing new about the idea of justice involving performance and display. Medieval trials were public affairs, as were the punishments – though the judicial torture stage (a crucial part of the investigation) was often done in seclusion. In the 18th-century heyday of the celebrity trial, spectators packed the galleries and throngs of journalists scribbled down every word and gesture. Big trials still have this spectacular quality today. We find it familiar and natural, in a way we don't with other pre-Victorian habits, like touring lunatic asylums or visiting the Magdalen House to see how the penitent prostitutes are getting on.Mobile courts are a venerable tradition too. Sessions judges toured the country, as in some places they still do, and they simply took the pomp and dignity of court procedure with them, using ritual to create a sense of gravity. There is no reason this could not happen in a shopping centre.It is this sense of dignity that seems crucial. We expect courts to have an aloof and slightly intimidating atmosphere. Moreover, we expect them to take time.In general, our idea of justice is surprisingly bound up with our idea of time. We put up with the long preparation of cases, the appointing of legal representatives, the laborious assembling of witnesses, because it seems to give the case time to mature, like cheese. Or perhaps a law case is like pastry: it needs to sit and puff itself up for a while before being rolled out.Ultimately, I suspect we secretly want every case, however minor, to have a touch of Jarndyce v Jarndyce about it. It need not drag on for generations, but a five-minute frogmarch from scene of the crime to courthouse does not seem enough time for the necessary wisdom to accumulate. And, as Judge Bridlegoose explains in Rabelais's Pantagruel, it is important to spend many hours hefting law books and unfolding documents, if you want your clients to feel reassured. Only when their backs are turned does Bridlegoose decide the case in his usual way, by throwing a dice – a method he has found as just and reliable as any other.Is there a sensible or logical reason for our attachment to the idea of time in law? Is it right that the phrase "summary justice" should automatically make us think of injustice? Or are we like Bridlegoose's clients, wanting only the appearance of wise reflection? After all, we don't expect anything similar from doctors. We want them to do the necessary clinical tests, of course, but I am more likely to trust a doctor who can take one look at me and say "sinusitis" than one who must first consult medical books and spend a long time gazing out of the window with furrowed brow.Perhaps it is just that we know the law to be more entangled than any other profession in the complexities of human nature. And human nature, certainly, takes time.