Educational psychologists and counsellors will be present in schools when children affected by the Cumbrian massacre return from half-term holiday on Monday.Three schools have pupils known to have witnessed shootings by Derrick Bird during his rampage, or relatives killed or injured by the taxi driver."In each of these schools there will be an educational psychologist and a counsellor present on Monday," said Helen Smith, the locality director for children's services in West Cumbria. "From that we will identify any children who are going to need ongoing support."Headteachers at other schools have also been given advice on what to look for if they suspect children have been affected. "We are conscious there will have been children, particularly in Whitehaven that day, who come from schools across the area," she said.Children are seen as particularly vulnerable. Two girls who witnessed Bird shoot Michael Pike, a 64-year-old cyclist, in Seascale were unable to speak for two hours afterwards, local GP Barry Walker said. "He was shot twice by the perpetrator, and they [the girls] were watching, and he looked straight at them," Walker said.Jordan Williams, 9, who was with his mother and saw Mr Pike's killing, told how Bird looked at him before driving off. "He stared me in the eyes, and my mum ... He looked a bit mad. He had his eyes like a hawk staring at something," he told Radio 4's Today programme.But many others, children and adults, could be suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, said Dr Mark Hoelterhoff, an academic expert in PTSD who is working with Cumbrian police in the aftermath. He said: "They will think: 'Why was it me who survived while somebody else didn't?' It is a normal response to have nightmares, a sense of incredible anxiety, to be very frightened, to have flashbacks."In Seascale, where Bird shot dead three locals toward the end of his rampage, a small youth project by the beach has turned into a makeshift counselling service. The Shackles Off Youth Project was used as a shelter to treat Bird's injured victims. Today it contained a hand-written sign: "Come and have a cup of tea and a chat." Locals gathered on the tables outside to talk about the shocking events of Wednesday."It is all we can do, really," Lyn Edwards, a volunteer, said. "Getting people to talk is an important part of this. A lot of the elderly people have been terrified and stayed indoors. It is only now that they are coming out for the first time and they need to talk."Some pub landlords are opening early to offer free tea and coffee. Vigils and ceremonies are taking place this weekend and a series of memorial services will be held in and around Copeland next Wednesday, with a minute's silence at noon, a week after the killings.Nick Herd, the minister for civil society, is in contact with charities in Cumbria and is looking at ways to provide them with extra support. The Samaritans said the need was so great they were opening a special drop-in centre this weekend in Whitehaven, not just because of the shootings but because people were still coming to terms with the Keswick coach crash on 24 May, in which two pupils and one adult died and nine others were injured."Everyone round here knows someone who has been shot, injured or maimed," one Samaritan said. "A lot of people witnessed the carnage from last week and they now have to deal with even worse devastation this week."The NHS is holding drop-in sessions at the local hospital for anyone affected. In addition, British Red Cross mobile units are offering practical and emotional support to outlying communities in west Cumbria. Ambulance staff who attended the crime scenes also have access to counselling.