A man who worked undercover for the BBC and Channel Four was jailed for life today for the murder of a father tortured to death in front of his children.James Raven, 44, subjected drug dealer Brian Waters to "systematic and barbaric torture" at a farm in Tabley, Cheshire, in June last year. Mr Waters, 44, was beaten, whipped, burned and attacked with a staple gun while his adult son and daughter were made to watch. He died after being hung upside down and sexually assaulted with an iron bar. A jury at Chester crown court found Raven, of Bolton, Greater Manchester, guilty of murder and two counts of conspiracy to commit grievous bodily harm. The jury also convicted 54-year-old John Wilson, of Glossop, Derbyshire, of the same offences. It was Wilson who ordered the attack after falling out with Mr Waters over a debt. Co-defendant Ashley Guishard, 30, of Sale, Greater Manchester, was acquitted. A 27-year-old man from Manchester will face a retrial after the jury failed to reach a verdict. Raven described himself during the eight-week trial as an "undercover reporter", although a BBC spokeswoman described him today as a "covert operative" who did not take editorial decisions. Raven and his cousin Christopher More, who is still wanted by police in connection with Mr Waters' death, earned up to £500 a day working on undercover assignments for the BBC and Channel 4. Over two years, Raven worked on programmes including the BBC's MacIntyre Uncovered and Crooked Britain, as well as Channel 4's Sleepers, infiltrating gangs involved in car crime, drugs and counterfeiting. BBC producers knew Raven, who is heavily tattoed with words such as "maniac" and "psycopath", had a previous conviction for violence but they believed he was a reformed character, the court heard. Mr Justice Poole sentenced both Raven and Wilson to life imprisonment with a recommendation they serve at least 24 years for the murder. He also sentenced them to 14 years for each conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm, to run concurrently. "These crimes were exceptionally sadistic. The violence used was both gratuitous and extreme and was characterised by the humiliation and degradation of Brian Waters before he died, the judge said.  "Whatever your precise intention, no man could have survived those injuries and Brian Waters did not. With its overtones of greed, sadism and torture, this was a very serious case."