Detectives investigating the murder of model Sally Anne Bowman said today that they were linking her killing to a sexual assault in 2001.Ms Bowman,18, was sexually assaulted and stabbed to death, and her body found next to a skip near her home in Croydon, south London, on Sunday morning. The 2001 assault, which has been forensically linked to Ms Bowman's killing, was in the nearby Purley area. Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Cundy of the Metropolitan police serious crime directorate, who is leading the investigation, said this afternoon that he believed the same man carried out both attacks. He said the victim in the 2001 incident had identified similarities between the appearance of her attacker and the description of the man wanted over Ms Bowman's murder. Police are seeking a man described as white, in his 20s or 30s and between 5ft 9ins and 6ft tall, clean-shaven with short dark hair. Det Ch Insp Cundy said it was possible the man he was seeking had committed other crimes since 2001. A knife had not been used in the earlier attack, he added. Four men who have been arrested as part of the inquiry into Ms Bowman's killing have all been released without charge and eliminated as suspects by forensic tests, he said. One of those arrested was Ms Bowman's 20-year-old ex-boyfriend, who is reported to have recently returned from a week-long holiday with her. Det Ch Insp Cundy said Ms Bowman was killed shortly after the ex-boyfriend had dropped her off outside her home early on Sunday morning following a Saturday night out with friends in Croydon. Ms Bowman had been to Lloyds Bar in Croydon before going to a friend's house. Later she took a taxi back to Lloyd's bar and it was from here that she was picked up by her ex-boyfriend and driven home.Neighbours heard screaming and Det Ch Insp Cundy said he believed she was murdered some time between 4.15 and 4.30am.He said a witness had come forward who is believed to have seen the suspected killer shortly after the murder.Having revealed the link to the 2001 attack, he urged anyone who had been the victim of a sexual offence and had not reported it, to contact the police urgently. He warned women in the south Croydon and Purley area to be especially vigilant and to take precautions such as always using licensed taxis and making sure someone they trusted knew of their movements. Ms Bowman's white Prada handbag and its contents, which included a black Samsung D500 mobile phone and her passport, were stolen during the attack. Det Ch Insp Cundy said he hoped that the items would be found and provide important evidence. The leather, crescent-shaped handbag had a silver chain, a leather shoulder strap and a silky blue lining, and there was a Prada badge inside. "It may be that the person who killed Sally Anne discarded them whilst leaving the scene. Maybe they have been sold on to you? Or maybe you found them and kept them? "If this is the case, I would urge you to contact me. You won't be in trouble for having them, but it is evidence which would help our inquiry," he said. Ms Bowman, a part-time model who also worked as a hairdresser, attended the Brit School for the performing arts in Croydon. 