A high-profile lawyer, best known for representing the murderer Tracie Andrews, had already served a jail sentence for masterminding a multi-million pound legal aid fraud, it was revealed today.Solicitor Timothy Robinson, now 60, was convicted in 2001 of conspiring to systematically defraud the legal aid system of huge sums of cash over a period of almost six years. As well as being sentenced to seven years in jail, he was ordered to pay more than £1m in compensation and costs. Details of the case were only allowed to be published today after the conclusion of a related case resulted in the lifting of reporting restrictions.Robinson, who lived in the exclusive village of Badgeworth, near Cheltenham, was found guilty of conspiracy to defraud at Bristol Crown Court in January 2001 following an eight-month trial. He was released on parole in July after serving half his sentence.A further 21 former employees at his Gloucestershire-based practice, Robinson's, either pleaded guilty or were found guilty of the conspiracy in a total of five trials. Five were acquitted and charges against two lie on the file. The investigation into the firm's activities began more than 10 years ago in April 1993 and is thought to have cost several million pounds. The Serious Fraud Office and three police forces took more than 3,000 witness statements and seized 21 tonnes of documents from the firm's offices as they investigated the scam. The conspiracy involved employees at the firm, once regarded as one of the largest criminal defence practices in the country, claiming legal aid for millions of pounds' worth of work they did not do. Reporting restrictions were lifted after the charges against the remaining defendant, Archibald Ross, were ordered to lie on the file after medical evidence showed that the trial was unlikely ever to go ahead. It is not known exactly how much was defrauded from the Legal Aid Board, but estimates suggest it could have been as much as half the £17m claimed by the firm during the period investigated. At Robinson's trial, the court heard that the scam centred on the green forms which were used by law firms to claim for certain types of legal aid work. One of the solicitor's former employees said that up to 90% of the green forms submitted by the firm's Cheltenham office were fraudulent. The jury was told time spent with clients was exaggerated, prison visits were claimed twice, clerks billed for cases which had never existed and crimes that clients may have mentioned in passing, but never wanted advice on, were put down in claims form. When police searched the offices, they found 197 forms that had been signed by clients but were not filled in. Some employees were claiming for work totalling more than 24 hours a day, the court heard. Many forms submitted were claims for things such as "perusal and consideration" which "was often the code for not actually doing any work", the jury at Robinson's trial was told. The firm's clerks, who were earning a basic salary of £10,000 a year, were paid up to £4,500 a month overtime and were given Mercedes cars with personalised number plates such as 4LAW or 7LAW. But the court heard that one fee-earning clerk, former book maker Richard Hill, became reckless and started to forge clients' signatures. The Law Society became suspicious and Hill eventually resigned and blew the whistle. He was later jailed for 14 months for his part in the conspiracy. Ian Glen QC, prosecuting, said Robinson was described by one of his clerks as "a mini-Maxwell, obsessed with power and money". He added: "Mr Robinson himself was very careful not to dirty his own hands. He got others to commit the frauds with those green forms... It was his fee-earning clerks who did the dirty work." Robinson, a well-known figure in the south-west where he had practised since the early 1970s, was in the headlines in 1997 when he represented Tracie Andrews - the woman who was eventually found guilty of murdering her 25-year-old fiance Lee Harvey on a roadside near their home in Alvechurch, near Redditch. He always denied knowing the fraud was going on at his firm, denied ever filling in green forms dishonestly and denied asking anyone in his office to do so. After Robinson was found guilty, his barrister, David Etherington QC, asked the judge to consider "the utter ruin and devastation that this defendant now faces".Judge David Smith heard the SFO had traced assets belonging to Robinson or his wife totalling £1.6m and that the lawyer had taken about £3m from his firm in the period 1991 to 1999. The court was told the trial had cost around £3 million. The judge imposed a confiscation order on Robinson of £532,275 which he ordered to be paid as compensation to what is now called the Legal Services Commission. He also decided he should pay £500,000 in prosecution costs. Robinson appealed against his conviction and then his sentence in October 2002, but lost both appeals. After the hearing, Detective Inspector Paul Yateman, senior investigating officer, said the investigation had been "a remarkable inquiry which had exposed a den of corruption and fraudulent activity". He said: "The manpower, time and materials involved in this investigation have been immense and this was certainly the longest full-time investigation ever carried out by our force, and must surely be one of the longest ever carried out in Britain."