A man who sexually abused boys at a Jersey care home when he was a teenage resident in the 1970s was today sentenced to two years' probation.Michael Aubin, 46, who was born in Jersey and lives in Southampton, carried out the attacks while he lived at the Haut de la Garenne home in the 1970s.The former cleaner, who claims he was abused himself at the home by a member of staff known as "the bogeyman", was sentenced at Jersey's royal court for two counts of gross indecency and two of indecent assault on children under 10.The court heard Aubin suffered "serious sexual abuse" at the children's home in St Martin after he was taken into care at the age of three.Passing sentence, the presiding judge, Commissioner Julian Clyde-Smith, said the court had to consider how Aubin would have been dealt with as a 14-year-old. "The court would have been faced with a boy aged 14 years old, with all the mitigation that goes with youth."He would have been in care since he was three years old. He would have been brought up in the institutional environment. He would have been presented as a victim of serious sexual abuse himself."He said that although these offences were serious, "they were not the most serious level of the scale"."At 14 years old, he would not have been equipped to show the same restraint as an adult."Outlining the case against Aubin, prosecutor Stephen Baker said the defendant admitted the word "predator" was an "accurate" description for his behaviour.The court heard the first three counts – two of gross indecency and one of sexual assault – involved the same boy, aged eight to nine years old and happened between 1977 and 1978. Aubin also sexually assaulted the boy in a shower cubicle at the home. A fourth count, of sexual assault, involved a different child, aged nine to 10 years old.Baker read a victim impact statement from the second victim, now an adult in his early 40s. It read: "Scars and wounds heal in time but you can never erase the memories. I can't sleep at night, and when I can sleep I have nightmares. The result of not sleeping is I get anxious. I scream and shout and get aggressive."He added: "I had to leave Jersey. It holds nothing for me but bad memories."David Hopwood, defending counsel, said Aubin was taken into care because his mother was an alcoholic and his father "disappeared"."[Aubin] was sexually abused at Haut de la Garenne. He was emotionally neglected throughout his early life. It was a brutalising process."Hopwood added: "He expressed regret and disgust for what he did. Looking back he even volunteered the word 'predator' – even though he had no notion at the time he was preying."