One of Britain's most notorious criminals has been sentenced to 13 years in jail after being found guilty of conspiring to smuggle £1m worth of cannabis into Jersey.Curtis Warren, a former Liverpool street dealer who became Interpol's most wanted man, watched by video link from Belmarsh prison in London as judge Sir Richard Tucker delivered the sentence at the royal court in St Helier. "We do not sentence him because of his record or notoriety," said Tucker. "Nevertheless he has been shown to be the mastermind behind the planned importation."Warren, who is the only drug trafficker to make it on to the Sunday Times Rich List, had only been out of prison for five weeks when he was arrested in 2007 by Jersey police. The 46-year-old was accused of being the ringleader of a six-man gang who were trying to import 180kg of cannabis into the island from Holland via boat from France.Prosecutor Howard Sharp said it was the biggest drugs smuggling operation ever attempted on the island."Warren is a prolific drugs trafficker who has operated at the highest levels of the international drugs trade," he said. "Warren orchestrated this conspiracy … He had the necessary clout and influence to direct them. He was the link between the two."Between 1997 and 2007 Warren had been imprisoned in Holland's highest security jail after being found guilty of conspiring to import £100m worth of cocaine, heroin, ecstasy and cannabis, as well as firearms offences. His sentence was lengthened when he killed a fellow prisoner in a fight and was convicted of manslaughter.During the trial the court heard Warren had begun planning the Jersey conspiracy before he left his Dutch cell. British detectives working with the Dutch prison authorities gathered "first-class intelligence material indicating that Warren was still engaged in drug trafficking activity while in prison".Warren was kept under close surveillance during the five weeks he was a free man, when he made 1,500 phone calls, 112 from public phone boxes, and was secretly recorded talking about what he stood to gain from the Jersey plot.Along with one of his co-accused, Jonathan Welsh, he visited a secluded location on Jersey's east coast that the pair agreed would be a good drop-off point for the drugs, which they planned to ship from Holland via the Normandy coast.Warren was taped referring to the Jersey plot as "just a little starter", suggesting that if all went well bigger importations would follow.Sir Richard said: "After being released from prison in Holland it was a very short space of time before you embarked on this drug trafficking enterprise. It was you who provided the contacts in Holland and the source of supply."Welsh, 43, originally from Liverpool, who was described in the trial as the "willing purchaser" of the drugs, was sentenced to 12 years. He had invested £18,000 in the plot and was already a police target after being jailed on the island for 10 years in 2000 for the largest heroin seizure in the Channel Islands. The judge said: "You made all the arrangements on the ground, you recruited the other defendants in Jersey and you travelled to Amsterdam. If it had not been for you this conspiracy would never have happened in Jersey."James O'Brien, 45, from Glasgow, received a 10 year sentence for agreeing to pilot the boat which the smugglers planned to use. The hearing was then adjourned for the judge and jurors to further consider the sentences for the remaining defendants.