A police officer who was about twice the drink-drive limit when he crashed on an icy road while off-duty has been cleared of killing a female friend in the collision.Brendan Buggie, 39, drank six pints in pubs before crashing his sports car into a parked van on the A56 in Ramsbottom, Greater Manchester. Justyna Stanczak, 26, who was in the front seat of the Toyota Celica, died of internal bleeding, Bradford crown court heard.Buggie, of Ramsbottom, who is currently suspended from Greater Manchester police, denied causing death by careless driving while over the prescribed limit.He was found guilty by a jury of drink-driving, and was warned by the judge that he may face a jail term. Buggie, who has six expired speeding offences on his licence, was banned from driving with immediate effect.The jury heard that Buggie had spent the afternoon drinking and met Stanczak after her shift at a bar in his home town on a freezing night last December. The pair, who had recently started a relationship after Buggie split up with his partner of three years, walked back to his house.They were spotted by his ex-girlfriend's mother and, fearing his ex would turn up, Buggie offered Stanczak a lift to her Bury home at about midnight. Buggie told the court he "felt sober" when he got behind the wheel and was driving within the 40mph speed limit.A blood sample – taken after the breathalyser at the police station broke when he was taken into custody – showed he was over the limit, the court heard.He told jurors: "I'd had a number of drinks at that time, I'm not denying it. But I felt sober." He said the roads looked damp but he did not notice ice on the surface, although he had to remove hail from his car windscreen before the journey."Virtually as I'm exiting the corner the back end has come round to my right-hand side," he said. "It came as such a surprise because I'd nearly got round the bend."He said the car fishtailed before smashing into a parked van. "Straight away I looked to my left and Justyna's eyes were shut. When I looked over, I expected screaming or shouting. But to look over and she's unconscious …"Buggie called an ambulance and Stanczak, a Polish national died in hospital hours later, the court heard.Expert witnesses told the jury the road was extremely icy and the conditions treacherous. Some drivers reported travelling as slowly as 20mph on other stretches nearby, and a local taxi firm suspended all service due to the conditions.The crown claimed that Buggie was not driving with care and his ability to read the road conditions was impeded by the amount he had drunk. Nicholas Williams, prosecuting, said: "The prosecution say he drove carelessly that night – no doubt because he'd been drinking – by failing to adapt his driving."The jury took almost five hours to reach its verdict. The judge, Colin Burn, said an uninsured or unlicensed driver was automatically liable for an offence if they crashed, but being drunk did not make a driver liable – a quirk in the law he said may have been "simply overlooked" by parliament.He told Buggie his decision to drive drunk was a "very serious" action. He said he was "bound to consider a custodial sentence" when Buggie returns to court in December following pre-sentence reports.Superintendent Peter Turner, of Greater Manchester police, said: "We note the outcome of the jury and our thoughts are with the family at this difficult time."