   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest In the early hours of 25 February  a man dressed as Batman – the classic 1960s Adam West version – walked into a Bradford police station, frogmarching a man accused of burglary in front of him."I've caught this one for you," he reportedly told police officers before disappearing back into the night.The "Bradford Batman", aka Stan Worby, is one of hundreds of people that live a double life. By day they are bankers, hair stylists, chefs, maybe the person who sat next to you on the bus today or served your morning coffee. By night they are costumed fighters of injustice. Most of them frown at the lack of creativity in adopting an established brand like Batman, so they invent their own superhero monikers like "Sky Man" or "Blackbird". Their homemade costumes reflect their budgets and creative vision – some look like they stepped off the set of a Hollywood blockbuster, others are held together by crude stitching and duct tape.This eclectic and sometimes eccentric group of people call themselves "real-life superheroes", or RLSH for short. The idea conjures images of teenagers who have read one too many comic books, but the reality is that they are a remarkable mix of people from a variety of backgrounds."We come in all different sizes and shapes," explains Civitron, a RLSH from New Bedford, Massachusetts, who wears an outfit with a fire motif, plastic arm gauntlets, and sunglasses. RLSH are aged between 16-60, they are male and female, from every ethnicity, and a have widely diverse political, religious, economical and social backgrounds. There is one thing that has united them across all of these lines – the powerful myth of the superhero comic.Although the majority of the RLSH are found in the US, small bands of them have appeared in other countries – Italy, China, Australia, and other places worldwide. Britain has its own team, a five-member English super-squad named the Justice Union. Among the colourful roster are Knight Warrior, a 19-year-old gardener from Salford, who dresses in a blue and black spandex costume and cape.Knight Warrior says his inspiration is to combat apathy."I've seen a lot of bad things happen where I live," he says. "People getting beaten up and handbags getting snatched at bus stops and no one stepping in to help."Knight Warrior's team mate, Dark Spartan, marches around in full Roman centurion-style body armour and carries a shield while he patrols the streets of Torbay. The Bradford Batman has yet to sign up with the league, but like other RLSH teams, the Justice Union is always looking for a few good men and women to join them.RLSH differ in their missions depending on their environment and personal goals. Some RLSH find a thrill in actively trying to patrol and fight crime, others focus more on humanitarian projects like handing out food and supplies to the homeless.Phoenix Jones, from Seattle, leads a team called the Rain City Superhero Movement that actively patrols and tries to stop criminal activity when they encounter it. Jones has claimed a broken nose and other injuries for his efforts and was even arrested after he tried to intervene and break up a fight by pepper spraying the combatants. His assault charges were later dropped. Phoenix Jones's wife, Purple Reign, focuses more on organising charity efforts. She heads the Purple Reign Campaign, which raises awareness and donations for domestic abuse shelters.The Justice Union does a typical mix of RLSH activities – street patrols and charity work. They are less fearful about running into violent gun crime than their American colleagues and also differ in their media relations. The more humble British RLSH have made some media appearances, but generally tend to shy away from the spotlight. Some American RLSH revel in it, feeding their egos to the point that they are criticised as glory hogs.The path of a RLSH isn't an easy one. They often live in burning secrecy and face issues you won't see in the pages of a comic book. Finding a mask that allows proper vision or a costume that doesn't cause the body to overheat takes trial and error. RLSH often squabble with each other over philosophy on Facebook, and are sometimes mocked while on patrol by inebriated hecklers. Encounters with the police have been mixed. Some police have warily expressed thanks for the help, while others have strongly encouraged the RLSH to hang up their capes and leave the crime-fighting to them.But in the end, the RLSH feel their struggles are worth the effort and they hope the attention they grab helps them to become an inspiration, a symbol of everyday people devoting their spare time to make the world a better place. They want people to know that superheroes are out there, randomly patrolling the night … and maybe even watching out for your safety.