"I'm feeling really good, really positive. When I get out I know I'm going to have skills that an employer wants." Scott, 30, is nearing the end of a five-year prison sentence at Coldingley prison in Woking, Surrey. It is not the first time he has been inside. "Each time I got out I wanted to go straight. I did an offending behaviour courses, but once you get into this way of life it's hard to get out of it."The difference this time is that Scott really believes he has a chance. Thanks to a scheme sponsored in part by Gamble Trackline, a skilled-labour provider for the rail industry, prisoners at Coldingley are able to gain personal track safety certificates (PTSCs), which will enable them to apply for track maintenance jobs.Gamble has provided tools and equipment for the prisoners to construct a full-scale replica of a section of railway line in one of the prison's workshops. In the prison setting, it is a striking sight.Gamble provides a track safety training officer, Richard Bell, who oversees the track installation. For Bell, it was the first time he'd been in a prison, but he was undaunted. "These lads are paying their debt to society. When they get out, with their PTSC they will be able to apply for track work anywhere in the country. They'll be able to build a career," he says.Scott nods. He acts as a ganger (foreman) on the course. "In these places we spend our time dreaming of living a normal life outside," he says. "This course is going to make my dream a reality."Coldingley was opened as a category B industrial prison in 1969, offering a regime where prisoners could experience a full working week, mainly in fabrication workshops. In 1993, it was downgraded to category C, marking the beginning of a decline in the prison's fortunes.By the time of its full inspection in 2004, it was providing little in terms of incentives for its prisoners to "go straight" after release. The only glimmer of hope in the report was that the new governor, Paul McDowell, had plans for improvements. Almost two years later, McDowell's initiatives are reaping significant rewards."I've worked as a prison officer on offending behaviour programmes," he says, "and I used to think that that was the way forward in addressing prisoners' re-offending. But it's so obvious now that while such programmes have their place, what they really need to be able to build law abiding lives outside is work skills."Running parallel to the prison's drug rehab and anger management courses is the main plank of McDowell's regime improvements. His sustainable training and employment partnerships (Steps) programme offers a range of accredited training, from NVQs in engineering skills to City & Guilds qualifications in engraving."The training at Coldingley is suited to the needs of the modern job market," McDowell says. And links have been forged with the business community, which has been invited to visit the prison and meet prisoners as potential employees.The track maintenance project came about when Coldingley's training manager, Dave Royal, began calling rail companies to discuss the plan. "Sometimes, the phone went dead after I explained I was talking about training prisoners," Royal says. "But Gamble jumped at the chance."McDowell is definitely on to something. The reoffending rate for ex-prisoners within two years of release remains around the 65-70% mark. All studies indicate that employment is one of the main preventive factors. · Employers interested in entering into partnership with Coldingley should call the prison on 01483 804300