Detectives investigating the murder of Saudi Arabian student Nahid Almanea have issued an appeal for a man who may have followed the student four days before she was stabbed to death to come forward.Essex police said they wanted to speak to a man identified by witnesses as walking behind two women at about 8.45am on Friday 13 June.Witnesses believe that one of these women may have been Almanea, who was stabbed 16 times on 17 June as she walked along a quiet footpath in Colchester, Essex.Police said the man was seen to follow the women as they came out of a house in Stanley Wooster Way, Colchester. He is described as white, in his 30s, around 5ft 10in tall, and with short, dark hair. He was dressed casually and was wearing dark jeans. He also had a local Colchester accent.DCS Steve Worron said: "People living and working in the local area are the key to helping us find whoever killed this bright, young woman who was a guest in our country. The answers lie in the local community and we will find whoever did this. So far the support we have had from the public has been great. Every time we issue an appeal we have a surge of information coming through into our incident room."Police also released CCTV footage of a man caught on camera shortly after a woman was assaulted in an alleyway between Port Lane and Peache Road in Colchester last Thursday. Detectives want to hear from anyone who recognises the man, who is wanted for questioning by police in connection with the attack which took place about 9.45pm.The man is described as being white, in his early 20s, and around 5ft 7-8in tall. He was of medium build and had a narrow face and appeared unwell, and possibly had fair hair.On Monday detectives appealed for a man and a woman seen cycling close to the murder scene to come forward. The pair, both believed to be in their 20s, were spotted on Salary Brook trail heading towards the Greenstead estate at 10.45am on 17 June.The man is described as having olive skin, dark hair and is tall and slim, while the woman has long dark hair and was wearing a "flowing pattern tiered shirt".Worron said the cyclists may have seen Almanea before she was attacked and may have even seen her killer.More than 100 police officers from Essex, Kent and the Metropolitan police are involved in the investigation into Almanea's killing, as well as profilers from the National Crime Agency.Officers are yet to find the murder weapon and are keeping an "open mind" about possible links between Almanea's death and that of James Attfield in Colchester two months ago. Attfield, 33, was stabbed 102 times on his arms, hands, back, neck and head in what police described as a "senseless and frenzied" attack.Worron has said that police do not have evidence that the killings are linked or that a serial killer is involved.Detectives earlier said they were looking into the possibility that she was targeted because of her Muslim dress. On Sunday officers drained a fishing pond and carried out an "intensive fingertip search" of the area close to where Almanea was killed.Police have already appealed for information about two men seen near the scene on the day of the attack. The first was seen wearing a "distinctive" beige-coloured jacket while walking along the Salary Brook trail around the time of the attack. He is described as being aged from his late teens to 30, tanned and of average build with thick, black hair in a two-to-three-inch "mop style on top". He was walking towards the Greenstead estate between 10.20am and 10.40am.The second man is described as white, aged between 18 and 25, with a medium build and dark hair. Police said he was seen running up Hewes Close at about 10.56am. He was wearing a long-sleeved, plain "London Bus red" hooded top and dark trousers.