A Home Office investigation into the foreign convictions fiasco was dismissed as a "whitewash" tonight after ministers were cleared of all wrongdoing. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, condemned the internal inquiry as a "crude attempt to exonerate ministers".A huge political row erupted in January over the disclosure that 27,500 files on Britons convicted of crimes overseas had not been properly processed by Home Office civil servants. Today it was revealed for the first time that three terrorism offences were among the total, meaning that they were not logged on the Police National Computer (PNC). Today's report said that the department suffered a "collective failure" over 10 years to recognise the significance of the foreign convictions backlog. But it concluded that ministers had not been told about the problem. The Home Office released a crucial letter to Tony McNulty, the junior Home Office minister, from Hampshire's acting deputy chief constable, Adrian McAllister, who was overseeing a new scheme to process the backlog. Dated October 3 last year, it warned: "We have a significant number of UK nationals who commit serious offences whilst abroad. "In most cases the police and other criminal justice partners, including the courts, are completely unaware of such offending." Mr McAllister added: "I recognise you may feel this is something the home secretary might want to be briefed about, given the obvious links to foreign national prisoners." But Mr McNulty has denied ever seeing the letter, even though it was handled by his private office. His colleague, junior minister Joan Ryan, replied to Mr McAllister six weeks later. The inquiry by Dusty Amroliwala, the Home Office's personnel director, said: "The minister affirmed that she had intended to mention the issue to the home secretary but decided... that she should wait until this more substantive information had been received before raising the matter." It went on: "For a decade, from circa 1995... notifications were regarded as having little or no operational value and were treated purely as a statistical return." It detailed how the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) took over processing the foreign files in May last year and quickly realised the scale of the problem it had inherited from the Home Office. The report contained email exchanges between Acpo's UK Central Authority for the Exchange of Criminal Records (UKCA) and Home Office civil servants which showed officials were concerned about the scale of the problem, and its implications. Mr Davis said the inquiry was a "whitewash". "This report is a crude attempt to manipulate the media, seeking to blame officials and past governments while exonerating ministers," he said. "Acpo made ministers aware of the seriousness of the problem and warned that this was something the home secretary should address, but they continued to ignore the serious risk to public safety. "Now we know why John Reid and Acpo did not want to release this letter, why our freedom of information request was turned down and why the government have tried to slip this out on a Friday. "This shows that John Reid remains obsessed with trying to manage the media rather than the problems affecting public safety and is more concerned with protecting his reputation than protecting the public." He added: "This inquiry lacked independence and was carried out by a civil servant who does not have the authority to investigate his ministerial masters." The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, said: "This report is a glorified form of buck-passing. "John Reid and his ministers claim that they knew nothing so can't be held to account, as if ignorance is an acceptable excuse for serial incompetence. "Yet a minister was told by Acpo last October that a number of very serious crimes had been committed by UK citizens in Germany, including the rape of young children. "It simply beggars belief that this did not set political alarm bells ringing. "The excuse of ministerial ignorance is starting to wear very thin indeed." In emails released today - dated months before the backlog became public - a UKCA official warned a Home Office counterpart: "The potential risk is enormous and we don't yet have any particular 'horror stories' but I am sure they will come out." He or she explained that failure to place the records on the PNC would have a "huge impact" on all aspects of police work, including previous and future investigations. The unnamed UKCA official said: "Many offenders have been released from imprisonment abroad and have committed offences in the UK since their release. "The UK courts were not in possession of the full criminal history at the time of sentencing." A Home Office official asked for details of the number of serious criminals included in the backlog. The email said: "Can we just clarify please so that I get the figures right for ministers?" Today's internal inquiry concluded that ministers were never told about the backlog. In January, a senior civil servant was suspended on full pay over the debacle. A confidential file on potential misconduct has been sent to Home Office permanent secretary Sir David Normington, who will decide whether any action is to be taken, a Home Office spokeswoman said. The fiasco exposed Mr Reid to harsh criticism just eight months after he was sent in to reform the department following a previous crisis which led to the sacking of his predecessor, Charles Clarke.