Checking whether somebody has committed a vile crime is not at all the same as suspecting them of it. But when the crime is as abhorrent as the abuse of children, the feelings aroused can obscure the distinction. It's not surprising that some people feel dismayed or insulted by the thought of being vetted to work with children, or that debate about the new Vetting and Barring Scheme has centred on the implications for people who come into contact with children through voluntary activities such as Sunday football or helping in infants' classes. In the past, it might have been assumed that they did such things from the goodness of their hearts. Now, it is impossible for the possibility of wickedness to be disregarded.It was also, perhaps, unsurprising that offence was taken first and most vocally by prominent authors, including Philip Pullman and Anthony Horowitz, at the idea that they should be cleared to visit schools. Having been used to the traditional welcome given to the celebrity who has given up his or her valuable time to be there, they now felt they were expected, as Horowitz put it, to prove they weren't paedophiles. The contrast could hardly be more striking. In fact, only people visiting schools regularly are obliged to undergo vetting – and they have, or will, accept it. Inside a school, school rules apply.The extension of child protection checks onto the playing fields and other areas of community life does, however, represent an extension of policing and a retreat of trust. Quite how far the policing will extend seems unclear. I can continue to take turns with other parents driving our sons to Sunday away matches, because those are personal arrangements, but if the manager were to organise a rota, that could put us into a grey area. A father who feels like helping out with training might decide not to bother if he needs to get his criminal record checked first. And although they, as volunteers, will be exempt from the £64 fee, youth football managers will have an extra bureaucratic burden on top of the demands already imposed by the state-within-a-state that is the Football Association.By and large, people will probably accept the new scheme, because of the unique significance society gives to child protection, and will soon take it for granted, as they do other bureaucratic intrusions. But it will inhibit the kind of modest participation in the life of the community on which those committed enough to organise clubs and activities for young people depend for support. It will dampen down the kind of spontaneous arrangements between people that give a community life, and will encroach further into an area where people have hitherto been free to make their own judgments and arrangements.Even if it will not suggest that anybody who wants to work with children or around them is suspect, it will insist, more firmly than before, that they cannot be trusted.