The doorstep shooting of a seven-year-old boy and his mother was linked to an increasingly violent turf war over millions of pounds-worth of heroin that has “flooded” the streets of Salford, according to sources.The pair are still in hospital being treated for their injuries, which were said to be “life-changing” for the boy. Locals said the football-mad boy, a pupil at nearby St Gilbert’s RC primary school, had recently enrolled at a local football centre of excellence.The shootings appear to be linked to a dispute between two rival gangs who are fighting over the lucrative trade in a bloody dispute that flared up following the murder of Salford’s ”Mr Big”, Paul Massey, on the driveway of his home in July.One Salford resident with criminal connections said: “Salford’s flooded with smack, there’s never been so much on the streets.”A police manhunt is continuing for a second day for the two gunmen who shot Jayne Hickey, 29, and her son in the legs at close range on the doorstep of their home in Winton, Eccles, on Monday night.Police revealed that the two men asked Hickey “where’s your husband?” before shooting her twice in the leg and shooting the boy once. They then fled on foot. Hickey’s partner, Christian, subsequently gave chase. One line of inquiry is that the attack was connected to Christian Hickey’s conviction in 2003 over the death of a 22-year-old man in Salford. Hickey, then 25, was sentenced to seven years in prison for his role in the revenge stabbing of Philip Marsh, 22, during a row after a house party. Hickey’s younger cousin, Phillip Hickey-Jones, then 19, was jailed for life for murder.Detectives believe the “sickening and cowardly” shooting – the 21st such incident in 18 months in Salford – was linked to a dispute between two rival gangs in Swinton and central Salford.The dispute took a dramatic twist in July with the murder of Massey, 55, a well-known figure in the criminal underworld in Greater Manchester, who was shot dead outside his home. A close friend said he had been mediating between two warring gangs at the time of his murder. His killer is still at large.The central Salford gang is understood to be from the Ordsall estate, which was “Massey territory”, whose members were mainly youths aged 16 to 21. “A lot of the older heads are locked up, which is why the kids are running amok,” said one Salford figure.The source said the latest shooting had angered locals and predicted that it would not be long before the two gunmen were caught because “somebody will stick their names in”.Police described one of the gunmen as white, between 19 and 20 years old, of “chunky” build and wearing a baseball cap. He spoke slowly and with a Salford accent. The second man is described as white and was also wearing a baseball cap.With the support of the National Crime Agency, Britain’s equivalent to America’s FBI, detectives have fought for years to bring under control the heroin trade on Manchester’s streets.In February, three people were arrested after officers found £2m-worth of heroin stuffed in luggage in a flight to Manchester airport from Pakistan. The previous year, a £2m consignment of the class A drug was found travelling the same route.Two men were jailed in December after being caught with £6.5m-worth of heroin in a laundry-style bag in the back of a private taxi, in one of the biggest drugs hauls in Greater Manchester police’s history.DCI Ian Hopkins said: “This is a sickening and cowardly attack on a seven-year-old boy and his mother in their own home. This level of criminal recklessness is putting innocent people at risk. This has to stop.“We have stepped up our response to organised crime in Salford over the last few months, with more than 50 specialist officers now working on several major investigations, with the support of the National Crime Agency.“The shootings that have happened are clearly part of two distinct feuds between organised crime groups; one in the Little Hulton area and the second in the Swinton and Central Salford areas, which includes the murder of Paul Massey.”