There are all sorts of reasons for redesigning the machinery of government, but at heart they are usually political: the search for an appropriate role for a hard-to-place colleague (John Prescott's Department for Environment, Transport and the Regions or, in an earlier era, George Brown's Department of Economic Affairs); a statement of political intent (the Department for Work and Pensions, linking in- and out-of-work benefits); or to create a stir (such as the out-of-the-blue announcement of a Department for Constitutional Affairs). The decision announced yesterday to split the Home Office, creating a new justice ministry that absorbs the DCA (where pay and conditions are still being negotiated after the last reorganisation), has some advantages. But the secrecy of planning for change, a deadline that looks more political than practical and the pall of confusion still shrouding who does what, all suggest its first objective is evidence of action, even if it comes at the cost of delaying the intended benefit of a sharper focus on fighting terrorism.The details behind the announcement betray battles lost and concessions made in the turf wars that have raged around Whitehall since the home secretary first announced his plan (to the media rather than his department or cabinet) in January. The Foreign Office, to which MI6 will continue to report, and the Cabinet Office, where Sir Richard Mottram will continue to coordinate security and intelligence, both retain significant responsibilities in counter-terrorism strategy; new cabinet and ministerial committees will have the job of trying to make sure everyone actually talks to each other. The ministry of justice has long been seen as a way of splitting the function of catching criminals from sentencing them. But the Home Office will still be responsible for core elements such as crime reduction and antisocial behaviour, as well as immigration and identity, prompting fears in the judiciary of more pressure on sentencing from a Home Office that does not have to find the funds to pay for it. And, curiously, the home secretary remains responsible for what he calls the "struggle of ideas and values" - an area that might be expected to fall in the remit of the Communities and Local Government department. Blurred accountabilities make for blurred lines of responsibility. Divorcing the component parts of the Home Office might lead to a more concentrated focus, but it risks coming at the expense of joined-up government.There is a particular irony that these changes should be announced on the day that MPs on the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs select committee slated Defra and particularly its former secretary of state Margaret Beckett and permanent secretary Sir Brian Bender - both of whom the MPs thought should resign - for the disastrous introduction of the single farm payment scheme. This botched programme bears many of the indicators of a typical Whitehall cock-up, of which a lack of communication within the department was but one. Others, all familiar from failures before and since, included the rushed introduction of a complex and overambitious project, and an untested IT system. Most tellingly, work on the scheme began soon after the department itself was created from bits pulled together from across Whitehall after the old Ministry of Agriculture itself failed so disastrously to contain the 2001 foot-and-mouth outbreak.There are plenty of reasons for calling the vast and diffuse Home Office dysfunctional. But its problems have been bad management, poor internal communication and a lack of leadership, complicated by an excessive legislative burden and too-frequent changes of minister (and, arguably, senior officials). Adding a hasty, underprepared and unfunded restructuring risks discrediting the good bits of the reorganisation and, most seriously, undermining its specific objective of providing better protection for the citizen.