The news that the police have charged a Sunderland man with being the hoaxer during the hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper brought it all back. The hoaxer sent letters and tapes during 1978-79 to a national newspaper claiming to be responsible for killing 10 women. His flat, quiet voice was broadcast to shoppers in markets and other public places in the West Yorkshire area. Copies of his letters were displayed on billboards in the hope that someone would recognise his handwriting. No one did.The letter and tapes were full of taunts to George Oldfield, the officer in charge of the case, for having not yet caught the Ripper. Oldfield, appearing red-cheeked on local television, declared that his efforts to catch the serial killer had become personal. "There may be more pawns in this war before I catch you, but I will catch you," he declared. The women of West Yorkshire were all too aware that we were the "pawns" Oldfield referred to, particularly the women working as prostitutes.The Yorkshire Ripper case was my reason for becoming a campaigner against sexual violence. I was angry, like many others, that the police only really seemed to step up the investigation when the first "non-prostitute" was killed. Some public opinion reflected police attitudes of the time. "If you work on the streets, it's what you can expect, but now we are all in danger."One night at the time of the investigation I was followed by a man of medium height with a dark, full beard, wiry hair and dark, piercing eyes. I was 18, and new to Leeds. I ran into a pub, managing to shake him off. Friends persuaded me to report it to the police, but when they heard my north-eastern accent, one officer joked that "I was just trying to cover up for my dad", so convinced were they that the Ripper had a Geordie accent. I completed a Photofit. The next day the body of the final victim, Jacqueline Hill, was found less than half a mile from where I was followed. When Sutcliffe was arrested and his photograph published, my Photofit was almost exactly like him.Sutcliffe was caught by chance on a routine police patrol in 1981. He had a strong Bradford accent. The letters and tapes were exposed as a hoax. The police came under heavy criticism for eliminating him from their inquiries mainly because he did not have a Wearside accent, despite having interviewed him several times as a potential suspect.That was almost 25 years ago. Today, police are more proactive when prostitutes are murdered. But such murders have the lowest clear-up rate. In Glasgow, in connection with eight prostitutes murdered since 1991, there has been only one conviction.As recently as 2002 there was an outcry about the case of Anthony Hardy, the so-called Camden Ripper. When police visited his flat after a complaint about noise, Sally White was found dead, propped up naked in a locked room, on Hardy's bed. White was known to be a street prostitute. She had a bite mark on her thigh and an injury to the back of her head that left a bloodstain on the wall. Police decided not to charge Hardy, believing she had died of "natural" causes. Hardy went on to murder two other prostitutes.The Yorkshire hoaxer diverted attention from relevant inquiries, but the ultimate responsibility was with senior police officers. This cannot be allowed to happen again. If a prostitute is murdered, we should expect police to put the same effort into catching her killer as they would for other women. The Ripper inquiry should have been the last one in which mistakes were made that resulted in women losing their lives. In such cases, there is no such thing as a less-deserving victim.· Julie Bindel is the co-editor of The Map of My Life: The Story of Emma Humphreys.juliebindel@yahoo.co.uk