The widow of a Catholic youth worker murdered by loyalists in Northern Ireland today blamed the Ulster Defence Association for the killing.Evelyn McDaid said the mob that attacked her husband shouted "We're from the UDA" during the fatal assault in Coleraine on Sunday.The UDA is officially on ceasefire although nationalists claim the terror group remains engaged in criminality and intimidation. The organisation maintains a strong presence in the Coleraine area which is under the command of its so-called "North West Brigade".Nine men are still in custody in connection with the death of Kevin Brendan McDaid. The 49-year-old was killed close to his home in the Somerset Drive area of the Co Derry town.Sinn Féin said today that questions needed to be asked about the local PSNI's response on the evening of the killing. Up to 30 loyalists invaded the area following the end of the Scottish Premiership season.Another man, Damian Fleming, remains in a critical condition after being beaten up nearby.Evelyn McDaid appealed for no retaliation and said her family had been left devastated by the murder."He was my life, he was a very loving father and a great man," she said.Mrs McDaid was herself beaten as she tried to protect her husband.She suffered a head injury, two black eyes and was given a brain scan to ensure there were no other injuries."I ran across to help him. They beat me while they beat him."My neighbour had to step in to save me. She was pregnant and they beat her. She shouted 'I'm pregnant', but they didn't care."My sons tried to work on him. The ambulance was phoned. But he was dead, I knew he was dead. It was his colour and he couldn't breathe."The people who did this have to be punished. They took my husband's life; they have just destroyed our whole family."Fleming's son, Brendan, said his father was in a critical condition."There is a 50/50 chance. You would not recognise him if you saw him with all the marks on his face," he said.The police increased patrols in the Co Derry town after further trouble on Monday.PSNI Detective Chief Inspector Frankie Taylor said their main line of inquiry was a "sectarian motive".He said Mr McDaid was a youth worker who had tried to bring both sides of the community together and was "well-known and well-liked".The police are looking at the possibility that tensions had risen in the area after Irish tricolours had been put up on lamp-posts.Inspector Taylor said the attack on Mr Fleming was being treated as attempted murder. "We may very well be looking at a second murder here," he said.