Chief superintendent Neil Wain is feeling pleased with himself, and who can blame him? The police commander for Stockport has overseen one of the most dramatic reductions in crime of any borough in England and Wales over the past four years.Car theft is down 40%, burglary down 42% and life-threatening attacks down 29%. The crooks must be getting frustrated because one of the few worsening problems has been assault on police officers - up 10% since 2004.The Home Office has identified Stockport, alongside Liverpool, Knowsley, Darlington and Hull, as among the best performing boroughs in a nationwide decrease in crime which appears to be accelerating with reductions recorded in four successive quarters.But the improvement is not just in the numbers. Many in Stockport feel safer than they have for years."Round here, you wouldn't have wanted to hang around after dark on a Friday night a couple of years ago," said Danny, 24, who lives on the Adswood council estate. "There were serious guys wanting to fight. It was the same in Stockport town centre - it was rum and you wouldn't want to go in on the weekends. There's a lot of police presence now and we've moved on."Crime in the south Manchester borough has fallen by 18% since 2004. Last year there were 6,000 fewer crimes than in 2006, and all this while Wain's police ranks shrank slightly.So how has he done it?"It's about being really robust and hard in the policing we deliver," said Wain, a firearms expert who previously policed Moss Side, in inner city Manchester.The network of towns and village centres make up a borough of 281,000 residents with the seventh biggest gulf between rich and poor in the country. North lies Reddish, a tough area bordering Manchester. To the south is Bramhall, an affluent suburb home to premier league footballers - the shopkeeper at the Pesto delicatessen said that a few Manchester United players are regulars. To the east, lies the rural Peak District.Wherever the criminals operate, Wain's tactic is to get to criminals before they have committed an offence. His officers call it "man-marking"."We meet released prisoners at the prison gate or at home and tell them in no uncertain terms they should not re-engage with crime," said Wain. "We offer them help with things like housing, benefits and drugs. But it also helps us gather intelligence - we talk to them, see where they live, who they live with. We've had a number of prolific criminals who have simply stopped committing crime. One of the main reasons is we have sorted out their drug habit."The impact of his 472 officers and 64 police community support officers is multiplied by forging partnerships with the council, probation officers, licensing officials, benefit agencies and even the DVLA to conduct "focused, high-intensity sweeps" of problem areas. Clipboard wielding community support officers unearth the locals' problems, then the agencies and police move in for five weeks. Sometimes criminals on probation are enlisted to help repair community facilities. The same approach is applied to pubs on Friday and Saturday nights. Without warning, squads of police, environmental health officers, licensing officers, fire officers and sniffer dogs looking for drugs go in.This "front foot" approach hasn't stopped some of the most violent crime - as the night porter at the Saxon Holme Hotel in Heaton Chapel will testify. Masked robbers arrived at his counter earlier this month wielding a handgun and a sword and stole £180 and a mobile phone. Three nights later another two masked raiders hit the porter with a pistol, broke his teeth and split his head open. Since 2004 common assault has gone up 2% and personal robberies - lots of iPods and mobile phones - have risen 9%. Bicycle theft has gone up by almost a quarter.However, rates for the highest volume crime - burglary - fell 28% last year after the council helped repeat victims secure their homes and the police conducted a series of dawn raids on suspects. £100,000 was invested fitting wireless burglar alarms, panic buttons and tougher door locks for victims. The kit costs up to £350 per house compared to an estimated £2,500 to investigate and prosecute a burglary. Now, just 1% of burglary victims in Stockport are targeted again within 12 months. The national average is 8%. Similar "target hardening" of vehicles and regular patrols of hot spots has reduced car crime by around a third.The active policing is there for everyone to see. In the space of 30 minutes on the Adswood estate three police patrol cars, two local wardens and four cycling community support officers passed by. Loitering gangs of youths, not burglary, are now the most common complaint."Between 8.30pm and 10.30pm, the kids bang on the window and run off," said Evelyn Johnson, 80, who owns the Garner's Lane Cattery. "Crime has gone down in this area," said Majorie Gaskell, 68, a grandmother who lives alone on the Adswood estate. "A few years ago there was always one of my neighbours being burgled. Its much less now."Wain's way is starting to work.