Jack Straw, the justice secretary, is to signal a more punitive approach to prisons today by attacking the "criminal justice lobby" for putting the needs of offenders before those of victims.In a speech on prison policy to the Royal Society of Arts, he is to say it is time to reclaim the "unfashionable" language of punishment and reform and make clear that the justice system is there to serve victims and the law-abiding majority first.Using such language is not a return to Victorian notions of dealing with crime, nor does it mean treating offenders inhumanely, he will say, claiming that penal reformers have retreated into a "fog of platitudes" about offenders and have forgotten about victims.Straw's more punitive tone comes after Gordon Brown's party conference promise to appoint a victims' commissioner, and at a time when prison chiefs are trying to cope with an inmate population of 83,383 in England and Wales. A recent fall in the use of short-term sentences by the courts means no prisoners are now being held in emergency police cells.Straw will challenge the "criminal justice lobby" to do more to put victims at the heart of their work, to recognise that being a victim of crime is one of the most traumatic things that can happen. He will suggest that the victims' commissioner will give victims of crime a stronger voice in government and in the community.Although the words "punishment" and "reform" may have grown unfashionable, there is a need to reclaim them, Straw will say: "Two simple words: it's time we had them back. Punishment and reform is the very basis of the criminal justice system ... The sentences of the court are first and foremost for the punishment of those who have broken ... society's rules."The word "reform" implies an obligation on the part the offender to make amends: "Yes, the criminal justice system needs to give people a chance to turn their lives around, but these chances should be balanced by a responsibility on the offender to take them. To use such language to describe the government's approach does not signal a return to some Victorian notion of crime. And this doesn't mean treating offenders inhumanely."In an advanced text of his speech, Straw praises the "criminal justice lobby", but raises concerns that it has retreated into a language of its own. He will explain that phrases such as "criminogenic needs of offenders" drive him to distraction, not only because they are impenetrable jargon, but because they imply that someone's amoral desire to continue criminal activity is equal to the needs of victims.He will say: "We hear far less often from these lobbies about the needs of the victim. I think they sometimes forgot who the victim is, so lost do they become in a fog of platitudes."