The idea of elected police chiefs was always controversial, but – unlike with, say, NHS reorganisation – it at least had a comprehensible aim. The legislation went through without too much noise, and the elections are set for November. But now two snags have emerged. Magistrates have been barred from standing – a stricture affecting several Conservative candidates – and one eminently qualified Labour runner, Bob Ashford, has withdrawn because an ancient teenage transgression leaves him falling foul of unforgiving rules.A few weeks before an expected reshuffle, and a few weeks after the G4S debacle, the mix-up over magistrates is more serious for Theresa May. It is a headache for her own party that reinforces her reputation as a just-in-time home secretary. Lord Justice Goldring's guidance, which ruled magistrates out, caught her department on the hop. It is defensible, even desirable, to insist on a separation between the bench in court and the police force that hauls people before it. But this is a big change: police authorities are currently positively required to include magistrates. It is extraordinary that the home office rammed through a law allowing a judge to bar magistrates without foreseeing that this might happen.It is the debarring of Mr Ashford, however, that is the more damning indictment of the whole tenor of our criminal justice debate. Having been director of strategy for the Youth Justice Board, he would have brought more insight than most to the directly elected commissioner post. His experience of ending up on the wrong side of the law as a young boy, through some ill-advised trespassing on a railway, would only have added to that. Half a century on, it would be no bar on applying for an ordinary job – or on standing for parliament. Indeed, MP Eric Joyce continues to sit on the green benches after being convicted for assault and later removing the electronic tag fitted to him as a result; there would be no constitutional bar on him becoming home secretary and assuming oversight of the police as a whole. But such is Westminster's bipartisan bloodlust against law-breakers beyond its walls that Labour MPs lined up with Tories to make sure that past offences such as Mr Ashford's would scar would-be commissioners for life. Falklands hero Simon Weston – surely a dream populist candidate – has also felt moved to withdraw. He was fined £30 aged 14.Our prime minister is only one of the top politicians whose alleged youthful dabbling with drugs put them on the wrong side. The only difference between them and someone with a conviction is that they were never caught in a way that landed them in court. Ethically speaking, it is a Rizla paper of a distinction. Our politicians ought to be as forgiving about the pasts of others as they are about themselves.