Steve Wright lived in a world that centred around his local pub and golf club, where regulars knew him as a quiet, unassuming guy who dressed well, a "good bloke, someone you could talk to".But in truth, no one really knew him at all.Certainly not the 49-year-old's partner of six years, Pamela Wright, 61. She had no idea that, after dropping her at the IT call centre where she worked the night shift, the shy man she lived with would trawl Ipswich's red light district for prostitutes to take back to their flat for sex, let alone that his desires were to turn more sinister.Nor did the police. In December 2006, when the naked bodies of missing young women began appearing at remote spots around the Suffolk town, detectives did not have Wright's name on their radar. He had no relevant previous convictions to alert them to the possibility that he might be the serial killer they sought.It was only when samples of DNA found on three of the women matched his - his DNA was placed on the database after a conviction for the theft of cash from a pub till five years ago - that they first heard of him. According to one police source, he "came out of nowhere".Wright has been found guilty of the most prolific serial killing of women since the Yorkshire Ripper, after a six-week campaign of murder. But after a massive investigation involving almost 40 forces, the police are no closer to knowing what drove him to kill.Apart from the DNA samples, fibres found from his clothing, car and home were discovered on the naked bodies of all five women, who all worked as prostitutes.Wright, who admitted having sex with four out of the five, had no explanation for why blood from some of the women was found on the outside of his reflective jacket and in his car. He insisted it was an unfortunate coincidence that all five were later killed in the same order in which he picked them up.But a jury at Ipswich crown court yesterday found him guilty of murdering all five women, by smothering them or compressing their necks, before dumping their bodies.As Wright faces five life sentences, however, questions remain. It is not known where or how Tania Nicol, 19, Gemma Adams, 25, Anneli Alderton, 24, Annette Nicholls, 29, and Paula Clennell, 24, met their deaths - or why.In the witness box for three days Wright gave a controlled performance, only occasionally raising his voice, to deny he had anything to do with the murders. His elaborate attempts to account for forensic evidence - the discovery of his DNA inside a glove led him to say he found the fluid on condoms repulsive and always used gloves to remove them - were dismissed as a "nonsense' by the prosecution.A frequenter of massage parlours for 25 years, Wright told the court he only turned to street prostitutes in October after he moved into a flat in the red light district, having realised he could buy sex for as little as £20 if he haggled over the price. The women on the streets knew him as a regular, however, and said he had been visiting for years.He was "blinkered" by his desire for sex, he said, and picked them up in his car yards from his own house, despite the risk of detection by his partner.In a rare insight into what lay hidden behind his quiet persona, Wright has described himself as a "placid person" who tends to bury anger "deep inside". He admitted, in a letter to his father while remanded in prison, that this was an unhealthy trait, but one that had stemmed from seeing enough "anger and violence in my childhood to last anyone a lifetime".Born in April 1958, in Erphingham, Norfolk, Wright was the second of four children of his RAF policeman father, Conrad, and mother Patricia, a veterinary nurse. His upbringing was unsettled as the family moved from place to place following his father's postings. They lived abroad, in Malta and Singapore. But he would also stay with grandparents in Friston, Suffolk.His parents' rocky marriage ended in a bitter split in the 1960s when Wright was a child. Both remarried and his father and his new wife, Valerie, went on to have two more children, Keith and Natalie.Conrad Wright, 72, told the Guardian that his ex-wife had abandoned them, leaving his son always searching for a mother figure. But Patricia Wright, who now lives in California, said in another media interview that she was forced to leave because the marriage had grown violent. She said Steve was afraid of his father and she had wanted to take the children, but she was prevented from doing so.Whatever the truth, Wright and his siblings, David, Jeanette and Tina, never got on with their father's new wife, which led to further family rifts. He grew up into a shy man who had difficulty with relationships and holding down a job, and often got into debt.He left school at 16 with no qualifications and, after a job as a waiter in a hotel, joined the merchant navy as a chef on the Felixstowe ferries. His first marriage to Angela O'Donovan, in 1978 in Milford Haven, Pembrokeshire, produced a son, Michael, but ended after eight years.As an adult, he was to repeat the unsettled pattern of his childhood: variously employed as a dock worker, lorry driver, barman, pub landlord, forklift truck driver and steward on the QE2 for six years.While on shore leave abroad, he first began using prostitutes. He also met Diane Cassell, an onboard window dresser, who became his second wife in 1987. They left the ship to run a pub together, the Ferry Boat Inn in the red light district of Norwich, but the marriage was a disaster, according to his former wife, and they split up within a year. In September 1988 his tenancy of the pub also came to an end, and he moved to the White Horse pub in Chislehurst, Kent.There Wright struck up a relationship with Sarah Whiteley, a barmaid. They moved to Plumstead, south-east London, to run the Rose and Crown pub in 1990 and had a daughter together in 1992. But that relationship, too, foundered and they split up before the baby's first birthday after Wright lost his pub apparently through gambling and drinking.While in London, he began to visit massage parlours for sex, a habit he retained when he eventually moved back to Suffolk.By the mid-1990s, Wright's constant gambling had taken its toll and, unable to see a way out of his debts, he tried to kill himself by gassing himself in his car, though he was found before he could succeed. His step-brother, Keith, said the incident had a profound effect on Wright and he retreated into himself even more.Two further suicide attempts followed. He was later declared bankrupt after running up £30,000 in unsecured loans.His second suicide attempt came in 2000, after he returned from a 10-week trip to Thailand, where he got further into debt. He had sold everything, including his car and furniture, to fund the trip during which he visited Thai prostitutes.His life in tatters, Wright moved in with his father and stepmother in Felixstowe for a while. He met Pamela, his current partner, and they moved in together in 2001. He was a member of the Brigands (the Brook Residents International Golf and Notable Delinquents Society) club, based at the hotel, where he worked for a few months as a publican and also of the Seckford golf club, near Woodbridge, where he was remembered as a smart dresser who always played in black. That year, he signed on for driving and labouring jobs with Gateway Recruitment Agency, first based in Levington, Suffolk, and then in Nacton, close to where Alderton's body was found.Wright said he stopped going to massage parlours when he met Pamela and described their relationship as "pretty good", but six months after they moved to Bell Close in Ipswich, in 2004, he had begun again. He would visit Oasis and Cleopatra's, where Gemma Adams and Tania Nicol had both worked, on a Saturday or "when I got the urge", he said.By October 2006, his urges had grown more violent and sex was no longer enough.