Policies are like houses: if they have been on the market for a long time, it is a fair bet there is something wrong with their foundations. Unfortunately for David Blunkett, he could not be aware that the idea of compulsory identity cards has been hawked around Whitehall for years. By all accounts he has now bought the policy and will issue a consultation paper shortly.Its appeal is obvious - it combines the two essential New Labour ingredients: populism and modernism. To the small 'c' conservative voters whom Labour want to attract, it sounds a simple way of controlling illegal immigrants, criminals and welfare fraudsters.Libertarian concerns that we should be presumed innocent and left free to go about our business without having to justify or identify ourselves, seem remote. Yet at the same time the idea can be presented as 'modern' because this won't be any old ID card but an all-singing, all-dancing smart card. The last Government was offered the same idea by every new Minister for IT as the remedy for all our ills from crime to shortage of kidney donors. As I pointed out, one normally starts with an illness and looks for a treatment. Only quack medicines claim to cure ailments before they are diagnosed. On critical inspection, claims that smart ID cards would solve all our woes evaporated. The police explained that they almost never had problems identifying suspects, only in catching and convicting them. The security services explained that (as the 11 September terrorists showed) terrorists rarely conceal their identity. The immigration service explained that all illegal immigrants can, and most do, claim asylum, at which point their fingerprints are stored on a central computer and they are given an identity document without which they cannot legally obtain benefits or jobs. (Quite why Blunkett wants to make them carry a smart card with their fingerprints in the chip is a mystery, since they would surely be identified by their actual fingerprints which they are unlikely to forget to carry with them). Paradoxically, although I was the main opponent of compulsory ID cards under the Conservative Government, I was introducing a benefit payment card to replace the insecure and easily forged Order Books and Giros. The Labour Government scrapped that card, claiming it was too difficult to computerise up to 20 million claimants. How then can they hope to run an ID card for 60 million of us? We decided compulsory smart cards were a pretty dumb idea and shelved it. Now it seems that Sir Humphrey has dusted it down and persuaded David Blunkett (of whom I expected better) to swallow it as gullibly as Jim Hacker. The scheme may be pointless, but is it dangerous to our liberties? Surely carrying an extra piece of plastic would be no threat to the innocent? There is every difference in the world between cards we carry voluntarily and being compelled to carry one. If you forget your credit card, it is an inconvenience. But if you step out of your home without your compulsory ID you would commit a criminal offence. If you fail to notify the Government of a change of address, you would commit a criminal offence. If you fail to report that you have lost it, you would commit a criminal offence. Even though the card would probably not help catch a single villain, it would criminalise many thousands of absent-minded, forgetful and inefficient people. If it were not compulsory to carry one's ID, that would render the whole scheme pointless. Yet Blunkett has said that initially he will not make it compulsory. It may be he intends, as proposed in a backbench Bill used to fly the kite of compulsory ID cards, that the police would be empowered to escort suspects home ignominiously to get their card. That would be compulsion in all but name. Like many ideas that are widely popular when first mooted, compulsory ID cards can lose their appeal once people begin to think about their implications. That was certainly the case in Australia. When Labour there announced a similar scheme, it received overwhelming support in the polls. But as its implications emerged support waned. A massive campaign was launched. Concern focused on its implications for privacy. Eventually the polls showed nearly 90 per cent against the proposal, and it fell in the Upper House. I look forward to Blunkett's plan suffering a similar fate. Peter Lilley was Secretary for Social Security, 1992-97