The appeal court has ruled against an attempt to increase the minimum jail term being served by Chris Halliwell, who brutally murdered Sian O'Callaghan after she got into his taxi.Halliwell was jailed for life in October and told he must serve at least 25 years in prison before he is considered for parole.He avoided possible prosecution for the murder of a second young woman, Becky Godden-Edwards – despite telling police he killed her and leading them to her body – because of serious problems in the way a senior officer interviewed him.The attorney general, Dominic Grieve, referred the sentencing to the court of appeal. But three judges ruled the 25-year tariff was not unduly lenient. Lord Justice Pitchford said they could see nothing amiss with the sentencing judge's reasoning when she set the minimum term.Halliwell, 48, was jailed in October after admitting killing O'Callaghan.The 22-year-old had left a nightclub in Swindon in the early hours in March last year and was under the influence of alcohol when she got into Halliwell's taxi.Rather than driving her home, he took her to a forest half an hour away. He stabbed her twice in the head and neck with a kitchen knife, once with severe force, and punched or kicked her in the face. She suffered a wound to her left breast that could have been caused by a bite. He removed her underwear and leggings and sections appeared to have been cut from those garments. Her bra had also been torn off.Halliwell left her body in the forest. When he realised police were searching there, he moved it to another remote spot and dumped it down an embankment.Describing it as a "savage and brutal attack" on a "vulnerable" woman, the sentencing judge at Bristol crown court, Mrs Justice Cox, said: "The pain, terror, anguish and desperation she would have suffered is truly horrifying to contemplate … She was terrified, helpless and alone."The judge said she believed it was "murder involving sexual conduct".She could not take into account the apparent murder of Becky Godden-Edwards, who had not been seen since December 2002, when she was 20.When he was arrested over O'Callaghan's abduction, Halliwell told police he had kidnapped and murdered Godden-Edwards and took them to where he said he had buried her body. But because of the way he was interviewed, without a lawyer being present or being properly informed of his rights, the judge ruled that evidence inadmissible. Prosecutors had no choice but to halt the case against him because they had no other evidence relating to that killing.Had he been convicted of two "stranger murders", possibly with a sexual element to both, he could well have faced a full life term with no chance of parole.Sentencing Halliwell, Cox had said her "starting point in fixing the minimum term" was 30 years because she accepted there was a sexual element to the murder.She reduced the sentence by five years because Halliwell had pleaded guilty to the offence, thus sparing O'Callaghan's family the agony of sitting through a trial. Crucially she also highlighted that Halliwell had no convictions for "sexual or violent offences".Police have vowed to continue to investigate Godden-Edwards's death. They also continue to investigate Halliwell's past to see if he may be responsible for any other unsolved murders.