It's dangerous being a young man, always has been. Young men are twice as likely as young women to be the victims of crime, and knifing – often as the result of an argument – has long been the most common method of dispatch. In fact, it's so common that, when I first started teaching journalism in the mid-90s, I set up an exercise in which the task was to arrange crimes in order of their news value. The stabbing of a young man after a fight came at the bottom of the list. It was already such a common occurrence that it was unlikely to make it into the pages of a national paper. Child murder, on the other hand, was usually a headline-grabber due to its rarity. So what is going on and why are newspapers monitoring every incidence of stabbing and checking on the sales of "stab vests"?One oddity has been the lack of statistics in most of the recent articles. There is apparently an increase in knife crime, but few of the articles provide figures. The Telegraph checked admissions into hospitals for stabbings and found that, in spite of a headline announcing a "surge" in the number treated for stab wounds, and an "epidemic" of knife crime, the rate was up in some hospitals but down in others, with variations even in the same cities. A spokesman for Birmingham city hospital was quoted, saying that in 2003, 142 gunshot wounds were treated as opposed to only 20 stabbings, whereas they are now treating 100 stabbings a year. Given that, nationally, guns account for less than 10% of all murders, while knives are responsible for more than a third, one has to wonder what was happening in Birmingham in 2003 and why we weren't told at the time? One journalist who did check the figures was Elizabeth Stewart, in the Guardian back in May, when the latest hue and cry started to warm up. She found then that there had been no increase in deaths by stabbing this year. That doesn't make any individual death any more palatable, but neither does it explain this suddenly heightened concern. Certainly there seems to be some evidence that knife users are getting younger (but then the peak average age for crime has been creeping down for some time), but the thing that really seems to have fuelled this classic moral panic has been several very high-profile celebrity connections and a couple of clearly mistaken identities. When an actor from Harry Potter, the brother of an EastEnders actor and the nephew of an Olympic athlete, John Regis, are knifed for no apparent reason, it does increase the sense that this is no longer a "plague" that affects only "other" people living in poverty in high-rise estates. Suddenly, it feels as though it is coming to a street near you where nice respectable people (like journalists for instance) live. I know about this syndrome. I, too, wrote an article about safety on the streets when my 12-year-old son was mugged.But perhaps this panic is a good thing. Just for once, media attention has been caught by the people who really are the chief victims of violent crime. The boys who carry the knives on our streets are the very same boys who cry for their mothers when they become victims of the macho culture into which they are being sucked. They are the same boys who are afraid to walk home from school alone, but even more afraid of admitting it. One in five teenagers admit to carrying a knife for protection. The current solution being touted by the Tories is to lock them all up for possession. But are we really going to lock up 20% of our teenagers? The fact is that every summer teenagers spill out of school and find themselves confronted with the problem of how to be independent and stay safe. And every summer, among them will be a small group of (mainly) young men who are desperately unsure of themselves and need to prove how tough they are.The situation doesn't appear to be getting any worse – but then it isn't getting any better either and it has been ignored and excused for far too long. A moral panic about knife crime is not going to make parents feel any more comfortable about letting their teenagers out of their sight this summer. Yet if the current preoccupation can focus attention for a moment on just how difficult it is to grow up male in the city, perhaps something positive will come from it.We routinely talk to our daughters about safety, but our sons are expected to "tough it out". They learn early on that they cannot expect help or protection from adult men who, mostly, regard them as a threat. The have to learn for themselves how to walk on the city streets without ever looking another young man in the eye; how to avoid trouble without seeming to be "soft".They learn to bury their fear behind a brash layer of front. And sometimes they reach into the kitchen drawer for what seems, at the time, to be the ultimate protection. Knife crime may not be on the rise, but violence among young men doesn't need to be getting worse. It was already a problem.