David Waddington's dictum that prison is 'an expensive way of making bad people worse' owes its origin to work by the American criminologist Robert Martinson. Developing prisoner 'treatments', finding means to rehabilitate offenders into society, had been a central goal of prison regimes on both sides of the Atlantic for at least 100 years.Then, in 1974, Martinson and two colleagues published an analysis of the rate at which released prisoners who had undergone any of 231 widely differing rehabilitation schemes had been reconvicted. 'Nothing works,' Martinson concluded. 'The present array of correctional treatments has no appreciable effect.' Rarely, if ever, has a piece of social science research influenced policy so swiftly. Liberals - like Martinson himself - found the idea that 'nothing works' attractive because it could support a reduction in the use of imprisonment. Such views were soon swamped by conservatives, who used Martinson's study to push for longer sentences and more brutal regimes. Across most of the English-speaking world, educational and psychological programmes were starved of funds and closed. Appalled by the way his work had been expropriated, Martinson tried to recant, suggesting some schemes had value after all. But he had lost his audience. By 1980 his work was even being used to justify capital punishment: if prisoners could not be rehabilitated, why not kill them? That winter, he jumped to his death from his ninth-floor New York apartment. There was just one place where the 'nothing works' orthodoxy had little impact: Canada. There, a group of psychologists who worked within the prison system persuaded the authorities to cling to the rehabilitative ideal. According to a leading member, Paul Gendreau of New Brunswick University, 'we operated under the assumption that criminal behaviour, like almost all forms of social behaviour, was largely learnt and could, therefore, be modified'. Gendreau and his colleagues demolished Martinson's conclusions. They showed that his own study had played fast and loose with its data, and that almost half the 231 schemes he had examined had in fact reduced recidivism. They demonstrated that imprisonment on its own had the worst effects of all, and developed new programmes, evaluating them rigorously as they went. In place of 'nothing works', they posed a simple, crucial question: 'What works?' Most of the programmes now being used in Britain are built on their foundations. In contrast to Martinson's work, they have taken a long time to spread. 'You can draw an analogy with medical research,' Gendreau says. 'New treatments typically take at least 10-15 years to be used widely after they've been shown to be effective.' Yet he finds himself stunned by the sudden spread of Canadian-style programmes in Britain: 'It's unbelievable what you guys are doing. Going for it so quickly on such a scale: it's never been done before anywhere, and if you get it wrong you're taking an enormous risk. I'm crossing all my fingers, and all my toes.' The Canadians found that the programmes which seemed most effective shared a common theoretical base - the 'cognitive-behaviourial' school of psychology. Jack Bush, who works just across the Canadian border in the US state of Vermont, used this approach to devise the CSCP used at Channings Wood and five other English jails. While it may be valuable, he says, to acquire insight by understanding our backgrounds and early trauma, we are not bound by them. We can consciously work on our attitudes, thoughts and behaviour, and learn how to change them. On the CSCP and other prison programmes, 'clients learn thinking skills the way a person might learn to dance, or drive a car'. Through the classes, and regular written assignments, they will then practise these skills 'until they can use them when it counts, in real-life situations'. In Canada and several American states, the CSCP has been taught for more than a decade, and studies suggest it cuts reoffending by around 50 per cent.