The government has just avoided making a gigantic mistake. Political parties agree that imprisonment should be a punishment of last resort. Jack Straw, secretary of state for Justice, said as much on Monday in the debate following his statement on prisons: "What we know is this: of course it is true – there is almost a consensus on it in the House – that where possible, offenders should not be sent to prison."The Conservative party has committed itself to reducing prison numbers by cutting reoffending rates. The Liberal Democrats stress the particular importance of steering young people out of trouble and away from prison. It makes sense then to reserve prison for the most serious and violent offenders.Yet, when it comes to the cut and thrust of party politics, tough-sounding rhetoric trumps a more rational, planned approach. As a consequence, penal policy is shot with contradictions and prisons are left to lurch from crisis to crisis.So Jack Straw abandons Titan prisons but obstinately presses ahead, against expert advice, with a monstrous increase in prison capacity. He boasts of boosting local employment by building new prisons, without acknowledging that thousands more people will be locked up in them and then released homeless, jobless, estranged from their families and ready to offend again.The five proposed 1,500-bed prisons are merely scaled-down Titans, larger than our biggest and most troublesome prisons. Ministers have to look at the poor track record and call time on a prison policy based almost totally on mindless prison-building. Instead of wasting billions on prisons, they should be investing in measures to tackle the causes of crime and the causes of a rising prison population. A few million for women's centres or probation initiatives may sound good but it's nothing compared with the billions government wants to sink into mini-Titans.Plans to open the door to more privatisation are alarming, particularly given the poor performance of many private jails, here and overseas. Already, proportionately more prisoners are held in private hands in England and Wales, 11%, than in federal and state systems in America, just under 8%. The only people who stand to gain are private contractors with a vested interest in spiralling numbers and a growing prison market. It is difficult to believe, in today's climate, that the government would want to enter into lengthy restrictive contracts (pdf) and further public debt.Where countries and states are counting the economic and social costs of high use of custody, moves are being made to work across government departments and to invest instead in community solutions to crime. As the recession bites, can we afford, in England and Wales, to spend 2.5% of GDP on the criminal justice system, a higher per capita level than in any other EU country or the US?Now that prison numbers are comparatively stable and crime figures show another overall fall, ministers are in a good position to review how best to reinvest monies guided by the forthcoming Justice committee report. Following savings, a proportion of the billions earmarked for the massive prison-building programme could be used far more effectively to resource a range of policy measures to make the system deliver better value and significantly better outcomes.Most of these have already attracted cross-party support:• a national network of police and court schemes diverting many people with mental health needs or learning disabilities away from the criminal justice system and into health and social care, a likely outcome of the forthcoming Bradley review• a significant increase in community and residential treatment for offenders with drink or drug addictions• the full and immediate implementation of the Corston review to end the unnecessary imprisonment of women for minor offences (the need for action re-enforced by Holloway prison's independent monitoring board annual report released this week which reveals an 80% increase in self-harm)• incentives for local authorities to increase preventative work and intensive fostering to support children and young people in trouble and their families, leading to a planned reduction in child and youth imprisonment (re-enforced by another report released this week, this time charting children's own experiences and views)• adequate funding for community orders so that the courts have confidence in their availability and effectiveness• restorative justice programmes, which have proven benefits for victims• a measured reduction in any unnecessary use of breach and remand• a strengthened Sentencing Guidelines Council to end "sentence inflation", help call a halt to the politicisation of sentencing and ensure better public understanding of sentencing policy and practice (according to the ministry of Justice, approximately 70% of the increase in demand for prison places between 1995 and 2005 arose due to changes in sentencing practice, increased use of custody and longer sentences)We have been paying a high price for a system in chaos. Joining up social and criminal justice policy at last is a better legacy or major milestone, whichever it proves to be, than achieving the highest custody rate in Europe or becoming world leader in prison privatisation. In an economic downturn, reckless spending is out. If even half the time and money wasted on planning Titan nicks was spent on what really works to create safer communities, the investment would pay dividends.