ClothesKarrysafe, the Þrst company in Europe to design bags and fashion accessories which protect users against street crime, was launched in 2001. Louis Vuitton it ain't - how about bright red nylon with Velcro and built in alarms? - but it can be effective. The bags guard against the four top methods of street theft: 'dipping' (by pickpockets), grabbing, lifting and slashing. If grabbed, for example, the strap gives way, allowing the thief to take the bag without resorting to violence. Then it triggers a 138-decibel alarm that they cannot turn off.Anti-crime measures have been taken to the level of fabric too. 'Techno-textiles' are increasingly being used to foil criminals, with polymers such as Kevlar and Nomex, which are stab-, slash-, and bulletproof, incorporated into bag and jacket designs. Levi's has already produced an 'e-wear' jacket, in conjunction with Philips. Pioneered at MIT in Boston, 'e-wear' has become a strong interest area for electronics and clothing manufacturers. With street crime on the rise, a key issue is the portability and visibility of items such as mobile phones, personal stereos and computers. The Levi's jacket was an attempt to design a garment that could both carry, with comfort, these items, while protecting the wearer. This is just the tip of the iceberg. Many designers see a day when the victim of a street assault may be able to ward off an attacker with ease. They cite fabrics that can change state to become 'anti-touch' (suddenly sharp for example), or light up and emit an alarm. These garments could be made from impenetrable fabrics and, on attack, release a permanent stain to mark out the perpetrator. ID TechnologyWhen primary schools start using electronic fingerprinting to keep track of their library books, you know the future has arrived. Micro Librarian Systems (MLS), one maker of the technology, has already sold 1,000 systems to schools in the UK and abroad. Current thinking is that iris scanning could prove to be key to future ID technology. 'The data is even more randomised than a fingerprint,' says Mike Thieme, senior consultant for New York consulting firm, the International Biometric Group. There's much less chance of two people having the same iris.Earlier this year plans were unveiled for the introduction of retinal eye scans at a new £14.5m school, Venerable Bede, which is due to open in Sunderland in September.Several companies are now working on improving eye scanning. Iridian Technologies in New Jersey holds the patent to iris-reading technology and licenses it out to companies producing scanning equipment. Panasonic is already using the technology to identify its workers, and it is expected that others will follow suit in an attempt to stamp out industrial espionage. Facial scanning and recognition technology to pick out criminals from the crowd, are also in production. Until now this has proved unreliable, either letting criminals through the net or pulling up innocent bystanders. Graphco Technologies is one US company producing a system that can be used with CCTV. The company's platform for face recognition applications can enable an instant match in a video scan of a face in a crowd