Some things I can live with. I can live with this nervy government throwing a few bones to the fickle dogs of Middle England, whose votes will be needed next May. I can live - at least, at three o'clock on too many mornings - with the thought of a carload of cops descending on the swaggering, guffawing young men who roam past my east London home, waking my children and putting fear in the hearts of elderly folk down the street. I can even live with the prospect of Blair, Straw and company boasting about how big and hard they are for banging up a few more lads for acting big and hard.But as the parent of three sons, two of them around the same age as poor, dead Damilola Taylor, I really cannot live with, tolerate or bear the abject failure of the top boys of New Labour to face up to where the core of the yob culture really lies."Yob" may be "boy" spelt backwards, but the ministers most responsible for the welfare of all the young are too smug, stupid, or maybe just too scared to face up to the deepest implications of destructive aggression among schoolboys and young men. Far easier to take refuge in the soft option rhetoric of law and order than to address, or even ask, the really tough questions thrown up by knifings in back alleys or boozing in the streets: questions about where the irresponsibility, amorality and sometimes chilling cruelty of young males actually comes from, what the factors are that help foster it, and how these aspects of our society can most effectively be challenged and changed. And behind these lies the hardest question of all: what do we want our young men to be for? New Labour's failure to look this issue in the eye lies behind its inability to come to anything like terms with all the other dimensions of "the great boy problem" that currently so preoccupies society. We live in a world where the old models of manhood are increasingly redundant and look ever more absurd, yet the government seems almost as eager as the opposition to resurrect the notion that boys must be drilled, urged and cajoled back into masculine clothes which might have fitted their forefathers. Look more closely at the yob culture and what we see are young men not behaving simply badly, but in precisely the sorts of ways they hope will win them manhood's spurs. Just like the politicians they strut and they pose, frantically competing to be the most bellicose -who's got the most bottle, who will be the first to chuck a chair at the police? Look at boys in general, including those who are not yobs, and the same psychological dynamics dominate. As the shrewdest gender researchers have shown time and again, boys grow up policing themselves and one another with neurotic dedication, deriding and marginalising any human quality or perception within their own ranks that might be seen as - oh horror! - "feminine" and therefore "gay". The parallel with politicians holds damningly here too. Whether by design or habit, Hague has done his utmost to position himself as more of a man than Blair: the military haircut, the judo, the 14 pints of beer, the gritty "commonsense" revolt against the effete equivocations of the wine bar wimp. He's made himself look daft, of course, but Blair's edgy anyway. The distinctly mixed reception to his brief paternity leave showed what a risky business loosening the male straitjacket can be. The rules don't allow a man to be both nurturing and aggressive, caring and competitive, "masculine" and "feminine" at the same time. You can get hammered for it, mate: just look at the hatred that is heaped on David Beckham. Yet the hostile reactions triggered by such transgressions vividly expose the issues that must be raised if boys and young men are to be happier, and communities are to be spared their worst behaviour. We have to ask why there is such fierce resistance to a boy or man demonstrating a whole range of human qualities and aptitudes. We have to ask out loud why learning how to be "masculine" seems to mean almost nothing except being seen to triumph over "feminine" contamination. The answers to such questions do not lie with those plying tired, traditional answers. Nor do they lie in fatuous debates about the pros and cons of "feminising" men, the better to prepare them for the needs of modern industry. Rather, it's a case of acknowledging potential - the potential of any boy to be a rich and varied human being and granting him permission to explore it to the full. comment@theguardian.com