Victims' charities last night said they were "uncomfortable" with the home secretary's plans to impose a £5 to £30 surcharge on offenders, including motorists, to fund improvements in support services for the victims of crime.David Blunkett intends to introduce the surcharge to generate an extra £25m a year to finance a new victims' fund to provide practical support to those who have been raped, bereaved families and road accident victims. He is also to appeal to the alcohol industry to contribute to local victims' schemes to offset the £7.3bn annual cost of drink-related crime. Mr Blunkett is also seeking to curb the escalating £170m a year cost of the criminal injuries compensation scheme by transferring the responsibility for compensating those attacked at work to their employers. This will affect police officers, health workers and teachers. The scheme also currently compensates train drivers who suffer trauma from railway suicides. Those who run the criminal injuries compensation scheme will get civil powers to recover the cost from offenders. But critics of the surcharge said improvements in victim support services should be financed out of general tax rather than a levy of offenders, such as speeding motorists who commit victimless crimes. The surcharge scheme and the overhaul of the criminal injuries compensation scheme is expected to be included in amendments to the domestic violence, crime and victims bill going through parliament. A Home Office consultation paper published yesterday suggested that the surcharge of between £5 and £30 should be levied on all offenders, including those who commit victimless crimes such as traffic and drug-related offences. It will apply to motoring offences, such as speeding, but not to civil fixed penalty offences such as parking. Fines of up to £80, for offences such as speeding, will attract a £5 surcharge, and over £80, such as for driving while uninsured, would carry a £10 surcharge. The maximum £30 surcharge would be imposed on those who receive a prison sentence or a community penalty. The consultation paper says too few offenders pay any compensation to victims with only 14% of those convicted in magistrates' courts ordered to pay. Only about half pay up. The scheme will mean most offenders will pay something into the national victims fund. Mr Blunkett said the current lump sum compensation scheme did not allow funding for the wide range of support services needed:"We want compensation to victims to be targeted in the right way, and to come from the most appropriate sources. With these proposals we look to the perpetrators as well as the state." But Anthony Forsyth of Victim Support said it felt uncomfortable that welcome improvements in victim services were to be financed by fines: "We are uncomfortable with the idea of linking this extra income with these sort of minor offences. We think the government should pay for that." The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten said: "Many people will be concerned that they are in effect paying compensation for a crime they didn't commit." Harry Fletcher of Napo, the probation officers' union, said there was no logic in taxing individuals who had committed victimless crimes.The penaltiesFigures in brackets indicate fixed penalties while the second figure show the surcharge.Public drunkenness (£40) £5 Speeding (£60) £5 Driving without insurance (£200) £10 Fine up to £1,000 £15  Fine more than £1,000 £30 Community penalty £30 Prison sentence £30· Source: Home Office