A businessman wanted for questioning about the murder of his wife and three children who died from severe head injuries was arrested at Heathrow yesterday after a joint operation by Manchester and Thai police.Rahan Arshad flew back to Britain voluntarily after being tracked to Thailand after disappearing in late July, around the time his wife Uzma Rahan, 32, was killed with the couple's sons Adam, 11, and Abbas, eight, and their daughter Henna, four. The bodies were discovered in Cheadle Hulme, near Stockport, only 12 days ago when neighbours reported a smell.Mr Arshad, 36, has been the subject of an international police hunt since his distinctive silver sports car was found locked in the car park at Heathrow's terminal 3 the day after police broke into the family's home. He was arrested at the border crossing of Padang Besar in southern Thailand on Thursday when he tried to renew his visa by crossing into Malaysia briefly.Detective Superintendent Martin Bottomley said: "We have been liaising with law enforcement authorities in Thailand since finding the car. As a result of those inquiries, Rahan Arshad was questioned by Thai authorities at the Thai-Malay border re-entering Thailand early on Wednesday morning UK time."At 7pm last night Mr Arshad voluntarily boarded a Thai Airlines flight in Bangkok to return to the UK in order to assist us with our inquiries. He landed at Heathrow airport this morning. On leaving the plane, he was arrested on suspicion of the four murders."Mr Arshad was taken to Manchester for questioning while officers briefed his wife's family on developments in the inquiry. Mrs Rahan came from Pakistan to marry Mr Arshad in Manchester. The family was well-known locally and the children were described as lively and popular at school. Police believe that their bodies lay for four weeks in the house in Turves Road. Mr Arshad arrived at Bangkok's international airport on July 31.Eight days ago detectives in Manchester arrested a 40-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman in connection with the killings. They were released on police bail.