As Austrians woke this morning to the full and shocking details of yet another "girl in the cellar" discovery, the question must surely have been in many minds: "why are we here yet again?"The case of 42-year-old Elisabeth F, incarcerated for 24 years, her youth and sanity stolen in the process, and systematically abused by her father. She bore his seven children, one of whom died after just three days, in her windowless prison.Only because of the illness of her 18-year-old daughter, Kerstin, who grew up in the cellar with her mother and had never seen daylight, received any education or been seen by a doctor, did the case come to light at all."Failed by the system" does not go far enough to explain how it was at all possible. In a town of 23,000 souls in Lower Austria, did no one ever think to question the story given out by her 73-year-old father that the daughter had run away at the age of 18 and joined a sect? An Interpol search was launched for her while all the time she was languishing in the 60-square metre, 170cm-high bunker he had built beneath his house. Over the years, three children were dumped on his doorstep, he explained to social services and neighbours - children borne by his daughter that she was unable to look after. The authorities gave the father and his wife the right to foster them. The irony is that those three were very probably the lucky ones - they got to "escape" - to go to school, to grow up with other children. Whether they were abused by their father/grandfather is not yet known. They apparently knew nothing of their three siblings living in a hellhole beneath them.It beggars belief to think that if Kerstin had not fallen ill, to be taken to hospital by her father just over a week ago, that the woman and her children might never have been released from their nightmare.Hospital staff say police acted on an "ominous tip-off" from a resident of the town, presumably someone who might have been hiding information for years, afraid to come forward.The parallels with the case of Natascha Kampusch, kidnapped on her way to school as a 10-year-old in 1998, are unavoidable. Natascha, too, only escaped from her captor in August 2006 because she managed to give him the slip while he was washing the car.Yet, it has since been revealed that police had concrete information - such as the address, name and car number plate of her captor, Wolfgang Priklopil - which could have led to them rescuing her within a matter of weeks after her abduction. Because of the failure to act on the information, the girl endured eight years of hell in a cell not unlike the one in which Elisabeth F was held.These are not the only cases of children being locked up by parents or foster parents in Austria. There have been several over the past two decades. One child was kept in a coffin for years before being "discovered".Questions are now being asked as to whether these cases are a symptom of a rich, self-satisfied society as commentators are asking across Austria's press today. A society in which people fail to question what is happening next door, as long as their own lives are happy and intact. It is also a society that, as the Guardian's former diplomatic editor Hella Pick has pointed out in her book Guilty Victim, has a very dark side. For years, it used slick marketing skills - promoting its mountains and Mozart - and the title conveniently given to it by the allies as "Hitler's first victim" to avoid confronting the central role it played in the Holocaust. One should be wary of taking this parallel too far, but this country knows and has ingested the rules of how to cover up.As neighbours in Amstetten's Ybb street have repeatedly said since the gruesome discovery was made there on Saturday night: "We knew nothing about what was going on - they seemed like such a nice family".A whole country should now be asking itself, what is going wrong?