Aim"To make provision for and about the interception of communications, the acquisition and disclosure of data relating to communications, the carrying out of surveillance, the use of covert human intelligence sources and the acquisition of the means by which electronic data protected by encryption or passwords may be decrypted or accessed; to provide for commissioners and a tribunal with functions and jurisdiction in relation to those matters, to entries on and interferences with property or with wireless telegraphy and to the carrying out of their functions by the security service, the Secret Intelligence Service and the Government Communications Headquarters" Main provisions• Regulates the circumstances and methods by which public bodies may carry out covert surveillance. • Lays out a statutory framework to enable public authorities to carry out covert surveillance in compliance with the requirements of the Human Rights Act.• Defines five broad categories of covert surveillance: directed surveillance (includes photographing people); intrusive surveillance (includes bugging); the use of covert human intelligence sources (informants and undercover officers, including watching and following people); accessing communications data (record of emails sent, telephone calls made) and intercepting communications (ie reading content of emails, listening to calls).• Allows the secretary of state to issue an interception warrant to examine the contents of letters or communications on the grounds of national security, and for the purposes of preventing or detecting crime, preventing disorder, public safety, protecting public health, or in the interests of the economic well-being of the United Kingdom. This is the only part of the act that requires a warrant. • Prevents the existence of interception warrants, and any and all data collected with them from being revealed in court. • Allows the police, intelligence services, HM Revenue and Customs (and several hundred more public bodies, including local authorities and a wide range of regulators) to demand telephone, internet and postal service providers to hand over detailed communications records for individual users. This can include name and address, phone calls made and received, source and destination of emails, internet browsing information and mobile phone positioning data that records user's location. These powers are self-authorised by the body concerned, with no external or judicial oversight. • Enables the government to demand that someone hands over keys to protected information; and makes it a criminal offence to refuse to supply actual encrypted traffic or refuse to disclose an encryption key.• Enables the government to force internet service providers to fit equipment to facilitate surveillance.• Allows the government to demand an ISP provider provide secret access to a customer's communication.• Makes provisions to establish an oversight regime, creates an investigatory powers tribunal and appoints three commissioners. BackgroundThe government argued the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act was essential to allow law agencies to catch up technologically with the increasingly sophisticated tools used by terrorists, drug smugglers and organised criminal gangs. The act granted public bodies wide-ranging powers to conduct surveillance including intercepting emails, accessing private communications data, and planting and monitoring surveillance devices. The government was keen to push the bill through parliament before the Human Rights Act became law in October 2000 in order to ensure that law agencies had a framework for covert surveillance that was compliant with the European convention on human rights.Jack Straw, home secretary, claimed the bill merely formalised existing powers. "Covert surveillance by police and other law enforcement officers is as old as policing itself," Straw said. "What is new is that for the first time the use of these techniques will be properly regulated by law." The most controversial elements of the bill were the lack of oversight for the powers and the government's decision to require ISPs to fit equipment that would allow the police and security services to monitor internet traffic and intercept email.After peers raised concern about the bill's implications for business and privacy, the government made a series of concessions tightening definitions about the kind of information that police can obtain without a warrant The bill's lack of detail alarmed members of the House of Lords. Liberal Democrat Lord McNally suggested the general powers the bill granted lacked sufficient safeguards and the bill would "if misused, would certainly infringe on civil liberty". In response to these fears the government agreed an amendment that required them to have detailed codes of practice approved by resolutions in both houses of parliament. When the government sought approval for the order related to communication data in 2002, privacy campaigners were dismayed to discover that it proposed extending access to communications data to hundreds of public bodies including every local authority in the country, fire authorities, Jobcentres, the Gaming Board and the Charity Commission.Privacy lobbyists were outraged by the proposal, which they nicknamed the "snooper's charter. Simon Davies, the director of the campaign group Privacy International, said: "The Home Office has absolutely breached its commitment that this law would not become a general surveillance power for the government."The proposed measures were denounced as disproportionate by a cross-party campaign of opposition.Lord Strathclyde, the Tory leader in the Lords, urged the government to withdraw the draft order. He added: "We support the war on terrorism. We oppose district councils and quangos being given power to survey private communications."In the face of sustained opposition the government withdrew the order and presented a revised version to parliament the following year. The new order restricted the types of information to which public bodies could have access and the reasons they could request such data.CriticismCivil liberties groups and privacy campaigners claim the act fails to provide adequate safeguards to protect individual privacy and offers no way for an individual to obtain effective redress if the powers are abused. When the act was passed in 2000, only nine organisations, including the police and security services, were allowed access to communications records but privacy campaigners say that too many public bodies now have access to the information. In 2007, there were 519,260 requisitions of communications data from telephone companies and ISPs. The nickname "snooper's charter" has clung to the act amid widespread public anxiety about the misuse of these powers. Concern was heightened in June 2008, when 121 councils revealed they had used the legislation during a 12-month period to monitor behaviour by examining the private communications of residents. James Welch, legal director for Liberty, said: "It's one thing to use covert surveillance in operations investigating terrorism and other serious crimes, but it has come to a pretty pass when this kind of intrusive activity is used to police school catchment areas."This is a ridiculously disproportionate use of RIPA and will undermine public trust in necessary and lawful surveillance."