Bloodstains could hold the key as to who stabbed the young mother Abigail Witchalls, it emerged last night.Detectives hope they will find a match within days with samples taken from Mrs Witchalls, who was left paralysed from the neck down after the attack in a country lane near her home in Little Bookham, Surrey, on April 20. DNA tests are being carried out on bloodstains on a pair of trousers belonging to Richard Cazaly, 23, who fled the village five days after the attack and committed suicide in Scotland. Forensic experts are also examining blood residue inside a blue car and on a door handle linked to a 25-year-old man arrested but released when Mrs Witchalls did not pick him out in a video identity parade. Police hope that one of these bloodstains could provide a crucial clue as early as this Friday. But senior police sources stressed that the case was by no means shut. Conclusive results could take much longer and they cautioned against describing it as a "two horse race". Both men could turn out to be innocent, and detectives are continuing to pursue inquiries regarding another 38 men, some of whose names were supplied by the public when a description of the attacker was issued. It also emerged last night that Vanessa McKenzie, Cazaly's Australian girlfriend, told police that he had told her he "might have done it" - possibly a reference to the attack - and warned her to return to Australia for her own safety. She flew back to Australia, where detectives interviewed her this week. Cazaly, a gardener, lived in Water Lane, where the attacker chased Mrs Witchalls and held a knife to her 20-month-old son Joseph's throat, before stabbing her and throwing the child's buggy on top of her. He was briefly questioned twice during routine inquiries but was not arrested. On April 25 he drove to Scotland, where he took an overdose of painkillers and died in hospital. He left short suicide notes to Miss McKenzie and his mother, in which he said: "I'm terribly sorry. I must be two people. I can't remember. I must have done it." Police said these could not be seen as conclusive evidence because they did not specifically mention the attack or Mrs Witchalls. Forensic scientists are also examining hunting and juggling knives found in Cazaly's car, although it is understood there were no obvious bloodstains on these.