Opposition parties kept up the pressure on the home secretary, Charles Clarke, last night after the latest official crime figures showed that drug offences and robberies have continued to rise. Crime figures recorded by the police for October to December 2005 show a 21% rise in drug offences and a 6% increase in robberies compared with the same quarter of 2004,Both the police statistics and the more authoritative British Crime Survey show that crime overall, including burglaries and car theft, seems to have stabilised in 2005, suggesting that the long fall in crime levels in England and Wales since 1995 may be ending. Violent crime rose by only 1% and levels of gun crime fell by 3% to 10,878 offences.The quarterly crime figures also show that government campaigns to reduce the fear of crime and anxiety about antisocial behaviour have yet to bear fruit, with 30% of people saying they are worried about vandalism, graffiti and teenagers hanging around on their streets.Mr Clarke said he was encouraged that violent crime had stabilised, but the level was too high: "While it is true that nearly half of all violent offences involve no injury, they may still be serious and traumatic for the victim. That is why we are committed to continuing the progress we have made in recent years in driving down violent crime, including robbery." He said the robbery figures, which rose from 22,500 in the last three months of 2004 to 23,800 in the same period of 2005, were still below the peak of 2001, before the government launched its street crime initiative. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said it was alarming that crimes which "strike fear into the hearts of communities" - violence, robbery and drug-related offences - continued to rise.The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, said: "Overall crime remains far too high and the trend until recently has been towards more recorded violent crime. The spike in drug offences is particularly worrying."Ken Jones, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said the rise in the robbery figures was partly caused by changes in recording practices. A 12% fall in the police figures of more serious incidents involving violence against the person was also explained by changes in the recording rules for "threats to kill" which accounted for 90% of the change.Chief constables said the 21% rise in recorded drug offences from 37,000 in the last quarter of 2004 to 45,800 in the same period of 2005 was due to greater police activity against drug dealers.The underlying fall in the crime rate appears to be ending after its long decline since 1995. An 8% fall in total offences, to 1.37 million in the first three months of 2005, was followed by a 3% fall in the second quarter, a 1% fall in the third quarter and no change in the final quarter. It suggests that overall crime may have started to rise since the beginning of this year on both the police figures and the BCS.The 2005 British Crime Survey results published yesterday suggest that the risk of being a victim of crime remains at 23%, the lowest level recorded since it started in 1981, with burglaries falling by 11% and car thefts down by 9% on those of 2004.