The celebrity publicist Max Clifford is starting a legal action against the News of the World to uncover any role its journalists may have played in intercepting messages left on his mobile phone.He has hired the same legal team who successfully won more than £1m from the paper for Gordon Taylor, the chief executive of the Professional Footballers Association, and two other figures from the world of football.Clifford, like Taylor, is one of five people named in charges against Glenn Mulcaire, a private investigator working for the News of the World who was jailed with the paper's royal reporter, Clive Goodman, in January 2007. At the time of the trial, the News of the World said it had no knowledge of any phone hacking. But when Taylor sued, Scotland Yard and the Information Commissioner's office were ordered by the court to hand over documents which revealed the involvement of the paper's journalists in using criminal methods to get stories.Clifford's solicitor, Charlotte Harris, and her partner, Mark Lewis, claimed to have some 20 other potential clients from politics, sport and entertainment, for whom they plan to organise a class action against the paper.Separately, Kieren Fallon, the former champion jockey, accused of race-fixing by the News of the World and subsequently found not guilty at a trial, is also moving against the paper. His lawyer, Christopher Stewart-Moore, has written to Scotland Yard saying he believed there was evidence the News of the World succeeded in intercepting the jockey's voice messages. Fallon also believes there was an attempt to trick his bank into supplying information.Another leading media lawyer, who asked not to be named but who has a number of high-profile clients from the entertainment world, told the Guardian he had written to Scotland Yard and the director of public prosecution asking for information about 12 of them who are concerned they may have been victims of phone hacking or other illegal techniques.Clifford, who has been involved in a sequence of high-profile tabloid stories, said he had been told by the police more than two years ago that his phone had been hacked: "I believed that this was a one-off, just two lads overstepping the mark. I gave them the benefit of the doubt," he said. "Now it is increasingly worrying that there could be an awful lot more. I want to know which journalists were involved, in case I'm still dealing with them. I have a lot of clients phoning me all the time with confidential information. A lot of them have been in touch, worried, looking for me to get to the bottom of it all."Clifford said he had fallen out with the News of the World some years ago and stopped giving them stories. "It isn't rocket science to work out that I would have been a valued target for them."