It may be thought that any government which has seen two home secretaries fail to reform jury trials would hesitate before having another go.But last night's Lords battle involved a different proposition from that which resulted in Michael Howard and Jack Straw being humiliated by a cross-party coalition of angry peers. David Blunkett insists that his plan to provide the opportunity for serious fraud and organised crime cases to he heard by a judge only when there is a threat of "jury nobbling" will only affect about 70 cases a year. That is very different from the much wider plans put forward in the past. Pressure to restrict jury trials came from a royal commission on criminal justice report in the early 1990s, when there were more than 35,000 jury trials a year. It echoed a Home Office wish to curb abuse and save money by restricting the deffendant's the right to choose a jury trial in respect of about 700 middle-ranking offences. Three attempts were made to do this. The first was made by Michael Howard when he was Conservative home secretary, and it was fiercely opposed by Labour. The second and third were by made by Jack Straw when he was home secretary, and they were fiercely opposed by the Conservatives. Both men were forced into humiliating retreat by the accusation that they were threatening the constitutional right to trial by jury. Mr Howard tried another route: requiring a defendant to enter a plea before it was decided where the case should be heard. The effect has been dramatic, a fall in the number electing for jury trial from more than 35,000 a year to about 18,500. Under pressure from the police authorities, especially the Met and the serious fraud office, Mr Blunkett decided to return to the fray, but on a much more limited scale. There is no doubt he will have a tough time getting the criminal justice bill through the Commons in September - about 30 MPs rebelled last time - but it is difficult to see how the Conservatives and Labour peers will be able to sustain the claim both made yesterday that they are prepared to wreck the bill if they do not get what they want. The Tories have already said they will support the new mandatory sentences for murder, the attempt to end the middle class boycott of jury service, and the new indeterminate sentences for dangerous sex and violent criminals. And Labour has invested too much political capital in this measure to dump it because of its limited reform of jury trials.