Police are to launch a new appeal for help in finding Tia Sharp, a 12-year-old girl who has been missing for three days.Detectives have been sifting through hours of CCTV footage for clues to her whereabouts , after she was last seen leaving her grandmother's home in New Addington, south London, about midday on Friday.Her uncle David was expected to attend a press conference at Scotland Yard on Monday evening as concern mounted over Tia's safety. Tia told relatives she was going to buy shoes at the Whitgift centre in nearby Croydon and police have said it was extremely out of character for her not to return home or contact family or friends.Tia lives in Merton, south London, and the Sun newspaper on Monday quoted her mother Natalie as saying:"This is hell — I'm beginning to fear the worst. It's a nightmare. Tia's just a normal girl — not a runaway. She's loved, missed and wanted by everybody. I just want my little girl back."Thousands of leaflets have been distributed in south London while friends and others have been appealing for help over Twitter and Facebook. Bus and tram drivers have also been asked to report any sightings.Police believe Tia had a small amount of cash with her but no travelcard, and she did not have her mobile phone. She is white, 1.35 metres (4ft 5in) tall and slim, and was wearing FCUK glasses. She was dressed in a yellow bandeau top over a white bra with visible cross straps, light grey leopard print leggings and black and pink Nike high-top trainers.Officers on Monday concentrated their search in the area around Tia's grandmother's house in The Lindens, New Addington, south London, examining neighbours' bins and sweeping the grounds of the local primary school.Earlier in the day, Tia's uncle David, told reporters: "We don't know where she is. Everyone is in bits, and I am trying to hold it together." He appealed to journalists not to talk to neighbours or present "misinformation".Detective Chief Inspector Nick Scola said: "We have received a number of purported sightings but none are confirmed as Tia at this time. I am appealing for any bus or tram drivers in the Croydon area who recognise Tia's description to contact us. Of course if Tia herself is able to contact her family or the police, we urge her to do so."Anyone who has seen Tia or knows of her whereabouts should call Merton police by dialling 101, quoting reference 12MIS025216.