The Wigan Athletic chairman, Dave Whelan, has reacted strongly to the claims of Marlon King's agent that the disgraced footballer has a future in football. Whelan, who insists he will sack the striker after he was convicted for sexual assault and actual bodily harm and sentenced to 18 months in prison, was infuriated by agent Tony Finnegan's claims that King will find a new club on his release from jail."He will still be a good goalscorer and I'm sure someone will want his signature to play football and do the job he's best at," said Finnegan. "There are lots of players in this country who have fallen short of the law, done the crime, done the time, and I'm sure if you're sitting in a [cell] you do have time to reflect on the change you make as a person."Finnegan's statement, however, has further enraged Whelan. "I do not want convicts at Wigan Athletic. Some club will sign him when he gets out – they'll take the risk. But they shouldn't," he told Sky Sports. "The FA should stop him playing professional football for 18 months after he has served his sentence. They should ask themselves if we want people with criminal records like this lad, especially with the type of crime he has committed over his career. This is not just a one off."They should say, 'Well, we have had enough of that". I can't see him coming back. He is absolutely sacked. We will not tolerate this kind of behaviour. It will be very, very difficult for any club to stick their neck out and take Marlon on. I cannot really see him coming back as a professional. A lot of people will say you do something wrong and you get a sentence and when you have completed it you are allowed back in. But I wouldn't allow him back in."I think it was Steve Bruce who signed him for us and I was a little bit surprised. I knew he had some form in the past. Steve sometimes thinks he can settle these lads down and get them to go on the straight and narrow. We laid out £3m on this lad and we've lost most of that money now. But we have standards that we want to keep to. It's a professional game. I am sure every club in the Premier League would have sacked him like I did."