A judge who said burglary needed "a huge amount of courage" will be investigated after members of the public contacted the Office for Judicial Complaints to vent their anger at his remarks.Judge Peter Bowers admitted he might be "pilloried" when he spared the burglar jail at Teesside crown court on Tuesday. The case caused controversy, with the prime minister saying burglars were not brave but cowards, and their crimes were "hateful".A spokesman for the Office for Judicial Complaints said: "The Office for Judicial Complaints has received a number of complaints in relation to comments that His Honour Judge Bowers made in relation to a case in Teesside crown court on 4 September 2012."Those complaints will be considered under the Judicial Discipline Regulations in the usual way. It would not be appropriate to comment further at this stage."Bowers apparently told an offender who had raided three homes in five days: "It takes a huge amount of courage, as far as I can see, for somebody to burgle somebody's house. I wouldn't have the nerve."Handing the 26-year-old man a suspended 12-month term, the judge said: "I'm going to take a chance on you."On ITV's Daybreak programme Cameron stressed he had not seen the details of the case, but said: "I am very clear that burglary is not bravery. Burglary is cowardice. Burglary is a hateful crime. People sometimes say it is not a violent crime, but actually if you have been burgled you do feel it was violence."I have been burgled twice. You feel completely violated. When someone has smashed their way into your house and stolen your possessions … I am very clear that people who repeatedly burgle should be sent to prison," he added. "That is why this government is actually changing the law to toughen the rules on self-defence against burglars, saying householders have the right to defend themselves."Later, during a tour of a new housing estate in Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, Cameron said: "Judges must speak for themselves and it is not for me to attack a judge, but I'm very clear that burglary is a dreadful crime, it is a hateful crime."David Hines, chairman of the National Victims' Association, said the judge's comments were outrageous. "What message does this send out to society? The criminal justice system has let the victims down. Burglars are going to believe that judges think they are courageous. I think this judge is on a different wavelength to everyone else."