Damilola Taylor's mother wept yesterday as an Old Bailey jury was shown a jacket like the one her son was wearing on the day he died.Gloria Taylor broke down when the silver jacket, familiar from CCTV footage recording the boy beginning his final journey home, was revealed. On the second day of the defence case, the jury also heard from a hospital specialist who said he believed Damilola's death had been an accident, caused by falling on to broken glass. The prosecution claims 10-year-old Damilola was stabbed with a broken bottle on November 27 2000. Two 16-year-old brothers, who may not be identified, deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. But Courtenay Griffiths QC, defending one of the boys, has argued that Damilola's death could have been accidental. After studying photographs of the wound in Damilola's left thigh, which severed a major artery, Alistair Wilson, lead clinician of accident and emergency services at the Royal London hospital, concluded it was "very unlikely" the wound was caused by stabbing. He told the jury he saw similar glass wounds about once a month.They were "always accidental" he said. Referring to a metre-high enlarged photograph of the wound shown in court, Mr Wilson said: "I don't see any place where the point of the broken bottle has gone through the skin. It looks as though the cut has been made by the edge, then the point has entered through the incision." Mr Wilson, president of the British Trauma Society, said it was "very rare" that wounds like Damilola's proved fatal, because the blood flow was usually stanched. The court also heard from two friends, who said they saw a small black boy playing with broken glass at the spot and the time Damilola is alleged to have been attacked. Melissa Haughton, 19, and Anthony Borg, 18, said they were in Blakes Road, Peckham, in south London, at 4.45pm when they heard the sound of a bottle being smashed. Ms Haughton said: "I turned round and said: "'Oy!' He [the boy] was bending down and appeared to be picking up the glass." As they carried on, they heard more glass breaking and a cry of "Ah!". Ms Haughton said: "I thought he must have hurt himself". They saw the boy running away in the direction of the stairwell where Damilola was found dying. Both thought the boy was aged between eight and 10, but both also said he was wearing dark clothes. The court has heard that Damilola was wearing a bright, silver-coloured padded jacket. During cross-examination, Mark Dennis, prosecuting, showed the friends a hooded jacket similar to the one Damilola was wearing. When he first showed it to Mr Borg, Damilola's mother wept. Both witnesses said the boy they saw was definitely not wearing a silver jacket. The trial continues.