Detectives are questioning six people about the murder of a couple whose bodies were found in a car boot several miles from the takeaway restaurant they ran in Leeds.The six were arrested at an address on a large housing estate close to the M1 motorway that was shared by young Chinese people, most of them restaurant workers. Neighbours in the Belle Isle area of the city said today that a man and woman were escorted out of the house in handcuffs, asking why they had been arrested. Others followed, boarding police vans.West Yorkshire police said postmortem examinations would be carried out today on the victims, named locally as Jian Qxue and his partner Li Qxue, who ran the Timboo Cantonese takeaway restuarant in Bramley. The pair, both in their 30s, were reported missing at the weekend from their flat above the restaurant.Their bodies were found in a blue Ford Mondeo in the early hours of yesterday after police raided the house in Belle Isle.Alex Smith, 31, an NHS worker who lives in the same cul-de-sac, said the residents of the house had behaved "unusually" at the weekend. "On Saturday and Sunday night they kept coming in and out of the garage at silly times," he said. "I wondered what they were doing because they had the car reversed right up to the garage, and I had never seen them use the garage before."Then yesterday I heard the police come. Because of what had been going on for the last two nights I was just about to start opening my window and start having a go at them. We heard a lot of banging, and I then heard them shout 'police'."The house has been used by Chinese restaurant workers for at least two years, and Smith said four men and one woman had been living there recently. "About two weeks ago, or maybe less, my wife saw another man and another lady hanging washing out in the back garden," he said.Police cordoned off the area and removed three other cars: a black Peugeot 206, a pink Toyota Corolla and a silver Vauxhall Astra. Forensic officers were at the house this morning.Smith said: "After the police arrived, I saw a young woman and another man arrested and handcuffed together outside the house. I heard the man ask why they were being arrested and an officer say it was in connection with a murder."