The discovery of the clothing of Holly and Jessica, 12 days after their disappearance, was so significant that Ian Huntley and Maxine Carr were arrested "within hours" of the find, the court heard yesterday.Police officers discovered the items in a rubbish bin during a painstaking search of a building in the grounds of Soham village college, where Mr Huntley worked as caretaker. "There are alleged to be numerous links between the clothing found in the bin and Huntley, his Fiesta and [his home at] 5 College Close," said Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, adding that the jury would today look at those forensic links. "Within the clothing in the bin - mixed up in the clothing - were found head hairs later found to match those of Huntley." Police, who had the defendants' permission to search their home and car, had begun to examine the building known as the hangar after finding a set of keys labelled "hangar" in the couple's bedroom. The clothes were in the bottom of a bin, underneath both a bag of rubbish and a black refuse sack which had been used to line the bin. "[It was] all the clothing of Holly and Jessica, right down to their trainers and underwear," Mr Latham said. "Each item of clothing had been cut off its wearer. While in the bin, an attempt had been made to burn it. On a cobweb above the bin in the hangar was evidence of burning residue." On Wednesday the jury heard that the two girls had been wearing red Manchester United football strips and black trousers when they disappeared, and that their mothers were able to describe every stitch of their clothing, down to their underwear and jewellery. Mr Latham went on to explain that the position of Mr Huntley's fingerprints on the inside of the binliner indicated that they could not have got there simply because he had picked up empty bags and moved them around on an earlier occasion. "The prosecution place very considerable reliance on the fact his prints were on the inside of the bag, as opposed to the outside," he said. "We say the clothing was in the bottom of the bin and that after the clothing was there, the bin liner has been put in and spread in it, and his prints are on the spreading process, if I can describe it like that." Earlier in the case, Mr Latham said the caretaker had said that he did not have keys to the hangar when he helped a police officer to search the school grounds on the night the girls disappeared. Yesterday the court heard that police had first searched the structure three days after the girls' disappearance, in the presence of Mr Huntley, who had unlocked the school buildings for them. But the prosecution stressed that officers had not conducted a "fingertip search" of the hangar at that point. "At this time the police were still searching for the two girls either alive or dead," Mr Latham said. "They were looking for a body, a whole body or a live human being; in fact, two of them."