A week on from the riots and David Cameron has attributed them to a "slow motion moral collapse". He now sees a "broken society" when not so long ago he had a vision for a Big Society. Poor David. His country seems to be imploding and so he points the finger at that straw dog – the single parent family.But Cameron's hyperbolic demands for "discipline" only serve to distract us from meaningful self-examination. There is a great deal of psychological variation both within the human species and also within an individual's lifespan.Choices made in adolescence are unlikely to be the choices made in identical circumstances two decades on. Young adults lack restraint: recent behavioural studies and brain research involving functional magnetic resonance imaging has shown adolescence to be a period of profound social and emotional development when awareness of mixed emotions develops. Young adults think very differently from middle aged people.Adolescents need to be taught this about themselves – and they need to be given second chances.Opportunism is an evolved, self-serving adaptive behavioural strategy and one that we all occasionally exhibit. Experiments in which volunteers were asked to play games involving financial rewards (in a field of research known as economic game theory) have repeatedly shown that some people are driven by the need for immediate gratification and will always act out of self-interest, breaking the rules (even if this will damage them in the long term). Others only break the rules (known as "defecting") some of the time, while co-operators will only defect after being repeatedly suckered by defectors.In other words, wherever you find humans you will find defectors waiting to pounce, salivating for the taste of short-term gain. The smash-and-grab of the riots is an example of classic human opportunism and defection against society. Social networking technology simply facilitated the rapid mobilisation of people hungry for a free lunch.But the rioters' ill-gotten gains are likely to be short-lived. Game theory also suggests that the rioter's mentality of "another's loss is my gain" can only be a successful strategy if their public reputation remains untarnished. They must not be widely known to advocate that approach to life. Rioters may keep company with others of a similar mentality, but these will be unstable relationships, with individuals losing and gaining social status overnight. These sorts of people can stab each other in the back by anonymously reporting each other to the police.According to game theory, an opportunist's behaviour is likely to become unsustainable in the long term if he or she continues to live in the same community. Any community will cover the full behavioural spectrum, with some members – even family members – willing to report rioters to the authorities. In addition, many rioting opportunists were filmed on CCTV: around three thousand have been identified this way.One way or another, their identities are being discovered and their good reputations – something all humans need for their long-term survival – are ruined.Cameron would find the answers to society's problems if only he picked up a good book on psychology. There's no mystery to any of this. Teaching evolved human behaviour to teenagers should be part of the national curriculum. We all deserve to understand ourselves. If school kids were made aware of their evolved natures and their drives of greed and one-upmanship they might be better able to regulate their own behaviour.Self-awareness and the importance of taking care of one's long-term social reputation need to be drummed into young people. Crimes committed in reckless early adulthood can so easily inhibit success in later life.The prime minister should also consider how to make involvement in the community a part of school life. Community gardens have proved surprisingly effective at rehabilitating disaffected youth, possibly improving self-esteem and academic performance into the bargain.Another intuition that experimental economics has helped to confirm is that people are far less likely to destroy something they worked to create. Once humans have invested their time, thoughts, emotions and sweat over something they are far less likely to rip that thing asunder. Communities once had commons – land that was shared and at the centre of all community activity. It was a tragedy for communities when the commons were overgrazed and lost to all. Perhaps if we brought back the commons and introduced community gardening, teaching young people self-sufficiency and encouraging them to form cooperatives, some social healing would take place.The rioting has been easy to condemn. But a very similar opportunism goes on unseen in the banking practices that caused the present recession. Opportunistic bankers are anonymous and homogenised by their suits, and our society is apparently more forgiving of suits than hoodies – even though the amount of money stolen by bankers far exceeds the value of the damage caused by rioters.The draconian sentences now being passed by judges on people caught up in the disturbances are not the answer. Making an example of single parent Ursula Nevin, a young mother sent to prison for five months and thus forcibly separated from her children aged one and five years because she accepted stolen shorts, is an outrage. What future psychological harm are we storing up for Nevin's children by taking them from their mother? Shame on a society that opportunistically ignores the usual rules of sentencing in order to punish this woman and her children. These harsh Victorian sentences are only pouring petrol onto the rioters' flames.