An advice booklet telling parents how to spot whether their children are involved in a gang and detailing the practical steps they can take is to be published today by the home secretary, Jacqui Smith.It coincides with the launch of a victim support charity, the New Year Shooting Memorial Trust, set up by Beverley Thomas and Marcia Shakespeare, whose teenage daughters were killed in a drive-by shooting in Birmingham in 2003.An initial print run of 30,000 copies of the booklet, Gangs: You and Your Child, are to be distributed to inner-city parents in London, Liverpool, Manchester and Birmingham. The initiative comes as the new chief constable of Greater Manchester, Peter Fahy, said he was prepared to use "high-risk tactics" including bringing rival gang members together for face-to-face mediation talks to tackle gun crime. The relentless pace of gun and knife murders shows no signs of slacking, with two teenage boys, Luke Howard and Shaquille Smith, stabbed to death in Liverpool and Hackney over the weekend. A week before, a young man, Dimitri Foskin, aged 24, was shot dead in Birmingham in the latest in a series of gang-related incidents. The Home Office booklet for parents contains some apparently obvious signs of gang membership such as finding a weapon hidden among a child's possessions, unexplained physical injuries and withdrawal from family or school life.More controversial warning signs include wearing a bandana, using a new nickname, using new or unusual slang words or hand signs, and graffiti-style "tags" on possessions, walls or buildings. "Be aware that almost all of [these signs] are normal teenage behaviours and may not indicate gang involvement at all. However, where many of these signs are present, you should take action," says the booklet, drawn up with the help of the Association of Chief Police Officers, parenting organisations and community groups such as Mothers Against Violence.Parents are advised to be involved in their children's lives, to know their friends and their friends' families, and to encourage them to get involved in positive pastimes and activities.It reminds parents that girls can be involved too and tells them to be aware of their child's online habits as gangs will often use social networking websites. For those who believe their children are already involved, it recommends seeking help from community organisations that can offer mentoring, mediation, exit programmes and other ways to help them leave the gang.The home secretary said: "All parents worry about keeping their children safe - and need support to help them to do it. They need to know how to spot if their child is involved in a gang and where to turn to if they are concerned."Fahy, who was sworn in yesterday as Greater Manchester chief constable, said he was prepared to use imaginative and high-risk tactics to tackle gun crime, with mediation for rival gang members, similar to a scheme in the West Midlands. "You are talking about a group of people who are on the far edge of society and if you are to impact on them you have to be prepared to use imaginative and what may seem high-risk approaches in enforcing the law and dealing with the underlying causes," Fahy said. He revealed how he had been in danger of straying towards a life of crime as a young man growing up in the East End of London, but had been saved by his inspirational schoolteachers. "If it had not been for one or two teachers I would have been stealing cars."