The Prison Service and the police are investigating a ring of corrupt prison officers who are alleged to have been taking huge bribes from prisoners to transfer them to more convenient jails of their choice. So far three officers at a prison in the south-east of England have been arrested and charged in the inquiry. A series of similar allegations concerning another prison are also being investigated. Elsewhere prison officers are believed to have accepted large sums in return for turning a blind eye to drugs being smuggled into prisons and the supply of mobile phones used to arrange criminal operations 'on the outside'. Two prison officers - at Pentonville and at Bullingdon, Oxfordshire - have recently been suspended after being linked to the trafficking of heroin into their prisons. Another officer, at Swaleside maximum security prison in Kent, was alleged to have smuggled a block of cannabis worth £4,000 and a telephone to a convict. The Prison Service has also set up a special unit, codenamed 'Chaucer', to liaise with the police in gathering intelligence on major league criminals who have been running their illegal activities from cells. Senior policemen working with the prison service have said that criminals are prepared to pay £30,000, which is twice the salary of a junior prison officer, to staff willing to arrange transfers or turn a blind eye to illegal activities. Martin Narey, the director general of the Prison Service, admitted last week that corruption was a problem but said that it was being confronted. 'Increasingly sophisticated and well-resourced prisoners have the ability to corrupt or compromise staff. Some are going to be foolish enough to take the money,' Narey told The Observer last week. 'We are facing up to our problems and fronting out unacceptable behaviour.' New figures obtained by The Observer also reveal a massive increase in the number of prison officers under investigation. Almost 400 inquiries have been launched in the last six months alone into offences ranging from sexual and racial harassment of other prison staff to assisting convicts to escapes from prisons, rape and moonlighting. At least 200 more investigations, started earlier in the year, are still underway. In around half of inquiries misbehaviour by prison officers is confirmed. Campaigners say the figures show that the prison service remains a bastion of prejudice and brutality despite a raft of reforms introduced by Narey. 'So far it has just been tinkering. The whole system needs to be broken apart and put back together again as something appropriate for the twenty-first century,' said Mark Leech, chief executive of Unlock, a national association of ex-offenders and a former convict himself. The figures will embarrass Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, who pledged to reform the prison service on coming to power three years ago and will reinforce its 'crisis hit' image. Eleven investigations have been launched into alleged assistance offered by prison staff to convicts in the course of an escape and 18 inquiries initiated into 'inappropriate relationships' between warders and inmates. Sixty-five of the investigations are into assaults on a prisoner and 51 are into sexual or racist harassment. There have even been 35 investigations started into the bullying of other prison officers by staff. The service is still recovering from the conviction of three officers at Wormwood Scrubs who assaulted a convicted murderer in his cell. They received sentences of up to 18 months earlier this year. Narey has admitted that the service was 'institutionally racist' and spoke of a culture of violence. Last week he said that he was committed to stamping out racism and physical abuse in prisons. 'It is far better than it used to be but I am determined to get rid of the minority of staff who will abuse prisoners if they can get away with it. A larger minority will turn a blind eye.' Among the reforms Narey has introduced have been gender and race awareness training instead of drill for rookie prison officers, a streamlined complaints procedure, a drive for recruits from ethnic minorities and drugs tests for service staff. But his measures seem to have failed so far to stop the indiscipline. A survey published earlier this year by the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders (Nacro) showed that more than a quarter of black and almost half of Asian inmates said they had been victims of verbal abuse; 12 per cent of both groups reported being attacked by another prisoner or staff member. Recently released prisoners speak of continuing violence and drug abuse. One prisoner, recently released from Brixton after serving a sentence for fraud, told The Observer that heroin was easily obtainable in the jail. 'The two guys in the next cell were smoking smack all the time. They used to tell me that they'd have me hooked on it before I got out. They never had any trouble getting drugs.' Another convict, released six months ago after a lengthy term for drugs smuggling, said that violence was particularly bad among Category A high-security prisons. 'There are prisons where everyone carries a weapon almost all the time,' he said. 'If the officers aren't having a go at you then another con will be. Some of these places are nightmares.' The ex-convict, who spent time in at least six different prisons, said that brutality from prison officers was commonplace, particularly on the segregation units where inmates are sent if they break regulations. 'When you are on the "seg" you are totally alone and everybody knows it. They can do what they want with you. I can remember hearing the beatings during the night I was down there. For every officer who just sees it as a job, there are others who see it as a war.' He pointed out that bringing drugs, alcohol or telephones into a prison was difficult without the collusion of a member of staff. 'You are searched after a visit. How are you going to hide drugs or a mobile? I saw inmates with bottles of whisky. You can't tell me that they were smuggled up a trouser leg.' Experts say the problems are a result of the fierce debate over the role of prisons in society and conflicting messages sent by politicians. 'The uncertainty feeds through on to the landings. If a Home Secretary says he 'wants decent but austere' prisons some people just hear austere. Most people join the prison service because they want to do some good work. They are then asked, after 11 weeks of training, to do one of the most difficult jobs in the public sector. But what is that job?,' Dr Andrew Coyle, a former governor of Brixton prison, said. 'There has been a quietly smoking time bomb of pressure under the prison service and what we are now seeing is a result of that.'