Detective Superintendent Ian Crampton. Headed murder hunt for first three days Report says: 'We are firmly convinced that a vital and fundamental mistake was made in failing to arrest the suspects over the first weekend, and certainly by early on Monday morning, 26 April', and goes on, 'we are convinced that a vital opportunity was missed' which 'must be primarily the responsibility of Mr Crampton'. It says: 'This flawed decision appears to us to have been fundamental and most regrettable. Its consequences are plain to see.' Inspector Stephen Groves. In first police van on the scene'Did nothing to find out properly what the situation was or to check properly what was being done, or to ensure that properly qualified First Aid people were dealing with Stephen Lawrence. He was plainly casual and unprofessional . . . his attitude and his dismissive conduct were contributed to, if not wholly caused, by unwitting but clear racism . . . he reacted as he did simply because of what he saw, and that he would not have been similarly dismissive if the two young men involved had been white . . . He left the scene without having established what had happened. Mr Groves assumed that there had been a fight, without any basis for such a conclusion. Detective Inspector Benjamin Bullock. Second in command of the investigation. Facing disciplinary tribunal 'Astonishing' that he had not read his own job description. No experience of race issues. 'His training and his general ability were unsuited to a case of this nature . . . an honest man and a very long serving policeman, was appointed to act above his true station and in a position beyond his abilities . . . The major responsibility for the team's failures lies with those who allowed Mr Bullock to occupy a position which was beyond his abilities.' But his seniors have all retired. Chief Inspector Jonathan McIvor. Late night senior duty officer  Criticised for failure to obtain full information, co-ordinate scene activities, record information and consider family. He was 'preoccupied' with public order fears. Chief Superintendent Christopher Benn. Most senior police officer at murder scene on night The inquiry disagreed with the Kent inquiry's praise for Mr Benn. His 'part in this affair was no better than the somewhat unsatisfactory parts played by the other senior officers who were present'. Acting Inspector Ian Little. In charge of divisional uniformed officers at the scene  Inquiry was 'unimpressed' by his evidence. 'He added virtually nothing to the activity at the scene, and certainly he exercised virtually no control over what took place there.' The officer was 'grossly insensitive and unsympathetic' in his dealing with the Lawrences. Detective Constable Mick Tomlin. Officer on murder squad His 'condescending and casual' attitude in the witness box was a 'mirror image of his activity during the investigation' and his failure to make an important distinction between the evidence of witnesses was 'serious neglect'. Constable Joanne Smith. One of the first officers to arrive at the murder scene She 'could and should have shown much more interest in and sympathy for' Duwayne Brooks after the murder and used 'colourful language' and 'stereotyped' him, failing to 'treat him as a primary victim'.  Detective Chief Superintendent John Barker. Carried out 'misleading and flawed' internal review of investigation  'The Review was effectively indefensible . . . we found his evidence unconvincing and incredible in a number of important respects . . . Mr Barker's unquestioning acceptance and repetition of the criticisms of the Lawrence family and their solicitor are to be deplored . . . Mr Barker did plainly in our opinion pull his punches . . . Mr Barker was in our view surely part of the collective failure which marks institutional racism.' Detective Sergeant Peter Flook. In charge of the incident room at Eltham Described in the report as Weeden's 'bag carrier'. His attitude to the Lawrences 'must result in the conclusion that racist prejudice, stereotyping and insensitivity played its part in the lack of bite and energy devoted to the activities of the Incident Room. Unwitting racism was at work'. Detective Superintendent Brian Weeden. Took over from Crampton as senior investigating officer and was in charge for 18 months Report says: 'He failed to make his own decision on and immediately after 26 April as to the arrests and that he failed Mr & Mrs Lawrence and their solicitor. He worked very long hours and performed many detailed tasks in connection with the investigation, as his voluminous and meticulous notes show. But his decisions and his actions show lack of imagination and a tendency simply to allow things to drift in vital areas of the case.'  Detective Sergeant John Davidson. In charge of dealing with potential witnesses. Later refused to recognise that it was a racist murder Report says he was 'simply not the right officer to apply tact and sensitivity in his approach', and that his style was 'counterproductive'. His 'attitude to the definition of this crime as racist or otherwise may well have affected his approach to the case'. It goes on: 'DS Davidson and others have only themselves to blame for the perception that they were indeed 'institutionally racist'. This perception is justified in the sense that these officers approached the investigation in the wrong way and encouraged each other in their wrongful belief as to the motivation for the crime.' Detective Chief Superintendent William Ilsley. Supervised investigation  He 'allowed himself to go along with the weak and unenterprising decisions made by Mr Crampton and Mr Weeden in the very early days, so that the opportunities which an early arrest might have produced were missed'. He had a tendency 'to disconnect from the investigation'. Commander James Gibson. In charge of operational policing, south-east London 'He could have identified the difficulties both in relation to staffing and to family liaison.' Detective Constable Linda Holden and Detective Sergeant John Bevan. Family liaison officers assigned to the Lawrences Report says that the family liaison between police and the Lawrences was 'one of the saddest and most regrettable aspects of this case'. The two are criticised for 'inappropriate behaviour and patronising attitudes towards this black family which were the product and a manifestation of unwitting racism at work'. Deputy Assistant Commissioner David Osland. Number three in the Met at the time of the murder. Overall responsibility for policing in area. Commissioned review 'Guilty of careless wording in answers . . . seemed to lack a clear knowledge of basic police powers . . . muddled thinking.' Some evidence 'unsatisfactory'. Criticised for never meeting Mr and Mrs Lawrence. Mr Osland's reaction to statements made by or on behalf of Mr & Mrs Lawrence in connection with the police have been most unfortunate and wounding to them . . . most regrettable.  Assistant Commissioner Ian Johnston. Apologised to Lawrence family on behalf of Met at the inquiry Statement after inquest included 'palpably inaccurate' statements.