Three rugby league stars were jailed yesterday for drunken brawl outside a nightclub, caught on CCTV. The Leeds Rhinos' player Chev Walker, 20, was sent to a young offenders' institution for 18 months and his team-mate Ryan Bailey for nine months. The Rochdale Hornets player Paul Owen, 24, was jailed for 15 months. A third Rhinos player, Dwayne Barker, 19, was ordered to do 150 hours of community service. Sentencing them at Leeds crown court, Judge Paul Batty QC said the violence outside the Creation nightclub in Leeds in July last year was "mindless, dangerous and drunken". He had watched a video of the incident on Monday. Such violence had become an "all too frequent occurrence in this city and cities when the nightclubs close". The four listened with heads bowed as the judge said that as as rugby league professionals they were role models . "You ought to be thoroughly ashamed of yourselves. Any right-thinking person watching that video would be shocked by the level of violence that it showed. Each brought disgrace on the game of rugby league, on your clubs, and most of all on yourselves. "In my judgment the level of violence is so serious, particularly the kicking to the head with the shod foot in three of your cases, a custodial sentence is justified." He said he had had regard to the fact that all four had pleaded guilty at the earliest opportunity and that none had a disciplinary record in the game. He told the 16-stone (101.6kg) Walker that he had been the principal party in the violence; Owen might have started as a peacemaker, but soon became an aggressive street fighter. Bailey delivered kicks with the shod foot to someone on the ground, and should accept a custodial sentence. Reserving the lightest sentence for Barker, who was knocked unconscious and had his jaw broken, the judge said that, on the evidence, he did not "put the boot in". The court heard on Monday that the brawl began when Owen was "tricked" into handing his mobile to an unidentified woman outside the nightclub. As he tried to recover it, the Leeds players thought she was being assaulted and set about him.