The government was under pressure last night to impose tighter controls on family doctors after an official audit of the career of the serial killer Harold Shipman calculated that he murdered at least 236 patients during 24 years as a GP.The report, establishing Shipman as the most prolific murderer in European history, revealed how warning signals were ignored. They included Shipman's frequent presence at the time of his patients' death, the absence of relatives, speed of death and the implausibility of information on death certificates. The inquiry said there could have been no legitimate explanation for the timing of his patients' deaths, peaking abnormally between lunchtime and teatime in contrast to the normal pattern. Richard Baker, professor of quality in healthcare at Leicester University, who conducted the inquiry, spoke of his "rage" at the betrayal by Shipman of his patients' trust. A copy of the report was sent to Greater Manchester police, but the director of public prosecutions said it was unlikely the rogue doctor would face a further trial. Its seven recommendations included routine monitoring of GPs' patient death rates, fuller recording of patients' medical records on death certificates and tighter inspection of GPs' use of controlled drugs. Alan Milburn, the health secretary, avoided commenting on the proposals pending a judicial inquiry into the murders under Dame Janet Smith that is due to be set up over the next few weeks. But government sources said the damning report of persistent failure to act against Shipman as his patients died in excessive numbers between 1974 and 1998 would add to ministers' frustration about the slow pace of reform at the General Medical Council, the doctors' self-regulatory body. Shipman was convicted last year of murdering 15 female patients with lethal doses of diamorphine. He is serving 15 life terms in Frankland prison, Durham. The audit of his medical career compared the death rate of his patients and those of other doctors with similar patient lists. It found Shipman was responsible for 297 "excess deaths" from 1975 - averaging one a month throughout his career as a GP. Prof Baker said he was particularly concerned about 236 excess deaths of patients in their own homes or Shipman's surgery. That figure was the most likely estimate of the doctor's murder total. Detailed analysis of Shipman's caseload since 1985, when fuller records became available, found 166 highly suspicious and 43 moderately suspicious deaths - more than half the total number of deaths of patients on Shipman's list. Although most of the victims were older women, they included 21 men. Prof Baker said: "It is very hard to contemplate these findings without being concerned for the hurt and distress caused to people in Todmorden and Hyde [the areas where Shipman practised]. I feel rage, as a fellow professional, that someone betrayed the trust of people completely dependent on him." Liam Donaldson, the chief medical officer, said: "It is horrific and inexplicable that this scale of activity was not detected earlier and this is what we are now looking at." John Chisholm, chairman of the British Medical Association GPs committee, said: "I am determined that the medical profession will cooperate with and contribute to the public inquiry in order to prevent any possible recurrence of these appalling events." Lawyers acting for relatives of suspected Shipman victims will now press for inquests into all his possible victims. Inquests into a further 24 possible victims are about to begin. But Emma Smith, a spokeswoman for the law firm Alexander Harris which is representing 150 relatives, said many were upset that there might not be an inquest into the death of their loved ones. "The only proper thing now is for in quests to be held on every single suspected victim where the family requests it." The South Manchester coroner John Pollard called for Shipman to come clean about his crimes. Even if a trial were not possible, confessions from Shipman would go a long way towards establishing the truth about his patients' deaths and helping families deal with their loss,he said. Greater Manchester police said they would investigate any concerns from relatives of former patients of Shipman. But the director of public prosecutions made it clear that there was almost no possibility of Shipman ever being brought back before a court. David Calvert-Smith said: "He is now serving life, which means the rest of his natural life. The possibility of any jury being empanelled now which did not have a firm prejudice against Shipman, having read and heard all they would have heard over the last year or so, means that it is impossible really to say that he could have a fair trial." The recommendationsThe report made seven recommendations for tightening up the monitoring and accountability of doctors: • Routine monitoring of GPs' patient death rates, medical records and prescribing of controlled drugs • Collection of data on numbers of death certificates issued by each GP • Death certificates to include information on circumstances of death and clinical history • Periodic revalidation of GPs' fitness to practice should include assessment of standard of record-keeping • Disposal of medical records of deceased patients should be more tightly controlled • An effective system for inspecting GPs' drug registers should be introduced • GPs should record batch numbers in clinical records when they administer controlled drugs