Vandals have caused more than £100,000 damage to the £10m architectural centre built as a memorial to Stephen Lawrence, the A-level student murdered in a racist attack 15 years ago.A week after the centre was opened eight windows, worth £15,000 each and designed by the Turner prizewinning artist Chris Ofili, were destroyed at the front of the building in Deptford, south-east London, some time between Wednesday night and early yesterday.A Metropolitan police spokeswoman said the vandalism, which was reported to police at 5.46am yesterday, was being treated as a racist incident and investigated by a hate crimes unit. There have been no arrests.The vandal, or vandals, threw bricks at the windows from behind a 2.5 metre (8ft) metal fence that surrounds the complex, said Karin Woodley, chief executive of the Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust. "It is a very sad day for the trust as a whole, and for Stephen's family," Woodley said.At last week's opening ceremony Doreen Lawrence said her son, who dreamed of being an architect from the age of seven, would have been "so excited" the centre was built in his name. The three-storey building, designed by David Adjaye, aims to offer thousands of young people from deprived backgrounds the chance to begin careers in architecture, urban design and building.Ken Livingstone, the mayor of London, said Doreen Lawrence had "fought to establish this cultural landmark for the whole community". He added: "I am disgusted by this racist attack. This latest outrageous act of racism follows several others over the past few months on the centre. It also comes on the anniversary of the inquest that confirmed Stephen's death to be an unprovoked racist murder."The communities secretary, Hazel Blears, described the attack as a despicable act by "some twisted person". Stephen, 18, was stabbed to death in an unprovoked attack by a gang at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993.Woodley said the attack was the fourth and most serious incident of vandalism on the centre. The centre has CCTV and 24-hour on-site security but all measures would be reviewed, she said. In 1999 Stephen's memorial plaque was defiled by paint. It was attacked again the following year, despite 24-hour camera surveillance.Yesterday Richard Stone, an adviser to Sir William Macpherson in the Stephen Lawrence inquiry, said he was horrified by the attack on the centre. "The killers of Stephen are still at large in south-east London. They hate black people getting on in life. I feel devastated for Doreen and Neville [Stephen's father], who put so much into the building which has become a target. It just suggests there are people out there who are filled with hate."He called for a review of the 1999 Lawrence report, which concluded that institutional racism within the Metropolitan police had hampered attempts to catch the killers, to investigate whether racism in institutions and British society was being reduced.