The hunt for justice for murdered 10-year-old Damilola Taylor was let down by a series of failings by police investigators and the criminal justice system, according to an inquiry published today.An eight-month independent review by the Bishop of Birmingham, John Sentamu, particularly criticised the way the crown's key witness, a 14 year-old girl known as "Bromley", was handled. A second report, by the director of public prosecutions, Sir David Calvert-Smith QC, focused on the role of the crown prosecution service, and examined the case for changing the law to allow prosecutors direct access to witnesses, as happens in the US and Northern Ireland.In April, the judge threw out Bromley's evidence during the Old Bailey trial of four youths accused of murdering Damilola by stabbing him in the leg with a broken bottle in Peckham, south London, two years ago. The four were later cleared. During the trial, the jury heard Bromley had bragged about being "in the money", remarks believed to be related to a £50,000 award for information about the case put up by the Daily Mail.The inquiry panel, chaired by Bishop Sentamu, reported that the veracity of Bromley's evidence should have been better tested ahead of the trial - which would have left the prosecution less vulnerable to it being challenged. Further reform of handling vulnerable witnesses from investigation through to trial was needed, Bishop Sentamu's 54-page report said. Sir David's report said that one of the areas where there could be problems, if prosecutors did not have access to witnesses, was when the witness had weak credibility or was of bad character. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith QC, responded to both reports by announcing a consultation on whether prosecutor access to witnesses should be permitted in a limited number of cases. Bishop Sentamu's report called for juries to be allowed to see all available evidence, and recommended reform of the current rules on excluding evidence. It said it was "significant to the outcome" of the trial that the jury had been given two conflicting expert opinions on whether Damilola could have died in an accident, but not a third expert opinion - which was only available to the defence and not used in court. Lord Goldsmith said upcoming legislation should "help redress the balance". He said: "There should be a presumption in favour of allowing juries to assess the veracity of evidence." The bishop's review contained 23 recommendations for authorities. It said there should have been greater investigation into the alibi that a mobile phone belonging to one of the defendants had been used miles from the scene of the murder. All the options available to the perpetrators of the crime, including where and how they moved, should have been considered. Other recommendations included a desire that greater efforts be made to shore-up "cell confessions" - which were presented in the trial - as they were inherently vulnerable to challenge. The report also said police should liaise with the media over rewards, as they could cause "ambiguous" situations. Bishop Sentamu's review acknowledged that the Metropolitan police had moved on since the failed Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry in 1993, and praised the force's response in the initial stages of the investigation. But it said: "The post-charge phase of the investigation and the associated work necessary in preparing the case for trial was less well managed." Bromley should have been "interviewed in better ways".The report said: "Investigative work relating to the possible use of mobile telephones by the defendants was not progressed in a timely way. More work should have been done to identify and evidence all the options available to the perpetrators of the crime travelling from the scene to a particular location where the defendants in the case were known to have been shortly after."At a press conference attended by Damilola's parents, the bishop said the "great majority" of the police efforts displayed "professionalism, commitment and application" to the investigation of the murder. The Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens, welcomed the report and said the force was committed to continuing to improve. He said: "I consider that the conclusions of the report demonstrate a critical need to re-evaluate the way young people - both witnesses, victims or defendants are treated within the criminal justice system." He added: "The lack of justice for Mr and Mrs Taylor and their family is a deep tragic concern to me and the ... [Met] that they have not received justice."Turning to address Damilola's parents directly he said: "I am absolutely delighted to see Richard and Gloria here, the purpose of this is for us to learn lessons. I believe your presence here demonstrates that we will learn lessons."