Detectives in Greater Manchester yesterday began an inquiry into the deaths of 62 more patients of serial killer Harold Shipman, who was convicted a year ago of 15 murders.The deaths, not previously investigated, emerged as suspicious during a clinical audit commissioned by the Department of Health and published last week.Families of the 62 patients had not made contact with the police when the original investigation began in 1998 after the exhumation of the body of Kathleen Grundy, Shipman's last known victim. The clinical audit, carried out by Richard Baker of Leicester University, suggested that Shipman could have been responsible for up to 300 murders. Detective Chief Superintendent Bernard Postles said that police had carried out a comparison between the deaths originally investigated and those classified by Professor Baker as suspicious or highly suspicious. "This has identified 62 deaths which have not yet been investigated by police," said Mr Postles. He said the original inquiry, which he headed, had examined cases where relatives and friends had come forward with suspicions. "The priority at this stage is for the police to make contact with the relatives or friends of the people whose deaths are regarded as suspicious," said Mr Postles. "We are in the process of carrying this out, although this will obviously take some time." The investigation is unlikely to bring Shipman back to court since the crown prosecution service had already ruled out further prosecutions. The fresh inquiry means that police will have investigated the deaths of a total of 254 patients of the GP, who practised first in Todmorden, west Yorkshire, and for 20 years in Hyde, Greater Manchester. Fifteen cases led to Shipman's prosecution and conviction at Preston crown court. Police also drew up a list of 24 other cases in which they believed there was enough evidence to convict. Inquests have this week been held on the first three of those 24 and the south Manchester coroner John Pollard has recorded that each patient was unlawfully killed. Prof Baker's examination of Shipman's clinical records found that Shipman had certified 297 more deaths among his patients than doctors in similar practices. He said that, allowing for error, the figure could be as high as 345. But he believed the true total to be 236, the number of patients who had died at home. Later this month, Prof Baker will travel to the north-west to explain to relatives of Shipman's patients how he identified potential victims. The new police inquiry was welcomed by the families of Shipman's former patients and the lawyers who represent them. BMA briefing on the Shipman caseDoH clinical audit of the Shipman practice