University lecturer Brian Dodgeon, who was arrested after a schoolgirl collapsed and died at a party at his house, has pleaded guilty at West London magistrates' court to four drug possession charges.Isobel Jones-Reilly, 15, died after going into cardiac arrest at 61-year-old Dodgeon's home in Ladbroke Grove, west London, following a party thrown by his daughter on 22 April. In court on Monday, Dodgeon pleaded guilty to possessing drugs including ecstasy, LSD and ketamine.Around 30 teenagers attended the party, drank alcohol and smoked marijuana, while Dodgeon and his partner, Angela Hadjipateras, were at another party in Hastings, East Sussex, magistrates heard.Beatrice Hadjipateras, 14, told friends that she had previously found cannabis in her father's drawer and, with three teenagers including Jones-Reilly, searched an "out-of-bounds" room to find more drugs, said prosecutor Nisha Dutt. They found a canister holding plastic containers and bags and a selection of drugs."Isobel took two tablets. Mr Dodgeon's daughter and two other youths took one each," Dutt said. "By 3am Isobel had shown signs of deterioration. She had started hallucinating and became very hot and red-faced."The girl's Her friends wanted to call an ambulance but she insisted they did not because she did not want to get into trouble."After about an hour she lay on the bed frothing at the mouth, went pale and was motionless. She stopped breathing and friends could not find a pulse," said Dutt.Her friends called for an ambulance and tried to perform mouth-to-mouth and CPR. Jones-Reilly was taken to St Mary's Hospital in Paddington and was pronounced dead at 6.30am.Dodgeon's 14-year-old daughter and two 14-year-old boys were also detained in hospital after the party.Dodgeon, a former social worker, was arrested at the hospital and questioned by police. He told officers he was a recreational drug user, described himself as an "old hippie" and said he had accumulated the drugs over a number of years, the court was told.Rhona Friedman, in mitigation, told the court that Dodgeon had tried to kill himself a week after the incident, in "the most dramatic exhibition of remorse". He required brain surgery, broke numerous bones – including a femur, an elbow and a heel – and fractured his skull after he jumped off a flyover in Walthamstow, east London.He had been suspended from his job as a research fellow at the Institute of Education - a graduate college of the University of London - who has studied health inequalities and alcohol consumption patterns.Dodgeon, who had worked for the National Council for Single Parent Families and as a social policy officer for the Citizens Advice Bureau, was full of "remorse and regret" and had been abstinent since the incident, Friedman added.He told police it had "never crossed his mind" that someone would find the drugs – valued at between £735 and £2,435 – which were kept in an "off-limits" part of the house.Dodgeon and his partner of 25 years knew the party was happening and had warned neighbours in advance, the court was told.The court also heard that Reilly, a pupil at Chiswick community school, was going through a "challenging" period at the time of her death and had been referred to drug and education services. "Her attendance had been poor, she had been known to smoke, drink and use cannabis," Dutt said.At an inquest which was opened and adjourned in May, the cause of death was listed as ingestion of MDMA, more commonly known as ecstasy. Dodgeon will be sentenced at Isleworth crown court on 18 November.• This article was amended on 18 October 2011 to clarify Brian Dodgeon's institutional connection with the University of London.