Police made two further arrests in connection with their investigation into crimes committed by gunman Raoul Moat today, bringing the total number to 15, as a Facebook page that portrayed him as a "legend" was removed.The social networking site said it had not removed the RIP Raoul Moat You Legend page, which attracted more than 30,000 contributions and the condemnation of David Cameron in the Commons. The prime minister described Moat as a callous murderer.The page's creator, Siobhan O'Dowd, deleted it voluntarily as a public backlash grew. She said she was considering whether to revive the page. Asked why she removed it, she said: "I don't know really. A few of us came to a decision but it's going to be up again running. We don't condone what he did, as what he did was wrong. I feel sorry for the families but he was still a human being at the end of the day."Two men aged 28 and 36 were arrested on suspicion of assisting an offender over Moat's days as a fugitive. They have been released on police bail. So far two people have appeared before magistrates charged with conspiracy to commit murder and possession of a firearm in connection with Moat. They were remanded in custody until 22 July when they will appear at Newcastle crown court. All others have been arrested on suspicion of assisting an offender and released on bail pending further inquiries.Moat had sought psychiatric help months before his spree, according to recorded conversations with social workers.He shot his former girlfriend, Samantha Stobbart, killed her boyfriend Chris Brown and shot PC David Rathband in the face, before he apparently killed himself following a six-hour standoff in Rothbury that ended on Saturday.The recordings, obtained by ITV News, were made between July last year and April this year. They raise further questions about whether the authorities could have done more to prevent the shootings.On the tapes Moat described himself as unstable and repeatedly asked for help. "I'm quite emotionally unstable you know, I get myself over-the-top happy sometimes you know," he said. "The more you block things out the more numb you become in the heart you know, you get to a point where happiness to you is just like, you know, neither here nor there."In a meeting with Northumbria police on 12 October 2009 Moat refers to actions that seem paranoid. He told police he had installed CCTV cameras around his property in Fenham, Newcastle. "There's cameras everywhere, erm, to be honest it was to do with yous," he told the officers."I was getting accused of a lot of things and when I had what about eight cameras on the property hidden in hedges and everything to make sure I could pinpoint where I was in any particular time."Newcastle city council, whose social workers dealt with Moat's case, said it commissioned a report from a psychologist to examine whether it was safe for Moat to live with his two older children.The Independent Police Complaints Commission is examining the actions of Northumbria police, in light of the warning given about Moat by Durham jail before his release, as part of its investigation of the case.