Officers investigating the murder of 16-year-old Mary-Ann Leneghan have arrested a fifth suspect, Thames Valley police said today.The man, in his 20s, was arrested in London around lunchtime, Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick told a news conference at Reading police station.The man was in the custody of Thames Valley police and was awaiting interview, Det Supt Warwick said. The nature of the investigation meant it was likely other arrests would be made during the hunt to track down suspects, and possibly bailed, he added.Police discovered Mary-Ann's body in Reading's Prospect Park early on Saturday morning, after her 18-year-old friend, who is in hospital after being shot and stabbed, managed to raise the alarm. Both teenagers had been sexually and physically assaulted by a gang of at least six men. The young women suffered a "disgusting ordeal" lasting several hours in the early hours of Saturday, police said. The second girl, who can not be named, is a key witness and is helping police with their inquiries from her hospital bed where she is in a serious but stable condition. Police believe the two young women may have been deliberately targeted, though they were not able to confirm whether the attackers were known to their victims.Mary-Ann's uncle, Tony Harris, told the press conference: "Mary-Ann was a normal, bright 16-year-old who was bubbly and happy-go-lucky. She did not deserve what happened to her. Nothing can justify the horrendous attack on Mary-Ann and her friend. We believe there are people out there who have information and they have to come forward."Four other men arrested during the past three days in connection with the killing have all been bailed.The teenagers' ordeal is believed to have begun at between 10pm and 11pm on Friday when they were approached by six men in the car park of the Wallingford Arms, a disused pub in Reading. They are then thought to have been forced into the men's car - which was maroon or burgundy - and been driven to the Abbey Wood guesthouse in Connaught Road. At today's press conference police revealed that some of the men in the car were thought to be black, at least one was white, and another could have been of mixed race. Det Supt Warwick said it was possible the car could have been driven around the streets of Reading for up to two hours, with loud music playing, before arriving at the guesthouse. Once at the guesthouse, the teenagers were subjected to a "horrific ordeal" lasting up to three hours, police said, adding that the car was parked outside. The teenagers and the men left the guesthouse between 3am and 5am. Det Supt Warwick said they did not know how many of the six men were in the car at this stage or if it went directly to Prospect Park, or drove to other places beforehand.At Prospect Park, Mary-Ann was stabbed in the neck and her friend was shot in the head. Det Supt Warwick refused to comment on reports that the teenagers had been injected with heroin during their ordeal. The reward for information about the murder has been increased to £15,000, he said.