No one should deny that anti-social behaviour is a serious problem. The home secretary was right yesterday to tell the Commons that it blights people's lives, destroys families and ruins communities. There is plenty of research to supporting these concerns. Criminologists have shown that "the presence of vandalism stimulates more vandalism". It can lead to spirals of decline, inhibiting involvement in community activities and engendering fear. Crime has fallen dramatically in the last eight years, but it may not feel that way on many of the nation's 4,000 most rundown estates.Some of David Blunkett's figures will be contested, such as his claim that 30% of people have been intimidated by gangs hanging around their neighbourhoods. Other government studies suggest people perceive there has been a decline in vandalism, hooliganism, graffiti and crime. Even so, there will be support for some of yesterday's measures: new powers to close down "crack houses", shut down pubs or clubs causing excessive noise, raise the age from 14 to 17 for owning an air gun, prohibit shops from selling spray paints to under-18s, deal more effectively with "neighbours from hell", and intervene when intimidating gangs of youths begin congregating. There will, however, be big reservations about others, including the proposals to reduce housing benefits of anti-social tenants (a move that will increase homelessness), to introduce on-the-spot fines for anti-social behaviour (where pilot programmes only began last August), and to make begging a recordable offence after three convictions (even when there are no available places on drug or alcohol-dependency treatment courses). A more fundamental criticism is the overuse of the criminal justice system (CJS) for resolving social problems. Mr Blunkett spoke about "not waving a magic wand". He then proceeded to wave one, with a battery of different CJS orders. Yet why impose "parenting orders" on families with disruptive children, when parents are queuing up to get on courses, but cannot find places? Likewise with drug and alcohol addicts, who want treatment places, but who have not committed offences. A promised green paper, looking at fundamental causes, has been scotched by the Treasury. It is as though Treasury officials do not realise anti-social behaviour orders cost £5,000 a time. The package has an unsavoury political smell. Local elections approach. Many of the "new" powers already exist. But, even as a political initiative, this one is maladroit. To shelve the promised victims bill will lose more votes than this authoritarian package will win. Worse still, the new orders are likely to ratchet-up sentences, pushing even more people into already grossly over-full prisons.