A schoolboy obsessed with losing face after a classroom quarrel stabbed a younger boy through the heart before walking away "looking as though he had been told off for chewing gum", a court heard yesterday.The end to a teenage grudge saw a knife plunged to the hilt in 14-year-old Luke Walmsley's chest, leaving a 4.3inch deep wound straight into his heart. Other pupils at Birkbeck secondary school, in the Lincolnshire country town of North Somercotes, stared in disbelief after the killing outside a classroom where Luke had been chatting with friends about football. A 16 year old, who cannot be named for legal reasons, denies murder. The court heard that the alleged attacker had been involved in a fight with Luke a few weeks earlier. The boy had shown friends the knife and sworn he would use it to kill Luke. "It was no secret at school there was no love lost between him and Luke Walmsley," said Yvonne Coen QC, prosecuting. "The defendant told other school friends that he would stab Luke Walmsley weeks before he did so. "Not surprisingly, because of the extreme nature of the threat, the children he told didn't take it seriously at the time. They couldn't possibly have known whether it was a serious intention on his part." Ms Coen told Nottingham crown court that Luke and the other boy had been carpeted by the headteacher after the fight. Luke's parents, who sat in court, sometimes in tears, had also called the school on the morning of the killing to express concern because their son wanted to skip his usual, favourite rugby practice. The defendant sat quietly in the dock wearing a blue and white sports top and carrying rosary beads. The court heard he had shown off his knife and made threats about Luke on several occasions after the fight, and risked losing face. Ms Coen, who removed her wig along with the judge, Mr Justice Goldring, and other barristers in court, said: "In case his friends thought he was all talk and no action, he did what he had been threatening to do for weeks. "This wasn't some chance accidental incident in the school corridor - there clearly was a degree of pre-meditation. Young though he is, he knew perfectly well what he was doing on that day." Luke's parents, Jane and Paul Walmsley, watched from the public gallery as a security video showed their son appear in a corridor with blood on his chest and the defendant just behind him. He was treated by staff and a GP and flown by air ambulance to Grimsby, but nothing could be done to save him. Ms Coen said the defendant had pulled the knife on another pupil earlier in the day, last November, when the attack took place. He pressed it against a boy's throat but was calmed down by other pupils and appeared to doze off during the next lesson. After that, he was allegedly heard by a group of girls to say: "I am going to do it - I am going to get him," before twiddling the knife between his fingers outside the classroom where Luke was finishing a science lesson. An anxious friend begged him to put the knife away but was told to "fuck off" before the defendant stabbed Luke, without saying a word, MsCoen said. Other pupils described him as "normal" and "calm" after the attack, and one said: "He looked like he'd been told off for chewing gum." He tried to hide the knife but was persuaded by another pupil to hand it to teachers. On his arrest, the court heard, he told police he had stabbed Luke "in the wrist" because he was "pissed off" that the younger boy was "saying things about him". The case continues today.