Ian Huntley gave a spate of interviews to reporters in the days after the girls' disappearance, the court heard yesterday.As the last person to have seen Holly and Jessica, he voiced his regret at not having asked them where they were going. He also asked journalists how the hunt for the missing girls was progressing. The video and audio clips played to the jury showed that the caretaker was "quite capable of talking rationally, sensibly and ... simply telling lies", said Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution. "It's just dreadful. I just pray that they are alive and well," Mr Huntley told a reporter on August 8, four days after the girls vanished - and four days after they died, the prosecution alleges. He agreed that it was possible that they had been abducted, but added: "The environment round here is very dangerous. Anything could have happened." He described the girls stopping to ask after Miss Carr, who had been their classroom assistant, as they passed the couple's home on College Close, Soham, on the evening they disappeared. After a brief conversation they walked off, seeming "happy" and "giggly", he said. It was a story that he would repeat numerous times for television crews. Miss Carr also spoke to several journalists, praising the girls as "brilliant kids - very bright, very intelligent" and describing them as "little angels". She lamented the fact that she had been in the bath when they called at the house, adding: "If I had been downstairs I would have been outside, asking where they were going and what they were doing. Because Ian didn't know them he didn't bother asking them, which is quite upsetting for him now." In fact, the prosecution says, witnesses show that she was in Grimsby on the evening of August 4. Miss Carr added: "If someone has got them I just hope they are all right and this person's going to think about it and let them go before anything else happens." Mr Huntley told the same journalist that he had approached Kevin Wells, Holly's father, "basically to say I hoped that everything turned out okay". He added: "It's just very upsetting to think I was the last friendly face these two girls spoke to." On another occasion, he said police were right to urge villagers to look at their neighbours and consider whether they had been acting suspiciously. But he added: "There's only so much you can do without being intrusive." The caretaker, who said he did not know Holly and Jessica, told reporters that if they had been abducted it would have been by someone they knew and trusted. "He was quite right: these two girls would not have got into a car or entered a house at the invitation of a complete stranger," Mr Latham said. "Of course, if they had thought they were going to see Miss Carr ... we suggest it might be a very different matter."