A man who escaped from Pentonville prison, where he was being held after being convicted of attempted murder, has been arrested, police have said. Matthew Baker was found less than 10 miles away in east London on Wednesday night, having spent about three days on the run.He was being held at a north London police station on Wednesday night, police said. A 33-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman were also arrested and were being held at a station in the east of the city.Baker, 28, had been awaiting sentencing after his conviction two weeks ago for stabbing a man 25 times in Dagenham, east London. He and another prisoner, James Whitlock, 31, are thought to have escaped from the north London prison over Sunday night.It is believed that they used diamond-tipped cutting equipment to break through their cell bars before scaling an outer perimeter wall. It was rumoured in the prison that they had folded sheets into the shape of a person to make it look like they were asleep in their beds and escaped through a cell window on the fifth floor, using more sheets to lower themselves down.Two prisoners escape from Pentonville as governors warn of growing jail crisis Whitlock, who was on remand charged with conspiracy to burgle, remained on the run on Wednesday night and police renewed appeals for information. “He is described as a white man of slim build. He has the word ‘Tracy’ tattooed on his torso. It is not known what clothing he had on when he escaped from the prison,” police said.“Officers from Islington borough are continuing to investigate, supported by expertise and resources from the Met’s flying squad and homicide and major crime command.”They advised anyone seeing Whitlock not to approach him, but to call 999.Labour’s Emily Thornberry, the local MP, said the escape was the “final straw” and called for the Victorian-era prison to be closed down.“People don’t seem to be safe inside Pentonville and now it transpires inmates can escape. That is the final straw. If they don’t have control of the place, what is the point of it being there?” she told the Islington Gazette.“This was built in 1842 and is totally inappropriate for modern needs. It should have shut a long time ago, and needs to close as soon as possible.”