Late last month, the government displayed its new listening credentials by promising to look carefully at Conservative suggestions to defuse growing anger over the use of speed cameras.Damian Green, the shadow transport minister, had some practical suggestions such as tailoring fines and penalty points to fit the gravity of the offence and making more dangerous roads attract higher penalty points than less dangerous ones. They all sounded worthy of consideration. But, two weeks on, the government has spoiled the mood by announcing, without consultation, a new scheme to impose a £5 to £30 surcharge on all drivers guilty of speeding and other motoring offences, with the proceeds going to meet the cost of the criminal injuries compensation scheme even though most of the victims have nothing to do with motoring. Predictably, it has provoked a fresh outcry about the proliferation of stealth taxes. The Daily Telegraph yesterday described it as the latest assault on the government's "public enemy number one" - the motorist. The government should unblock its ears and drop this idea before it does more political damage to itself. Not because the criminal injuries compensation scheme is not a good cause - it is - but because it should be financed from general taxation and other specific means rather than slapping a general charge on motorists caught by speed cameras. Speed cameras are a very effective way to reduce the number of deaths and accidents on the road. According to the Road Research laboratory a 5% reduction in accidents can be expected as a general rule to result from every mile-per-hour reduction in average speed - though the outcome obviously varies according to the type of road involved. Public acceptance is vital for the success of this experiment - which is why the scheme must not be sullied by being hijacked to raise revenue along stretches of road which are not proven to be dangerous. Britain has a pretty good safety record on her roads compared to most European countries but the death and accident rate could still be much lower. The government, though, has a bad record on transport, whether on congested roads or on underinvested railways or on sky-high prices on the London underground. It is doubly important that ministers do not lose the plot in one of the few areas - reducing accidents - where successive administrations have achieved considerable progress. Where will the extra £25m a year come from to support victims of crime? Sooner or later the Treasury is going to have to tell taxpayers that if they want advantages like better schools, hospitals and essential services they will have to pay for them out of general taxation. But before we reach that stage there is another source of revenue to be tapped of which almost everyone will approve: people and organisations deliberately avoiding taxes. Only yesterday the Commons public accounts committee said the chancellor was losing between £2bn and £3bn a year through evasion, mainly from the black economy and the use of offshore funds to avoid tax. The estimate of up to £3bn is small compared with others. Professor Prem Sikka claims that £25bn is lost to the UK exchequer as a result of multinational companies exploiting low-tax environments. Even if this figure is only 10% correct it would be worth pursuing. Last month the pre-budget statement estimated that £600m is being lost through legal cross border shopping for cheap drink and another £600m from an illegal trade in spirits. And that is before including up to £2.64bn estimated to have been lost in VAT fraud in 2002-03. This, not a fines system about which many are sceptical, ought to be the priority. The tax authorities should deploy a fresh army of inspectors to root the fraud out. By stealth, of course.