A teenage girl suspected of involvement in a fatal homophobic attack escaped when a passerby released her from the grasp of the victim's friend, it emerged today.Ian Baynham, 62, sustained severe brain damage when he was kicked and punched on the ground near the South African high commission in Trafalgar Square, central London, two weeks ago. He died on Tuesday night in hospital after doctors switched off his life-support machine.Police are looking for three young people including two blonde teenagers who were caught on CCTV arguing with Baynham and his 30-year-old companion.The victim's friend grabbed one of the girls, receiving cuts and bruises in the process, but the girl was freed by members of the public who wrongly thought she was being assaulted, said Detective Chief Inspector Clive Heys, who is leading the inquiry."Mr Baynham was a 62-year-old man who was simply travelling to enjoy a night out with a friend when he was attacked with such tragic consequences," Heys said."Trafalgar Square would have been busy with people at this time on a Friday night. A number of witnesses have already come forward. However, we would urge anyone who may have information, no matter how insubstantial they think it is, to come forward – it could be the missing piece of the puzzle."Homophobic attacks of this severity are extremely rare in Westminster and we are working hard to ensure that the West End remains a safe area for people to enjoy. This was a horrendous attack and completely unacceptable and we will work hard on behalf of Mr Baynham's family to catch those responsible."Police said Baynham was walking to the West End when a woman began shouting homophobic abuse at him on 25 September. When he went to talk to the woman, she attacked him and her male friend is said to have punched him and then kicked him as he lay on the floor. A second young woman was involved.Baynham, from Beckenham, south-east London, and his friend had just got off a No 24 bus in Duncannon Street. The three attackers – two white, blonde females, aged 16-20, and a thin, black male of a similar age – had been sitting in the area before the attack and were last seen walking south on the east side of Trafalgar Square towards The Strand. The trio are also suspected of shouting verbal abuse at other people, according to police.Baynham's death came after police warned that homophobic crimes in the capital are on the increase. They have gone up by almost 14% – an extra 39 offences – since April in the Metropolitan police area, and there has been an increase nationally.