The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday June 25 2005. In our report below we incorrectly referred to Nakuru as a Nairobi slum. In fact it is a town in the Rift Valley some distance from the capital.The elegant Georgian townhouse has one of London's most prestigious postcodes. But Mayfair property prices presented no obstacle to Anne O'Brien. When the former market stallholder bought 32 Upper Berkeley Street, W1, for £1.2m, she put down half a million pounds as a deposit in cash. Upper-crust neighbours wondered how the lady of the house came by her good fortune, though the gentlemen callers at all hours of the day and night were a less than subtle clue. O'Brien, 32, was sentenced yesterday to 180 hours' community service for running two high-class brothels - at Upper Berkeley Street and 164a Gloucester Place, a flat she rented in Marylebone - and an escort agency, Marble Arch Girls. She has already spent five months on remand. Scotland Yard detectives, who caught the Kenyan-born O'Brien after a six-month undercover investigation in which they posed as clients before making their excuses and leaving, were amazed at the sheer scale of her sex empire and the huge amount of money she was raking in. Police estimate she pocketed £12,000 a week in profits. When arrested in April last year, she had 29 British bank accounts and ran three limited companies, including a hairdressing salon in Kilburn, west London. Officers are continuing to trawl for further assets, and hope to recover about £1.2m. She was found guilty last month and collapsed in the dock when prosecutors said they would seize her gains. But she betrayed little emotion yesterday at Southwark crown court in London as she was ordered to do community service and pay crown and defence costs. O'Brien organised her prostitutes - many of whom were illegal immigrants supplied by criminal gangs - to work three shifts a day, 15 girls a shift. They worked in one of her two brothels - luxury properties with fixtures and fittings worth thousands of pounds - or visited clients at their home or in hotels. Men were charged between £150 and £250 for sex, but the women got to keep just £10 each time. Superintendent Chris Bradford, in charge of operations for the Met's clubs and vice unit, said: "Women like Anne O'Brien make their money by exploiting the naivety and hopelessness of others without a thought for the human cost. "A high percentage of the girls who worked for her were here illegally, and many will have been brought into the country by organised crime gangs. Without ruthless people like her, these gangs would have no one to push these girls out to." O'Brien's salubrious surroundings in Mayfair were a far cry from Nakuru, the poverty-stricken Nairobi slum where she was born Wambui Muya, one of six children, and helped her widowed mother, Veronica Muya, to run a fruit and vegetable stall. She moved to England in 1997, where she married an Irishman, Patrick O'Brien, and fell into prostitution, but realised she could make much more pimping other women. When police raided the Upper Berkeley Street property they found whips, chains and sex toys, and 40 boxes containing hundreds of thousands of cards advertising prostitutes. O'Brien paid "card boys" up to £400 a day to stick these up in phone boxes around London.