As John Leslie announced outside Southwark Crown Court, he had been 'to hell and back'. On the outbound leg of this calvary, his reputation was shredded, his livelihood destroyed and his bedroom manners dissected. There was never supposed to be a return trip.Mr Leslie's one-way ticket to professional oblivion and social purdah has been revoked. A judge declares no stain on his character, a £600,000 newspaper serial is under way and the former presenter of Blue Peter is considering legal redress.Some media critics, loath to confer martyrdom on Mr Leslie, point out that his sexual history falls short of Mr Darcy rectitude. Bizarrely, he is also touted, often in the same newspapers, as a white knight whose ill-treatment demands a major change in English law. Following this great injustice, the argument goes, men accused of serious sex offences must stay anonymous. What great injustice? In legal terms, there has been none. Certainly, the police and the CPS produced a rotten case, but that is hardly unprecedented. Mr Leslie must be euphoric that the prosecutors plodded on with their twigs of evidence. If not, he would never have got his absolution from charges of indecent assault. The case collapsed and justice has been served. The alternative tribunal was harsher. Ulrika Jonsson, of the celebrity prosecution service, claimed in her memoir that she had been raped by a co-star still unnamed by her. John Leslie was 'accidentally' thrust into the public domain by a Channel 5 presenter. Assorted alleged victims who suddenly recalled dates unscripted by Mills & Boon subsequently approached the press. Nothing written about Mr Leslie makes him sound the sort of man you would want to spend any time with. It is difficult to feel much rage on his behalf and easy to think that the whole episode will discourage real victims of abuse from approaching the police. But the witchhunt against him was disgusting, too. It is worth revisiting old newspaper cuttings, both to smell the venom and to marvel at the hypocrisy. 'Named' crowed one paper, in a front-page headline over the outed Mr Leslie's face. On Friday, the same paper carried an editorial suggesting the identity of rape suspects should not be divulged. These incompatible positions mesh with more honourable concerns. This is a great era for rapists. The conviction rate is now 5.8 per cent, according to the Fawcett Society. Allowing for a 2 per cent slice of false reporting, 92 per cent of complainants see their assailants escape unchallenged. Since only 7 per cent of victims ever go the police, all this adds up to a disaster for women. But no one wants to see innocent people subjected to vultures' justice. And so there is also disquiet about defendants, of whom a trickle, often celebrities or sporting figures, emerge from rape investigations with their innocence intact but their names forever linked with, or tarnished by, fictitious crimes. In Britain, we have seen the cases of Neil and Christine Hamilton and the rugby player Hywel Jenkins. America is currently transfixed by the story of Kobe Bryant, the basketball star and Beckham-like idol accused of rape by a teenage waitress with whom he had sex in a Colorado hotel room. The issues are familiar here. Has a system that once saw date rape as no big deal swung too far the other way? On both continents, the public's visions of complainants now include malicious fantasists and women who wake up, befuddled by amnesiac doses of Tia Maria, but sure that they cannot have said yes. These stereotypes feed into myths, such as the idea that rape law is devised to appease feminist paramilitaries who think all men rapacious Visigoths and all women Disney princesses. Beyond such nonsense is a grimmer picture. This weekend, a woman who brought the first private prosecution for rape will walk in fear. Her attacker, a former chef from Margate, was due for release on licence the same day that Mr Leslie's case collapsed. The woman, a former prostitute who fought for justice when the CPS would not, believes the man traced her on parole visits and says the police can offer her no protection now. But individual cases prove nothing, beyond the fact that women are faring remarkably badly out of a set-up skewed, some say, wildly in their favour. They will do worse if some powerful advocates have their way. The Lords has voted for an amendment to the Sexual Offences Bill, demanding that rape suspects should not be named before conviction. The Home Affairs Select Committee wants anonymity up to the point of charge. We have been here once before. In 1976, rape complainants were granted anonymity. Defendants got the same rights, against the advice of the Heilbron Committee, which drew up the new proposals, as a concession to get the measure enacted. It did not work. If a man escaped custody before conviction, the police could not automatically warn of any danger. Fewer women came forward with evidence. The conviction rate fell, and the openness of the criminal justice system was compromised. In 1988, the measure was reversed. To bring it back would, as the Home Office argues, be perverse. Although not perfect, the Sexual Offences Bill, facing fierce debate this autumn, at last offers hope to women, partly by recognising an evolving crime. The Bill acknowledges not just that date rape is as serious as stranger rape, but that dining companions in citrus aftershave can be more terrifying assailants than smelly strangers. One can be filed away as belonging in some alien and perhaps forgettable world. The other cannot. Twinning legal progress with a backward leap seems mad. Nor is there any need. The problems linked to the Leslie case have nothing to do with legal process. He was not arrested until long after he had been sent to Fleet Street's version of Robben Island. Matthew Kelly, another innocent presenter stripped of job and status, was never charged. The real problem is the umbilical collusion between police and media. At the first whiff of a celebrity arrest, or a minor playground incident at the school of a senior politician's child, a constabulary mole will be on the phone to a newsdesk contact. So slick is this process that reporters sometimes beat the police to the scene of the alleged crime. True, in the Leslie case, Detective Constable Ulrika lit the touchpaper. Even so, David Blunkett, whose thinking on rape is, for once, exemplary, has identified the more usual faultline. He is right to ask the press and the police voluntarily to strengthen guidelines on non-disclosure. If that doesn't work, then the Attorney General could usefully dust off the Contempt of Court Act. There is no need either for new draconian laws gagging the press, or for anonymity reforms that would reduce the number of rape prosecutions still more. Suppression is neither advisable nor practical when the internet offers global gossip, immune to national law. Instead, in a tell-all culture haunted by sexual brutality, institutions have some duty of self-restraint. Otherwise, the only remaining secrets will belong to women too terrified to speak. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk