Maxine Carr was seen sobbing as she peered into the boot of Ian Huntley's car two days after Holly and Jessica vanished, the Soham trial jury was told.The prosecution believes Mr Huntley had used the car, a red Ford Fiesta, to take the girls' bodies to the spot where he dumped them. Details of Ms Carr's actions and some of her alleged conversations after the girls' disappearance were given to the Old Bailey yesterday on day two of the prosecution. Richard Latham QC, for the crown, has said that Ms Carr was 110 miles away from Soham when the girls died but alleges she backed Mr Huntley's false account of his actions in a "cold-blooded" way. He pointed out yesterday that some of Mr Huntley's actions which the prosecution claims were attempts to cover his tracks came shortly after alleged calls between the pair. The jury was first told about what Mr Latham said was a "very important call" made from Mr Huntley's mobile to Ms Carr's mobile at 6.56am on Monday August 5, the day after the girls disappeared. She was in Grimsby visiting her mother. When she was interviewed after her arrest almost two weeks after the girls vanished, Ms Carr claimed that in the five minute call Mr Huntley had told her he had been searching with the police for the missing youngsters all night. Ms Carr said he was in "absolute tears" because he was the last person to speak to them. Mr Huntley allegedly told his girlfriend: "I'm going to get fitted up like I did before." Mr Latham highlighted apparent inconsistencies in what Ms Carr said she knew of the girls' disappearance. Just after 2pm on the Monday a bus driver picked up a woman he later identified as Ms Carr in Grimsby. They got talking. She said she was from Soham and knew the girls who had gone missing. Mr Latham claimed that when Ms Carr was interviewed after her arrest she said it was not until 4.30pm that Mr Huntley told her the names of the girls who had vanished. Mr Latham pointed out the "juxtaposition" of alleged phone calls between Mr Huntley and Ms Carr and Mr Huntley's actions. For example at 6.35pm on Monday July 5 there was a call between the pair's mobiles. A few minutes later he went and washed his car. Likewise the prosecution claims that Mr Huntley and Ms Carr spoke on the phone at 10.41 that night. Nine minutes later he was talking to a group of special constables making up what the prosecution claims was a false story about someone who had been acting suspiciously. Mr Latham said that on the Tuesday morning (August 6) Mr Huntley drove to Grimsby to pick Ms Carr up. The prosecution claims this was so that she could back up his story. A neighbour of Ms Carr's mother saw the couple. They were standing by a red car. Mr Latham said the car boot was open and Mr Huntley and Ms Carr appeared to be looking into it. The neighbour later told police that Ms Carr was "sobbing" and Mr Huntley looked "thin and pale". When they saw her looking, Mr Huntley pushed the boot down. Miss Carr continued to sob. On their way back to Soham the pair picked up a hitchhiker. By this time, the jury heard, there had been what turned out to be a false sighting of Holly and Jessica. The hitchhiker spoke about the case to Mr Huntley and Ms Carr after learning they were from Soham. Mr Latham told the jury that Mr Huntley referred to the woman who had "supposedly" seen the girls. Mr Latham said it was a "slip of the tongue" by Mr Huntley. But he claimed it impacted on Ms Carr and what she knew of what had happened. "Carr heard the comment. She was in the motor car," said Mr Latham. Mr Huntley and Ms Carr got back to Soham at 5.30pm on Tuesday, Mr Latham said. Next day the search for the girls continued. During a break, a junior caretaker went into Mr Huntley and Ms Carr's house for a drink. He claimed Ms Carr was in the kitchen scrubbing the tiles so hard that she was complaining she was rubbing the pattern off. The jury has been told that Mr Huntley "sanitised" his car by cleaning it thoroughly and when police visited the house the day after the girls' disappearance they noticed a strong smell of a "lemony cleaning product".