Police faced growing questions last night over why it took 24 days to find missing schoolgirl Shannon Matthews when her alleged kidnapper, Mick Donovan, was a relative who had been reported by neighbours as suspicious.As Shannon's relieved mother returned home and said she 'just couldn't stop crying' when she saw her nine-year-old daughter again, there were calls for a review of the police investigation and an overhaul of procedures for dealing with missing children.Shannon was found on Friday concealed in the base of a divan bed in Donovan's first-floor flat in Batley Carr, just a mile from her home on an estate in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire. Donovan, the uncle of Shannon's stepfather Craig Meehan, was being questioned by detectives last night. Residents in the tightly knit community claimed they tipped off police about him but he was not confronted until last Friday, more than three weeks after Shannon went missing, despite the force mounting its biggest investigation since the hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper 30 years ago.Edward McMillan-Scott, Conservative MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber, said with statistics showing that 'in more than three out of four cases like this a family member is involved', police should have conducted a 'thorough search [of all family members that] would have included the suspect in this case'.McMillan-Scott said, although he did not want to criticise police without knowing the full facts about the case, he had requested a meeting with officers in West Yorkshire. He called for a system such as the 'amber alert' used in America, France and Belgium. The system sees information put out on television, radio stations and motorway signs as soon as children go missing. McMillan-Scott added: 'I have no doubt at all that with a similar system, Shannon would have been recovered within hours.'As Donovan remained under arrest last night, a picture emerged of a 39-year-old loner who spent hours obsessively cleaning his car. Estranged from his wife, he is thought to have two daughters, aged 10 and 12, who used to live with him but now no longer see him.When family and friends first set out looking for Shannon, one of them asked Donovan why he was not helping in the massive hunt for the girl. He allegedly replied that he was afraid he would become a suspect.Shannon's uncle Neil Hyett, 46, suggested yesterday that alarm bells should have rung sooner. 'When the news broke I nearly crashed my coach,' he said. 'I thought: "Why the hell didn't I think of him three weeks ago?" The police have been very good but he should have been high on the list.'Hyett said that when a family member had asked Donovan to join the search for Shannon, 'he said he didn't want to in case he fell under suspicion'.Noting Donovan's difficult relationship with his own daughters, Hyett added: 'I know Mick Donovan better than anyone else.'Hyett said he had a photograph of Donovan and his daughters, one of whom looks very like Shannon - but he was holding on to the picture and the rest of his story while considering financial offers from newspapers.Local residents said they had warned police about Donovan - who was born Paul Drake but changed his name for unknown reasons - but nothing was done. Melvyn Glew, 62, who lives 50 yards from Donovan's home, said he thought it strange three weeks ago when lights in the flat went off.'Before that they were on night and day,' he said. 'They went off soon after Shannon went missing and I didn't often see them on again.' Glew, a factory worker, became more suspicious when a man went to Donovan's flat and knocked on the door but got no answer. 'I don't know who the man was, but I knew there was someone in the flat and they just weren't answering the door. That's when I decided to call the helpline number on the Shannon posters. I told them that I thought he had something to do with the girl's disappearance, but no one ever got back in touch again.'He added: 'I know that other people have rung the helpline saying who they thought was involved, but I was convinced I was right. I have seen him go out to do some shopping in the last three weeks but there was never any little girl with him. She must have been in the flat all the time. How he could keep her in there all this time without someone knowing she was there is beyond me.'Another witness, Ryan Baynes, recalled how last year Donovan had attended a funeral for Craig Meehan's father and bounced Shannon on his knee, paying her 'far too much attention'.He told the Sun newpaper that within days of Shannon's disappearance he had suspected Donovan may have taken her and called Wakefield police station to provide a name and address. But he grew frustrated when they failed to investigate. 'I was expecting a call back from the police to say they had either arrested him or discounted him,' he said. 'But each time I called I was told it was being "looked into".'A neighbour living directly below Donovan's flat described hearing Shannon's footsteps above. June Batley said: 'We heard footsteps that could have been a little girl's occasionally but we thought someone must be visiting. We realised the truth when the police knocked on the door to ask questions.'The charity Missing People also claimed that it passed information to West Yorkshire Police after receiving information suggesting that Shannon might have been at Lidgate Gardens, where Donovan lives.The police investigation involved more than 200 officers and 60 detectives - 10 per cent of West Yorkshire Police's operational strength. Officers searched nearly 3,000 residential and commercial premises. It emerged in the course of the inquiry that some 1,387 registered sex offenders lived within a 20-mile radius of Shannon's home.A source close to the investigation denied police had missed obvious clues as to Shannon's whereabouts. Detectives had begun by interviewing members of the nine-year-old's immediate family and had then widened the inquiry to members of the extended family. There were 'literally hundreds of people' in a 'huge family network', the source said, adding that the alleged tip-offs have been overstated and did not directly point to Shannon being hidden within the flat.Officers had gone to Donovan's home to question him because he was Craig Meehan's uncle, the source insisted. It is still unclear why police chose to barge into the flat, leaving the back door hanging off its hinges. Eyewitnesses said Donovan had struggled with police as he was led away, and shouted: 'Help me! I'm ill!'Last night Donovan was being questioned at the high-security Calderdale police HQ in Halifax and was said to be providing detailed information. Sources said he would be asked if he acted alone or with the help of other family members. He was reportedly briefly taken to the Calderdale Royal Hospital on Friday night because of mental-health issues.The peculiar nature of the case was underlined when Shannon's mother, Karen Matthews, 32, and her partner, Craig Meehan, 22, returned home yesterday without Shannon herself. Unusually, the girl has been placed under an emergency police protection order and has had only a very brief reunion with her mother and stepfather.Shannon was at a secret location where a special police team began delicately questioning her to piece together what happened during her 24-day ordeal. She was described by police as 'bubbly and relaxed' in their care after watching DVDs, going to bed early, having breakfast and playing with a kitten.Despite the ongoing separation, Karen Matthews released a statement expressing her delight and defending the police inquiry: 'When I first saw Shannon again I was overwhelmed - I just couldn't stop crying, knowing she's back where she belongs and she's safe,' she said.'I never gave up hope and now she'll be able to come home and sleep in her room again. We've got her new pink bedding, which she'll love. The police have helped a lot. We can't thank them enough.'Matthews said the support from the local community had been 'fantastic'. 'We're just happy to be a family again. That's all we've wanted - Shannon back and safe,' she added. The schoolgirl's biological father, Leon Rose, said: 'I am buzzing over it - especially since Shannon has been found alive. I'm over the moon and I can't wait to see her. I'll grab hold of her and give her a cuddle and tell her I love her.' He added: 'All that counts is that Shannon has been found safe and well. I'm thankful that the nightmare is over - it's now a dream come true.' But Karen Matthews was anguished that a family member had been involved in her daughter's disappearance, according to her friend Petra Jamieson. She said: 'I spoke to Karen on Friday night and she was going through all sorts of emotions: happy, elated, pissed off that it was someone known to the family.'Donovan is believed to have gone through a bitter divorce from a woman named Susan Bird and now no longer sees their two daughters. Donovan's sister, Alice Meehan, 49, said: 'I can't believe he had Shannon, my own brother. It feels like he has brought shame on our family.'She said the family never understood why Donovan, who claimed disability allowance for mental problems, changed his name by deed poll, as he would not tell them why.Donovan's link to Craig Meehan will fuel conspiracy theories and speculation over whether Shannon will be allowed to return to her parents. But Susan Howgate, 39, a cousin of Karen Matthews, defended Meehan yesterday: 'Shannon's stepdad is a good guy. He used to play football with my kids. He wouldn't hurt a fly.'I hope they don't take Shannon into care. Karen and Craig have done nothing wrong. They're good parents.'Her husband, Graham, 52, added: 'I would trust Craig with my kids' lives. I can't praise him highly enough.'Forensic tests were carried out at Donovan's flat yesterday. Among items removed was believed to be a computer hard drive. Police have 96 hours to question him and must then charge him, release him on bail or release him without further action.A mile away, a policeman stood outside the white front door of Shannon's family home. Posters urging, 'Find Shannon' and 'Have you seen Shannon?' remained in the net-curtained front window. A large banner saying: 'Welcome back, Shannon' was draped in the window of a nearby house.When Matthews and Meehan returned at 4.45pm, they kissed on the doorstep for the benefit of photographers, then went inside with family liaison officers.Meanwhile, neighbours began clearing up after a raucous party on Friday night to celebrate Shannon's safe return at the Moorside Tenants and Residents Association, which had become the focal point of the community effort to find her.The yard outside was carpeted with thousands of torn-up posters showing Shannon's face. That night dozens of children had played among the fragments as if enjoying snow. Fireworks were let off and disco lights flashed as loud music resounded across the estate.Aaron Tyson, 28, a bar worker, said: 'When we heard the news there was amazing relief and everyone was in tears. Before this happened I didn't feel part of the community, but this has brought the community together and made us closer to friends and family. We all have children and they all go to the same schools. It's strange how good can come out of tragedy. Words can't express how everyone is feeling.'