I didn’t closely follow the OJ Simpson case in the 1990s; I picked up enough of the detail that infected the general culture to know that it was all too dark and horrible to bear. The main long-term result of this, for me, is that until I started watching the TV drama series The People v OJ Simpson, I had no idea how the Kardashians had first come to be in the public eye. It’s quite something that a father’s close friendship with an accused double murderer can become his children’s entre to fame, glamour and fortune. But this appears to be the surprising legacy of Robert Kardashian’s loyalty to his sporting-hero friend.The real legacy of the OJ Simpson trial: you can buy a get-out-of-jail-free card | Sadhbh Walshe Whatever you may think of the Kardashians – and I barely think of them at all – as legacies go, it’s a deeply shallow one. The dispiriting thing, 22 years on from the murder of Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman, is how small an impact this massive case, from which the US could have learned so much, has made. It should have changed the terms of the national debate. Instead, all of the terrible stuff that conspired to make Simpson’s acquittal possible has endured, or even thrived.It was easy for OJ’s stellar defence team to paint the LAPD as racist and corrupt, because the trial had come two years after police had been caught on camera beating taxi driver Rodney King. The acquittal of the group of police officers who had assaulted him ignited furious street riots in Los Angeles, in which 53 people died. This extreme level of unhappiness with the way the LAPD conducted itself, combined with the esteem in which Simpson had previously been held, made loyalties and emotions easy to manipulate.But who in their right mind would argue that matters have improved? Appalling individual cases still come along with grim regularity, igniting public opinion but never, seemingly, providing a catalyst for change: Eric Garner’s death as he was held in a chokehold by the NYPD, gasping “I can’t breathe,” over and over again; the killing of unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown, in 2014, in Missouri; or that of Tamir Rice, playing with a replica gun, in Cleveland. So many examples. Yet, matters are not even adequately monitored, let alone tackled. It was this dire situation that inspired the Guardian to launch a project called The Counted last year, aiming to establish the true number of people killed by law enforcement in the US.The Simpson case was, of course, counter-intuitive. One African American avoided jail pretty much entirely because of his ethnic identity. (Simpson was, however, jailed in 2008 for a robbery committed the previous year.) But the number of African Americans in US prisons remains an indelible stain on the nation’s claims to equality. Black American males make up 12-13% of the population, but 60% of the US’s 2 million-plus inmates.The leading cause of African American incarceration is non-violent drug offences. Once you know this, it’s hard to see the “war on drugs” as anything other than a war on black Americans. Prohibition lasted for 13 years. The war on drugs seems set to go on for ever. As long as it does, distrust between African Americans and police forces will continue. People will go to prison. People will be killed by the police. Citizens will riot. There simply seems to be no will to seek decisive change.The People v OJ Simpson: episode seven – the bloody gloves go on It’s impossible to say how much impact the Simpson case had on the US psyche. But I think it’s likely that whatever it had, it was precisely the opposite impact to that which was needed. Such a case encourages racists to feed their denial, and tell themselves that affirmative action is the problem. Donald Trump appears to be mining just such a seam, with some white Americans only too happy to believe that it’s ethnic minorities, rather than the globalised ultra-capitalism that Trump is a brash beneficiary of, who are to blame for their diminished economic opportunities. Did the case give black Americans some pause, at times when they might otherwise have spoken out against racism? That’s possible, too. Over time, the Simpson trial looks more and more like the exception that doesn’t just prove the rule, but hardens and protects it.There were other worrying aspects to the Simpson case that still pertain today. The violence visited on Nicole Brown during many years is still called “domestic”, as if it’s one of the more unfortunate aspects of hearth and home. It remains unbelievable that a history of violence against a woman, a dead woman whose DNA was found on a glove that also carried Simpson’s DNA and Goldman’s, counted for so little. That pattern still pertains as well – whereby somehow accusing someone of a sexual crime is worse than being the victim of a sexual crime, even one as awful as this. Again, an exception is usually made for black men, but Simpson bucked the trend.When I first heard about The People v OJ Simpson, I assumed it would be a tacky and exploitative drama. It seemed weird to reconstruct with actors – however celebrated – scenes such as Simpson’s car chase, or the trial itself, that had been watched on television by millions in real life. But now I’m a total convert. Of course, it would have been better to have understood and disseminated the lessons of the Simpson case two decades ago. But this television drama is offering us all an important second chance to do so, and it seems important to grasp the opportunity.