Alarm over rising street crime has triggered the first Tory revival in the polls since the general election, according to a special Guardian/ICM opinion poll on the state of Britain's public services published today.Despite the fact that overall recorded crime figures have been going down, the government is now believed by the voters to have an even worse record on crime than it does on running the railways. The Guardian/ICM poll shows that the Tory share of the vote has risen four points in the last month to 34% on the back of this growing discontent with the state of public services in Britain. At the same time Labour's own share of the vote has fallen three points to 43%, cutting its opinion poll lead from 17 points to only 9 points. The Liberal Democrats' share was 17. ICM's detailed findings suggest that rising concern over street robbery has led to Labour losing the battle to retain its hard-won reputation as the party of law and order. This month's surge in the Conservative vote ends eight months since the election when they have failed to rise above a 30% share in the polls. With the tabloids in uproar over "lawless Britain", Labour's mounting concern about public service reform - what Tony Blair calls "delivery, delivery, delivery" - was reflected yesterday in a Downing Street summit on street crime. Chaired by the prime minister, it was attended by key ministers and law and order agencies, who were told to cooperate more effectively to tackle the crisis. Buoyed by their own private polling, the Tories - who last enjoyed a brief poll surge during the fuel protests of September 2000 - moved yesterday to cash in on a changing public mood. The shadow chief secretary to the Treasury, John Bercow, launched an attack on what he called "broken targets" and "chronic under-performance" by a government "whose thirst for making promises is exceeded only by its capacity to break them". Mr Bercow claimed that voters were now "fed up with Labour still blaming the Tories". ICM's survey confirms the hunch that the electorate as a whole has been deeply unimpressed by Labour's claims to have improved public services since it came to power in 1997. Only 14% of all voters agree they have improved, with 37% believing they have actually got worse. The most damaging public services issue is now seen to be crime, with 55% of voters believing it has got worse since Labour came to power. That even eclipses the 47% of all voters who believe public transport has got worse under Labour. Among Labour's own supporters the picture is, as would be expected, rather more positive, with 29% saying that public services have improved since Mr Blair got into Downing Street. That still leaves 40% who say they have remained the same and 13% who actually believe they have got worse. One encouraging detail for Labour in the ICM findings is that Labour voters over whelmingly say they have seen a real improvement in schools since their party took power. They still just give the government the benefit of the doubt over the state of the NHS. Both have benefited from Gordon Brown's largesse. ICM's survey may also encourage the chancellor to introduce a specific NHS tax - a so-called hypothecated or ring-fenced tax - in next month's Budget, as some MPs urge. There is strong support for the idea, with even 64% of Conservative voters saying they would be prepared to pay more tax if it was tied to a specific promise to increase spending on the health service. Mr Brown yesterday in a major speech rejected insurance-based alternatives to financing the NHS via general taxation. He did not rule out ring-fenced taxes, though he privately opposes them. Ministers alarmed by the electorate's failure to notice much progress in the delivery of improvements will be even more dismayed to discover how unpopular their favoured solutions are, even among Labour voters. The poll shows that the voters do not think much of the idea of introducing private managers into "failing" NHS hospitals. The feeling is widespread that the government is putting too much emphasis on using private companies to provide public services. That will please the unions. A majority of Labour and Liberal Democrat voters however agree that Stephen Byers was right to bring back Railtrack into public ownership by putting it into administration. · ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,001 adults aged over 18 by telephone between March 15 -17, 2002. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.