This is, Amnesty International will readily admit, far from its usual realm of campaign work.Bright posters show women who initially look upbeat and fresh, smiling in what appears to be an advertisement for a new cosmetic. But a closer look reveals they nurse bruises circling their eyes, scars under their breasts and cut cheeks. The series of posters carry the tagline "for bruising relationships" and the human rights organisation says the £50,000 campaign is designed to confront men and tackle complacency. After discussions with victims, Amnesty said it felt there was a need to use more daring domestic violence campaigns. Nick Barham, of advertising agency Karmarama, said the focus groups showed an alarming level of acceptance and the idea was to move away from the cliches of campaign advertising - the angry perpetrator and the upset victim. "We wanted people to feel disturbed by it," he said. The posters, which will appear in underground stations from today, will feature in men's magazines in the new year. Kate Allen, Amnesty International UK director, said research shows a common reaction to the issue of domestic violence is to ask, "Problem? What problem?""We are saying, let's wake up to the epidemic of domestic violence in this country and really press for a concerted government strategy that addresses all aspects of violence against women." The extent of domestic violence in the UK is not known but surveys suggest there are more than half a million incidents in England and Wales every year. On average, two women are killed in domestic violence incidents every week. An ICM survey last year revealed more people (74%) would report a person for kicking or mistreating their dog than for kicking or mistreating their partner (53%). Sandra Horley, the chief executive of the women's group Refuge, said: "Domestic violence is seen as a feminist issue - which it is, but that excludes men. "We want men to get involved in challenging this and jolt people out of this level of semi-acceptance."