A judge told a gangland boss and his accomplice that they would spend the rest of their lives in jail yesterday for the "uniquely terrible" murders of five members of one family.Kenneth Regan and William Horncy were convicted on Friday of killing Amarjit and Nancy Chohan, their two sons, Ravinder, eight weeks, and Devinder, 18 months, and Mrs Chohan's mother, Charanjit Kaur. Regan, a heroin smuggler, wanted to take control of Mr Chohan's freight firm and use it to import drugs. But he killed the family in order to concoct a story that the millionaire businessman had fled to India because of tax worries. Judge Sir Stephen Mitchell gave Regan, 56, from Wilton, Wiltshire, and Horncy, 53, from Bournemouth, Dorset, whom he described as "highly dangerous men", five life sentences each, saying they should never be freed. Peter Rees, 38, from Rowlands Castle, Hampshire, was convicted of the false imprisonment and murder of Mr Chohan, but cleared of the other four murders. He was also jailed for life and the judge recommended he serve at least 23 years. None of the three defendants betrayed any emotion in a packed Old Bailey courtroom, watched by members of the Chohan family and 11 of the 12 jurors who convicted them unanimously after a £10m, eight-month trial, the longest in Metropolitan police history. Sir Stephen told Horncy and Regan, a supergrass freed early from jail in 2002 for information he gave on some of his criminal associates: "Your crimes are uniquely terrible. The cold-blooded murder of an eight-week-old baby, an 18-month-old toddler, not to mention the murders of their mother, father and grandmother, provide a chilling insight into the utterly perverted standards by which you have lived your lives." The Chohans disappeared from their west London home in February 2003. Mr Chohan, 46, was taken first and tortured for several days to try to force him to sign over his Heathrow-based company, Ciba, to Regan. Then the murderers seized his wife, 25, their two sons, and Mrs Chohan's mother, who was visiting from India. They were all killed, and initially buried on a farm in Devon before being dug up and dumped at sea. The bodies of Mr and Mrs Chohan and Mrs Kaur washed up separately in the next few months. But the remains of the two children have not been recovered. Sir Stephen told Regan and Horncy: "The misery, pain and suffering which the two of you have visited on the surviving members of Mr and Mrs Chohan's family are immeasurable, not least ... the bodies of those two tiny children have never been found." Outside court, Detective Chief Inspector Dave Little, who headed the investigation, said it was the worst crime he had ever dealt with, carried out for pure greed.The persistence of Onkar Verma, Mrs Chohan's brother, who flew from New Zealand to insist the police step up the investigation, helped bring the gang to justice.Yesterday Mr Verma, speaking from India, where he is sorting out his mother's estate, said he was satisfied with the sentences. But he is seeking an urgent meeting with Scotland Yard to express concerns about the handling of the case. He believes police were too slow to realise something terrible had happened to his family, thinking instead that Mr Chohan had just run off, and he criticised alleged lack of police support.