A Sun crime reporter has been found guilty of paying an anti-terrorism police officer more than £22,000 for story tips relating to Heathrow airport.Anthony France, 41, cultivated a corrupt relationship with PC Timothy Edwards over four years, the jury at the Old Bailey heard. France’s mother burst into tears as he left the dock on Friday after being found guilty of aiding and abetting Edwards to commit misconduct in a public office between March 2008 and July 2011. He will be sentenced on 29 May.Before adjourning for sentencing, Judge Timothy Pontius said: “I emphasise very firmly that the fact I’m releasing you on bail should not serve as any sort of indication of what the sentence will be.” The judge said he would “keep an open mind” until he heard representations from France’s lawyer. While working at Heathrow in SO15 counter-terrorism command, Edwards sold 38 stories and titbits of information to the journalist. These included details of a British Airways engineer caught in heels and a bodice walking a makeshift catwalk and the name of a drunk pilot arrested at the airport.France, who joined the Sun in 2004, was charged under Operation Elveden, a Metropolitan police investigation into alleged corruption between the press and public officials.He was the first journalist to stand trial for paying a public official since the director of public prosecutions announced a root-and-branch review of the controversial operation. The review, and the decision to ditch nine out of 12 remaining cases, came after the court of appeal quashed the conviction of ex-News of the World crime reporter Lucy Panton and gave fellow NotW reporter Ryan Sabey leave to appeal. They had been the only others to be found guilty following a trial. Giving evidence, France, from Watford, Hertfordshire, told the court he was “given” Edwards as a source and told by a colleague: “I’ve spoken to a lawyer and it’s fine.” He said he had never been advised by anyone at the Sun that speaking to a police officer – or any public official – might be against the law and that he would never have got involved with paying Edwards for stories if he knew it was illegal.“I would have told him to get lost,” said France. “I’m a man of good character not involved in crime.”After the verdict, DCS Gordon Briggs, who leads Operation Elveden, said: “France and Edwards were in a long-term corrupt relationship. Edwards was not a whistleblower. He obtained confidential information in the course of his duties and leaked it for financial gain.“Corrupt relationships of this kind undermine confidence in the police service and harm the public interest.”