The god-like status of DNA evidence in the courtroom took a severe knock just before Christmas with the acquittal of Sean Hoey, the man accused of planting the Real IRA's Omagh bomb in 1998 which killed 29 people. The case against him hinged on low copy number (LCN) DNA evidence, a technique that has been used by the UK's Forensic Science Service since 1999. But the judge, Mr Justice Weir, rejected the evidence, prompting a moratorium on the use of LCN and a review of pending prosecutions that relied on it by the Crown Prosecution Service. The CPS concluded that it had, "not seen anything to suggest that any current problems exist with LCN" and the moratorium has now been lifted, but doubts remain about the technique among some in the forensic community.LCN differs from the standard DNA fingerprinting technique by repeating again and again the initial step that copies the DNA, amplifying it to levels that can be analysed.It has featured in numerous cases, including the conviction of Antoni Imiela in March 2004 for a series of seven rapes and of the Australian Bradley Murdoch for the murder of British backpacker Peter Falconio. It was also used in the search for the killer of Swedish government minister Anna Lindh, who was murdered in a shopping mall in 2003.Allan Jamieson at the Forensic Institute in Glasgow, who testified in the Omagh trial, says that LCN stretches the reliability of DNA evidence. "The standard DNA technique is very reliable," he says. "But we've now pushed the technology to the absolute limit, and we're still using the same certainty. Unfortunately, what we don't know from the experimental work is how reliable this technique is."The FSS's Paul Hackett, however, defends LCN. "The technique has been used in more than 20,000 cases, and has been through the scrutiny of the courts over and over again," he says. "We've got a massive list of convictions and a huge number of admissions of guilt, particularly in cold cases. There were a unique set of circumstances in Omagh, and the judge's comments were really about the collection and preservation of the evidence."LCN allows forensic scientists to link DNA to a person even if the most minute amounts are present. Because such small amounts can be detected, though, it vastly increases the potential for contamination. "The main problem is that if you don't have a visible body stain, you really don't know how it got there or when it got there," says Jamieson.It is this that led Mr Justice Weir to dismiss the evidence. The prosecution attempted to link a number of explosive devices to Hoey because of similarities in the way they were constructed. LCN evidence apparently suggested his DNA was found on some of the devices, but it was not actually found at Omagh.The judge was scathing about the careless way in which physical evidence was handled by the police and hence the numerous opportunities for contamination. "It is not my function to criticise the seemingly thoughtless and slapdash approach of police and [scene of crime] officers to the collection, storage and transmission of what must obviously have been potential exhibits in a possible future criminal trial, but it is difficult to avoid some expression of surprise that . . . such items were so widely and routinely handled with cavalier disregard for their integrity," he said.Worse, even if evidence is handled carefully, the extreme sensitivity of LCN increases the possibility of false forensic inferences. Previous studies have shown that by shaking hands with someone your DNA can be transferred by them on to other objects (such as a murder weapon) when they touch them, even if your contact with them was half an hour ago. Once your DNA has been transferred by them it can remain on the object for days, or in one case (a glove that was analysed as part of a case), for two years. "That's kind of scary when we are working back from the evidence," says Jamieson.Jamieson does not advocate throwing the technique out altogether, but he does believe it should be used with much more caution. In court, DNA evidence is typically reported as being "consistent with Joe Bloggs holding the knife," he says. "The problem is how many other stories is it consistent with?" Despite nearly a decade of use in the UK, LCN has not taken off internationally, other than in the Netherlands and New Zealand. "Why is it the rest of the world just doesn't believe this?" asks Jamieson. "There clearly is an issue of reliability."· The writer is a Guardian science correspondent.