Hardened inmates who pose a serious risk of escaping are being sent to open prisons because there is no more room in higher-security jails.In an attempt to ease chronic overcrowding, governors have been given strict targets for the number of prisoners they must transfer to low-security prisons. Senior prison service figures fear the Home Office is putting the public at risk by removing their discretion to decide which prisoners are suitable for transfer. They are also concerned that the rehabilitation work of open prisons is being undermined by their role as a 'dumping ground' for prisoners not ready for release. The row follows the escape of drugs baron Roderick McLean after his transfer to Leyhill open prison in Gloucestershire. The fact that McLean had been considered suitable for this after previously being a category B prisoner caused deep embarrassment for prison managers. A report by the Prison Reform Trust into overcrowding, published before McLean's escape, said Leyhill staff were warning of problems with recategorised prisoners. The Board of Visitors at Leyhill said : 'We have comments from staff that the recategorisation of [prisoners from] C to D is not always appropriate and that we are receiving prisoners whose security category is not suited to open conditions.' The latest escape statistics bear out the governors' fears. They show a 57 per cent rise in the number of prisoners absconding from open prisons in the past two years. A total of 1,173 people escaped from open prisons in the year to October 2003, compared with 749 the year before. Official Home Office figures show that new prisons are not being built quickly enough to cope with the rocketing prison population. No new prison places are planned after the end of next year, when there will be 70,400 places in Britain's jails. The Prison Service believes it will be able to increase the numbers of prisoners to 79,000 by forcing prisoners to share cells and housing them in temporary prefabricated blocks in prison grounds. But this will still not be enough to cope with the rise in people being sent to jail - expected to hit 82,000 by 2005 and 93,000 by the end of the decade. A spokeswoman for the Prison Service admitted that 'delivery targets' had been set to transfer inmates from category C to category D status, which makes them suitable for being transferred to open prisons. 'They are monitored by area managers,' she said. 'If one prison has only sent one prisoner in the last six months [to open prison] they might say, "You are being too rigid." 'But at the end of the day, if someone is not suitable for open conditions they should not go.' Ann Widdecombe, the former Tory Prisons Minister, said: 'I am sure the public would be horrified if they knew people were being sent to open prison at a time when the authorities were still not satisfied that they presented no danger to the public.' Last week the Government announced an increase in fines and community sentences in an attempt to reduce the 93,000 figure to 80,000. They also ordered the merger of the management of the Prison and Probation Services to streamline the way offenders are dealt with. The Home Office announced plans to close Holloway, Brixton and Wandsworth prisons in London, which have been consistently criticised by inspectors. The reforms followed a highly critical report by millionaire businessman and Sport England chair Patrick Carter,who recommended a wholesale rethink of sentencing practice. Around 40,000 people are now in prison on short sentences for crimes unrelated to sexual, violent or drugs offences. Carter described the prison and probation services as 'silos' where prisoners were dumped without a proper understanding of what penalties worked to cut crime. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of probation union Napo, said: 'The huge rise in absconding prisoners just shows that they should not be there in the first place. The answer is not another layer of bureaucracy but for the Government to tackle the judiciary to reduce sentences for less serious offences.' Prison Reform Trust director Juliet Lyon said: 'The Home Secretary must take the political lead in convincing judges, magistrates and the public that sensible sentencing stands a better chance of creating a safe society than jamming minor offenders into jails.'