The vast majority of young men in prison will reoffend due to the government's failure to deal the needs of young adult offenders, according to research published by the Howard League for Penal Reform and discussed today at a conference at its headquarters in London.The two-year research programme, Out for Good: the resettlement needs of young men in prison, is the largest investigation into young offenders (18-20 years old) to have been undertaken in England and Wales. Young men were interviewed on reception to prison, just before they were released and a short time after they had been released.Every month, over 1,000 young men are sent to prison. It costs £35,000 a year to keep them inside, yet the study found that little constructive work takes place in prison or on release, and nearly 70% of those released from prison will be reconvicted within two years.Imprisonment fails to meet the needs of young adults, or effectively tackle reoffending. Young adults, who have been neglected by the prison system, will commit at least 8,500 further offences per year.Many of these young people will end up back in prison on what has become an intractable journey from community to custody, to crime and back again. Prison was found to impress a criminal identity on the young men rather than helping them to reject offending.The research led us to conclude that the current operation of the criminal justice system does little to ensure that young adult offenders make amends for what they have done, or recognise the impact of their behaviour on individual victims, their families and the wider community.Young men are responsible for a significant amount of crime. However, our research shows that sending these young men to prison does nothing to help them live crime-free lives on release; worse, it makes their re-offending inevitable.The recommendations have serious implications for policymakers and represents a challenge to the new home secretary if he is to be effective in reducing re-offending and thereby fulfil his promise to the electorate to make society safer.Consistency of relationships within service delivery is critical for these young men who have led fractured lives. It is not just a matter of providing a hostel place and expecting them to get on with it. In order to help them believe that they can live crime-free lives a much more coherent approach is needed. This must comprise secure housing, training and a job, education and a stake in their local community.The Howard League for Penal Reform research highlighted the importance of secure and stable housing in reducing reoffending because 75% of the young men interviewed had left home and one in five were homeless. Many were living on the floors of friends or girlfriends on release from prison and had to keep moving. Employment too is critical. Half of the young men were unemployed when they were sent to prison and most of the others had been in casual employment or engaged in the informal economy.In the end, prison was clearly exacerbating their problems and confirming their view of themselves as criminals. The Howard League for Penal Reform research shows that community sentences offer the only real opportunity to change the lives of these young men, prevent future re-offending and protect potential victims. But, they must be properly resourced and managed. Anything less is criminal negligence in that it is putting the public at risk of almost certain criminal activity.· Frances Crook is the director of the Howard League for Penal Reform