A police authority suspended its chairman today pending the outcome of an investigation into child abuse allegations. Humberside police authority said Colin Inglis was unable to continue as its leader after he was suspended by the Labour party yesterday as he answered police bail over the allegations. Mr Inglis, a Labour councillor on Hull council for the Myton ward, was arrested on Tuesday night by officers from North Yorkshire police. He was elected chairman of the authority in January 2001, having been appointed as a member in 1999. A spokeswoman for the authority said today: "It is with regret that Humberside police authority has learned that its chairman, Councillor Colin Inglis, is unable to continue as a member of the police authority following the Labour party's decision to suspend him from the party at this time, and will not therefore be available for selection to the authority. "The police authority has no influence on this decision, but has to abide by it." Graham Stroud, the authority's vice-chairman, said: "Since attaining the chair in January 2001, he has made a significant contribution to the police authority and Humberside police force." A new chairman will be appointed at the authority's annual general meeting on June 21. Last year, the North Yorkshire force was asked to look into allegations made against Mr Inglis. The investigation was set up after a man went to police with allegations about Mr Inglis relating to when he was a social worker at a Hull children's home in the 1980s. The politician has strenuously denied the allegations. Humberside police investigated similar allegations against Mr Inglis in 1997, but prosecutors decided there was not enough evidence to take the case further. In January this year, the Independent Police Complaints Commission intervened and asked for the current investigation to be broadened to include these older allegations.The police authority chief, who was also the Labour leader of Hull council until last month, hit the headlines last summer when his authority refused to comply with an order from former home secretary David Blunkett to suspend the Humberside chief constable, David Westwood, following publication of the Bichard report into the Soham murders.An agreement was eventually reached in which Mr Westwood agreed to retire in March this year.