The amateur psychology has been flowing fast and easy. In the pubs and on the radio, in the salons and in the broadsheets everyone's trying to crack the enigma of Harold Shipman. He's the serial murderer who wanted to play God, according to the Independent, the evil doc who relished "the power of life and death," says the Times.He's a classic necrophile, says Brian Masters, veteran decoder of the world's darkest men. He felt "a perverted delight in the presence of death". The speculation is not all media-generated. Eavesdrop in the queue at the post office or the dry cleaners, and you'll hear it there, too. We all want to take a peek inside the mind of a man responsible for a death toll which could eventually, incredibly, stretch to four figures. And we all have enough familiarity with the basics of psychology - or at least the pop culture version of it - to hazard our own guess.The current favourite is the mummy's boy theory. As every potted biography of Shipman has recalled, he was 17 when he witnessed his mother's death from cancer - watching as she sat in an armchair, watching as a doctor injected her with numbing doses of morphine. Perhaps the young Shipman felt so helpless at that scene, wonders media-shrink Oliver James, that the adult sought to repeat it, over and over - with himself recast in the powerful role, as the man with the needle. Maybe he was punishing his victims, predominantly older women, for enjoying the longevity denied his mother? Or perhaps he had been so stirred by that episode in 1963 that he enjoyed a surreal, quasi-sexual thrill in reliving it? But there is a more intriguing relationship to examine here, one that says less about the psychology of Cheshire's Dr Death and more about the psychology of his patients. For the awkward question raised by the bleak case of Harold Shipman may not dwell on his relationship with his mum - but on our relationship with those who heal us.One clear fact emerges from the crates of evidence now prised open: that Shipman's killing spree could continue for as long as it did - perhaps a quarter of a century - solely because he wore the respectable spectacles of a doctor. The public inquiry announced yesterday by the health secretary will have to answer this aspect of the case, but already the belief is growing that Shipman's fellow doctors failed to see a killer in their midst - and refused to see the warning signs that now look so obvious. He was producing many more corpses than they were - between four and ten times the amount - and yet they closed ranks, like a trade union, protecting the reputation of one of their own. More than once the General Medical Council was asked to take action. More than once it refused. More deeply, Shipman was allowed to kill thanks not only to the professional solidarity of the medical class - but to our stubborn faith in it. Several of Hyde's citizens said they feared ridicule if they dared challenge the town doctor, such was his standing within a small, traditional community. Doctors are archetypal authority figures, and Shipman exploited that fact to lethal effect: he could gain entry into people's homes and their trust, even when harm, pain and death were his objectives. The sophisticated will want to see this deference as the antiquated preserve of the naive, the weak and the elderly: little old ladies bowing to the local medic as if to the witch doctors of yore. The rest of us are surely far too savvy for that. But we should not be too quick to congratulate ourselves. In the 60s, a Yale University professor by the name of Stanley Milgram set out to test the limits of human deference. He was troubled by Adolf Eichmann's claim a few years earlier that, even though he had masterminded the Nazi destruction of the Jewish people, he "was only obeying orders". Milgram, a fine American patriot, was convinced that none of his countrymen would ever have obeyed such brutal orders, and he set out to prove it.  In an ingenious experiment, he persuaded volunteers to take part in a study on the effects of punishment on learning. One would be the "teacher", the other the "learner" - with the latter strapped into a chair with electrodes attached to his wrists. If the learner made a mistake in a series of simple memory tests, the teacher would zap him with a shock - jacking up the voltage with each wrong answer. What the first volunteer did not know was that the "learner" was actually an actor, and that the shocks were all fake. Eventually the learner would be writhing in mock pain on the other side of the glass, crying out for mercy. In some experiments, he would complain of a potentially-fatal heart condition or, at 330 volts, pretend to fall silent, as if unconscious or dead. But it was all to no avail. The volunteers, of all ages and across all social groups, repeatedly agreed to increase the voltage, no matter how loud the protests of their victim. Professor Milgram and his team were stunned by their results: fully 65% of their all-American sample were prepared to obey the most heinous orders, administering the maximum shock of 450 volts - even when such a blast was self-evidently lethal. And here's the twist. Milgram's findings were highest when the "researcher" supervising the experiment wore a white coat. When he appeared in a regular suit, the obedience rates plummeted. People were deferring to the costume of the doctor-scientist, even to the extent of suspending their own consciences. If they protested, the researcher would merely say: "The experiment must continue." And so it would. Milgram's Obedience to Authority was written to prove that it was not just Germans who submit to those with power and intellectual standing. It is a universal habit, as visible in a playground gang torturing a weakling on the instructions of a bully as it was in the Third Reich. Shipman's trick was to use that impulse for the facilitation of murder. But we need not be resigned to it. Perhaps the elderly of Hyde had grown up doffing their caps to the local doc, but a new generation seems to be shaking off that deference. One of the blockbuster sites among American users of the internet is MD Web, aimed originally at physicians but used increasingly by patients. There and elsewhere punters can check out their symptoms alongside a vast reservoir of medical knowledge - and then challenge the diagnosis of their doctor. Now everyone who has a computer can get a second opinion, instantly. NHS Direct may eventually do something similar in Britain. The result could be an eventual slipping of the white-coat halo. The debate over genetically-modified food has already exposed scientists as opinionated partisans, just like the rest of us. The Shipman case may do the same for the medical profession. The end of deference is not just a political trend. It relates to a more profound business too - causing death and taking lives.