A soldier has died in hospital after a street attack on Teesside within hours of returning to the UK from a tour of duty in Afghanistan, police said today.David Grout, 22, of the Royal Signals Regiment, had been celebrating his homecoming with his family before the unprovoked attack outside the Eston Institute, a working men's club, on Tuesday last week.The father of one was in a critical condition at the James Cook University hospital, in Middlesbrough, where he suffered a blood clot on his brain and was pronounced dead at lunchtime.Acting Detective Chief Inspector Dave Mead, of Cleveland police, paid tribute to Grout and said: "Our thoughts are with his family, Kerry, his wife, and Harley, his son, at this sad time."Witnesses saw Grout confronted by two men outside the club, police said. After a brief conversation, one of the men threw a punch at the soldier, who fell to the ground and suffered serious head injuries.Grout, who served with the 204 Signals Regiment and was based at Catterick garrison in North Yorkshire, was taken to hospital where he was put in a coma to stabilise his condition. Medical staff attempted to bring him out of the coma on Thursday to assess his condition but attempts to wake him were unsuccessful.It is thought Grout's attackers stayed with him for some time as he lay unconscious, before fleeing the scene."From witnesses who have told us about David's body language it appears that he knew his attackers," said Detective Sergeant Colin Helyer. "I do not think this incident is in any way connected to David's service in the army. This attack was not planned and they waited with David as he lay unconscious for some period of time before leaving. I believe the person who has done this knows David and knows his family. I would ask this person to come forward."The signaller joined the army straight after school and had been in Helmand province, his grandfather, Bryan Grout, said last week. He had been socialising with his mother, Maureen, and her new husband in the hours before the attack while he was home for a fortnight's break.Pam Gardner, who works at the institute, said Grout's family had been drinking in the club on Tuesday afternoon. "The first I knew anything had happened was at 12.15am when the police came banging on the door," she said. "To think he's come back from fighting in Afghanistan to this is just shameful."Detectives said they wanted to speak to two white men seen running from the area. They were described as in their early 20s, one wearing a white tracksuit and the other a grey hoodie and white tracksuit bottoms.A 19-year-old presented himself to police investigating the attack. A police spokeswoman said at the time: "A 19-year-old local man made contact with police following today's appeal for information about the attack. [He] has been arrested in connection with a section 18 assault, which is assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm."