After 10 months of suspicion, hundreds of hostile headlines and a six-figure libel settlement, Kate and Gerry McCann were yesterday officially cleared of any involvement in their daughter Madeleine's disappearance, after the Portuguese attorney general revoked their status as arguidos (suspects) in the case."We welcome the news today, although it's no cause for celebration," Kate McCann said at a press conference last night. "It's hard to describe how utterly despairing it was to be named arguidos and subsequently named in the media as suspects in our own daughter's abduction and worse. "It has been equally devastating to witness the detrimental effect this status has had on the search for Madeleine."The couple said they had no immediate plans to return to Portugal, but did not rule out the possibility of legal action against the Portuguese police. "We want to digest the statement and also to get access to the files to see what can still be done," said Gerry McCann, adding that any legal steps would be "secondary" to finding their daughter."Our priority has always been the search for Madeleine and that will be what will be prioritised in the coming weeks." Robert Murat, the local businessman who came under scrutiny after volunteering to help police following Madeleine's disappearance last May, also had his name cleared, after Fernando Pinto Monteiro judged that there was no evidence whatsoever that any of the three had committed a crime.With that judgment, however, came a bitter blow for the couple, as the attorney general also confirmed that the police investigation had effectively run out of leads, and was therefore being shelved for lack of evidence. Though the case could be reopened at any time should persuasive evidence emerge, the ruling means that the only people now looking for Madeleine are the McCanns' own private investigators. The McCanns, both doctors from Rothley in Leicestershire, were named arguidos in early September last year. The struggling Portuguese authorities had called in British police officers and trained sniffer dogs to help them in July and August. Yesterday, sources who had seen the Portuguese attorney general's full statement said it identified findings made by the sniffer dogs, and the results of tests run by the British Forensic Science Service (FSS), as critical in naming the couple as suspects, a decision that was to have a catastrophic effect on their reputation. In March the McCanns forced a grovelling apology and damages of £550,000 from Express Newspapers after the group published more than 100 "seriously defamatory" articles about the couple. A former police officer and child protection expert, Mark Williams-Thomas, who has knowledge of the full contents of the attorney general's report, said his office had found that the FSS had not provided sufficient help to the Portuguese investigators in interpreting their findings. This, he said, led them to produce one report, in September last year, in which incriminating DNA was found to be Madeleine's, and another, in December, in which the readings were in doubt. Williams-Thomas told the Guardian: "It is a very challenging role that the FSS has got, they provide evidence to a police force, and ... they have to be absolutely clear how that evidence is interpreted. If anything, there was a lack of full explanation as to what the results meant."The report had also suggested that the Portuguese police were unduly influenced by media coverage, he said.But he was extremely critical of the decision to stop investigating the case after 14 months, describing it as appalling. "Can we interpret that the trail has gone cold? Yes. But is it too soon to close the case? Yes it is."For the McCanns, the ruling means that they will be able to return to Portugal if they wish, perhaps to stage a reconstruction of the events surrounding Madeleine's disappearance, though they said last night they have no immediate plans to do so. They welcomed the decision to open the case files, however. In a pointed comment, Kate McCann said: "We look forward to scrutinising the police files to see what's actually been done, and more importantly, what can still be done."The McCanns' spokesman, Clarence Mitchell, said earlier that their Portuguese lawyers would have 20 days to assess the evidence, after which time parts of it could be made public.Last week, Murat won £600,000 from 11 newspapers and Sky News following scores of reports judged to be equally libellous. He said yesterday he was "very relieved" but added: "There's a little girl still missing out there who needs to be found, so it's a time for relief but not for celebration. We can now put this behind us and get on with our lives - that's what I want to do."