The mother of a schoolgirl who disappeared 10 years ago is to give evidence against her husband at his trial for the alleged murder of their daughter in a so-called "honour killing". Tulay Goren, 15, was murdered by her father and his brothers because she fell in love with the wrong man, an Old Bailey jury heard today.Tulay, a Turkish Kurd from north London, went missing in January 1999 after moving in with her lover, Halil Unal. Her body was never found.In a case which openedtoday , her mother, Hanim, will testify that Tulay's father, Mehmet, 49, a fish-and-chip shop owner, killed their daughter.Tulay was drugged, killed, and her body temporarily buried in the back garden of her home after a "family council" because she was seen as a worthless commodity after losing her virginity to Unal, who was from a different Muslim sect, the court heard. Mehmet and his brothers, Ali, 55, and Cuma, 42, all Alevi Muslims, are accused of killing her and disposing of her body. They are also accused of the attempted murder of Unal, a Sunni.Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw QC said: "Mehmet [had] an instant fear that Tulay had lost or was in danger of losing her virginity and in his eyes that would leave her a valueless commodity in terms of his ability to marry her on."The family moved to the UK from Turkey to claim political asylum in the 1990s and Tulay came over when she was 12.The Old Bailey heard she took "an enormous risk" when she fell in love with Unal, then 29, the manager of an East End clothes factory where her mother worked and where she did work experience.Tulay began working at the factory in the summer of 1998 before the final year of her GCSEs. The relationship developed quickly and after she returned to school, Unal approached her mother asking permission to marry Tulay in accordance with the courtship traditions of the family.He was told that it was too early for Tulay and she was promised to another man, but behind her family's back Tulay began seeing him and they slept together.In December 1998 Mehmet beat up Unal and the next day Tulay ran away. Tulay told police her father had been violent towards her and she wanted to be taken to a children's home but her mother persuaded her to return home, the court heard. She then ran away again to stay with Unal and the couple tried to gain her family's approval for marriage.On 6 January, a day before her alleged murder, her parents persuaded her to move back home, where she was held captive until the following day, the court heard. Laidlaw added: "On 7 January these men attempted to ensnare Halil by persuading him to come to the family home but Tulay managed to warn him of the trap and his life was saved. Tulay was not so fortunate. She was never seen again alive."The three brothers deny murdering Tulay and conspiracy to murder Unal. The trial continues.