Confused? You should be. Last September the government was hailing a 10 per cent drop in crime with overall figures, as counted in the British Crime Survey, at their lowest for almost a decade.Fear of crime, the statisticians told us, was much more of a problem than crime itself. The less than subliminal message was - we worry too much. But we're not fussing nearly enough, if an international study published today is to be believed. It suggests crime rates in England and Wales are the highest in the industrialised world, and that we're at the very top of the international crime league table for burglary, car offences, sex and violent assaults.The study, which relied on questioning people about their experiences rather than jotting up offences recorded by the police, may reflect a nation's obsession with crime - as an issue, it is on a par with the weather.But a sounder conclusion is that other countries are faring much better in the areas of prevention and deterrence. The reasons are probably myriad.Here is some food for thought: the results of another survey this week revealed that 50 per cent of violent crime and 33,000 deaths a year in England and Wales are linked to alcohol.The Alcohol and Health Research Centre study also showed teenagers from the UK are more likely than most of their European counterparts to have taken drugs, drunk alcohol or smoked. Teenagers are responsible for the majority of minor offences.At a briefing at Scotland Yard yesterday, Sir John Stevens, the commissioner, told reporters some of the difficulties facing his force. The Met is about 3,000 officers under strength at the moment. His aim is to have filled the vacant posts within three years, but it won't happen without massive funding for recruitment campaigns. Progress is painfully slow. Morale is rock bottom. This time last year, 25,400 officers worked at the Met. Today, the figure has risen to 25,422 - a measly increase. His officers are spread thinly across a whole range of departments - community service units, murder squads, anti-Yardie inquiries etc - at a time when his most experienced detectives are leaving in droves. Why?When officers reach the age of 50, they are positively encouraged to find employment in other fields by antiquated "police regulations". Penalised financially if they stay on - especially in terms of pension - they are snapped up by security businesses which pay much higher salaries."We've got to find some way of keeping them," said Sir John.Meanwhile, the government is considering making judges visit prisoners they convicted when they are in jail to help "break the cycle of reoffending and develop a culture of rehabilitation".Just how this will help inmates - and judges - is not entirely clear.