A 17-year-old was convicted yesterday of the racist murder of the teenager Anthony Walker, who was killed with a blow from a mountaineering axe which penetrated his skull to a depth of 7cm.Michael Barton was found guilty after the jury at Preston crown court, sitting in Liverpool, had deliberated for a day and a half. He wept silently and bowed his head as the verdict was returned.His cousin, Paul Taylor, 20, had pleaded guilty to murder moments before the start of the two-week trial.Taylor struck the fatal blow, but it was the prosecution's case that Barton had provided the axe and they had acted together. They will be sentenced today after a hearing to decide whether the murder was racially aggravated. The trial judge, Mr Justice Leveson, has previously indicated that he believed the attack was racially aggravated and premeditated.Following their conviction, Anthony's mother, Gee, said she felt justice had been done and that she was able to forgive her 18-year-old son's killers. "At the point of death, Jesus said: 'I forgive them, they don't know what they do.' I've got to forgive them - I still forgive them. My family and I still stand by what we believe -forgiveness. It will be difficult, but we have no choice; but to live on for Anthony. Each of us will take a piece of him and we'll carry on his life."The case inevitably drew comparisons with the murder of Stephen Lawrence 13 years ago, but, unlike the Lawrence murder, Anthony's killers were brought to justice within four months. Another parallel emerged last night when police revealed that racist graffiti had been daubed over the scene of Anthony's murder in McGoldrick Park, Huyton, following the guilty verdict. Merseyside police removed the graffiti but refused to disclose what was written. The memorial to Stephen Lawrence, in Eltham, south London, has been vandalised several times, leading police to install surveillance cameras.Anthony Walker, a devout Christian and promising A-level student, was racially taunted as he stood at a bus stop on the St John's estate in Huyton, Merseyside, in July, with his arm around his white girlfriend, Louise Thompson, 17.His cousin Marcus Binns, 18, was also racially abused as he combed his hair in the reflection of a telephone box. A masked man standing outside the Huyton Park pub opposite shouted "Michael Jackson" and "Microphone head" at Marcus. They were also called "niggers" and "coons" by the man. Anthony shouted back: "We're only waiting for the bus and then we're going." The man shouted back: "Walk, nigger, walk." Sensing trouble, the trio walked on to another bus stop but were followed by Barton and Taylor in a Peugeot 406, driven at high speed without lights. They took a short cut through McGoldrick Park, where they were ambushed by Barton and Taylor as they walked along an unlit path near the exit.Marcus and Louise ran off to get help, but Anthony was left behind. Marcus returned and found his cousin on the ground with the axe in his head. Anthony died six hours later from a massive disintegration of his brain.During the trial, Barton admitted returning to the scene to remove the axe from Anthony's head, but was unable to do so. He claimed not to have been there when the fatal blow was struck. After the murder, Taylor and Barton went on the run to Amsterdam, swapping cars and driving to Dover to catch a ferry to Calais at 6am the next day.While on the run, Barton's brother Joey, a footballer for Manchester City, made desperate attempts to contact him. In one of the calls, Michael denied killing Anthony. "Listen, I was there, but I didn't do it," he told his brother. "It was Chomper, Chomper did it." The court heard Chomper was Taylor's nickname.A black woman who used to live on the St John's estate said Barton and Taylor had abusive nicknames for all non-white people who lived there and would regularly insult and occasionally threaten them. "They're both nasty, evil lads," she said. Outside the court, Anthony's cousin, David Okoro, said: "Anthony was a wonderful young man who had everything to live for. His murder has subjected my family to a living nightmare. The world will be a worse place without him ... We have no reason to be jubilant because it won't bring Anthony back. We hope they will show remorse as they have failed to show any so far. We must make it clear that this case is not closed - there are still other people out there who have yet to be brought to justice."Detective Chief Superintendent Peter Currie, who led the murder inquiry, is convinced the two main people responsible for Anthony's murder have been convicted but he said police were keeping an open mind about further prosecutions.Mr Currie said what "very much struck me about [Taylor and Barton] is they are 17 and 20 years old, they have got the means to change cars and drive south. I have got kids of a similar age and it takes them 12 months of planning to organise a day out in Blackpool". He said that, while the Lawrence inquiry was at the back of police minds, it was some years ago and hopefully the police had moved on. Initially, the Walker family had expressed reservations. "I said to his sister: 'What will give you faith in us?'," Mr Currie said. "'If you catch those who have done it,' she replied. I went back after the first court appearance and said to her: 'Have you got faith in us now?' and she put her arms around me and said: 'Yes'."