A historic change to the way criminal cases are assessed before they come to court is to be introduced in an attempt to increase the number of successful prosecutions in England and Wales.Ken Macdonald, the director of public prosecutions, said the change, which will be tested in a pilot scheme, would allow prosecutors to interview victims of crimes and other witnesses before trial, scrapping a 200-year-old rule.In an interview with the Guardian, Mr Macdonald said he hoped the move would ensure more effective prosecutions and boost the conviction rate for rape, which has plummeted to an all-time low. Pre-trial interviews with witnesses will be tried out from January in four areas in the north of England.The experiment will cover all types of offence, but its greatest value is expected to be in rape cases, where the conviction rate fell from 28% in 1998 to 21% in 2002. Assessing the strength of a rape complainant's evidence in advance is crucial because often there is no supporting evidence and the verdict will turn purely on whether the jury believes her story.The move is one of a series of measures drawing on prosecution practice in the US and Canada, which the DPP hopes will see more rapists brought to justice. He also wants to put expert evidence about rape victims' behaviour before juries to help dispel myths and stereotypes.Mr Macdonald, who has just come back from a visit to Montreal, said prosecutors there were "staggered" to learn that their counterparts in England and Wales could not speak to witnesses before a trial."First of all there was a stunned silence, then they laughed. They said to me, 'How on earth can prosecutors make informed decisions about cases they bring without speaking to victims and witnesses?'"You know why we don't do it here? The history of it is that in the 19th century all prosecutions were brought by private individuals and the judges did not trust them. They thought they were going to bribe their witnesses."A 2002 report by the police and CPS inspectorates on rape investigations and prosecutions described the statistics for rape cases as shocking. Only around one in five men prosecuted for rape is convicted but the vast majority of rape reports never even get to trial. While more women than ever are reporting rapes, attrition along the way means that only one in 20 who reports a rape to police will see her attacker convicted, down from one in three in 1977.Mr Macdonald said that while the media criticise him for not prosecuting enough cases some judges and others in the criminal justice system accuse him of taking too many problematic cases to court. A rise in the number of "acquaintance" rapes - as opposed to rapes by strangers - is a significant factor in the drop in conviction rates, he believes, as the former, which usually revolve around the issue of consent, are harder to prove.Prosecutors in New York told him he was prosecuting cases they would have dropped - particularly where alcohol was involved. In around half of all rapes one or both parties had been drinking.Mr Macdonald does take such cases to trial but acknowledges that they are "challenging". He said: "There's no point simply saying everyone has the protection of the law, drunk or sober, and pretending that alcohol doesn't play a part in jury verdicts. The risk is that juries will think that evidence given by someone who was seriously drunk is less reliable than evidence given by someone who was sober. We always emphasise when we take these cases to trial that everybody has the protection of the law and it doesn't matter whether somebody was sober or drunk, it's illegal to assault them."The DPP believes jury preconceptions that stand in the way of convictions could be dispelled by expert evidence about how traumatised victims behave, and he wants to make such evidence admissible in jury trials. "Rape victims are cross-examined at very great length about the way they behaved after the rape: 'Why did you have a shower? You must have know it would wash away all the forensic evidence? Why didn't you go and tell your mum straight away? Why did you go back into the other room and act as though nothing had ever happened?'"We're talking here about challenging some stereotypical myths which may be preventing some victims from getting justice. It seems to me if questions are being raised about the apparently anomalous behaviour of the victim after she says she's been raped, then the jury would reasonably be helped by expert evidence about observable ways in which trauma affects people. This is evidence which is commonly given in the United States and Canada."