A van driver targeted families in a hit-and-run "journey of mayhem", killing one mother and leaving another 17 people injured, a court has heard.Matthew Tvrdon, 32, is believed to have set out to kill parents with children after splitting up with his girlfriend.Over 30 minutes, Tvrdon, who has paranoid schizophrenia, drove eight miles around Cardiff aiming for young mothers walking children home from school. Tvrdon ploughed into a mother of three, Karina Menzies, 31, hitting her three times, reversing to drive over her again and leaving her with fatal injuries.Ian Murphy QC said: "Tvrdon deliberately targeted five family groups and in each incident intended to kill at least one member of that family."It was a journey of mayhem, it covered a distance of eight miles and a duration of 30 minutes. It was a series of deliberate and horrific incidents.The court was told that in interviews with psychiatrists, Tvrdon claimed he had targeted people who had been "gas-lighting" him – trying to make him think he was insane."I do admit I wanted to kill those people, just recognising the faces of the people who had been involved in the gas-lighting. I just wanted revenge on them," he said.Cardiff crown court was told the victims were all strangers to Tvrdon, who had an office job but had been sleeping rough after falling out with his girlfriend. He had no criminal record and no previous driving offences.The court heard on Wednesdaythat Tvrdon aimed his three-tonne van at Menzies as she walked her two children – Ellie, eight, and Tiana, four – home from school.Murphy said: "The van veered across the carriageway and drove directly at Karina Menzies and her two young children on the forecourt of a fire station, striking all three.Witness Kevin O'Callaghan, who saw what happened, told police: "This van suddenly veered off and drove to the other side of the road straight at a woman and two young children. All I remember is bodies flying through the air. The only way I can describe it is that it was like skittles. He then swung the van around in the forecourt and I could hear the engine revved up high."He then drove straight back at the female. I saw her moving slightly – he drove back over her and she got stuck under the vehicle and was dragged for 10 to 20 feet."He was running out of room so he hit the brakes. The van came to a stop just before a brick wall so he reversed it, which meant running over the body again with one of his wheels."Another witness, Samuel Fowler, saw Menzies desperately throw her children out of the way of the van as he turned to hit them.Fowler told police: "She raised herself up and had hold of a child. She was trying to push her daughter out of the way – the van just drove straight at them. She had her free hand up to gesture to stop and was screaming." Both her daughters were hurt, but have made full recoveries from their physical injuries.The court heard that Tvrdon's drive started on a Friday afternoon in Ely, Cardiff, just as children were pouring out of school.Murphy said: "Karina Menzies and all the others attacked by Tvrdon were strangers. They were in places where they should have been safe. None of them had done or said anything to Tvrdon to attract his attention, let alone this violence. "The court heard how Tvrdon had driven erratically and dangerously earlier in the day in his black Renault Clio. CCTV footage captured him parking the Clio close to the home of his girlfriend, Lisa Davis, and getting into his white Iveco van.Davis approached him and tried to stop him leaving, but he ignored her and drove off.His first victim was Mandy Morgan, 30, who was walking with her children Kieanoh, eight and Deeroy, nine. His next targets were Adam Lewis, 25, and his partner Anastasia Jones, 22, who were pushing their baby daughter, Amelia May, in her pushchair. Amelia May, two, was catapulted through the air in a terrifying attack caught on shocking CCTV footage.Tvrdon then aimed the van at Menzies. A few minutes later, Tvrdon ran over Aalyiah Selio, 31, and her daughters Jadah, 10 and Shaielle, 12, outside shops. They had been browsing for birthday cards.Finally he ploughed into Rebecca White, 27 and her mother Gill, 49, as they left Asda with their shopping.Murphy said: "Tvrdon then attempted to escape from the police who were pursuing him."Tvrdon, of Cardiff, admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. He pleaded guilty to seven counts of attempted murder and other offences.Murphy said Tvrdon's condition "affected his ability to recognise what was going on around him and to exercise self-control".The court was told Tvrdon believed people were "gas-lighting" him, a term that comes from the 1944 Ingrid Bergman film Gaslight, in which a husband tries to convince his wife and other people that she is insane.In interviews with psychiatrists, Tvrdon claimed Menzies and her children had been gas-lighting him in a supermarket.He told psychiatrists that when he saw them in the street, he deliberately sped across at them. "It all happened in a blur – it was a fast and furious thing that happened," he said. "I just ploughed straight into them. I guess I wanted to kill her and her children. I had become really revengeful at that point. I knew I was doing wrong."Tvrdon worked at tax offices in Cardiff, where colleagues had described him as acting bizarrely in the days before the incident. He told police he was stressed from breaking up with his girlfriend and had been sleeping rough in his van.The court heard there is a history of mental illness on both sides of his family.Murphy said: "His mental health issues started in his late teenage years, manifesting themselves as mild hypochondria. By 2003 he had a severe psychotic illness and was out of touch with reality."At this point he was involuntarily admitted to a mental health hospital after jumping out of a window."The court heard that in 2007 Tvrdon was apprehended carrying an airgun and was sectioned under the mental health act.It was found he was suffering from auditory hallucinations and believed people were conspiring against him. Murphy said: "However, he is able to mask the symptoms and convinced a tribunal to release him.""He was last seen in 2011 when he was considered to be mentally well. After this he decided to stop taking his anti-psychotic medicine."Paul Keleher QC, defending, argued Tvrdon should be sent to a mental hospital and not prison. He said: "If he hadn't been ill, this would never have happened."The court heard Tvrdon had spent time in a psychiatric hospital, but was not considered a danger to society.Keleher said: "Because Tvrdon had never displayed any signs of being a danger to himself or anyone else by 2011, he was effectively signed off."He was advised to continue his medication, but to cut it down every two months until stopping completely.Tvrdon will be sentenced onThursday.