Four of the serious criminals in the foreign prisoners scandal who were re-captured have gone missing again, it was revealed today.The offenders who have vanished include a child sex offender. All four were granted bail by the courts against the wishes of the Border and Immigration Agency (BIA). They were among more than 1,000 foreign prisoners mistakenly released in the scandal that led to Charles Clarke's sacking as home secretary. The BIA admitted that of the 1,013 prisoners who should have been considered for deportation before being released, 150 were still at large and only 214 had been removed from Britain. Fifteen offenders in the "most serious" and "more serious" categories remain untraced. One of the four who have gone missing for a second time is believed to be a 19-year-old man convicted of indecently assaulting a girl under 16. The three other criminals committed violent crimes or sex offences. The foreigners' release was one of a number of fiascos that hit the Home Office last year. News of the latest blunder will be a big embarrassment to Mr Clarke's replacement, John Reid, who has been keen to reassure the public that he has a grip on the department. It comes less than two weeks before Mr Reid stands down as home secretary when Gordon Brown becomes prime minister. The BIA chief executive, Lin Homer, said they were hunting the 150 released prisoners and their files remained open. "We are looking for them, the police are looking for them and we have used other people's information such as public sector data," she said. "They have not put their heads above the parapet, which indicates they are probably no longer in the country." The four absconders were re-captured after news of the errors emerged, but the courts refused the Home Office's application to return them to detention and granted bail. Ms Homer said: "They were found, they were bailed and we opposed bail." A separate report into how the crisis originally developed found there had been a host of problems, including a budget freeze imposed by the Treasury in 2003/04. The document described the freeze as "extremely unfortunate". The criminal casework team (CCT), which was responsible for beginning deportations, was given a series of priorities by their bosses over a period of time. Remarkably, at one point caseworkers were led to regard answering MPs' letters as one of their most important jobs, the report found. "Dealing with MPs' letters was seen by the CCT as second only in importance to dealing with detained cases," it said. When more resources were finally available, it was "too little, too late", it added, and the unit was unable to catch up. The shadow immigration minister, Damian Green, said shifting government targets had led to "serial shambles". "It is also clear that Gordon Brown's consistent refusal to fund the Home Office properly was a key element in this crisis," he said. The CCT's budget has risen from £2.2m in 2004/05 to £10.6m in 2006/07, with staff levels rising from 23 in 2002/03 to the in 530 last financial year.