The announcement by the Brazilian authorities that prisoners are to be offered a cut in time to be served for every book they read is creative and bold. To qualify for the maximum 48-day reduction each year by reading up to 12 works of "literature, philosophy, science or classics", prisoners accepted on the scheme must write an essay making "correct use of paragraphs, be free of corrections, use margins and legible joined-up writing".The books I read in prison did not get me a reduction in time but helped me to become who I should have been. The most memorable include:Prisoners of HonourFor me the definitive account of the Dreyfus Affair by David Lewis. The story of what happened to Alfred Dreyfus, a brilliant young officer in the French army falsely accused of treason and sentenced to life on Devil's Island. It had a huge impact on me and made me aware of the fallibility of governments and how small groups of the most powerful people in a society can usurp the integrity of a country. What I will never forget, however, is the magnitude of Dreyfus's courage in the face of seemingly insurmountable odds.Crime and PunishmentDostoyevsky's anti-hero, impoverished student Raskolnikov, justifies his murder of a pawnbroker by considering his victim a parasite. He says that with the money he steals he can do good deeds, which will make his crime worthwhile. He also believes that some people have a natural capability to cause this level of harm and most sinisterly that they have the right to do so. He believes that murder is permissible in the pursuit of a higher purpose. All of which I concluded were spurious intellectual ponderings wrapped up in brilliant literature. A masterpiece that helped to channel my unsophisticated thinking.One day in the Life of Ivan DenisovichAlexander Solzhenitsyn's novel tells the story of a single day in the life of an ordinary prisoner in the gulags. This book appealed to me because I could relate to the characters in Denisovich's labour squad – Solzhenitsyn spent a number of years in the gulags which clearly taught him the universality of incarceration – and because though my prison time was a continent and a generation away from the author's, the way that captive human lives are so vulnerable to the tyranny of officialdom is as true now as it ever was.The Grass ArenaJohn Healy's visceral telling of his journey from vagrant wino living in the London gutters of the 1960s to chess champion is one of the most powerful stories of hope and redemption I have ever read. Through chess Healy became closer to the man he should have been had he not been so badly damaged as a child. Between the fine lines of Healy's prose I heard echoes of my own life journey.The Second PrisonRonan Bennett's novel tells the story of Kane, an Irish republican released after serving time for his part in the murder of an informer who is hell bent on avenging his betrayal. Though he is out of jail, in many ways he is still a prisoner – so true for so many people who find life after prison an unexpected struggle.I'd like to hear from Cif readers what sort of literature they'd recommend for prisoners to read while inside. Tell me the name of the book and the message you hope it would send.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree 