The case for supporting the Prime Minister's attempt to 'rebalance' the criminal justice system towards the needs of victims appears overwhelming. As we report today, since 1980, an offender's chances of getting away with a wide variety of crimes have improved enormously, in the sense that a much smaller proportion of recorded offences lead to conviction in court. A criminal justice system which fails to hold offenders to account in vast numbers is failing at many levels: as a means of protecting victims and providing redress for their suffering; as a deterrent to future offending; and as the solid manifestation of more abstract ideas - the cohesive power of a good society, bound by the rule of law. Some of the measures likely to be included in next month's White Paper, and in a Bill in the next Queen's Speech, represent long overdue common sense. For years, the rivalry between the fiercely guarded fiefdoms of Whitehall departments which ought to work together within the criminal justice system have prevented its effective reform. Judicial independence is an essential principle which must be cherished in any free society. Safeguarding it does not, however, mean that the Lord Chancellor's Department has to manage the courts without regard to the system's other components, nor its overall aims. Arguments such as this seem finally to have been defeated. Few will complain. Many of the other reforms in prospect are, however, more controversial, and much will depend on the detail. For example, while the dense thickets of the judge-made rules of evidence have become all but impenetrable, relaxing them could create other dangers. Allowing videotapes of police interviews with victims and witnesses to be played in court is the kind of 'neutral' reform likely to aid a search for the truth, with the capability of benefiting either defence or prosecution. But allowing juries to hear previous convictions is a potentially dangerous step, which needs to be carefully qualified. Are the convictions relevant? Does a strong case exist already? To let a fresh conviction rest mainly on the last one would not be safe. Meanwhile, the capacity of some police officers to bend the law has not vanished. Suspects need protecting, too. What is certain is that the scope and depth of the likely changes amount to the most radical and far-reaching reforms to criminal justice for decades at least. They require the fullest and most-open minded debate, which we intend to sponsor in the coming weeks.