Hundreds of customs officers swooped on 22 suspected VAT fraudsters yesterday in what they said was their biggest operation to date against criminal gangs suspected of robbing the government of billions of pounds a year.The raids, carried out by 400 customs officers backed by 100 police officers, are part of the response by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to the rapid acceleration in so-called "carousel" fraud over the past year which is undermining Britain and Europe's entire VAT system.Officers mounted around 60 dawn raids, detaining 15 people in Glasgow, five in Manchester and two in London.Gordon Miller, deputy director of investigations at HMRC, said: "Organised criminals are attacking the tax system, with the aim of stealing huge amounts of revenue. The scale of the problem across Europe is unprecedented, and HMRC has significantly strengthened its response to this serious fraud."Today's operation, the biggest ever undertaken by HMRC, is part of a large-scale, international criminal investigation into frauds that may run to hundreds of millions of pounds. We are committed to tackling carousel fraud and to showing the criminals behind it, wherever they operate in the world, that there are no safe havens."The ongoing investigation is being co-ordinated by HMRC in Scotland, in consultation with the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service.Carousel, or "missing trader" fraud, involves the repeated movement of goods such as mobile phones across EU borders with the aim of reclaiming the VAT each time. The fraud happens so fast and the paper trail is so well disguised that HMRC investigators have struggled to track it down or to prosecute those involved.HMRC sources said most of those detained yesterday were involved in trading mobile phones. So far this year HMRC has secured 10 criminal convictions resulting in combined sentences of 67 years, along with record individual sentences. Those convictions boosted morale in a department struggling to get on top of the issue.Carousel fraud is the most serious problem the HMRC faces and it recently doubled to 1,000 the number of investigators it has on the case.But criminal activity is still on the rise. Latest HMRC figures suggest there was £10bn of fraudulent trading in the second quarter of the year alone, up 50% from the first quarter and 400% from the second quarter of last year.The fraud is also distorting Britain's trade figures, which are based on VAT returns. HMRC has estimated that 10% of the country's exports are related to carousel fraud. This has upset City economists and the Bank of England who say it has muddied their attempts to understand what is going on in the economy. The tax losses to the government have grown to billions of pounds. The most recent estimates are for losses of £1.1bn-£1.9bn in fiscal 2004-05. But since then activity has increased 10-fold. Last year total VAT revenues fell for the first time since the tax was introduced in 1973.The problem is not confined to Britain. The EU tax commissioner Laszlo Kovacs told the Guardian recently that EU governments are probably losing €50bn a year, equivalent to the annual spending on the common agricultural policy.The complexity of the crimes, however, means it is likely to be at least a year before any of those detained yesterday are tried or convicted.HMRC has just won permission from Mr Kovacs in Brussels to change the way it applies VAT to trades of mobile phones and computer chips, the favourites among fraudsters because they are of high value but are small. From early next year VAT will only be chargeable when the phones arrive at a retailer and will not be refundable when the goods cross an EU border.But customs officials think fraudsters are already switching to other kinds of goods. Mr Kovacs is planning a redesign of the EU's VAT system but says it will take some years to accomplish.HMRC officials say the reason for the huge rise in the fraud over the past year may be due to "virtual carousel fraud", highlighted in Guardian investigations, where some criminals use computer programmes to generate a false paper trail of sales and receipts.How it worksIn its simplest form, carousel fraud is known as "missing trader" fraud. A fraudster imports small, high-value items like mobile phones into Britain from, say, France, free of VAT. He then sells them to another dealer with VAT added but fails to hand the tax over to HMRC. By the time HMRC realises what has occurred, the fraudster has disappeared.Very often the goods are re-exported from Britain with VAT reclaimed at the border, resulting in another loss for HMRC. They are then re-imported, forming a carousel run by fraudsters.The carousel has been known to be spun up to 30 times, generating tens of millions of pounds in VAT refunds from HMRC.