The two television screens in court number three at Tameside magistrates court in Greater Manchester remained blank all day yesterday.There was not the merest flicker to suggest that the principal character in the latest instalment of an unfolding drama would make a contribution from his base 160 miles away. The court, with its white walls, light oak benches and sage green carpet, had been taken over by John Pollard, the south Manchester coroner, for a resumed inquest into the death of Sarah Ashworth, of Hyde, Greater Manchester, who died suddenly on April 17 1993. Mrs Ashworth, 74, was a patient of Harold Shipman, the family doctor who in January was jailed for life for the murder of 15 other patients. Her body was exhumed in December 1998 as part of the murder inquiry but Shipman was never charged with killing her.Mr Pollard wrote three letters inviting Shipman, 54, to take part by video link from Frankland prison in Co Durham, but he never replied. The equipment, costing about £2,500, was installed in case the prisoner decided to watch the proceedings or cross-examine witnesses. The screens were placed on the magistrates' bench to Mr Pollard's right. Had Shipman chosen to take part, the screens would have shown images of the inquest and he would have appeared throughout in a picture superimposed on the top right-hand corner of each screen. Shipman chose to remain silent and unseen and had no one in court to represent him. He did not hear Mrs Ashworth's son, John, describe how the doctor had told him of his mother's death. Mr Ashworth said Shipman had failed in 1992 to diagnose that his mother was suffering from serious heart trouble, from which she later recovered. Mr Ashworth said the doctor claimed he had gone to Mrs Ashworth's home after she called the surgery to say she was ill. "He said he was trying to give her an injection," said Mr Ashworth. "As he was treating her, she was sitting up and fell back in front of him and went out like a light." Shipman issued a death certificate giving cause of death as heart failure. A week later Mr Ashworth went to Shipman's surgery to express surprise that his mother had not telephoned him to say she was ill. He was given "plausible answers". John Grenville, a clinical complaints adviser for the Medical Defence Union, said Shipman's description of Mrs Ashworth's death was not consistent with sudden heart failure. Inquests have also been opened on Alice Kitchen, 70, and Elizabeth Mellor, 75, whose bodies were exhumed. Inquests on a further 23 women whose names are on a police list of suspected victims are to be held later. The inquest continues today.