Police forensic scientists last night linked human remains found in the river Aire near Bradford at the weekend to Shelley Armitage, one of two missing women allegedly murdered by Stephen Griffiths.Detectives announced last night that the small piece of tissue had been matched through DNA tests with the 31-year-old who had worked as a prostitute.The dismembered body of Suzanne Blamires, who had also been working as a prostitute and was allegedly killed by 40-year-old Griffiths, was recovered by divers from the Aire last week.No trace has yet been found of a third woman, Susan Rushworth, who was 45 and also involved in prostitution in Bradford. Blamires was last seen a fortnight ago, Armitage at the end of April and Rushworth in June last year.Initial tests on material dredged from the river at Shipley on Saturday concluded most of it was animal waste from food preparation, but specialised work traced the scrap of tissue. A spokeswoman for West Yorkshire police said last night: "Further exhaustive forensic tests carried out on a small piece of human tissue recovered from the river Aire over the weekend have confirmed that it is that of Shelley Armitage. Her family have been informed.""Searches are continuing, as are ongoing forensic tests. This includes ongoing forensic work on a bag and contents recovered at the weekend." The bag, full of DIY and car maintenancetools, will be tested further when it has fully dried out. Police divers extended their search some three miles downstream to Apperley Bridge where the Aire curves past Bradford's main sewage works on its approach to Leeds. Forensic specialists are also working on material recovered from searches in and near Griffiths' flat, and from recent excavations in central Bradford by utility companies.Griffiths, who was educated at the independent Queen Elizabeth's grammar school in Wakefield and Leeds University, has been described by casual acquaintances as an oddball. He told them that he was studying criminology as a mature student at Bradford university, specializing in serial killers.He had lived for 13 years in a converted textile mill close to the university, in an area otherwise marred by derelict former industrial buildings. He has not yet entered a plea to the three murder charges, but gave his name in Bradford magistrates court last week as 'the crossbow cannibal'. He next appears at Bradford Crown court on 7 June by videolink from Wakefield prison.