Mark Hobson tried to appear normal in the hours after he killed his girlfriend, Claire Sanderson, and her twin sister, Diane. He went to the pub and even brought a friend back to the flat where he had left the decomposing bodies.Ian Harrison had been going out with Diane Sanderson for about four months and had known Hobson for many years. On July 18, Mr Harrison was waiting for Diane Sanderson in the pub. When she failed to show he rang her on her mobile and Hobson answered. He said the twins' father had suffered a heart attack and the family was upset and did not want visitors. By this time both Claire and Diane Sanderson were dead.A short time later, Hobson arranged to meet Mr Harrison at a pub and invited him back to the flat in Camblesforth, North Yorkshire.As soon as he entered the flat Mr Harrison smelt the decomposing bodies, but was told by Hobson it was the drains. When he noticed blood on the sofa he was told Claire was experiencing "women's problems".After Mr Harrison had left, Hobson went to see his mother, Sandra. He told her Claire and Diane had been knocked down in a road accident and had been taken to York district hospital. His mother agreed to drive him there and waited in the car park while he went inside and wandered around. He came back out and said Diane had been admitted but Claire would not be treated for some time. Mrs Hobson then returned home, thinking her son was getting a lift back with the Sandersons.Police said it still remains unclear why Hobson got his mother to drive him to the hospital. It may have been to try to create an alibi.The following day, Mr Harrison remained concerned about Diane. He went to the Sandersons' home shortly after 7am and was surprised to see the door opened by Mr Sanderson, who was "safe and well" and had not suffered a heart attack.Both men were so concerned they drove to Hobson's flat. The door was locked, Hobson was not there and there was a "terrible smell of rotting flesh", detectives revealed. At 8.09am they discovered the bodies.The hunt for Hobson was one of the biggest in the history of North Yorkshire police. Within hours of the murders Hobson became Britain's most wanted man. His grinning face adorned national and regional newspapers with the headline 'Face of Evil', and he was dubbed 'Scarface' because of a 5cm wound near his left eye.More than 500 police officers from 12 different forces were used in the operation, including criminal profilers and specialist manhunt teams. North Yorkshire police deployed more than 300 staff during the seven-day search. Capturing him and bringing him before the courts cost the force nearly £700,000.Hobson had lured Diane Sanderson to her death in a telephone call asking for help. When she arrived at the flat which her sister shared with Hobson, she was sexually assaulted and strangled. Her dead sister lay in a room next door. Earlier in the week, Hobson had rung the family to reassure them that all was well after Claire missed an appointment.After visiting York district hospital, where he was picked up on CCTV, Hobson burgled an unoccupied house. Police found his DNA on a cigarette butt. He did not steal anything from the house but went on to Strensall and carried out the brutal knife attack on James and Joan Britton.The manhunt was triggered by the discovery of the twins' bodies on July 18. Seven hours later police discovered the bodies of the pensioners.Detectives were initially cool on linking the murders as there were no apparent connections between the Brittons and the Sandersons. However, DNA samples from the two murder scenes proved a connection and Hobson became the prime suspect.The reason Hobson killed the Brittons' remains unclear.During the investigation, it emerged he had attempted to cover his tracks and possibly leave the country. He tried to sell Diane Sanderson's car as he was emigrating to New Zealand.Widespread publicity in the days after the murders brought detectives no nearer to catching their man, despite numerous house searches and 1,800 reported sightings of Hobson as far afield as New Zealand and California. His ex-wife, Kay, and former friends appealed for him to give himself up.The breakthrough came a week later when a garage owner raised the alarm after recognising Hobson trying to buy some cigarette papers, matches and water. Within minutes armed police had surrounded the area 10 miles from where the Brittons lived.A dishevelled-looking Hobson, who had been sleeping rough for a week, was arrested and one of Britain's biggest manhunts was over.· Alistair Keely is a Press Association reporter.