Four people have been arrested in connection with the murder of a 15-year-old boy who was shot dead in his bedroom, police said today.The four were arrested at around 7pm yesterday, Scotland Yard said in a statement.Michael Dosunmu was shot by two gunmen who broke into his home in Peckham, south-east London, in the early hours of Tuesday. Detectives investigating his murder said yesterday that the death was being linked to a fatal stabbing a few hundred metres away, three days earlier. Yesterday, Orando Madden, 23, of Peckham, appeared in court charged with the murder of 21-year-old Javarie Crighton, who died from stab wounds on Saturday.Officers have said the killing of Michael, described as a peaceful, churchgoing boy who had never been in trouble with the police, might have been a case of mistaken identity.Yesterday, the teenager's father, Rasak Dosunmu, a senior psychiatric nurse, said the family was devastated by the death of their "gentle, honest, easy-going boy". "He always worked very hard at school and with his homework, and got good grades. He wanted to be an architect. "The last time I saw him was when he came to visit me in hospital on Sunday. It was his 15th birthday and he was really happy."It was such a shame that he had to spend the day in the hospital. I couldn't buy him a present so I just gave him £10 but he was grateful for that."He was such a good boy. I don't know who would want to do this to our family." Mr Dosunmu said Michael's mother did not know her son had been murdered as she was in Nigeria on holiday."My wife still doesn't know ... I have phoned her to prepare her mind for bad news. I said Michael was sick and the situation was not good."But when I see her at the airport I will have to tell her he has been murdered." Police believe two men forced their way into the house just before 1am in what they described as "a targeted attack".Michael's older sister was at home and gave first aid, but he died in hospital. Officers from Scotland Yard's Operation Trident team, which investigates gun crime in the black community, said they had not found any evidence that Michael was involved with local gangs. The shooting follows another in Peckham at the weekend when a man in his 40s was shot dead and another injured in the early hours of Sunday morning. Peckham has tried hard to improve its image since the killing of the 10-year-old schoolboy Damilola Taylor in 2000. Chief Superintendent Malcolm Tillyer, the Southwark borough commander, said: "Michael was an innocent boy who has been killed in cruel and tragic circumstances and my heart goes out to his family. This tragedy also has a significant impact on the local community."