Everyday violenceGang member's sister: "He's never killed anyone, or anything like that. Do you know what I mean? He's just fought his way out of some flipping scrapes, you know. He's been booted. He's had a gun put on his head, pulled up, two of them, guns in his forehead, pistol whipped him and threw him in the boot, and drove off with him - well, tried to. [My brother] flipping, you know what I mean, fought his way out of it. They couldn't get him in the boot, but they tried to. You know what I mean? He ended up flooring them and doing one. He's been shot at that many times it's unbelievable. I mean I had him living with me for a couple of years. And I got up one morning and I thought, 'What the fuck is that?' But he was walking round with that, yeah with a fucking bullet proof vest on."Sister of a gang member, describing a shooting in her front garden: "And I was running, basically running, because there's kids there, and you're just like scrapping up kids as you're going, you don't know whose kids they are, but you're just like, 'Right, let's get the kids.' Because people were screaming. And I remember picked up this little girl because to turn round and run with her, because I was actually running and I realised I couldn't get out of the gate. I could see that guy with his hand in the air, and like two other guys had hold of his hand, like trying to wrestle the gun out of his hand. And one of them was like screaming, 'What are you fucking doing, what are you fucking doing? There's kids.' And as I was running, this guy dropped like in front of me, and I just thought he'd tripped up, jumped over and carried on running. But he had like blood all down his jeans and everything, you could see that he'd actually been hit. Official failureFemale former gang member, recalling official reaction to a shooting: "I lost the plot when I seen that poor - when I seen that poor boy got shot dead, and in front of me. I could have took that bullet, it could have been me dead. I had the regional crime squad, I had the murder squad at my door. And I couldn't cope with what I'd seen, and I cracked up and went to my doctor's. The police weren't interested, they just wanted to get me statement, I told them to fucking sling it. Went to me doctor's, told him, you know um, 'I've seen someone shot.' And he said, 'Well you shouldn't put yourself in them situations, should you?'"Gang member: "When I was in secondary [school] - year 10, I was coming back from school one day and just as I got to the shop my house is about 50 yards from the shop - just as I got to the shop, someone ran out a flat, a house next door to mine, shooting, like doing a shoot-out and stuff and then they ran off. The police took three hours to come that day and there was a live round on the floor with kids playing around it and everything, so they know what's going but they just - they're just scared man, they don't know how to police the area." Mother of gang member: "Social services, probation officers, all these do-gooders, mentors and whatever: it's a job, money coming in their pockets every month, it's nothing more than that. Nobody's interested to really do anything for anybody... They're just interested in making it all look good on paper, they're not really interested. I've had social workers come round here, been in the house five minutes and they're ticking his name off, they've been to see him... I've had to tell them don't bother coming back, love, because if that's all you're going to do, I can tick a paper." Counterproductive official tacticsGang member: "I've been stopped by the police so many times it's unbelievable. I could decorate my room with the amount of PNC papers I've got, they always stop me... Some stop and searches I've had where I want to basically knock him out because you know he's approached me for no reason, but it's the younger police officers that I don't like. The older ones are like more respectful towards you, but I did get stopped about three or four weeks ago by an older lot. You know just talking to me 'What are you doing? What do you do for this, that or the other?' You know, having a laugh and a joke and I didn't mind that, but some of them come up to you like you're a bit of shit on the street basically. 'What you doing here?' Rah, rah, rah, this, that the other and I'm like, I don't need to be talked to like that, I'm not talking to you like a piece of dirt basically... Last year, was it last year, either last year or the year before, it was ridiculous. It was like every, me and my friend used to get followed by these two police officers nearly everyday, everyday. I was at my friend's house and we actually walked from my friends house to XXX café and they followed us from his house to XXX café inside the shop and tried to stop and search me in there and I went ballistic. I thought 'No, you're not stopping and searching me in a shop, you had your chance to do it down the street and what you following me for?'"Mother of gang member: "Every time I've gone to court with my kids, especially [son's name] because I've been to court more times with him than I care to bloody remember yeah? You go in there and there's all these bloody solicitors and all these magistrates or judges or whatever. And all these people are snobs. They've been to private schools, they've been to… They have no real idea of our life, they have no real idea about being poor. Whether you're poor and white, whether you're poor and Asian, whether you're poor and black, they have no idea. They've no idea to know what it's like to wake up fucking hungry and cold. They've no idea about having no clothes or shoes on your feet. They've no idea whatsoever. So all they see is a criminal. You've done something wrong, you've got to be punished. Do they not think they've been punished enough? What they need is fucking help, not punishments."The struggles of parentsMother of one gang member and two younger children: "You can tell by looking at certain ten-year-olds. They're walking round with chains on their neck, they're walking round like they're ten men, the way they dress alone is enough... And that's from what they've seen their elder siblings doing and they follow suit and I know if I don't keep a check on these two and I allow them to go down the road, the same road that their brother's gone, then what kind of parent am I to allow that?"Mother of gang member: "When I see our [son's name] first started getting into big serious trouble and that, that was a big turning point in my life, because yeah I had to stop thinking about me and I had to do everything I could in my powers to try and save him. But unfortunately for me, it just did not work, do you understand me? The strength that, the powers that are out there are stronger for him than me, you understand what I'm saying?"Gang member: "My parents told me, if someone hurts me to hurt them two times back more. So I was always looking out for anybody who was trying to disrespect me, and then to get them back two times more was my plan. Do you understand me? And then so that just led me into trouble basically. And then trouble finds you around people who are getting into trouble themselves, and before long you're talking to people. I was 17 years old the first time I went to jail." Mother of gang member: "My own parenting? I think I have fantastic parental skills, I'm not gonna say I'm the most perfect parent because there's no such thing as a perfect parent. But you know I've taught them well and I've taught them right from wrong and I don't feel guilty about anything. 'Coz I've always been there for them, supporting them, loving them unconditional. I've brought them up right, they know right from wrong. Where they go with all that knowledge is their choice at the end of the day."