Andrew White, a 43-year-old homeless man, breached his antisocial behaviour order (Asbo) by sitting on the bottom steps of a fire escape, behind a derelict building. For that breach, he spent three weeks in prison. That morning he had come out of the local night shelter with another homeless man. The weather was fine and they had an hour or so to wait before the day centre for homeless people opened. So they crossed the road to a derelict office building and sat in the sunshine. His companion started to inject himself with heroin. Whether White knew or cared about this is uncertain, but when the police came by the other homeless man was told to move on, and White was arrested.He had breached two terms of his Asbo. One forbade him from entering or attempting to enter any privately-owned land or building in West Yorkshire "without rightful authority of the owner; White had clearly not asked the owners of the building if they minded him sitting on their fire escape. The second prevented him from being present when a drug or substance proscribed as controlled is traded, sold, supplied or otherwise distributed in a public place. The man using the drug walked free; White was arrested.I met White in our local prison. He was very vague about his Asbo - which is not surprising as he is illiterate and no one had ever read it to him. When I did so I was surprised to find that at least half its conditions prohibited him from doing, in West Yorkshire, things that would be crimes anywhere in the country. I had to point out to him that although his Asbo forbade him only from shoplifting in West Yorkshire, he would certainly be prosecuted if he did it in North or South Yorkshire, or even Lancashire.His Asbo had been extraordinarily sloppily put together. The clauses numbered from 1 to 12, but between clauses 9 and 10 an additional couple of clauses had been added without any renumbering. It seems these had been cut and pasted from a previous Asbo and were so badly worded as to negate their effect. There was also an illegible handwritten amendment. All in all, it looked as if the court had not treated the Asbo as a serious document, since it is hard to believe that any court clerk checking it could have left this mess.I was intrigued by this list of prohibited acts, which seemed entirely arbitrary, until I looked at White's criminal record. Then all became clear. Twice in 1995 he had been convicted of living on immoral earnings. All his convictions, with one exception, had been in West Yorkshire. In 1982, he had been involved in taking a motor vehicle in North Yorkshire.The court, it seems, had gone down his extensive list of previous convictions and made everything he had ever been convicted of the subject of an Asbo. The fact that he had already been punished for these acts, often by long terms of imprisonment, was neither here nor there. He had committed many of these crimes more than 20 years ago.I rang the antisocial behaviour unit to ask why it had requested a clause, for example, forbidding shoplifting (clause 9), when this was a crime. I was told that it was because the courts did not take shoplifting seriously. This was news to me, as I regularly deal with shoplifters who get sent to prison, but, clearly, the antisocial behaviour officer thought that, without the Asbo, White could go shoplifting throughout the area with no real penalty.In reality, the purpose of the Asbo was clear: to ensure that this homeless and illiterate man would receive a longer than commensurate sentence for any criminal act.Clause 6 would have prevented him from calling the probation office to say, "I have forgotten my appointment. When am I supposed to come and see you?", or to go to his GP and ask for an appointment, since all such appointments had to be pre-arranged. If he did not know the telephone number, or had no change for a telephone call, he would be unable to arrange an appointment.As he was illiterate, White could not write to his probation officer or GP to ask for an appointment, and might well have been unable to look up their phone numbers, but that seems not to have worried the court. Thus, if he did not know when his next appointment was with his probation officer, he would have had to work out whether it would be worse to breach his probation or his Asbo.Looking at his Asbo, it is difficult to see what it is that is specifically anti-social, rather than illegal, that is being prohibited. The public has been led to believe that Asbos are for dealing with disruptive gangs of young people that terrorise estates. They have not been told that Asbos are for inflicting heavier than normal punishments on homeless people.In my report to the court, I said: "In the absence of an Asbo, it is arguable whether the behaviour [sitting in the sun] would have constituted an offence, and within a common sense definition it is arguable whether the behaviour constituted antisocial behaviour."I suggested that he had already, while on remand, served a prison sentence that seemed more than commensurate with the gravity of the offence and that he should be released. The magistrates agreed, and White, having spent three weeks inside, was released. I have not seen him since.· All names have been changed.The 14 commandments of an AsboIssued August 4, 2004, Andrew White is prohibited in the county of West Yorkshire from:1 Acting in a manner which causes or is likely to cause nuisance, harassment, alarm or distress to any person.2 Abusing, insulting, harassing or threatening any person.3 Using or threatening violence towards any person.4 Using or threatening to use residential premises for illegal or immoral purposes.5 Entering or attempting to enter any land or building without rightful authority of the owner or his/her representative, save for public land or buildings.6 Entering or attempting to enter and/or remain in any place within the area shaded in light brown, marked on the attached map, including any and all retail premises within the proscribed area, with the exception of pre-arranged appointments with a solicitor, doctor, probation officer, department of social security or any other statutory body when he must enter and leave by the most direct route.7 Being in possession of a drug or substance proscribed as controlled by the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 in a public place or a place to which the public has access.8 Knowingly being present when a drug or substance proscribed as controlled is traded, sold, supplied or otherwise distributed in a public place or a place to which the public has access.9 Removing any property from any retail premises without lawful authority or payment in full.10 Drive any motor propelled vehicle without a valid driving licence, insurance policy, vehicle registration document and vehicle MOT certificate in the counties of West and North Yorkshire.11Being conveyed in any motor propelled vehicle without a valid driving licence, insurance policy, vehicle registration document and vehicle MOT certificate in the counties of North and West Yorkshire.12 Having contact with, in public, whether being by/in a group with, talking to or otherwise associating with [name here] and [name here], save for when [here there is an illegible note followed by the names of the local night shelter and homeless day centre].13 Encouraging or inciting others to carry out any of the prohibited acts on his behalf.14 Knowingly being present when a criminal or antisocial act is being committed.Until 4pm, August 4, 2014.