The case against the only man who has been publicly accused of one of the biggest cash robberies in UK criminal history collapsed today.Chris Ward, 26, from Colinmill, Poleglass, Northern Ireland, was cleared of any involvement in the theft of £26.5m from the headquarters of the Northern Bank in central Belfast four years ago.The trial's collapse raises questions about the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) and the Public Prosecution Service. It was the third major criminal trial this year that ended either in the prosecution's case collapsing or the defendants being found not guilty.The Northern Bank official maintained his innocence throughout the trial and denied prosecution accusations he was the armed gang's "inside man".Outside the courtroom, Ward's lawyer, Niall Murphy, said it was a very emotional day for Ward, who was "very distressed and wanted to go home and be left alone"."This Kafka-esque farce started from the premise that Chris Ward was guilty and worked backwards, rather than commencing with the evidence and working forwards," he said."The mere fact he was a Catholic and charged with this offence was enough to seal his guilt in the eyes of some people."He should have appeared at this court today as a witness for the prosecution, instead he found himself in the dock for a crime he did not commit and of which he remains a victim."Ward denied robbing the Belfast bank and abducting his colleague Kevin McMullan and McMullan's wife, Karyn.The trial, which started on September 9, heard how the families of Ward and McMullan were held hostage in their homes in West Belfast and County Down while the men, who were key-holders for the bank's vault, went to work in December 2004.At 6pm, acting on the gang's instructions, Ward left carrying a holdall containing about £1m and handed it to a man on the street, in what police believed was a dummy run by those who planned the heist.At 7pm, the money was loaded into crates and collected by a white box van that parked in the alley next to the building's loading bay. One hour later, the van made a second collection from the bank. It was later filmed by roadside CCTV cameras as it drove out of Belfast.During the trial, assistant bank manager McMullan described how the gang got away with the money. "It was easy to take £26.5 million outside to a van on the street, yes. We disguised it as rubbish."Justice McLaughlin interjected: "It's not like the movies, you don't need dynamite?" McMullan responded: "You just need to take someone's wife away from them."McMullan told the trial he was terrified of being found out while he was at work and the gang held his family hostage at home. He recounted standing in the bank's bullion loading bay with two trolleys containing millions in notes when one of the security guards wandered over for a chat.The gang, he said, made it clear: "I was going to have to be the boss, that I was going to have to be a fantastic actor."Karyn McMullan had been taken away from the house to an undisclosed location where she was blindfolded for more than 24 hours. McMullan later told the court the gang repeatedly threatened to "damage her beyond repair".He said the masked men told him they didn't care if they were jailed for 30 years for murder or 30 years for kidnapping. "They made clear if the robbery did not go to plan, if they did not get away with it, they would kill Kayrn," he said.Sir Hugh Orde, the PSNI chief constable, had publicly blamed the Provisional IRA for carrying out the theft of millions from the Danish-owned bank. But throughout the trial no reference was made in court to any alleged IRA involvement.Sinn Féin, the dominant arm of the republican movement, claimed today the only evidence against Ward "consisted of the fact that he was a Catholic living in West Belfast".Alex Maskey, a Sinn Féin Northern Ireland Assembly member, said: "This is the latest in a line of high-profile prosecutions which have collapsed when put under scrutiny in court."It is clear that this prosecution, like others before, including miscarriages of justice, were driven by political considerations rather than justice or evidence. This case was about trying to prove a political theory about who was responsible for this robbery. It was not about finding those who were responsible."The prosecution counsel, Gordon Kerr QC, told Belfast crown court the case had been brought based on circumstantial evidence. "An essential strand related to the circumstances in which the defendant came to be on the rota of the late shift of the Northern Bank on the day of the robbery. However, he said that during the trial differences over the rota had arisen, which prompted the rethink. "Having considered the remaining evidence and the advice of counsel... it has been concluded that it would not be proper to make further submissions."Commenting after the prosecution withdrew their evidence, the trial judge, Justice McLaughlin, told the court he considered the decision of the director of public prosections to be "fully justified and proper". "Given the decision to present no further evidence, I could not arrive at any other verdict and I conclude that Chris Ward is not guilty of the three counts in front of me."To date, there have been 10 people arrested and three charged in connection with the robbery. With the charges against Ward now dropped, no one has yet been brought to justice.