The family of a hairdresser fatally stabbed in a beauty salon have paid tribute to their "beautiful, happy and loving girl", as reports emerged that bystanders filmed the incident on their mobile phones.Hollie Gazzard, 20, was attacked at Fringe Benefits and La Bella Beauty, where she worked, in Southgate Street, Gloucester, on Tuesday evening.On Wednesday it emerged that during the attack, and while paramedics and police officers tried to save Gazzard's life, bystanders were filming on their mobile phones.Gloucestershire police appealed for anyone with footage of the incident to hand it in to officers and not share it online. Chief Inspector Neil Smith said officers were monitoring social media websites for any sign of the footage."I am told there were members of the public who were videoing on their phones during the incident, especially when the officers were trying to save this lady's life," Smith said. "I would like to put in the press very strongly that individuals who took part in any filming do not put this on social media and do not put it on the internet."I am sure anyone related to the lady who has died would not like to see this footage uploaded to social media websites. It would not be a respectful thing to do, especially when the family are in mourning. This was a very, very nasty incident."Officers arrested a 22-year-old man on suspicion of murder. He remains in custody at Cheltenham police station. Smith said Gazzard and the suspect had previously been in a relationship."I would like to reassure members of this community, both residents and local businesses, that this is an isolated incident. These offences don't happen in Gloucester regularly," he said. "This incident was very tragic, however; both victim and suspect knew each other. They were in a previous relationship. That doesn't lessen this horrific incident but it would be good for us to reassure the local community."  A police tent at the front of Fringe Benefits and La Bella Beauty in Gloucester. Photograph: Claire Hayhurst/PAFringe Benefits and La Bella Beauty, on the city's main shopping street, was cordoned off by police. Forensics officers have been inside the beauty salon. Smith would not comment on whether a weapon had been seized from the scene. "These are still very early days," he said. "That is a part of the ongoing investigation."Gazzard was taken to Gloucestershire Royal hospital following the incident, and later died. The coroner has been informed.In a tribute issued through Gloucestershire police, Gazzard's family said they had lost "the brightest star" in their lives."Hollie is our daughter and was a beautiful, happy and loving girl," the statement said. "She was full of life and we are very proud of her. She was at the beginning of her life and to have it taken away in this manner is very hard to bear."Everybody she came in contact with loved her, enjoyed her company, her happy nature and her sense of fun. The world has lost a treasure, she was so loved by all her family and friends and the brightest star in their lives has now gone out. The only comfort we have at this time is that Hollie is now free and at peace and that no harm can ever come to her as she lives with the angels in heaven."We are grateful for all the support of our family and friends and would like to express our thanks to the medical staff who tried so hard to save Hollie and to the police for their sympathetic and understanding care. We would ask the media to respect our privacy and allow us time to come to terms with our loss."