It has been a busy Friday afternoon for Frank. The prison clock shows it is barely 3pm, yet already he has produced 80 litres of custard and 56 portions of scalloped potatoes. Next, he has to fry 120 eggs and clean the kitchen floor - all by 4.30pm. "They take the food very seriously in here," says Frank, who is serving four years and 10 months for robbery. "I've been in 30 prisons in my time, and the meals here are about the best anywhere. Go to Pentonville and the choice is brown stew or white stew. And by the time it's served up, it's got a thick jelly all over the top. They wouldn't let that out of the kitchen here." The "here" in question is High Down prison, the high-security home to some 650 inmates just a mile or so outside Sutton town centre in Surrey. Although unheralded by Michelin stars or AA rosettes, its kitchens have earned a widespread reputation for producing food that makes porridge palatable. "To be honest, I've paid money in a cafe and eaten worse," shouts Conrad, who is serving 12 years for conspiracy to import and is operating three deep-fat potato frying pans. "I've been in 20 prisons and seen a lot of trouble caused by poor food." Talk to anyone in the prison service and they will confirm that keeping inmates well fed is one of the best ways to keep the lid on the pressure cooker. The problem is that, through out British prisons, the budget for providing three meals per day is just £1.50 per prisoner. Which is where Alberto Crisci, High Down's head of catering services, comes in. He may have trained at Mayfair's famously upmarket restaurant, The Mirabelle, but he can still manage to feed 650 men for an entire day for less than the price of an M&S ready meal. So how exactly does he perform this feat of culinary pound-stretching? "First of all, we couldn't do it without the prisoners," says Crisci, surveying the increasingly frenzied activity as serving-up time approaches. "At this moment, we've got seven civilian staff working in here and 12 inmates. In a normal, commercial kitchen, you wouldn't get this kind of manpower - either in terms of numbers or in terms of sheer willingness to work." Or in terms of wages, given that the prisoner sous-chefs get paid just £12 a week. Even so, kitchen work is better paid than most other jobs at High Down (gardening, cleaning, sewing) - and some of the prisoners are even acquiring on-the-job qualifications (NVQ catering and hospitality, level 2). Bulk buying boosts Crisci's budgetary muscle. "I'd reckon to pay no more than 20p for a chicken leg, 24p if it's halal," he says. "Similarly, if one of our suppliers has a 56-case pallet of tinned tomatoes which he's got to sell within a month, there's not many organisations like us that can take it off his hands and use it straight away. Obviously, that's reflected in the price." That is not to say the High Down storerooms are full of dodgy food. Crisci stresses that he is allowed only to buy from suppliers whose operations and premises have been approved and vetted by the prison service. "We also use a lot of vegetables that have been produced and packed at open prisons and prison farms," he says (there are 15 "agri-business" establishments in the service). "We have to pay, but it's a lot cheaper than buying from outside companies". Dig into today's vegetable cottage pie, for example, and you will find onions, carrots and swedes that are the product of more than one penal establishment. As for the Indian chickpea curry, that is the creation of prisoner Peter, who is serving 12 months for growing cannabis. "They tell me I've got a bit of a talent for cooking," he says, as he kneads his roti breads into shape. "I have to say that time does fly in the kitchen." Other inmates, too, have left their mark on the High Down menu. A comments and suggestions book is left in each of the four cell blocks - or house blocks, as they are called - and prisoners are invited to have their say. Among all the less constructive observations are some more helpful contributions. "One chap approached us with a recipe for fish soup and dumplings," says Crisci. "A couple of phone calls to his mum and he was able to get it all down on paper." Net result of all this prisoner-chef cooperation is a rotating monthly menu offering four choices of dish at lunch and six at dinner. Breakfast is issued to inmates in little plastic packets (cereal, milk carton, etc) before they go to bed - and, with the nightly lock-up as early as 8pm, most of them eat it before they go to sleep. The bad news about this system is that prisoners have to choose their entire week's meals in advance. The good news is that - unlike most hospitals - they actually get what they ordered. This is because Crisci's computer prints out for each meal an alphabetical list of who has asked for what. As each man steps forward, the officer in charge asks his name, calls out what he has ordered - and the servers spoon it on to his plate. The system is only in operation at a handful of prisons so far, but already it's proving a boon at High Down. "If the food's right, it lifts people's spirits," Crisci says. "We make a special effort at Christmas, when prisoners can get very low. This year I've got in some half roast chickens, turkey breasts with plum and apple stuffing, plus salmon and prawn salad as well as shark steaks and red snapper. It means a bit of cutting back during the rest of the year, but we do like to overdo things at Christmas." Favourite all-year-round dish is fish and chips, followed by chicken in all its forms (Kiev, roast with stuffing, cooked in Jamaican jerk sauce). If curry is on the menu, a guaranteed 250 prisoners will sign up for it, while there are always 120 or so takers for conventional fare such as steak and kidney pie or grilled gammon rashers. Alcohol is not allowed inside the prison, but Crisci does make use of tinned red wine sauce ("We pay 18p per tin and get two servings out of each"). Also on the banned list are bananas ("the prisoners roll up the skins and smoke them; I'm told they have a strange effect"). Another cast-iron rule is that each time a piece of kitchen equipment is issued to a prisoner, it has to be logged against their name. When the cooking is done, all the cupboards are checked by staff to see that the knives have been returned and all the prisoners are checked by metal detector. "You have to remember you're in a prison," says Crisci, who maintains a staff-inmate distinction by addressing all prisoners by their surnames. "To be honest, though, when the heat's on, you tend to forget who's a prisoner and who isn't. We're all just chefs together, working to a common end." Nevertheless, as someone who started out in Mayfair and proceeded directly to jail, does he not feel envious of those celebrity chefs who have passed Go and collected millions? He says with a smile: "I'm not a glory hunter by nature. What I enjoy about this job is the fact that I and my staff can walk round this prison with our heads held high. If the prisoners don't like a particular dish, it may be because we've made a misjudgment. But it's not because we don't care." Picking up the billWhat institutions and voluntary organisations spend per meal:  Army £1.50 each for lunch and dinner and 27p for breakfast. Soldiers living in barracks are charged a £22.89 weekly food charge. The cost of missed meals when soldiers are on leave is put into a kitty to make the budget go further.  Care homes for the elderly £1.50-£1.60, on the basis of between £4.50 and £5 a day for each resident, according to the National Care Homes Association.  Hospitals £1.25p. Based on an audit commis sion catering review showing that the NHS in England and Wales spends £275m a year producing 220m hospital meals.  Schools £1.25-£1.40. The average value of a free school meal voucher.  Salvation Army hostel for homeless £2.86 for each of the two meals provided daily for homeless men.  Salvation Army detox centre £4.43. This includes vitamin supplements, the cost of providing specialist diets for people coming off drugs and alcohol, and an element of the cost of providing a one-to-one service even at meal times.