Police tonight arrested a 20-year-old man in connection with a "sustained and frenzied" attack on three girls in Dorset.The man was arrested in Seaton, east Devon, just hours after police said they were following up a number of sightings of the attacker who stabbed Kirsty Edwards, 17, Charlotte Teague, 14, and Sophie Hyne, 15, as they got off a bus in the centre of Bridport yesterday.He was questioned in Weymouth police station. Charlotte remains in intensive care in hospital, where she was said to be in a stable condition. Her friends were also in a stable condition in a general ward at Dorset county hospital in Dorchester.Chief Inspector Nick Maton, of Dorset police, told a press conference before the arrest was made that the girls had gone to amusement arcades in nearby Weymouth before catching the number 13 bus back to Bridport.Once on the bus, they struck up a conversation with a 20-year-old man they did not know. Mr Maton said the man then followed the girls off the bus and a "sustained and frenzied attack" followed."It was a horrific incident. It is exceptionally unusual to have a stabbing in Bridport, let alone a multiple stabbing in the town centre. At least one of the girls received multiple stab wounds."He said police were "responding to a number of sightings as a result of the description issued, and hopefully one of these will lead to the arrest of the suspect".CCTV footage of the town centre was examined, while the bus stop was impounded for forensic tests.The attack happened at around 6pm in the town centre. Charlotte and Sophie live locally and police said Kirsty, who comes from Staffordshire, was on holiday visiting them.Helen Choudhury, 53, who owns the Taj Mahal restaurant in front of the stop, was among the first on the scene."We came down and saw it happen. The girls were out here along the pavement. I just gave them tissues, towels and water and I tried to offer a chair, but the poor girl couldn't sit in a chair - she was in too much pain," Ms Choudhury said."One of them, her stomach was pierced on the right side, had two ladies holding her and putting pressure with their hands on the wound. She was crying. One girl was sitting on the ground. She had blood coming from her nose."Witness Sue Matthews, who was sitting on the bus, rushed to help one of the girls, who had a stomach wound. "I held the tea towel over the girl's tummy," she said. "I just saw him [the attacker] lashing out. He was punching them. I didn't actually see a weapon."Detectives appealed for shoppers and commuters who saw anything to contact them.