Authors, academics and former prisoner governors are among those condemning new rules banning prisoners from being sent books by family and friends.The new incentives and earned privileges regime, introduced last November, gives prisoners access to funds to buy items including books as part of a reward and punishment system.The prisons minister, Jeremy Wright, said: "If prisoners engage with their rehabilitation and comply with the regime, they can have greater access to funds to buy items, including books."Prominent writers including Philip Pullman, Ian Rankin, Linda Grant and Professor Mary Beard have demanded that Grayling drop the ban.Pullman tweeted: "It's one of the most disgusting, mean, vindictive acts of a barbaric government."Crime novelist Rankin said: "From visits to prisons and talking to prisoners, I know how important books can be in promoting literacy and connecting prisoners to society."Below, a former prisoner and prison literacy researcher speak to the Guardian about the potential effects of the ban.Anonymous, spent time in prison during the mid-2000sI don’t have an axe to grind over my imprisonment – I did wrong and I was punished for it. However, I found it frustrating to get help with rehabilitation, and it seems to me that Chris Grayling’s new restrictions make this even harder today. My thoughts at the moment are that this is a very clumsy sledgehammer to crack the nut of the prison drug problem. I imagine that, for Grayling, it has the added advantage of being seen to be tough on the 'luxury lifestyle' of prisoners.I spent time in prison in the mid 2000s, and during that time I set up a small library of bookshelves on the wing, which was populated by getting books sent in or brought in on visits. I did this because although there was a reasonable prison library access to it was fairly chaotic. It's popularity meant that there were often some who could not attend due to sheer numbers – it was first-come, first-served. The well stocked shelves of my small library seemed popular, and although I’m sure some books disappeared never to be seen again, that wasn’t quite the point – there was a selection of fiction and non fiction for anyone to read.In addressing my offending behaviour whilst in prison, I also had a number of text books sent in to me to help me understand issues that led to my offending, and what I could do about it in the future. I left prison having had no official offending behaviour treatment, although I was supposed to be receiving it, and despite repeatedly requesting it. The text books I received were my positive way of addressing this frustrating deficit.This blanket ban on receiving items including books would have prevented any of these things from taking place.In addition to books, there is also the issue of clothing, especially underwear and socks. In one prison you were allocated three pairs of socks and underwear per week. Having your own sent in meant you didn’t wear someone else's, and you had enough so that you could wear clean clothes each day.The majority of prisoners will be released one day. How is restricting access to education and self-help going to rehabilitate them?Richard Armstrong, prison literacy researcher, Newcastle UniversityI do research on how tests assess prisoners' literacy and numeracy skills when they enter prison. These scores are used to allocate prisoners to suitable education and vocational courses in prisons. I consider whether these tests are appropriate. The consequences of banning small items being sent into prison, including books, has not been thought through. There is a chronic lack of education and workplaces in prison which mean prisoners are locked up with nothing to do simply because there is no work for them. No matter how willing a prisoner is, without work they cannot afford to buy books. Access to prison libraries is limited – one hour per week – so charities and prisoners’ family and friends helped make up the shortfall by sending books into prison. A blanket ban will negatively affect the morale of prisoners and cause unrest. A scheme aimed to encourage to good behaviour will therefore end up achieving the complete opposite. Prisoners’ behaviour will worsen through boredom and frustration. Bullying will increase as prisoners fight amongst themselves for limited opportunities to earn money. It will affect security staff too, which is ironic because security is one of the reasons they are banning them. Prisoners have extremely high levels of language impairment and learning disabilities. Literacy classes delivered by further-education colleges and the Toe-by-Toe scheme run by prisoners themselves help improve prisoners’ communication and literacy skills which ultimately reduces re-offending. Books are integral to this process. Lifting the ban on books would not undermine the new incentives and earned privileges regime. It would show the system is responsive to the rehabilitative needs of prisoners and the needs of society in general. Ultimately, we are the ones who are driving the rehabilitative or punitive focus in prisons. There is no evidence the incentives and earned privileges regime will improve behaviour. But there is lots of evidence that removing the means to increase literacy reduces rehabilitation.