Last week, Joanne Fraill, a former juror, was sent to prison after she contacted a defendant on Facebook during a trial. Fraill not only revealed details of the jury's deliberations to the defendant, she also used the internet to unearth information about another defendant in the same case. The cost to the taxpayer of abandoning the case and retrying the defendants was £6m.Many reports focus on the fact that Ms Fraill is the first juror to be convicted for contempt of court through her use of a social media site. This misses the point. That Fraill used Facebook is neither here nor there. The real problem this case revealed is that, in this internet age, it is becoming more and more difficult to try cases without prejudice.This is not the first time a trial has been jeopardised because jurors have taken matters into their own hands.In 2008, a manslaughter suspect walked free from court after his trial collapsed. A juror had visited and photographed the alleged crime scene, researched the case on the internet, and shared his findings with his fellow jurors. He even sent the judge a Google Earth map of the alleged crime scene and 37 questions about the case. The judge had to stop the trial and dismiss the entire jury.A trial involving allegations of child cruelty was scrapped in similar circumstances when a juror found what turned out to be false information about the defendant online and shared this with his fellow jurors. The case was later retried at a cost of tens of thousands of pounds to the taxpayer.The internet, and the ease with which it enables over-zealous jurors to conduct their own "research", poses a real threat to the integrity of our criminal justice system and trial by jury in particular. We cannot let this happen. Trial by jury is a cornerstone of a free society and recent research has shown just how effective jury trials are at delivering and upholding justice.First, although statistics suggest jurors are much more likely to convict for some crimes than others, research shows that they exercise logic and common sense. The highest conviction rates are found in cases where there is more likely to be strong physical evidence which incriminates the defendant. For example, juries convict more than nine in 10 of those charged with taking indecent photographs of children and four in five of those charged with drug possession.Conversely, juries are more reluctant to convict where the case turns on judging one person's word against another or where they must reach a conclusion about a defendant's state of mind. This is one reason why convictions for rape can be difficult from the prosecution's point of view. But where there is sufficient evidence, a jury will find the defendant guilty. Juries convict in 55% of rape cases.Second, juries do not demonstrate any racial bias. Recent research confirms that black and Asian defendants are no more likely to be convicted by juries than white defendants and that ethnic minorities are not under-represented on juries.Third, juries are important to protect defendants against prosecutions which are perceived to be politically motivated. Take the Clive Ponting case. In 1984, Ponting, a senior civil servant at the MoD, leaked documents to Labour MP Tam Dalyell about the sinking of the Argentine warship General Belgrano during the Falklands war. The documents revealed that the Belgrano was sunk while outside the Falkland Islands' exclusion zone and heading away from the navy task force, all of which was highly embarrassing to the Thatcher government.Ponting admitted revealing the information and was charged under the Official Secrets Act. He maintained it was in the interests of Parliament and the public to know this information. The jury agreed. Although he expected to be imprisoned and the judge indicated to the jury that they should convict, Ponting was acquitted.A common accusation against juries is that jurors cannot understand complex cases. This issue was thrust into the limelight in 2005 when a high-profile, £60m fraud case – the "Jubilee Line" trial – collapsed. The prosecution claimed that problems with the jury forced the judge to abandon the trial.In fact, a subsequent inquiry found jurors understood the evidence and points of law perfectly well, concluding that, far from being out of their depth, the jury showed "impressive familiarity with the charges, issues and evidence, despite the length of time that had elapsed and the fact that they did not have their notes or access to documents". This is why the government is right to defend trial by jury in the Freedom Bill, which would stop the prosecution being able to have complex fraud cases tried without a jury.The message is clear: jury trials are valuable. Juries exercise common sense, convict based on the strength of evidence, are free from racial bias and protect against politically motivated charges. But we can only rely on juries where the whole trial process is conducted in the courtroom, a rigorous environment where every assumption and fact is examined, tested and challenged. That's why this latest case could prove to be the thin end of the wedge for the jury trial.In a recent survey, one in four jurors who tried high-profile cases had looked for information about cases online. This is not a controlled environment where information can be relied upon. A juror should no more get his information about a case from the internet than a government should produce official documents copied from Wikipedia. For instance, if a juror sees a false rumour on the internet that the defendant already has a conviction and shares this with the rest of the jury, it could undermine his chances of receiving a fair trial.The prison sentence handed down to Joanne Fraill sends out a clear message to jurors that the courts take contempt of court very seriously. However, if we are to preserve trial by jury – the jewel in the crown of British justice – we need to do more than jail one person.If jurors cannot be trusted to rely only on courtroom evidence during proceedings, rather than on the internet's gossip and rumour, then we may need to monitor and control jurors' internet activity during a trial. The cost to the taxpayer of abandoning trials and retrying defendants is unacceptable, but even more serious is the threat that this growing practice poses to trust in our justice system and to the integrity and effectiveness of trial by jury.Unless we act swiftly, we risk seeing this threat become reality. In the words of Lord Devlin: "Trial by jury is more than an instrument of justice and more than one wheel of the constitution: it is the lamp that shows that freedom lives." We must not allow anything to undermine it.