Farmer Tony Martin's murder conviction for the shotgun killing of a teenage burglar was today reduced by the court of appeal to manslaughter.The reclusive Norfolk farmer's life sentence for the killing of Fred Barras, 16, was cut to five years and his separate 10-year sentence for wounding the burglar's accomplice was cut to three years, to run concurrently. The court's decision means Martin will be eligible for release on parole in about a year's time, rather than facing the life sentence that is a mandatory for anyone convicted of murder. Martin's case became a cause célèbre and was championed by elements of the rightwing press. The former Conservative party leader, William Hague, called for the law to be changed to protect individuals defending themselves.At the high court in London this morning, three judges - headed by the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Woolf - handed down their judgment on Martin's appeal against his conviction for murdering Barras at Bleak House, Emneth Hungate, near Emneth, Norfolk, on the night of August 20 1999. The farmer, 56, was jailed at Norwich crown court in April 2000 and was also given a 10-year sentence for wounding Barras's accomplice, Brendan Fearon, now 30. During the appeal, Martin's lawyers presented fresh evidence relating to where he was standing when he fired the shots and whether he could be said to have acted with "reasonable force" in self defence. Martin's lawyers also claimed that his original defence team at the trial concentrated on legal tactics and ignored vital evidence that could have resulted in a different verdict.This morning, the judges rejected those arguments, but they accepted evidence of diminished responsibility. A psychiatrist described Martin as having a paranoid personality disorder, probably made worse by an earlier invasion of his property by burglars. The farmer's legal team contended that this factor was relevant not only to the question of whether he acted through diminished responsibility, but also to his plea of self-defence - because he feared a much greater danger to his physical safety than the average person. Lord Woolf, sitting with Mr Justice Wright and Mr Justice Grigson, said: "Martin used a firearm which he knew he was not entitled to have in a manner which was wholly unjustified. "There can be no excuse for this, though we treat his responsibility as being reduced," he said.The judges refused Martin's lawyers permission to take the case to the House of Lords on a point of law concerning the admissibility, in a plea of self defence, of psychiatric evidence on the defendant's perception of the danger he faced.Martin's solicitor, James Saunders, said he would fight to take the case the House of Lords in the hope of having his client's conviction quashed entirely. Mr Saunders said of Martin: "He said he was relieved that he could now see an end to his ordeal. He is relieved to be no longer branded a murderer."But Mr Saunders added that Martin considered himself an innocent man, and wanted a chance to prove that before the House of Lords.