A former child model was jailed for a minimum of 25 years today for battering to death a talented young doctor and robbing him to pay for a prostitute.Thomas Connor, 20, attacked Nadim Gulamhuseinwala, 32, with a five-foot iron post in a park near Buckingham Palace in a cocaine and alcohol-fuelled rage after he was duped by a woman who ran off with his money. His accomplice, William Paton, also 20, was sentenced to a minimum of 23 years for his part in the murder and robbery.The pair, who had each taken a gram of cocaine, spotted Gulamhuseinwala as he walked through Green Park chatting to his girlfriend, Rebecca Bott, on the phone in the early hours of 25 July last year.Connor, who admitted he had gone "mental" after losing £90 to a bogus prostitute, knocked him to the ground with the metal bar and then stamped on his head and face, causing multiple skull fractures. Paton went through his pockets and the pair then headed back to Soho to find another prostitute before taking the train home to Kent.Connor, who featured on the packet of the dessert Angel Delight as "Britain's Little Angel" when he was 11, and Paton were convicted after an Old Bailey trial.Sentencing the pair, Judge Stephen Kramer QC said that they had targeted their victim as "easy prey" and left him for dead. He said: "Dr Gulamhuseinwala was an admirable and fine man who had done nothing to provoke the attack on him."He was a talented man with the prospect of a promising career ahead of him which you have snuffed out."Gulamhuseinwala, who studied medicine at Bristol University, became a member of the Royal College of Surgeons in 2005 and spent eight years in the NHS before taking a job as a management consultant at the City firm McKinsey's healthcare practice. He had been posted to the US and had flown in from New York just hours before he was killed.In a statement read to the court before sentencing, Bott described him as her soulmate and said she felt like her whole life had fallen apart. "Nadim always made me smile and laugh out loud. I now have this immeasurable void in my life. I feel truly lost without him by my side. Every day I wake up hoping to find him smiling back at me."His brother Imran Gulamhuseinwala said the events of that night had devastated his family. He said: "My brother was only 32 years old when he was killed while walking home in a barbaric, senseless and utterly unprovoked attack. They asked no questions, made no demands and no threats. My brother had no argument with the men … but they brutally robbed him of his life and future.He added: "We remember him as a truly unique and exceptional individual. Nadim was fun to be with and very popular. He combined a sharp wit with a silliness that was bound to make your laugh."Jurors were told that Connor was bullied, beaten up and branded "gay" because of his appearance on the Angel Delight carton and in his teenage years attempted to take an overdose.He and Paton, whose nicknames included "Silly Billy", "Billy Idiot", and "Forrest Gump", travelled into London on 25 July to find a prostitute. They took cocaine and went to first to Strawberry Moons club. At 2.40am Connor withdrew money from a cashpoint in Soho for a call girl but was "clipped" by a woman who ran off with his money. He spent the next hour in a rage, searching for her, before heading into the park, where he and Paton sat on a bench waiting for a victim.Gulamhuseinwala, from Ealing, west London, had just returned from a business trip to New York and had met a friend at the Funky Buddha nightclub at about 11pm. He was walking home at about 4am when Connor and Paton spotted him.CCTV images of the attack show Gulamhuseinwala, who was leaning against the railings as he called Bott, look up in horror just as Connor appears in frame, swinging the bar at him. Bott told the court that she had asked him not to walk through the park and to get a taxi, but soon afterwards, there was white noise and then nothing.He was taken to hospital in a critical condition but did not recover and was pronounced dead nearly two weeks later on 5 August last year.