The Lord Chancellor today put himself on a collision course with the legal profession when he announced fundamental reforms to the way lawyers are paid to defend criminals.Lord Falconer announced the appointment of the Whitehall troubleshooter Lord Carter of Coles to look in detail at the possibility of introducing competitive bidding between lawyers for legal aid cases. A series of immediate measures will shave £7m off the annual criminal legal aid budget of £1.2bn this year. Lord Carter will examine how new payment methods could introduce "competitive pressure" on lawyers' fees while making sure defendants still had a reasonable choice of law firms. "We want to reach agreement on these measures with all concerned, but over the years we've been tinkering to meet the increasing demands of the criminal legal aid cases," Lord Falconer said. "We've never faced up to the major problem, that of the huge growth in the cost of the bigger criminal cases. I think that agreement may not be easy to reach. These measures may be seen by some to be controversial. But I make it clear that I am determined to tackle the problem of legal aid." Lord Carter, who will report back by January, will also look at introducing bulk contracts for lawyers to provide services in a number of cases from a person's arrest until that case was concluded.He will consider making one lawyer in a case responsible for ensuring that it was delivered within an agreed budget. The Department for Constitutional Affairs today published A Fairer Deal for Legal Aid. In its foreword, Lord Falconer wrote: "The reforms will ensure that publicly funded legal advice and representation delivers for the public. This means guaranteeing that the taxpayer gets value for money from those who provide services with legal aid money. "And it means targeting resources on people who most need it, requiring those who can contribute to do so and, crucially, ensuring that everyone has access to justice."The document said the top 10 barristers working in legal aid earned an average of £724,000 a year in 2004-2005. One barrister earned more than £1.6m from legal aid in two years from 2002-2004. It observed that solicitors in crown court cases were paid for the hours they worked, adding: "This means that volume of work, rather than efficiency, is rewarded financially." Lord Falconer announced that the attorney general was to carry out a comprehensive review of the way in which fraud cases were prosecuted. There would also be a review of the way legal aid is spent on childcare proceedings.In May, he said: "The days of the 18-month trial are over," and indicated that if a case lasted longer than expected, the lawyers - rather than the taxpayer - would be obliged to pick up the costs.It is expected that trials will be made quicker and more efficient by making prosecution and defence teams agree far more areas of a case before going to court.Lord Falconer said in May that the legal aid budget had risen from £1.5bn to £2.1bn a year since Labour came to power in 1997.