An arson attack that killed a mother and father and left their bullied daughter, 16, critically ill might have been averted if police had acted on an earlier complaint, detectives admitted today.Maureen Cochrane, 45, and her 54-year-old husband Alex died when a blaze swept through their Manchester home early last Thursday.Their daughter Lucy, who has learning difficulties, survived the fire and remains in hospital. She is unaware her parents have died.Five days before the fatal fire, someone poured petrol on the Cochranes' doorstep. Although Mrs Cochrane reported the incident to the police, nothing was done.Today Detective Superintendent John Dineen admitted that the second incident might not have happened if officers had taken action in response to Mrs Cochrane's request for help.He said: "In relation to the incident on January 7, I'm investigating that as part of the murder inquiry. The lack of action is being referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission, who will hold a separate inquiry."The apology is there. The second incident may not have occurred if something had been done about the first."Det Supt Dineen said that four people - two women aged 65 and 39, a 39-year-old man and a 17-year-old girl - were being questioned in connection with the double murder. No one has been charged.Mr and Mrs Cochrane's 25-year-old son David, who was also at the press conference, linked the arson attack to a campaign of bullying against his sister, 16-year-old Lucy.He said: "We will be launching a full investigation about why my family didn't get police protection. They were let down. Nobody came to check or corroborate what my mum had said. Nobody came to see if there was any evidence."Mr Cochrane, who lives in London, said he would be telling his sister her parents were dead, her pet dog was dead and that the house had been destroyed."I'm going to have to tell her as bluntly as possible, drop her in at the deep end."He revealed that Lucy had been bullied at school for 19 months before the attack."She was badly beaten up and verbally abused. She took to hiding in the toilets. The school didn't deal with it straight away. My mum had to keep writing letters and contacting the authorities. She wrote things down in log books and diaries. They've all gone up in smoke."The Cochranes lived in Wythenshawe, one of the most deprived areas of Manchester.The people of Wythenshawe were, said Mr Cochrane, "good people" who had been "deeply moved" by the tragedy.However he said that Wythenshawe was not a nice place to live and that there were a lot of people in a "shitty situation"."My mum and dad and Lucy were a happy family and I think that's what it was. You can either get angry and take it out on the people around you or you can do what my mum and dad did and get on with it."He added: "My mum, being the sort of person she was, didn't tell me a great deal about it. None of us knew exactly what was going on. Mum just battened down the hatches and tried not to worry anyone with it."He said of the murderers: "These people don't have any moral sense. Nothing my family did deserved this."