It was a place, trumpeted the publicity, "where dreams really do come true!" Lapland New Forest, which opened in winter 2008, promised "a multi-featured snow-covered Lapland village" featuring real reindeer, a bustling festive market and a "magical tunnel of light".The reality, however, was less Christmas cracker than stuffed turkey. After paying up to £30 a ticket, visitors were confronted with a few miserable tethered huskies, a broken ice rink and a collection of cheap garden sheds dusted with fake snow.The two brothers behind the underwhelming theme park are facing possible jail terms after being convicted on eight counts of misleading commercial practice, after a 10-week trial.Victor Mears, 67, and his brother Henry Mears, 60, both from Brighton, had taken £1.2m in advanced sales of more than 10,000 tickets to the attraction on the Hampshire-Dorset border, Bristol crown court was told. But within a day of the park opening, on 1 December 2008, Dorset county council's trading standards officers were flooded with complaints.The brothers argued in court that problems with the attraction, inevitably dubbed "Crapland" in the press, were exaggerated and they were the victim of media "lies". But after seven hours the jury found them guilty of placing misleading adverts on the firm's website, in local papers and in flyers advertising the park.The pair, said Judge Mark Horton, had "promised by deceit to satisfy dreams and have delivered misery by way of disappointment to thousands of people". Sentencing was adjourned until 18 March, but he warned the brothers he was considering committing them to prison. The court heard that Victor Mears had five previous convictions for 13 offences including obtaining money by deception and fraud, stretching back to 1983."The attention to detail in our theme park will really wow you," read the theme park's website, and that, at least, was true. However, "the only feeling of 'wow' that many of the consumers felt was 'wow, what a con'," Malcolm Gibney, prosecuting, told the court.The promised "beautiful snow covered log cabins", "delicious seasonal food" and "wonderful ice rink" proved equally illusory.In fact, on arrival at the park, down a poorly signposted, potholed lane, visitors were greeted by a large concrete expanse and a traffic cone on which a sign had been perched reading "Lapland Way In". Instead of being greeted by an elf, as promised on the website, visitors had to give their tickets to a security guard in fluorescent tabard who, according to contemporary news reports, made a point of telling those coming in that they were being ripped off and later quit after a customer punched him in the head.Once inside, instead of a "tunnel of light", guests found a short row of fir trees that had been lightly sprayed with fake snow and draped with a string of fairy lights. In a muddy corner of the site a few huskies were chained to pegs, "howling, yapping and generally looking unhappy", according to one visitor; a solitary reindeer suffered the same unhappy fate.The "delicious seasonal food" was provided courtesy of a number of fast food vans, while the promised mulled wine did not materialise as the owners did not have a drinks licence. The bustling Christmas market turned out to be a large canvas tent with two trailers inside selling festive wrapping paper.Anita Saunders, from Lyndhurst in Hampshire, bought 10 tickets for a family outing to celebrate her son's fifth birthday. "We were expecting to walk through something fantastic but we were bitterly disappointed. I imagined we would walk into a tunnel and come out of the tunnel into a magical Christmas village," she said. "The reality was that we joined a very large queue. There was nobody to direct us, so we just followed everybody else in front of us."Particularly disappointing, said Angela Barnes from Southsea, Hampshire, was the nativity scene, which consisted of an "advertising hoarding ... across a muddy ploughed field. It was painted with sandy mountains, three camels and a star. I was expecting something much more 3D." The outdoor skating rink, which was in fact broken, was no more than "two large puddles"."You could have walked around the whole park in half an hour," said Barnes, who later complained to trading standards. "It wasn't so much the money, it was just the sheer disappointment and the fact we had been misled."Karen Humphrey told the court she was so worried about the condition of the husky dogs she had reported the theme park to the RSPCA. "We noticed a plastic polar bear stuck in the middle of the woods. There wasn't even any snow," she said.The park went into liquidation four days after it opened, when bank support helping to fund the attraction was pulled amid a storm of negative publicity. By the time it shut its doors, according to press reports at the time, three elves had been assaulted by irate guests while Father Christmas himself received a punch on the nose by a father who had been queueing for four hours only to be told that his children couldn't sit in Santa's lap.