The bookies will be the people most disappointed by the appointment of Sir Paul Stephenson as commissioner of the Metropolitan police. He had, after all, been the favourite for the job ever since the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, squeezed his predecessor, Sir Ian Blair, out of the post last year.The home secretary is said to be happy with the choice and so are the rank-and-file and he knows that at least one Daily Telegraph columnist will be on his side. But he arrives with an in-tray bulging with everything from knife crime to lurking terror alerts, complaints from some of his senior black officers about career prospects and grumbles from the Conservative party over the search of Damien Green's home and office.We have yet to see Sir Ian's memoirs about the torrid time he endured in the highest profile police job in the country. But his predecessor, Lord Stevens, has already published his, Not for the Faint-hearted. At the end of it, Stevens accepts that, compared with many of his contemporaries, he had some lucky breaks. "Looking back, I realise how exceptionally fortunate I have been," he wrote. "Robust health and an inexhaustible fund of energy are gifts from God worth more than gold." Also worth more than gold are not having to handle a tragic incident like the De Menezes shooting, which Sir Ian did, or the Stephen Lawrence murder, which Stevens's predecessor, Paul Condon did. In that, luck, as well as leadership, plays its part.Robert Reiner, in his book, Chief Constables, described four different potential categories of police chief: the Baron, the Bobby, the Boss and the Bureaucrat. The Baron had an old-fashioned a view of society that was paternalistic and hierarchical; the Bobby was essentially "the bobby on the beat promoted to the highest job"; the Boss did not suffer criticism gladly and regarded his job as that of a fire-fighter; and the Bureaucrat was the "favoured Home Office flavour" for large cities, able to handle the increasing demands from central government. Does Sir Paul fit neatly into any of those categories or will he create one for himself?Whatever happens, he will learn soon enough what one of the chief constables told Reiner: "The difficulty about being a chief constable really is that people place you in impossible positions. They ask you questions, if you fail to answer, you are arrogant and unaccountable. If you do answer, you are political."