A British Airways pilot who believed he was "stitched up" by a prenuptial agreement was jailed for 26 years on Tuesday for bludgeoning his estranged wife to death in their family home.Robert Brown, 47, killed Joanna Brown, 46, with a claw hammer in what he claimed was a blind rage as their two young children cowered in the neighbouring playroom. He then bundled her body into the boot of his Volvo and dumped it in a pre-prepared makeshift coffin on the Queen's estate at Windsor Great Park.A jury at Reading crown court cleared Brown of murder but found him guilty of obstructing a coroner from holding an inquest. Brown had previously admitted manslaughter by reason of diminished responsibility."I just lost it. I just burst and that's it," Brown told the court. "I just blew and the next thing I remember I was standing over Jo and there was blood all over the place."On 31 October last year, Brown had driven to his wife's home to drop off their children following the half-term break. With the youngsters out of sight, he hit her at least 14 times around the head with the hammer he had brought with him. He then wrapped his wife's body in plastic sheeting, placed a bin-liner over her head to "avoid leaving bloodstains" and dumped her in the car. He took the children to his home and drove his wife to her grave.Brown's daughter later told police that she heard her parents "hitting each other" before she watched "dad put mum in the car because he … hurt her".Sentencing, Judge Mr Justice Cooke told him: "You intended to kill, you intended to conceal the body and to hide the evidence of the killing."The crime took place 11 days after a landmark ruling at the Supreme Court endorsed the binding nature of prenuptial agreements. The Browns were due to attend the high court for a final hearing to resolve their own financial disputes and the jury heard their pre-nuptial agreement had caused Brown "continuing resentment".Ownership of the valuable family home, Tun Cottage, in Ascot, was in Jo Brown's name, despite the fact that the defendant had spent some £200,000 on improvements, the court heard. The pre-nuptial agreement also gave Brown no claim over his wealthy wife's trust fund.Joanna's mother, Diana Parkes, said family members had hated Brown from the outset, and her father Christopher, had urged a pre-nuptial agreement."It was an agreement that the defendant referred to later as a 'stitch-up' and he particularly resented the thought that Jo and her lawyers intended to rely on that agreement to foist on him what he thought was a particularly unfair settlement in the divorce proceedings," said prosecutor Graham Reeds QC.The court heard Brown had calmly called the police the morning after he killed his wife, saying simply: "Hello, I would like to make an appointment to come in regarding an incident that occurred yesterday", adding that the incident was serious but refusing to say what had happened apart from confirming his wife was involved."Right, and you're both OK, are you?" said the police call handler. "None of you are harmed at all, are you?""Well, er, one person is," said Brown."Right, OK," said the call handler. "Has that person received any medical attention, do you know? Do they need it?"Brown replied: "Er no. Er."Police call handler: "And you have got children involved as well?"Brown: "Yes."Detective Chief Inspector Steve Tolmie, of Thames Valley Police, said outside court: "Two young children have had to endure the pain and agony of seeing their mum killed in their own home by their own father. We heard how Robert Brown attacked his wife and it's the children we feel sorry for. It might be the end of the judicial chapter but they and the rest of the family will have to carry on with this nightmare for the rest of their lives."