A referendum in Bradford would comfortably back the appeal court's view that rioters deserve deterrent sentences, but hardliners might soften if they visited Imperial Antiques in Manningham's Oak Lane.One of three men behind the counter last night, listening to the news of the case from London, came out of Feltham youth jail just two months ago. He felt he learned only one thing inside - resentment at "unfair, racist treatment". "I'm not arsed about going to prison any more," said Azad Shah, 18, who was given 12 months for rioting, by Bradford crown court. "I've had my life wrecked. I'd got good grades at GCSE, and I was doing my A-levels at Nab Wood [a well thought-of high school] when this happened. I can't get a job now. "As soon as they know you were inside for the Manningham riots, nobody wants to know. I shouldn't have got involved but I went down there to get my nephew away, and then people started shouting stuff like 'bloody Pakis'." Mr Shah's disillusion is shared by his friend Mohammed Azeem, also 18, who raised the issue most often heard among young British Asians in the neighbourhood. "They got long sentences because they were Asian, simple as that, isn't it? Look at the sentences handed down to white lads who did the same thing two days later. It's obvious. It's a joke." The point is echoed at the Kebabeesh restaurant in Greengates, whose conservatory extension was smashed by white thugs in a "counter riot" just after the Manningham battles. The owner, Jehangir Durriani, who is organising a Bradford version of Lahore's kite festival, said: "I'd be happier about it if they'd got the people who attacked us. A lot of people will be looking at the differences between the sentences for the Manningham rioters and the white ones, and saying, is this really fair?" His colleague, Iftikhar Hussain, said: "It'd be good if they could cut some more of the sentences, because a lesson has been learned: you don't attack your own country, your own house. It's not the way to make a protest. But the lads need to be given a chance to rebuild their lives. Nobody wants to see them wasted because of what they did. "Serious action was taken and that was right. They've been shown rioting wasn't the way to make their point."