Barrister Mark Saunders, shot dead by police during a siege at his London home, wrote notes pleading to speak to his wife and threatening to kill himself during the five-hour stand-off, an inquest heard today.The 32-year-old lawyer, a regular cocaine user who was more than three times over the drink-drive limit, also repeatedly told police negotiators he was frightened.Westminster coroner's court heard the former Territorial Army soldier, who had been firing his shotgun from his kitchen window, wandered around his flat drinking from a bottle of wine with his shotgun in his hand as police surrounded his home in Markham Square, Chelsea on 6 May 2008.At various times he held notes to the window, said a firearms officer giving evidence anonymously. The first, at 7.55pm, had a single word: "Wife". The second read: "To my wife, information to my wife". At 8.15pm another read: "I love my wife to bits, I think I really do".The last at 8.19pm, just over an hour before he was shot, said: "I want to say goodbye, kill myself".Other notes recovered from the scene included: "Please, I want to talk to my wife", "I don't know how this happened", " I'm not a bad lad", "Mum" and "I can't hear".Saunders died when he was hit by at least five bullets fired by police marksmen at 9.32pm. Police said they fired in self-defence and to protect others.In his statement, the officer, known only as Sergeant SE, described watching the shooting on a film link from the police helicopter overhead."I saw Mr Saunders start to bring the shotgun down. The barrel was starting to come down and I was saying 'no, no, no' to myself. At the moment it reached the horizontal, pointing to the row of containment officers, I heard the volley of shots".Saunders's widow, Elizabeth, had previously told the inquest she did not know her husband had repeatedly asked for her, and she was unable to call him as police told her to turn her phone off.Friend and fellow barrister, Michael Bradley, told the jury that police response to a request by him and Saunders's wife to "knock on the door" and talk to her husband was "instant and negative". He added that the police had said: "Absolutely no way, can't do that for your own safety".Bradley said he arrived outside the flat after receiving a drunken, "meandering" call from Saunders at about 4.30pm, which ended with him hearing the loud bang of the first shot. He dialled 999 and got a taxi to Chelsea.He found the road cordoned off and Saunders's wife "sitting sobbing with her head in her hands" being looked after by police officers in a nearby shop.."Liz thought that Mark would find this terrifying and distressing. I remember her asking could they try to move people out of sight so that he wasn't faced with looking at a police siege. It might dampen things down, because she was worried how Mark would feel if he recognised the situation," he said.At the time, Bradley said, he thought it was the "best option" – a way of "de-escalating this terrible, dark scenario"."It was now a nightmare armed siege and I feared then that, if he was ever conscious of what he had done, he might turn the gun on himself".Patrick Gibbs, the QC representing Elizabeth Saunders, told the jury he thought the policing "seemed chaotic". There seemed to be "only two guys running the show on the ground", one a negotiator in casual clothes, the other a uniformed officer. "It did seem to me there was no guiding hand controlling matters," he said.The most senior officer in charge was former Met commander Ali Dizaei, who was last year jailed for corruption. He said, in a statement, he had imposed a gold strategy to "provide all reasonable steps" to contain the area. The day-to-day running of the operation was left to officers under his command.At 7.02pm, said Bradley, he received a call from Mr Saunders but all he could hear was slow breathing. After that both he and Saunders's wife were told to turn their phones off to keep the line of communication open for police.Asked if he was "tempted" to just go and knock on the door, he replied: "No. When you're in that situation, it feels like a nightmare, totally unreal. How can this be happening?"You are absolutely not in control. There are police everywhere, these guys with body armour and guns crawling through the back and on to the roof."There are helicopters and ambulances. The road is cordoned off and you are being given orders, effectively. Not in a brutish way, but you are not being given any option." He said he had no concern that Saunders would hurt him.Toxicology tests on the lawyer found up to 255mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood. Dr Stephen Morley, who analysed the samples, said there would be "significant effects". Hair and urine samples revealed he had taken cocaine repeatedly over the previous six months, but though he had taken the drug in the days before his death, he had not done so within 12 hours of the shooting.The inquest heard that seven out of the 12 firearms officers stationed in and on the building in Bywater Street, which backs on to Markham Square, fired. Saunders suffered five gunshot wounds and was grazed by a sixth, with injuries to the brain, heart and liver and arms.The jury was visiting the scene of the shooting this evening.The case continues.