After a night out with girlfriends to discuss her forthcoming wedding, the 34-year-old lawyer got into a black cab near London bridge. It was shortly after 11pm and the new mother, who was on her first night out since giving birth, was feeling a little tipsy."She's had a bit to drink," a concerned friend told the driver. "Please will you make sure she gets home safely."The woman's next clear memory was of feeling violently ill and her husband banging on the bathroom door. "He [her husband] was calling my name," said the mother of one. "I remember being on the toilet floor. I could feel my arms and legs were very heavy and I couldn't move my legs at all."My husband was trying to make me go to my bed but I physically couldn't move."She slept in the hall, covered in a duvet, and by the time her cleaner arrived the next day, she was sweating, vomiting repeatedly and shaking. Asked what was wrong, she at first pretended she was fine before falling into the other woman's arms, breaking down and saying: "I think I have been raped."She tried to recall what she could of her taxi drive home. She remembered being offered, and accepting, a glass of champagne to celebrate a £33,000 gambling win with the driver. In flashbacks she saw herself on a journey down streets she did not recognise and the driver stopping the vehicle and getting into the back seat clutching a bottle of wine.He said his name was Peter or Paul and repeatedly told her she was lovely, the woman recalled.As they reached her home, the driver changed the direction of the vehicle suddenly and said: "We're going for another drink.""It flung me back in to my seat," the woman said later. "I was feeling very confused and very powerless. All I could do was question where he was going and what he was doing. Physically and mentally I had lost my strength."The woman was told by her cleaner that her drinks may have been spiked and she should go to the police. She did so on 6 February last year.She was sent to a specialist rape referral centre where a doctor discovered abrasions to her neck, the top of her back and her right thigh. Tests revealed lubricant that is used in 60% of condoms in her underpantsUnknown to the woman, her experience was one part of a horrific jigsaw that the police had failed to piece together. Numerous reports had emerged over six years from women who said they had been assaulted in a black cab in London. The women were aged between 18 and 34, professional, well educated and independent.The first reports were made in 2002. Before Worboys was arrested on 15 February last year, 14 women complained to police that they had been assaulted or had an abnormal experience in a black cab. Most of their experiences bore remarkable similarities.In October 2006 a 25-year-old woman from west London told police that she had been picked up by a taxi after a night out in King's Road. The driver chatted and when she complained of a headache he offered her aspirin. He later pulled over and offered her champagne to celebrate a win he claimed he had enjoyed. The woman described how she felt "major brain struggles", and after coming round found, the driver was next to her in the back seat with his hand up her skirt, rubbing her leg and trying to reach her knickers.She gave her clothes for analysis to officers, but a month later did not feel able to go ahead with her complaint and the forensic evidence was destroyed.Nine months later, police were again alerted to an attack by a black-cab driver when a 19-year-old student told officers in Plumstead that she believed she had been sexually assaulted on her way home from a night out in Covent Garden.The student described to officers how the cabby was chatty and told her he was celebrating because he had won a lot of money. Pulling a bundle of cash from a bag, he said he had won £3,000. He asked her to celebrate with him, passing back a glass of champagne. When she refused to drink it, he insisted, saying: "Come on, celebrate with me."The teenager agreed to take a sip, but after the taxi jolted she dropped the glass and it smashed on the floor.Passing her a cup filled with more drink, the driver insisted she take some, becoming aggressive when she refused. At some point the driver showed her three pills and she remembered him forcing one into her mouth.Her next memory was of waking in her bed at 2pm the following day and noticing her tampon had been removed.Police examined CCTV footage outside the teenager's halls of residence, and identified Worboys' black cab.He was arrested on 27 July 2007 but he denied the woman's allegations, saying that she had been drunk and incoherent in his cab and kissed him as he helped her out. His story was supported by a CCTV image of the girl kissing him outside the cab. Worboys submitted his DNA and traces of an antihistamine and a sedative were found in the woman's blood sample.Officers, however, believed Worboys' protestations that he was an honest London cabby. The Crown Prosecution Service was not informed of the case and Worboys was released on bail until, a few months later, the case was dropped. He went on to attack at least 29 more women.In December 2007 – five months after Worboys was arrested and released – a 26-year-old woman made a complaint about a black-cab driver who had picked her up after a night out in Soho.After agreeing to celebrate a win with the driver, the woman, who had taken drugs in the past, agreed to take a pill he offered her. From that moment on she only remembered snapshots: the driver on top of her, her trousers and underpants down by her knees; shouting no; being raped.Two days later she went to police and handed her clothes over for examination. Semen was found on the waistband of her trousers. Although Worboys' DNA was now on the database, no matches or connections with earlier assaults were made.Two weeks later, a 29-year-old insurance broker from Essex who was on her first day back at work after New Year reported being attacked to police.This time Worboys had used one of his aliases, Tony or Paul, and asked the woman if she would have sex for money. She described how she had been so terrified of what he was going to do that she crouched on the floor of the cab so he would not see her pouring the champagne away.Worboys had sat next to her in the back of the taxi, holding the door handle to prevent her escaping as he sexually assaulted her.Screaming and crying, she tried to push him away. Eventually he let her climb out of the cab, shouting as he drove away: "You can't go and say that you've been raped because I always use Durex."There were other women who were assaulted but who did not go to the police. One was a 34-year-old advertising executive who was targeted five days before the new mother.She too remembers little of what happened, except being violently sick when she arrived home, and waking late the following day unsure of what had happened.When Worboys was rearrested, her DNA was found on a sex toy at his home.After missing the pattern of offences for years, detectives investigated the possible links between the assault on the new mother, reported to police in February last year, with the 25-year-old's rape on 21 December 2007 and the sexual assault on the 29-year-old insurance broker two weeks later.Officers believed they were dealing with a serial rapist and decided to make a public appeal to see if other women had experienced similar assaults. They received a call from a member of staff at a sexual assault referral centre in London who alerted them to the arrest of a cab driver in July 2007. This tip-off led the police to Worboys and within hours he was arrested at his home in Rotherhithe, south-east London.Inside his flat and his Fiat Punto car detectives found compelling evidence; small bottles of champagne, clear plastic gloves, a torch, sex toys, condoms, sleeping tablets and a heavy ashtray in which he crushed the powerful drugs to incapacitate his victims.Detective Inspector David Reid, who led the investigation, said it was likely that Worboys had other victims who had not come forward."I want to praise the courage of those women who have come forward, I hope that their confidence in the police has been enhanced by the quality of the investigation," he said. "I want to encourage other women who think they have been assaulted by him to make contact."The number that women can call is 0800 121 4441.