The seven members of the Outlaws motorcycle club who had "murder in their hearts" were told they must serve a minimum of 25 years before they will be considered for parole for the murder of Hells Angel Gerry Tobin. Armed police guarded Birmingham crown court outside which around 100 members of the club, believed to number 200 in the UK, gathered yesterday as the sentences were delivered. "This was an appalling murder," Mr Justice Treacy told the seven as he sentenced them to life. "A totally innocent man was executed for no reason other than that he belonged to a different motorcycle club. Gerry Tobin was a decent man of good character. He was a total stranger to you. The utter pointlessness of what you did makes his murder more shocking." The judge said that the men had "murder in their hearts" as they searched for a Hells Angel to kill on the M40 at the end of the Bulldog Bash motorcycle festival in Warwickshire last year. He added that the life of Tobin's fiancée, Rebecca Smith, had been "utterly changed". Smith has attended the whole trial, sitting with Tobin's mother. He said Tobin's parents had found it difficult to come to terms with the fact their only son had been "cold-bloodedly executed". He told the Outlaws: "None of you has showed the remotest feeling, consideration or remorse for what you did. "This dreadful crime falls into a particularly high category of seriousness because it involved the use of a firearm and because of its cold-blooded and ruthless nature." Simon Turner, 41, from Nuneaton, the chapter's sergeant at arms, was told he must serve a minimum term of 30 years; Dane Garside, 42, 27 years; Sean Creighton, 44, from Coventry, whom police believe was the chapter's president, 28 years and six months after pleading guilty at the start of the trial; Malcolm Bull, 53, from Milton Keynes, 25 years; Dean Taylor, 47, 30 years; Karl Garside, 45, 26 years; and Ian Cameron, 46, all of Coventry, 25 years. Police believe the entire south Warwickshire chapter of the Outlaws, the main rival club to the Hells Angels, was in the dock. The chapter had fallen out among themselves prior to the trial with some of them angry that Bull, the treasurer, had spoken to police after his arrest. Police believe that Creighton's strategy in pleading guilty may have been an attempt to take the blame for himself.