More strikes by prison officers look inevitable in the wake of the government's response to this week's wildcat action. The justice secretary, Jack Straw, is due to meet union leaders today for "meaningful talks", but both sides appeared headed for a confrontation which could spread to other public sector unions.Gordon Brown yesterday made it clear that the government was not prepared to put economic stability "at risk" by changing the way in which the 2.5% pay increase is being implemented in stages. "We have succeeded in tackling inflation and having a stable economy because of discipline in pay over the last 10 years," said Mr Brown. "That discipline will have to continue."His remarks drew an immediate response. "There is a real possibility of further strike action," said Glyn Travis, assistant secretary of the Prison Officers Association. If Mr Brown did not alter his "very forceful" position, "the prison service will face more unlawful action".Mr Travis hoped today's talks would be fruitful, but the union was ready to take more industrial action. He described the strike as "a fantastic victory that showed that the POA is not a toothless tiger." The talks are likely to deal with pay, union rights and prison conditions. Two prison governors were attacked during the strike and one inmate who tried to leave an open prison was caught by striking officers.Prisoners in Leeds applauded staff as they returned, while in Chelmsford, Essex, inmates shook the hands of officers, said Brian Caton, POA general secretary. "We want back our trade union rights," he said. "The strike was a reluctant success, but we have got what we wanted which is talks with Jack Straw and Prison Service officials."Mr Straw defended his ministry's position and criticised the POA's tactics. He also denied he had refused to meet the union. "They gave no warning," he wrote in the Sun. "They gave us no choice but to go to court to enforce the legally-binding agreement not to take industrial action. The POA said we had been refusing meetings. Completely untrue."Prison officers were given an independent pay review body in 2001 by Mr Straw, then home secretary, after an agreement precluding industrial action. Recommended rises have been quite low, between 2.8% (2003) and 1.6% (2006).The strike could prompt action from other public sector workers. "The POA, along with other unions, feel that the heavy hand of the Treasury's 2% pay policy has undermined the review body process," said Alastair Hatchett of Incomes Data Services.A key group looking on in the prison dispute are the police, whose pay from tomorrow has gone to arbitration.Defence workers who supervise the servicing of nuclear submarines at the Royal Navy dockyard in Plymouth are to hold a 24-hour strike today after Babcock, the private contractors, offered a basic pay rise. The move was backed by a majority of 17 to one.