"We were an ordinary working-class family. Garry was a caring, loving, funny and most of all a family man. We did everything together for 26 years. He adored his daughters Zoe, Danielle and Amy - always attended their school sports days and parents' evenings and we were always keen to encourage them to achieve their best."Garry loved cars and music. Every Sunday he would wash his car religiously and mine as well."We did everything together: shopping, hairdressers, you name it, we did it as a family unit. Garry loved doing jobs around the house with his daughter Amy. When they did the gardening, Amy and himself, he would call her his own 'Charlie Dimmock'. They were like a double act."The light has gone out of our lives. It's like a piece of our jigsaw has been lost forever. The tiniest of things that we use to do as a family feels like it takes us forever to achieve them."We all sit at home, the girls and I, and wait for Garry to walk through the door as if he's been to his head office in Coventry for meetings, which sadly we know now will never happen."Amy suffers terrible flashbacks of that night as Zoe and Danielle also do but as they are slightly older they tend to go in quiet moods sitting alone. As regards to myself, I am completely broken-hearted."I am still off work. I have to take medication to help me through the day. Sleepless nights just seeing him in intensive care. I can honestly say that if it wasn't for my three girls and my family, I do not want to live without Garry. It's too hard. My soulmate has gone and I just want to see and hear Garry. To have to turn off his life support machine because of this needless and senseless act, I find hard to comprehend."To think that Garry recovered from stomach cancer 15 years ago and to be taken in such terrible circumstances, it makes you think what is the point of everything?"Amy keeps asking why, when I took all the girls to visit him in hospital, why her dad could not open his eyes. All Amy wanted was for her dad to open his eyes and so he could see that she was there. How do you tell your 13-year-old that he will never open his eyes?"All Amy sees in her mind is the picture of her dad being beaten to death and lying on the ground lifeless."My family and friends have been wonderful. Their support network has been truly comforting to my girls and myself, without which we could not have coped."They have been by my side since that Friday night, especially my sister Marie and my mum and father. My mum has been seriously ill since this and my dad is partially blind and not in good health."I would also like to thank Berg Legal, the company I work for, who have been tremendously supportive both financially and emotionally. As have Garry's company George Fischer. They have been brilliant."As regards to the verdict, as far as I am concerned life should mean life. After all, the tariff for murder is mandatory, but why, as the justice system does not uphold this sentence? There should be no lesser tariff, otherwise what is the point of it being mandatory?"Parents should take responsibility for their children. Garry and I have brought up three girls together to respect other people and to be home, not walking the streets causing damage and intimidating other people by drinking and abusive language."What these people need to understand is that it could be their partners or parents that it happens to. Until this society stops thinking about number one, we should all try and pull together to stop these youth gangs going on rampages."Attacking people verbally and physically under the influence of drink and drugs does not give them the rights to do these acts and does not in any way justify their actions. You do the crime, you must face the consequence and do the time."They should not be allowed to congregate on street corners under the bridges putting fear into people who simply want to just pass them by without any foul-mouth backchat to them."Parents have to face up to their responsibilities. Having children is unconditional and there is not a time limit to it. If the children do not face up to the action, then we have to make the parent face the action."By saying that they do not bother to turn up at court is simply passing the buck. Lock them up as well. Make parents responsible. Give them a deterrent. A deterrent needs to be put into action. We have to make our streets safer to walk out on and not be afraid of retaliation."Until this Government puts into place an effective deterrent, the youth of today know too well that they can get away with their actions. Why not put them in the Army for a certain length of time? If they have plenty of aggression, do it through boot camp."For far, far too long now we have just given them a slap on the wrist and they now know the law better than most decent hard-working people do."To have prevented Garry's death would have been for the police to have acted before this incident. Plenty of police presence warning the youngsters away from our residential streets."Instead they are asked to empty their alcohol and given a stop warning. As soon as they turn their backs, they then go back and drink and smoke more from their hidden stash. Alcohol is a big issue and needs to be addressed as soon as possible."For all too long, youngsters have been drinking and smoking into the early hours and then deciding to do acts of criminal damage and beat people up as a joke because of their influence by the drink and drugs."We all need to keep a closer eye, especially shopkeepers. And it's not just boys that are becoming more aggressive and violent, girls are becoming more violent than the boys. We need to make a stand. Thank you."