It was better, they told me at law school, that 100 guilty men went free than one innocent man be imprisoned. On the acquittal of the 101st criminal, it was presumably in order to lock up one person who hadn't done it. Gradually, that ratio of my student days slipped away. Fifty guilty men, then 10, could escape justice before we could jail an innocent. Of course these were meaningless, nonsense figures. Who is counting anyway? But the silly slogan demonstrated a principle that dominated English criminal law - the presumption of innocence, the need to prove a case against an accused beyond reasonable doubt.The United States, after 9/11, taught us the 21st-century, Guantánamo version of the slogan. Who cares how many innocent people are detained, provided that, somewhere among them, there may be a few terrorists? The rights of the accused? Fair trials? Evidence? How old-fashioned.Tony Blair's government has adopted the new philosophy with enthusiasm, as shown by our own anti-terrorism laws. But it has also started to insinuate itself into the rest of our criminal law. The way Blair and his ministers are trying to sell the new who-cares-about-the-innocent world is by way of a deviously populist approach centred on "the victim" - and using the key, if inappropriate, word "rebalance".Let me translate for you the phrase that the government is so fond of bandying about: "rebalancing the criminal justice system in favour of the victim." This has very little to do with victims. Our aim, the government is really saying, is to put away as many criminals as possible and if, on our trawl, we happen to catch some people who have done nothing whatsoever wrong, well, tough. Sorry and all that, but the police have more important things to do than to gather up evidence to prove that the accused committed the crime. And as for all those rights we give an accused, why, some people actually make use of them to get themselves acquitted!What does rebalancing mean? It suggests a scale, one side of which is weightier than the other. It's a totally misleading image. The victim does not belong on that scale. The English system of criminal justice has never been, is not, and must never be, seen as a contest between two people - an aggressor and a victim. The two parties are the state - acting on behalf of us all, in the interests of lawfulness and stability of society - and the individual who threatens that well-being. The victim is, in our trial system, a mere witness, if usually an essential one.Tony Blair, in his speech in Bristol on Friday, saw the balance in another way. Here is the accused, with too many rights; and here is the victim, with too few. So take some away from A to put onto B's scale. That is absurd. The two are not in conflict. Their rights are not of the same kind and cannot be transferred from one to the other. Besides, how does it help victims if rights taken away from defendants result in innocent people being convicted? Where is the rebalancing there? If there is a case for removing the traditional safeguards within our criminal justice system, let the government argue it openly, and not hide behind the facade of bringing succour to victims.The victim of crime has much to complain about, justifiably; from insufficient protection from the criminal act in the first place, to the low detection rate, through to the way victims are dealt with during the trial process (assuming the crime against them reaches that stage) and finally, dissatisfaction with the verdict and/or sentence imposed.We must never forget that to be a victim of a serious crime, especially one of violence, is a traumatic experience, the mental scars of which last long. I have been lucky, but someone close to me was very nearly killed in a random attack. My point is not that I wish to deny victims the support they deserve. What I am saying is that the government, for political ends, is cynically using the emotionally attractive concept of helping victims in order to sell and justify the dismantling of our fair system of justice.The plight of rape victims within the criminal justice system raises unique issues, but it has one thing in common with what I have described above - innocent men in danger of being wrongly convicted and imprisoned. The overwhelming injustice, though, is to women - the thousands of rapists who are never brought to court, or who face trial and are unjustly acquitted.It is an extraordinary fact that when the police used to treat complainants really badly - disbelieving and bullying them, accusing them of lying and promiscuity, around one in four reported rapes ended in a conviction. Now that the police are trained to be gentle and understanding, to start on the assumption that the complainant is telling the truth, more women report rapes - and conviction rates have plummeted to one in nearly 20, in spite of laws and guidance designed to diminish the woman's ordeal giving evidence in court. In the meantime there has been a shift in the ingredients of typical rapes, with which the law has been unable to cope, and shows no signs of being able to do so in the future.The main problems arise because, today, around four out of five rapes are committed by men known to the victims - often friends, ex-boyfriends, even husbands. But juries are suspicious of sexual allegations mixed up with personal relationships; they are also unhappy where there has been some agreed sexual activity but a dispute about the consensuality of the final act; and they are confused by the issue of consent where the woman has taken much drink. The law's tortuous explanation of how a man is supposed to ensure that the woman has freely consented to sex doesn't help. And last week a government-sponsored report concluded that the law designed to restrict the defendant's right to cross-examine the woman on her sexual history is not working.The law is in a mess and there is no obvious solution. Making it too easy for a woman's evidence to be believed - for instance by banning the defendant from raising points about her behaviour, or their past together - would result in countless miscarriages of justice. But the current law makes it too difficult to convict. It is time to admit that our adversarial mode of trial cannot handle rape. We must find another way.This week Marcel heard Nick Clarke again: "Back from his cancer, the radio voice I've missed most, its mellifluous tones unchanged." Marcel read Great British Bus Journeys, by the Guardian's David McKie: "Filled with astute observations, delightful inconsequentialities, and witty aperçus of obscure places. A wholly unnecessary book, thoroughly captivating."