 Chilling footage of the moments two of the July 7 bombers detonated their deadly devices on the London transport network was shown to a jury today.Previously unreleased film showed clouds of smoke filling a platform at Liverpool Street station 40 seconds after suicide attacker Shezhad Tanweer detonates his bomb. Kingston crown court also saw the resulting chaos and horrified reaction of those near the No 30 bus in Tavistock Square after bomber Hasib Hussain had detonated explosives in his rucksack. The footage was played to the court where three men are standing trial accused of helping the bombers plan their devastating attack. The jury were also shown shocking photographs taken of the carnage caused to the tube trains and bus. The four suicide bombers, Tanweer, Hussain, Mohammed Siddique Khan and Jermaine Lindsay, murdered 52 people and injured hundreds more when they set off their homemade devices in the capital in 2005. Tanweer's bomb killed seven other passengers when it tore apart the carriage of a circle line train heading towards Aldgate. CCTV cameras at Liverpool Street show commuters hurrying on to the train.Soon the busy platform is nearly empty and the train pulls out of the station — but just 40 seconds later a flash is seen in the tunnel. Clouds of dust then partially obscure the view of two cameras on both sides of the track before people on the platform are seen running away.Today, further footage of the attacks from the reception of the British Medical Association building in Tavistock Square, where 13 bus passengers were killed, was also shown. Two people chatting at the front desk are sent diving for cover by the impact of the blast. They struggle to their feet while others outside the building run away. Pictures from a bus which was just ahead of the No 30 also show panicking passengers jumping out of their seats in shock when the vehicle behind them explodes. The detailed shots were shown to the trial of Waheed Ali, 24, from Tower Hamlets, east London and Mohammed Shakil, 31, and Sadeer Saleem, 27, both from Beeston, Leeds, who are accused of conspiring with Khan, Tanweer, Lindsay, Hussain and others unknown to cause explosions between November 17, 2004 and July 8, 2005. All three are alleged to have carried out a previous two-day reconnaissance mission in the capital on December 16 and 17 2004 with Hussain and Lindsay. The defendants deny the charge.The jury first saw pictures of the journey the four bombers made from their homes in Leeds and Aylesbury to Luton railway station on the morning of July 7. The court was also shown the last sighting of the men together as they arrive at King Cross overground line before disappearing into the underground system. The first of the four bombs, detonated by Khan, killed six of his fellow travellers on a circle line train between Edgware Road and Paddington. The jury was shown a picture of the mangled wreckage of the train with the doors and windows blown off and the interior charred and blackened. Similar pictures of the train blown up by Tanweer showed the same devastation with blood stains on the floor. The device exploded by Lindsay murdered 26 passengers on a Piccadilly Line train between Kings Cross and Russell Square. Pictures showed only one side of the train intact after the blast. The jury were earlier shown more footage caught on CCTV cameras of three of the bombers carrying out a reconnaissance trip to London nine days before the July 7 attack. Khan, Tanweer and Lindsay spent four hours in the capital, visiting various locations on the underground network on June 28. They were captured on security cameras meeting at Luton railway station before going to King's Cross and then on to tube stations at Embankment, South Kensington and Baker Street. The court was shown clips of the trio mingling with commuters, buying tickets and travelling up and down escalators on the transport network. The trial was adjourned until tomorrow.