Scotland Yard faces fresh questions this week over its failure to monitor Michael Pech, the man who murdered the Harvey Nichols beautician Clare Bernal, with claims that officers overlooked evidence that showed his behaviour was becoming increasingly obsessive.The resumption of the high-profile inquest this week will hear that Clare's two flatmates and Pech's former manager had become worried for the safety of the 23-year-old. Metropolitan Police officers, however, did not take statements from them when initially assessing whether Pech, 30, posed a risk.Pech, who was her ex-boyfriend, was seen creeping among shoppers in Harvey Nichols' Knightsbridge store before pulling a gun and shooting the beauty consultant in the back of the head in September last year. Five months earlier, Clare had told officers that Pech had threatened to kill her.Despite being on bail after earlier pleading guilty to harassing Clare, Pech was allowed to travel to Slovakia without supervision. There, he acquired a firearms licence and then smuggled a Luger pistol into Britain on a tourist coach. Pech murdered Clare less than two weeks after being released on bail.Clare's mother, Tricia said: 'I am just a mum who in her naivety thought that the police would protect my daughter. Supervision was nil. There was no risk assessment or thought given to the whereabouts of Pech for months.' She wants a full public inquiry into her daughter's death so that lessons can be learned to prevent a repeat of the tragedy.The Westminster coroner, Dr Paul Knapman, is expected to ask Scotland Yard to explain why a known stalker was free to shoot dead a young woman.Commander Steve Allen, head of the police's violent crime directorate, and most senior Metropolitan Police officer on tackling domestic abuse, will defend its response amid claims from women's charities that police need to adopt a tougher stance.It is understood that the inquest will consider a dossier collated by the man who managed Pech, who worked for a period at Harvey Nichols as a security guard, which raised questions about Pech's stability. One entry is believed to document a conversation between Pech and a colleague during which he had asked about the sentence for murder in Britain. The police did not take the dossier into account, it will be alleged.Pech, who came to Britain in 2003 and lived in Tottenham, north London, had dated Clare for a few weeks in February last year. Clare's two female flatmates will, for the first time, reveal at the inquest that they too had been intimidated by Pech, who met Clare at the department store.On one occasion, Czech-born Pech watched one of her flatmates for three hours. They had warned Clare her new boyfriend might not be all he seemed after they caught him laughing at a woman suffering an epileptic fit. Yet officers chose not to interview the flatmates when attempting to assess whether Pech posed a danger.In legal papers sent to the coroner last week there are also allegations that regulations introduced to protect women from violent stalkers have still not been properly implemented.Among them is a statement from Frank Mullane, whose sister Julia Pemberton was murdered by her estranged husband despite police being repeatedly told of his death threats. Mullane is adamant that weaknesses in the system for assessing the danger posed by men like Pech remain. In his statement to the coroner Mullane cites 'key deficiencies', including 'ineffective' risk assessment and 'patchy and often inadequate' training for domestic violence incidents.Although a full risk assessment of Pech was required, none was carried out on the former Slovakian soldier. Procedures introduced to ascertain a stalker's potential threat were also ignored, it will be alleged.An internal police review into Clare's death found that even if a risk assessment had been carried out Pech would have appeared to be low-risk because he was 'not known' to police before Clare's complaints. It also concluded that officers could not have prevented her death.The inquest coincides with concern over the rising number of murders committed by former and current partners. There were 75 murders by partners or ex-partners recorded between April and October this year, suggesting that the average of 130 a year will be surpassed. 'There is nothing to indicate that the level of abuse is diminishing,' said Deborah McIlveen of the Women's Aid charity.Missed warnings: women who were killed despite official knowledge of the threatHayley Richards, 23, from Trowbridge, Wiltshire, was murdered by ex-boyfriend. Hugo Quintas in June last year. A week before, police were told that the Portuguese factory worker had threatened to kill her and attacked her so violently she needed hospital treatment. Officers judged that the risk of Quintas attacking again was low. Less than a week after her phone call, Quintas cut her throat in her flat. She was pregnant. Hayley told police where they could find Quintas, but officers who could have responded were already dealing with a report of a dog locked in a car. The Independent Police Complaints Commission blamed 'institutional failings'. Last March Quintas, 24, was jailed for a minimum of 18 years.Julia Pemberton, 47, from Hermitage, Berkshire, was shot four times by her estranged husband in November 2003. Before the killing, she reported three incidents of serious abuse to Thames Valley police, but insufficient action was taken. Julia had suffered years of emotional abuse by the wealthy accountant. Alan Pemberton killed their 17-year-old son outside their home while Julia hid insde and called 999. An operator heard her scream: 'Oh my God, I'm going to die,' before gunshots are heard. Thames Valley Police were criticised for taking almost seven hours to enter the £975,000 property. Pemberton, 47, shot himself.Rana Faruqui, 35, of Farnham Common, Buckinghamshire, was stabbed to death by her ex-boyfriend in August 2003. Police were aware of Faruqui's concerns over the behaviour of Stephen Griffiths. Her death followed a four-month campaign of stalking and harassment after she had split up with Griffiths. Moments before she was killed, a 999 operator heard her pleading with Griffiths to leave her alone. Thames Valley admitted it should have followed up a complaint by Faruqui about Griffiths two weeks before she was killed, when he tampered with the brakes of her car. Griffiths, 41, was jailed for life in July last year and was ordered to serve at least 11 years before being considered for parole.