Violence against women is a significant issue in our society, and abuse against women and girls is widespread, with one in four women experiencing domestic violence at some point during their lifetime. The sentencing of the artist Graham Ovenden, who received a suspended jail sentence despite being convicted of sexually abusing young girls, sends an extremely dangerous message about how seriously the courts take the abuse of girls. At Women's Aid we work closely with the police and CPS to raise awareness of domestic and sexual violence and feel that this low sentence undermines efforts to send a clear message that abuse against women and girls will not be tolerated.Victims feel unable to disclose abuse when they feel that they will not be believed, and public attitudes play a significant role in this. Low sentencing, regardless of the age of the perpetrator – in this case Ovenden's age was used as a reason why he should not receive a heavier sentence – is likely to affect the number of girls who will come forward and report abuse in the future. Having worked with survivors of abuse who have decided not to press charges against their abuser, we know that the potential sentence the perpetrator could receive plays a key role in their decision as to whether or not to go to court and relive a traumatic experience in public.Young people need us to help protect them and never to imply that they are to blame for the abuse they experience. Most recently, the children in the Philpott case were described as being "feral" and a product of their parents abusing the benefit system, as opposed to children living in a home where there was severe domestic violence happening. In the Oxford and Telford cases, the 14-year-old girls reporting repeated sexual assaults were dismissed on the basis that they had "chosen" their lifestyle by working in prostitution.Public awareness and education about what constitutes a healthy relationship and what is abuse is vital for young people. They need to be equipped with this knowledge so that they recognise abuse when it is happening and know where they can seek help and support, as well as making every effort to identify abuse where it is happening and address it. We have to ensure that young people know that abuse is never acceptable, even in the name of art. (Ovenden was investigated twice on charges of creating child pornography, but these cases were rejected on the basis that the photographs were "artistically significant"). However, this needs to be backed by our legal system. We can send out all the information and messages we have, but without perpetrators of abuse being held accountable and sentenced accordingly, we will have limited impact.