From last week, a magistrate or judge who imposes a fine on a convicted offender - whatever the crime - is obliged to slap on a £15 surcharge. Unlike fuel surcharges on airline passengers, this one has no valid excuse. The money raised will not be used to meet the increased costs of running the courts, or anything like that. Instead it is to go into a fund to provide services (but not compensation) for victims of crime, with special emphasis on domestic violence. I am not against giving victims more help; but this method of financing is objectionable in principle and unjust in practice.Take motorists convicted of driving offences - likely to be the main group affected, at least in the early days. Why should a careless driver be forced to give money to a scheme that stops husbands beating up their wives? It would be different if the surcharge went to, say, a project to improve road safety, or a hospital dealing with victims of car accidents. There would at least be a logical, commonsense link. Where there is no such connection, offenders may understandably feel a sense of injustice.I can see it would be difficult always to steer the surcharge to an appropriate cause, but laying down that all surcharges from magistrates courts in England and Wales will go to one cause, for which the government hasn't enough money, is highly unsatisfactory. In effect it's a form of haphazard taxation.The surcharge will usually have to be paid only by offenders guilty of the most minor offences, and usually by those with little money. It only applies to fines - not custodial or community sentences. That leaves mainly offences dealt with in the magistrates courts, such as (apart from those involving bad driving) petty theft, trivial criminal damage, possessing small quantities of cannabis or not having a TV licence. Moreover, it does not apply to fixed penalties or on-the-spot fines, which means someone fined £20 for being drunk and disorderly pays it, while a driver getting a £60 fixed penalty and three points for talking on his mobile doesn't.Surcharges are a bad idea. They are illogical, unfair, hit the wrong people and breach the principle that the punishment should fit the crime. If the fine is the correct sentence, what then is the surcharge?An Austrian judge is making up her mind whether to award a British woman the legal guardianship of a 26-year-old chimpanzee called Hiasl.If she rules in the woman's favour it will, regrettably, be seen as an important legal step towards accepting that primates have human rights. I really hope she doesn't.