There is surely something rickety about a bandwagon that the Daily Mail refuses to clamber on to. Yet doubts about John Reid's latest tough talking extend well beyond liberals to criminal justice professionals and the more Conservative end of Fleet Street. Last night No 10 admitted difficulties. Reid has floated two ideas - removing paedophiles from probation hostels near schools, and introducing a British version of Megan's law, which in the US makes public the details and addresses of child sex offenders. Both proposals are based on the idea that children's distance from offenders' accommodation is crucial. But paedophiles who are in the community move around. Recent cases show how those set on abducting a child may travel miles to secure anonymity. So any security parents may feel from knowing that no paedophile lives nearby could be tragically misplaced.In raising Megan's law, the home secretary reasonably argues that, in the modern age, officials cannot keep information from the public without good reason. But in this field - as in others where Mr Reid's passion for openness is not always so evident - some very good reasons do exist. Residents discovering offenders living in their street may campaign for them to leave. Although this outcome might assuage local anxieties, it achieves nothing more than the displacement of a problem from one area to another. At the same time, probation staff charged with rehabilitation see their work disrupted when clients are forced to move.Fairness has to balance retribution, and once offenders have served their sentence they do not deserve ongoing punishment, by witch-hunt or any other means. Interventions might still be needed for public protection, but on this count too, imposing indelible stigma is damaging. Those with no hope of work or community involvement have less to lose, and may be most tempted to re-offend. Hounded offenders may change identities and go underground, in the process being lost to the authorities who we rely on to monitor them and block them from unsuitable jobs. It is reported that in the US proportionately fewer paedophiles fulfil registration requirements than in this country.The proposal responds to pressure from the Murdoch press, which Labour is increasingly nervous about, and it won glowing headlines in the News of the World. But it will achieve little else and runs big risks. That is why Jack Straw rejected it several years ago. Mr Reid's hasty decision to change tack is a worrying sign that he places even more emphasis on political quick fixes than his predecessors.