Detectives and the family of the murdered skydiver Stephen Hilder joined forces yesterday in an appeal for help which reflected the frustrations of the four-month-old inquiry.The officer leading the investigation, which has seen three men arrested and bailed without charge, hit out at false information about alleged love triangles involving the army cadet, and other "deliberate lies". But Det Supt Colin Andrews acknowledged that interviews with 2,417 people, including every skydiver who took part in a summer "student week" at Hibaldstow airfield, north Lincolnshire, where Mr Hilder's parachute straps were cut, had so far failed to establish a motive. A further 765 written statements had also left officers with the feeling that the killing, which saw 20-year-old Mr Hilder plummet 4,000 metres (13,000ft) to his death, may have been a misjudged prank. "Stephen had one or two disagreements with people in Hibaldstow during the week. We are looking at individual disagreements as possible motives," said Det Supt Andrews. "Whoever did this must have been a skydiver, and must have been at Hibaldstow around the time. We think that whoever did this to Stephen, did it in the heat of the moment. The probability is that Stephen knew his killer." Three men have been arrested, one from Leeds, where Humberside police questioned members of the Leeds University skydiving club. The other two were cadets with Mr Hilder at the Royal College of Military Science in Shrivenham, Wiltshire. Adrian Blair, 19, who was a pallbearer at Mr Hilder's funeral, and David Mason, also 19, were with him on his last skydive. Both were arrested on suspicion of murder two months ago, and released on bail after two days of questioning. Mr Hilder's parents, Paul and Mary, said that the death of their son, who would have been 21 yesterday, made even less sense than five months ago, but they were confident that the killer would be caught. Speaking at Hereford, where Stephen was brought up before going to Bristol University and then joining the army, Mrs Hilder said: "Stephen was bright, intelligent and fun-loving. "He should be celebrating his 21st birthday next week. He should be going out on the beer with his mates. He would be at the Shrivenham Ball tonight." Police have extended their inquiries to Cyprus, Russia and South Africa, following a network of participants in the freefall student championships which Stephen's army team was on the brink of winning when he died. Forensic work continues on parts of his parachute recovered from a field near Hibaldstow only a fortnight ago.