The figures showing a fall in crime are good news, and sensible opposition parties should say so. Whatever the Conservatives say now, when they were in government they trumpeted the British Crime Survey numbers – and they now show a drop. This should be welcome to any progressive, as crime hits the poor hardest, and they are least able to withstand its consequences. The improvement is particularly welcome during a deep recession, when acquisitive crime often rises. The figures certainly expose the flaws in David Cameron's hysterical idea about a broken society. But the government should not crow or take the credit.Crime rates depend on many factors, such as security technology and demographics, and they have fallen steadily since the mid-1990s in most countries in western Europe.That does not mean that there is room for complacency. Today's figures also revealed that only half of those surveyed think the police are dealing with the crime and antisocial behaviour that matters to them. This figure may be going up but it is still lamentably low. It is a direct result of Labour's target-driven, box-ticking approach to policing imposed from the top down. Their ridiculous "offences brought to justice" target gave the same importance to all crimes, regardless of their severity. They forced police to focus on things other than the people they served and they bound them up in endless red tape. The recent improvement in public confidence is down to Labour's conversion to long-held Liberal Democrat policies such as neighbourhood policing and scrapping centralised targets.We must cut crime, and the fear of crime. Public confidence in the police is too low, and worryingly declines when the public come into contact with officers. This means we need not just more police, but also better police. We need a longer arm for the law and that is why the Liberal Democrats are the only party committed to increasing police numbers. We would also cut police red tape, and give local people a bigger say in policing through the election of police authorities. And we would not duck the reform of police working practices ignored by Labour and the Tories, despite countless reviews.It is time to examine the single point of entry; pay by seniority rather than talent or effort; and the "job for life" mentality.Neither Labour nor the Tories are even fully committed to protecting current police numbers. They both remain fonder of posturing about penalties and prison than promoting what really works – prevention and detection. The prison population has more than doubled in the last 20 years (which costs us an extra £2bn a year) and yet both still promise more. Crime is falling and yet the number of people behind bars is soaring. It is simply not true to say that one follows from the other. We have the second highest crime rate in Europe (after Sweden) and yet the highest rate of incarceration (except for Luxembourg). In other countries such as Denmark and Canada, falling crime has gone hand in hand with falling prison populations.At present, our prisons are merely colleges of crime. More than half of all prisoners reoffend within two years of release and this figure rises to nine out of ten young men sentenced to a first short custodial sentence. At £41,000 a year each, prison is an expensive way of turning people into more skilful criminals. Labour and the Tories still want more people incarcerated, not because it works, but because it sounds tough. As a result, criminal justice policy in this country has been reduced to a sentencing arms race between the two parties in a bid to pander to the whims of tabloid newspaper editors.We should take advantage of falling crime rates to pursue criminal justice policies we know work better to cut crime – restorative justice, intensive policing in crime hot spots and rigorously enforced community punishments instead of short prison sentences to name but a few. Combined with more and better police, which would mean a real deterrent as more crimes were brought to justice, the result would be a much more substantial drop in crime.