When I took over as chief constable in Northern Ireland I formed the view that I would talk to anyone who wanted to make a difference to policing. Against that background I talked to politicians from all sides in the Northern Ireland context and, of course, I had a policing board that held me to account. I learned that it is vital to talk. As a consequence of those conversations, difficult though many of them were, people are alive today who would not have been and that is a pretty good backdrop against which one can justify policing decisions. But any proposal to introduce a locally elected figure who can instruct chief officers in how to deliver policing would represent a fundamental shift.Policing has an impact on political decision-making, and perhaps nowhere more so than in Northern Ireland. I will absolutely defend the right of the police service to take part in any conversation about the future of policing and I believe it is vital that we do so. Anyone with an interest in a serious debate about protecting the public has a right to hear the view of those who lead the service, who understand it and who carry accountability for the decisions they make.Robert Peel's most often quoted principle, "the police are the public and the public are the police", enshrines the importance of accountability. Police chiefs universally embrace that principle and recognise how essential it is to their effectiveness. It is why, in just over seven years in Northern Ireland, I missed only two of 65 meetings of the policing board, and then only with regret and when unavoidable. It is important, however, not to confuse effective accountability with direct political control.What I did not do in Northern Ireland was to compromise my position as a police officer. I made absolutely clear to all those who I did speak to, privately or publicly, that I would do the policing. Chief officers must be free to make professional judgments about the situations they face. Of course they must be held to account for those judgments, and on occasions they will get them wrong. But the strength of the British brand of policing that remains respected around the world is that chief constables are operationally independent and held to account. That is why police officers swear their oath to the Queen to serve with fairness, integrity, diligence and impartiality.Even the perception that operational policing is directed by political interests threatens the impartiality that is so valued in this country. It also ignores the critical balance between local, national and international, and in so doing would make us less safe. Policing that meets the priorities of each street and neighbourhood is vital; so is recognising that terrorists, serious criminals and violent and sexual offenders do not respect boundaries, and that the violence they commit must be tackled before it is visited on neighbourhoods and communities.The world has moved on since 1962, when a royal commission established the current policing arrangements, which is why an independent review of policing structures may be timely. Police chiefs across the 44 forces must be accountable for the service they deliver. And hand in hand with that accountability goes a need to listen and respond to public priorities and concern, without anyone fearing that what they do is guided by political motives or pressure.