Children's charities today criticised the coalition's plans to replace asbos with a new regime to tackle anti-social behaviour as little more than a rebranding exercise that would continue to demonise young people.But the home secretary, Theresa May, insisted that the new streamlined proposals would provide faster and more visible justice for victims and communities without unnecessarily criminalising teenagers.The home secretary confirmed today that the battery of 19 different powers including asbos, developed by Tony Blair's Labour government to tackle antisocial behaviour, are to be replaced by five orders containing similar powers. In one case – the use of detention for teenagers who repeatedly breach a civil order – the new powers may even be even tougher than in Labour's old regime.May said the new regime would transform the way anti-social behaviour is dealt with by simplifying the tools available to the police and local authorities and scrapping bureaucratic, slow and expensive measures, such as the asbo.The new regime will include:• Criminal behaviour orders: This will replace asbos, crasbos – asbos on conviction – individual support orders (ISOs), and intervention orders (IOs). They will be available to a court on conviction for any criminal offence and will include preventative bans and support to stop future behaviour likely to lead to further anti-social behaviour or crimes. They can be imposed on anyone over the age of 10and a breach will carry a prison sentence of up to five years. To be used, for example, in the case of drug dealers and harassment cases.• Crime prevention injunctions: Also replacing asbos, crasbos, ISOs and IOs. A purely civil order imposed by a court with a lower civil burden of proof, making it quicker and easier to obtain. Hearsay evidence and professional witnesses would be permitted. An injunction would place restrictions on an individual's future behaviour and impose requirements that they address underlying problems. County court and youth courts are to be given powers to impose detention orders, curfews and supervision orders in cases of serious breach even though these remain "civil sanctions". Could be used in neighbourhood disputes.• Community protection orders (level one): To replace litter clearing, graffiti removal and noise abatement notices. A notice issued by the police, council or housing association staff requiring an individual to stop anti-social behaviour and make good – for example to clear up litter.• Community protection orders (level two): This will replace crackhouse and brothel closure orders, designated public place orders, special interim management orders, gating orders and dog control orders. Police and local authorities will have the power to restrict the use of a place or apply to the courts to close a property linked with persistent anti-social behaviour.• Police "direction" power: To replace dispersal orders and direction to leave powers. This gives the police and community support officers the power to tell any individual causing or likely to cause crime or disorder to leave a particular place, and to confiscate related items, such as alcoholic drinks.• Community trigger: similar to the "community call to action" on the statute book since April 2009, police action can be triggered by five individuals from different households without the need to be backed by a ward councillor. An investigation can also be triggered if nothing is done after an individual complains more than three times. To be used to ensure the police and other agencies deal with persistent anti-social behaviour. Vexatious or malicious complaints would be weeded out. Local authorities will have to respond within 14 days.Home Office ministers hope the new powers, and the introduction last week of street level crime maps, will mark the start of a more effective drive against anti-social behaviour.They said reports that the police were to be given on-the-spot powers to seize teenagers' iPods or other belongings were not accurate. The justice ministry is, however, looking at giving the courts wider powers to order asset seizures.Louise Casey, the victim's commissioner, who was once Blair's "anti-yob tsar" said she was heartened by proposals that put tough enforcement action against perpetrators at the centre. "This has often been caricatured as an infringement of civil liberties or a campaign to give all young people a bad name. This is nonsense. It's actually about protecting decent people, often the poorest people, by putting in very reasonable controls over incessantly nasty behaviour – actually most often perpetrated by adults. So I'm pleased that a tough approach against this is on course to continue," she said.But Bob Reitemeier, chief executive of the Children's Society, said: "This appears to be more of a rebranding exercise than anything else and is a missed opportunity to adopt a more effective approach for dealing with children and young people who are deemed to be antisocial. There is no doubt that sometimes difficult behaviour, particularly by teenagers, remains an issue of great concern in many neighbourhoods. But rather than continue to demonise children and punish them without addressing their behaviour, there is an urgent need to develop real solutions that make a genuine difference to children, families and communities."