A police officer responding to a 999 call was stabbed to death yesterday in a scuffle in which two members of the public were also knifed.PC Jonathan Charles Henry, 36, who was known to his family and friends as Jon, had begun his shift barely 15 minutes earlier when he responded to a reported stabbing in Luton town centre at 7:18am.PC Henry was wearing a stabproof vest, but died from his injuries shortly after being taken to Luton and Dunstable Hospital. It is believed he was stabbed in the shoulder or neck. He leaves a wife Mary and a 11-month-old daughter Maggie. He had been a police officer with the Bedfordshire force since May 2004.By the time PC Henry arrived on the scene in George Street the knifeman had already attacked two members of the public. Yesterday a 53-year-old man was in Luton and Dunstable Hospital in a serious but stable condition. Another man was being treated for minor injuries.Police said that they were unclear of the sequence of events, but that during the altercation two armed officers fired a Taser stun gun and a baton round.Nimesh Patel, 27, a newsagent who was in his shop opposite the scene, said: "There were 15-20 police officers surrounding this guy with a knife in his left hand. He was refusing to put the knife down, so one of them pointed a gun at him, and what looked like a string shot out of it. I think it was a Taser gun. He was lying on the floor and was out cold for around 15 minutes, and during that time the police handcuffed him before taking him away."Detective Superintendent Keith Garwood of Bedfordshire police refused to be drawn on when the baton round was fired, but said PC Henry was seriously injured in front of his colleagues.Gillian Parker, the chief constable of Bedfordshire police, paid tribute to PC Henry yesterday. She said: "Jon, today like any other day, was responding to a call for help from a member of the public. His dedication to his duty cost him his life and leaves Bedfordshire police sad at his death but proud that he was one of us."A man arrested at the scene on suspicion of murder was in police custody last night.