Three men have been arrested over reports of alleged sexual assault and false imprisonment at an Islamic girls' school in Lancashire.Police said they were investigating reports of concerns about the welfare of a small group of teenage girls within the grounds of the Jamea al-Kauthar school on Ashton Road in Lancaster.A 40-year-old man from Bolton and a 30-year-old man from Blackburn had been arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and false imprisonment. A 53-year-old man from Blackburn had been arrested on suspicion of false imprisonment. All were in custody.Lancashire police said: "We are still at the very early stages of the investigation and our aim at the moment is to respond to the concerns raised proportionately, in a measured way and with sensitivity."Searches at the school are being conducted by specialist female officers with sensitivity and are being carried out as quickly as possible to ensure minimum impact."We are working closely with the school and the local authorities to establish the circumstances around exactly what has taken place, and we have specialist officers supporting the victims."The independent Jamea al-Kauthar school opened in 1996 in a listed building set in its own grounds. It caters for 410 residential girls aged 11 to 20 from all over the world. Last year, more than 90% of the school's year 11 pupils attained five or more A*-C grades in their GCSEs for the fifth year running.In 2010, Ofsted rated the school's provision for students' overall welfare, health and safety as "outstanding" – the highest possible rating. The report says: "Parents express entirely positive views about the care the school provides, with one parent commenting, 'If I had 10 daughters, I would send them all to Jamea al-Kauthar.' Students share this view and say they feel exceptionally safe within the school premises. There is very little bullying."A statement posted on Jamea al-Kauthar's website said: "The school is aware of the allegations that have been made and at the present moment the school is fully co-operating with the police with their investigations into the matter. The school will publish a statement of any details it receives, once this has been received. We expect the matter to be cleared up soon."