An actor from the hit TV series Game of Thrones has had part of his ear bitten off, it has emerged.Clive Mantle, who was also a longstanding cast member on the BBC medical drama Casualty, was attacked at the Travelodge in Foster Street in Newcastle after a dispute over noise, according to his agent. Following the attack, which happened in the early hours of Sunday morning, Mantle underwent emergency surgery to have his ear sewn back on.The 55-year-old actor had finished a run in The Ladykillers at the Theatre Royal in Newcastle when the attack occurred. It is believed that Mantle asked a group of men to keep the noise down outside his hotel room before he was attacked.A 32-year-old man from Hamilton in South Lanarkshire has been charged with wounding with intent and will appear before magistrates next month.Mantle's agents, the London-based Sarahband Associates, said surgeons at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary had managed to sew the top part of the actor's right ear back on. A spokesman said he believed the actor was attacked in the hotel after asking other guests to keep the noise down."He is very shaken and shocked by what has happened. You don't expect this kind of thing to happen in a hotel," said the spokesman. "The part of the ear that was bitten off was found and sewn back on. Mr Mantle said the police, ambulance and hospital staff were amazing."Another man has been released on bail in connection with the attack and a third man released without charge.Mantle had finished the Newcastle run of The Ladykillers on Saturday evening. The show's tour began in September last year and has a further three weeks left to run. Mantle has now left the production on medical advice.Jon Bath, head of production for the show's producer Fiery Angel, told The Stage that the attack was "horrifying and disgusting and has shaken everyone up". He added: "We'll be keeping in close touch with Clive while he recovers and wish him a speedy recovery."Mantle, who is over 1.95 metres (6ft 5in) tall, played Greatjon Umber, a Northern lord, in the first series of Game of Thrones. In Casualty he played the surgeon Mike Barrett.