The parents of Milly Dowler said yesterday they would not rest until the "monster" who killed her was caught.But Sally and Robert Dowler also expressed relief that the "agonising wait" for news of the 13-year-old, who vanished six months ago, was over. Police continued to comb the area in Yateley Heath forest, near Fleet in Hampshire, where the remains were discovered last week. They revealed that they have not found any of the girl's clothes or possessions. Over the next few days officers will try to track down people who might have been in the forest in the hours and days after Milly disappeared as she walked home in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, on March 21. They will also speak to paedophiles, and check whether anyone who knew Milly has links with the area where the body was found, which is 25 miles from her home. The Dowlers, who had long braced themselves for the confirmation that Milly had been killed, sought comfort at a service in St Mary's church, near their home. A congregation of 250 prayed for justice for Milly. The Rev Graham Holdaway, who led the service, told the congregation how the church lit a candle for Milly when she disappeared in the hope that she would return. He said: "That hope has now been taken away from us." Before the service, the Dowlers released a statement which said: "At last the long agonising wait is over. Now we can bring her home and say goodbye. A feeling of relief but so very, very sad. No one can hurt her now, darling Milly." They added: "We will not rest until the monster responsible for this ghastly crime is brought to justice and is behind bars." The girl's skull and some bones were found in woods close to the M3 on Wednesday. After dental record checks, the huge missing person hunt was upgraded to a murder inquiry on Friday. Yesterday, police brought in six victim recovery dogs to see whether any more remains were hidden in the area, and made house to house in quiries. Appealing to people who use the area, Detective Chief Superintendent Craig Denholm, who is heading the investigation, asked: "Can you remember seeing anything unusual? Can you remember seeing a teenager that fits the description of Milly?" Since Thursday when news broke that remains had been found, police have received around 350 calls from the public passing on information. Meanwhile, Milly's 16-year-old sister, Gemma, in an interview given before the remains were found, said that if Milly were found dead, "It would be horrible but at least we would be able to move on. When someone dies, you grieve, but eventually life carries on again."