Magistrates should be stripped of the power to jail offenders, prison governors demanded yesterday, as the prison population soared to a record of nearly 70,000 inmates. With numbers since Christmas rising by between 300 and 600 extra prisoners a week, the penal system is close to capacity. At the current rate of expansion, police cells will have to be used as emergency, overflow accommodation in a little over a month. Warning of the impending crisis, Mike Newell, president of the Prison Governors' Association, said radical action was needed to reduce numbers. Too many people who had committed less serious crimes were being locked up. "Magistrates have a wide range of community penalties available to them, but they insist on imposing inappropriate prison sentences," he said. "These powers should now be taken away from them to stop such inappropriate sentencing. "Sending people to prison for short sentences often causes more harm than good. People can lose their homes, their jobs and their families. There are 4,000 people serving sentences of a week or less. If these people had not been sent to prison, the pressure on the system would not be so great. "Only this week a 77-year-old man was jailed for seven days for not filling in his census form properly. That cannot be right. If magistrates are not going to use their powers properly, they should be stripped of them." Much of the recent increase appears to be due to a sharp rise in remand prisoners (up 13% over the past year) and in the number of women being sent to jail (up 21% over the same period). The reluctance to grant bail may reflect heightened public concerns about street crimes such as carjacking and mugging. The Home Office has opened 26 new prisons since 1992. The capacity of the system is now 71,834, according to the Prison Reform Trust, which said the prison system in England and Wales was "in crisis". England and Wales has the second highest imprisonment rate per head of population in western Europe, with 125 inmates for every 100,000 people. Only Portugal imprisons a higher proportion. The most overcrowded prisons are currently Shrewsbury ( which has 338 prisoners in accommodation intended for 185) and Preston (with 556 prisoners in accommodation intended for 306). The Home Office yesterday said there were 69,892 people in the prison system but admitted this would probably reach 70,000 by early next week. The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, said: "Things are very tight at the moment. For the last three weeks there has been an utterly inexplicable rise in the prison population of about 600 prisoners a week." Last month the Guardian revealed that Mr Narey privately told governors that they had to make much greater use of the early release home detention curfew scheme because prison numbers were "reaching crisis point". The home secretary, David Blunkett, has ordered that the scheme be extended so that inmates who qualify are released three months - instead of two months - early. Prison governors say they do not have the resources to implement the scheme and anticipate being blamed for any reoffending committed by those freed before the end of their sentence.