A new law to use civil powers to confiscate ill-gotten fortunes worth £220m from 39 big gangsters who have so far escaped criminal conviction was unveiled yesterday by the home secretary, Jack Straw.Mr Straw's draft proceeds of crime bill has attracted criticism from civil liberties groups. The bill, to be introduced later this year, would set up a criminal assets recovery agency charged with the task of hunting down cash, houses, cars and other wealth accumulated through criminal activity. It is estimated that up to £650m a year might be generated through criminal activity in Britain, while only £44m was seized last year under current powers. The 335 clause draft bill published yesterday confirmed that the courts would be able to issue confiscation orders using a lower standard of proof - the balance of probabilities - rather than the criminal test of "proving beyond reasonable doubt" that the assets concerned are the profits of criminal activity. But the legislation does not go as far as was originally feared by civil liberties groups and reverse the burden of proof so that the accused would have to prove that their wealth was legitimately acquired. Mr Straw said that £54m would be spent on setting up the criminal assets recovery agency, which could be in business as early as next year. "There are individuals and families who are well known to the police as people who are organisers of large-scale criminal rackets. "They may have begun their criminal activity many years ago but by one means or another have managed to detach themselves from the commission of offences. They have therefore made proceedings against them very difficult and yet they have large houses and cars and live in a wealthy way but give no reasonable explanation as to how they came by their assets," said Mr Straw. The draft law would give the new agency the power to seize property at the start of a criminal investigation instead of waiting until a charge is brought. The agency would also have the power to tax individuals and require financial institutions to identify any accounts held by a person under investigation and full transaction details. The offence of failing to report knowledge or suspicion of drug money laundering, which carries a sentence of up to five years, is to be extended to all types of money laundering. Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, warned however that if a civil procedure is to be introduced it should only be allowed once all criminal options have been pursued. "Civil forfeiture cannot be used to side step normal criminal procedure," he said.