Tuesday was Remembrance Day but alongside the commemoration of fallen soldiers came another roll-call: Maria Colwell, Jasmine Beckford, Victoria Climbié - all children killed by a parent, step-parent or guardian - and the newest addition, Baby P, identified by a single, lonely consonant. On Thursday he was joined by two more - Delayno Mullings-Sewell, aged three months, and his older brother Romario, two; their 21-year-old mother has been sectioned under the Mental Health Act.Curiously, most of the frenzied debate this week has not been about the perpetrators of these crimes but about those who supposedly could have prevented them - social workers. Consequently, we know far more about child protection services and their deficiencies than we do about what makes women damage and kill their children or stand by while their partners do so. There is a profound reluctance, it seems, to look beyond the final stages of these children's lives, to try to understand how those who bore ultimate responsibility for their care could have turned into those who ended their lives or were complicit in abusing them.Perhaps this is just inevitable revulsion. Filicide, the murder by a parent of their child, violates everything we believe about parenting: it seems the most unnatural of crimes. Historically, of course, this is balderdash. Parents have always killed their children, especially their infants: it was a way of getting rid of unwanted or "surplus" babies. Only when the birth rate fell at the end of the 19th century did the value of a baby's life rise. In 2006-7 there were 68 victims of homicide under the age of 16: half of them were killed by a parent. What do we know about the motives of such parents? There are strong gender differences. More men than women, for example, are likely to carry out "retaliatory killings", where anger at a partner is displaced on to a child. This is borne out by the succession of recent high-profile cases of men who killed their children when their marriages were fissuring. Similarly, "discipline killings", resulting from a misguided attempt to discipline or punish a child for what is seen as annoying or disobedient behaviour (but which might be absolutely appropriate to their age), are more common among men than women. Depressed mothers, on the other hand, more commonly commit "altruistic filicide" in which they see death as being in the child's best interests. Mothers are also more likely to be psychotic and suffering from delusions, believing that their child is possessed by the devil and must be released. What's shocking about these sex differences is how they conform to traditional gender roles, albeit in a magnified, violent way - the fathers dominant and sexually possessive, while the "altruistic" women have somehow taken the idea of nurturing to a perverse extreme. There's also a grotesque element of stand-by-your-man-ism in cases such as Baby P's and that of Amy Howson, whose father received a life sentence two weeks ago for her murder at 16 months. Like Baby P's, Amy's spine had been broken and she had 40 injuries. Her mother, meanwhile, was described in court as "dominated by her partner": she received a suspended sentence for allowing her child to die. The way in which these women apparently placate their violent partner and place his needs above those of their child are truly disturbing. But isn't there a problem in seeing women who kill their children as essentially passive? Is this the only way we can make sense of female aggression in a culture that still so idealises motherhood? Anna Motz, forensic psychologist and author of The Psychology of Female Violence (Routledge), is appalled by our collective denial of what mothers can do, which she believes we compensate for in our regular outpourings of emotion in totemic cases like that of Victoria Climbié and Baby P. "If women are cruel towards a child, it's always because of the male violence that they've been subject to - they don't have agency." Motz, by contrast, argues that it isn't surprising that women who themselves have had an extremely difficult and impoverished experience of being parented will target their cruelty towards their own bodies and towards their own children, who are seen as an extension of themselves. Our first step towards understanding maternal filicide, therefore, isn't finding social workers or other agencies to blame but acknowledging the female capacity for aggression, violence and cruelty. It's tough in our still sentimentalised, sometimes Victorian view of motherhood to accommodate female sadism, brutality and perversion. Women, claims Motz, after studying at close quarters women who kill children, are less likely than men to be violent towards the general population. They have just the same aggressive, violent instincts as men, but direct them at different targets - members of their own family, intimate acquaintances, lovers, partners or children - but also at their own bodies in self-harm.Instead of bandying about ideas of badness and madness, we need to face squarely the child-killing mother's own experience of being a child. These are women who, almost invariably, have been narcissistically treated themselves - not only abused and neglected but treated as objects that exist to gratify and satisfy their own mothers. They have enormous fantasies when pregnant about their unborn children, Motz says. "They imagine that the baby will fill them up, and give them the mothering that they never had. Then, when the baby arrives, its actual needs and demands are horrifying, but they have no conception of the child as a separate person with its own needs. "This isn't to blame women: it's happening unconsciously. They want to be different to the mothers they had but the reality of a needy child awakens their own unmet needs."In this intergenerational repetition of disturbed parenting, the baby becomes increasingly dehumanised. These traumatised women identify with their violent mothers and project all their most unbearable feelings on to their child. "I believe that the parents of Baby P didn't even think of him as a human - he was just a poison-container," says Motz. One of the paramedics called to the house of Baby P last year, who found him "blue and cold" in his blood-spattered cot, observed: "The mum seemed very detached from what was going on, she didn't seem to want to be with the baby ...[she] just tried to get out of hospital to have cigarettes and just not be there." Similarly, jailing the mother of three-year-old Tiffany Wright for manslaughter last June, the recorder noted that "One almost unbelievable piece of evidence is that on what was probably Tiffany's last day alive, you were discussing on the phone concerns you had about one of your dog's weight and feeding problems."Instead of casting social workers and other agencies as the villains in these stories, perhaps we need to recognise how their views of mothers are in tune with those in the wider society. As Motz points out, one reason why the appalling treatment of Victoria Climbié wasn't picked up earlier is because her great aunt's apparently maternal relationship to Victoria made it difficult for professionals to imagine that she would perpetrate sadistic abuse on this defenceless little girl. "This tragic case is a clear illustration of society's inability to recognise the range, complexity and secrecy of female violence and cruelty, and demonstrates its typical expression in the domestic arena."This surely goes some way to explaining how Baby P in the last eight months of his life could have been seen 60 times by health or social workers who failed to permanently remove him from the source of his torment. When he was taken to hospital with swelling and bruising to the side of his head, the medical and social services seem to have paid more attention to the plausibility of his mother's account - he'd been pushed over by an older child and hit his head on a marble fireplace - than to the evidence of his injuries.Again and again, Baby P was removed from his mother's care only to be returned there a little later, as if the various agencies involved could not contemplate the idea that his mother was actively helping abuse him. Even when he was seen by a consultant paediatrician two days before his death, his broken spine and ribs went unnoticed and the doctor noted that he was "cranky", as though his behaviour were part of the normal spectrum of a moody toddler - just an ordinary scene of mother with recalcitrant child. It's as if the various agencies were literally blinded by the ideology of motherhood and simply couldn't see what lay before their eyes.When childcare protection agencies come into contact with women who end up killing their babies, they often fail to take heed of warning signs not because of bureaucratic blunders, but because they label the women "attention-seeking" - another example of our sheer disbelief that some women might act on their aggressive impulses.And even when mothers are found guilty of colluding in violence towards their children, we dust off another stereotype - that of the manipulative, deceitful woman - as in the case of Baby P's mother, who smeared chocolate over him to cover his bruises, and lied about his injuries. As we look back on the latest round of filicides, we need to shift our focus. Of course, failings in the child protection agencies, currently so in thrall to managerial imperatives, need to be addressed. But it's far easier to deal with bureaucratic shortcomings than to face up to the existence of mothers who seem to contravene every single idea of instinctive nurturing.Stan Cohen, sociologist and author of the classic study Folk Devils and Moral Panics, suggests that the Baby P story bears all the hallmarks of a classic moral panic. Not because it isn't shocking, but as the attention is fixed on social workers, it switches attention from moral issues to technical decisions about risk (who should have intervened at this stage rather than that?) as a way of getting rid of our anxiety.As things stand, we ask something impossible of social workers, in wanting them to face up to something that the rest of want to deny: that women as well as men can do horrible, violent, sadistic things to those closest to them. Certainly, child protection professionals need enormous support, training and supervision to confront this without being overwhelmed by terror and horror, and to intervene when necessary. But we all have a task as well: to name and recognise maternal aggression. The idealised image of mothers has made this invisible, and has helped place their children in danger.