Detectives were yesterday questioning a 35-year-old man in connection with the murder of the teenager Sally Anne Bowman after a claimed DNA breakthrough in the investigation.The suspect was arrested on Tuesday evening at a pub in Surrey after he had taken an earlier DNA test.The man, who is understood to be from Croydon, where Sally Anne was murdered, was being questioned at a police station in south London in connection with the murder last September. Police are describing the arrest as a breakthrough.Ms Bowman was bitten, stabbed and sexually assaulted in the attack near her home in Blenheim Crescent after being dropped off by her 20-year-old boyfriend, Lewis Sproston.It is not clear whether the suspect worked at the pub where the arrest took place on Tuesday night. Police would only say that he was arrested from his place of work and a spokeswoman for the owners of the Six Bells pub in Horley, Surrey, confirmed there was an arrest on Tuesday night at the pub. She said: "Mitchells & Butlers brewery has been helping the police with their investigations. As a result, police were able to arrest a man at Ye Olde Six Bells in Horley, who was wanted for questioning."The hunt for the killer of the 18-year-old, who wanted to be a supermodel, led to one of the largest mass DNA screenings in the UK. Police are attempting to screen around 4,000 local men who are white or light-skinned and born between 1965 and 1985. Around 600 men have so far come forward for testing but thousands remain to be screened.Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Cundy said at the time he announced the screening that he believed Sally Anne's murderer had an "incredibly strong local connection" and may live in the area, have family there or work nearby.Sources described yesterday's arrest as a "significant" development, but police would disclose no further details about the man or the circumstances of his arrest.Earlier this month, detectives made a fresh appeal on the BBC's Crimewatch programme, based around a new e-fit of a suspect who had been linked by DNA to an indecent assault in July 2001. The e-fit was compiled by the victim of that attack and released six months on from Sally Anne's death. It came after complaints from Sally Anne's family that the first e-fit issued was of poor quality.Sally Anne, who also worked as a hairdresser, had turned 18 only a week before she died. She had attended the Brit School for the performing arts in Croydon, where former pupils include music stars Morcheeba, Amy Winehouse and Katie Melua, who topped the album charts last year.Early this morning a 35-year-old man was charged with Ms Bowman's murder. Mark Dixie, a chef of no fixed address, will appear at Sutton magistrates court this morning.