So Mick Philpott lost his moral compass while leading his chaotic lifestyle on welfare (Report, 5 April)? What about Harold Shipman? Did we wring our hands in 2000 and ask whether we should stop sending people off to medical school where they might learn to exercise the power of life and death and become mass murderers? In 1978 when Philpott nearly killed his estranged girlfriend and her mother, he wasn't on benefits, he was in the army. So maybe it's teaching people to kill people that's the problem.Or maybe this is not the point. Monsters are not created by their lifestyles or occupational choices. Our responsibility as a society is to find and address the systemic failures that allow these people to commit their crimes. After Shipman, safeguards were put in place to stop doctors working in isolation with no checks on the deaths in their care.Nobody in their right mind could seriously argue that changes to the welfare system would have stopped Philpott.Philpott had been jailed for attempted murder and was known to the police for violence against his current wife. Perhaps the serious case review that will now begin into the deaths of six of his children should ask whether a parent with such an extreme history of domestic violence might be a reason to put in place rudimentary child protection procedures. If we can stop fixating on the persecution of people on welfare, we might usefully turn the spotlight on the real crimes of Mick Philpott and the safeguards needed to stop abusive men from killing in future.Hilary CooperCambridge • Can there be a more tragic figure than Mairead Philpott? Losing six children is tragedy enough, but through her own act of collusion in a bungled plot? Disowned by family and despised by public opinion, she is now in prison.She had suffered the humiliation of sharing her home with her partner's girlfriend; was treated as a domestic slave and a child-bearing machine. Meanwhile, Mick Philpott was being offered a media celebrity that could well have fuelled in him a sense of invincibility. What was an undereducated woman of low self-esteem to make of that?The issue of her being abused as a child was raised. There have been countless examples of children reporting abuse who have been disbelieved. The burden of proof is set very high; and the reputation of the accused may take priority over the protection of the child. If a child is not believed and protected, he/she may enter exploitative relationships. Mairead Philpott spoke of her partner as her protector.But this case is only unusual in terms of the scale of the tragedy. Mick Philpott's plan to take revenge on his former girlfriend Lisa Willis through children is by no means unique. In this country two women a week are killed by partners or ex-partners and there are regular reports of fathers killing their children and themselves as revenge against women.Women's Aid has aways struggled for funding but never more so than now. The Philpott case must not be used to divert attention from the mounting pressure on low-income families reaching crisis point.Pauline M ColledgeLondon• David Cameron and George Osborne display a staggering naivety about the nature of domestic violence. It is highly unlikely that any of the women involved with Philpott would have had choice regarding the conception of his 17 children; his motivation would surely have been power and control rather than the accumulation of child benefit. We should instead be proud of a welfare state that prevented those children descending into poverty during their existence with him. We should also praise the dedication of those people who helped Lisa Willis and her children escape to refuge – an extremely challenging and complex task.Sally SmithWorthing, West Sussex• It is disingenuous to suggest the benefit bill for the Philpott household was an outrageous amount (Osborne in 'cynical' row on fire deaths and welfare, 5 April). The amount was large because there were 17 children to be supported, as well as the adults responsible for them. Should these children have been left to starve? Taken into care? Be assured that the latter would have been a much more expensive option. Also, by living together as one vast family, the Philpotts were possibly saving the taxpayer money. Divided into two or three households, each claiming housing benefit for a separate property, the total cost would surely have been greater.Dr Lorraine Margaret HardingRetired lecturer in social policy, Steeton, West Yorkshire• Over many decades of working as a family psychotherapist, I have encountered many "controlling" men using violence or threats of violence, both physical and emotional, to get their own way; depriving their partners of choices about their own lives and causing their families to live in a constant atmosphere of tension and fear (Nasty, cynical and divisive – Labour's verdict on Osborne, 6 April). Among them were lawyers and politicians, businessmen and bankers, doctors and teachers, policemen and labourers and, yes, the occasional man receiving benefits. The common factor, however, which invariably concealed a high level of emotional insecurity, was always misogyny, which appears to be classless.Brian CadeCirencester, Gloucestershire• This year Stephen Seddon was convicted of killing his parents in order to inherit their estate (Report, 29 March), joining a long list of others. It's obvious that being raised in an environment where you expect to inherit a living has a terrible effect. Perhaps caps should be put on inherited wealth in order to avoid these feckless layabouts being tempted to kill innocents for financial gain? John MortonTrefforest, Pontypridd• We rarely see front-page pictures of bankers' homes or ask whether we should be "subsidising lifestyles like that". Eileen PeckThundersley, Essex