The wife of failed suicide bomber Hussain Osman failed to tell police about his plans to bomb London's transport system, putting hundreds of lives at risk, a jury concluded yesterday. Yeshi Girma, 32, knew of her husband's plot to bring "carnage and mass murder" to tube passengers on July 21 2005, and could have stopped the botched attack, the Old Bailey heard. Instead the mother-of-three failed to alert the authorities and helped her husband escape when the attack went wrong. Osman, and fellow bombers Yassin Omar, Ramzi Mohamed and Muktar Ibrahim, were convicted of conspiracy to murder at Woolwich crown court last year. Plotters Manfo Asiedu and Adel Yahya pleaded guilty to related charges.Yesterday Max Hill QC, prosecuting, said that just over half an hour after his failed attack at Shepherd's Bush tube station Osman phoned his wife, who helped him flee to Brighton. He later took a Eurostar train to Paris and travelled on to Rome, where he was arrested.The court heard Girma became aware of her husband's radicalisation as early as May 2004 when he took their young son to a training camp in Cumbria, also attended by the three other bombers and Yahya. Mobile phone and CCTV evidence showed that from April to July planning meetings for July 21 between Ibrahim, Omar and Osman were taking place in and around Osman and his wife's flat. Girma had claimed that despite having three children with Osman she was not married to him, did not live with him and knew little of what he was doing. She told the court she had stayed with him for the sake of their three sons: "I didn't want my kids to grow up without a dad."The court heard that after being contacted by her husband on the day of the failed attack Girma contacted her brother Esayas in London and sister Mulu in Brighton. With Esayas, she drove to pick up Osman from Wandsworth and took him to Mulu in Brighton. She drove back to London with Esayas to remove property from her home and withdraw cash. Esayas provided his brother-in-law with a mobile sim card and helped him find accommodation and transport in Brighton.Mulu, 24, and Esayas, 22, were found guilty of failing to disclose information and of helping Osman to escape. Girma was found guilty of having information about terrorism and "without reasonable excuse" failing to disclose it. She was also convicted of assisting an offender and failing to disclose information about Osman's involvement in the failed attacks. All three will be sentenced today.