A survivor of the 7/7 Aldgate tube bomb broke down today as he told how injured passengers screaming in pain had begged him for help before the arrival of the emergency services.Colin Pettet described how he struggled to find help for Thelma Stober, one of three people he found on the tracks as he made his way along the tunnel."She was screaming to me that she was dying. She was in a lot of pain. Her back was killing her and she was getting cold."He asked the "hundreds of people" passing him if anyone had any medical training, but no one stopped. He then asked for a coat and placed it over Stober, who lost a leg but survived her injuries.His voice cracking, Pettet told the inquests into the 52 people who died in the 7 July attacks, being held at the Royal Courts of Justice in London, how he had tried to find a pulse on one of two men he came across on the tracks. He was forced to pause for a moment before resuming his evidence. He said: "I tried to get a pulse from him and couldn't find a pulse on his neck or on his hands or on his arms." The man had been lying face down on the tracks, with his clothes blown off.A third man on the tracks, covered in soot and dirt and with all but his boxer shorts blown off by the blast, had been staring into space, he said. He tried to talk to the man but he was unresponsive and in shock, he said.As he moved between the three passengers to assess their condition, he heard someone else screaming at him, a woman inside the bombed carriage, he said."She obviously saw me walking around outside and she just kept screaming for me to come over, so I went over to her and she was just begging me to get her out of the carriage."A senior policeman also broke down as he described his attempts to save lives in the "absolute mayhem" of the 7/7 attacks. Detective Inspector Ian Baker of the British Transport Police was the first officer in charge of the emergency response to the bombing at Aldgate. He said: "It is very, very difficult to make an operational decision ... when you have got absolute mayhem in front of you and people dying."Patrick Gibbs, QC, counsel for the British Transport Police, asked Baker: "Some people like to talk about terrible things and others tend to keep it inside. What have you done?"Baker replied: "I've just kept it." At this, he bowed his head and broke down, wiping at his eyes with a handkerchief.