Northumbria police faced fresh questions over their handling of the hunt for Raoul Moat today after it emerged they failed to intercept him hours after he is suspected of shooting a police officer.Andy McAllister, Moat's friend, told how the suspected killer visited him at 11.30pm on Saturday night, 21 hours after he was suspected of shooting his former girlfriend, Samantha Stobbart and of killing her new boyfriend Chris Brown.Police questioned McAllister most of Sunday – the day PC David Rathband was shot – and then Moat returned to see him for a second time at 1.30am on Monday morning.McAllister said he was surprised Northumbria police had failed to mount a surveillance operation at his house in anticipation that he might return."[Moat] told me to contact the police and I rang straight away," McAllister told the Sun newspaper, having handed it a letter at Moat's request."It took more than an hour for them to arrive despite me ringing three or four times. They knew he had been to my house once – I would have thought they would have been watching."Northumbria police said it was "not appropriate" to discuss whether they had officers observing McAllister's home.The force has already referred itself to the Independent Police Complaints Commission after it emerged that officials at Durham prison, where Moat had been serving an 18-week sentence for assaulting a family member, had told police on Friday that Moat intended to cause serious harm to his partner. Police sources were quoted as saying that Moat had told inmates that he was "hellbent on revenge" and "full of rage".Today villagers in Rothbury, around which police threw a two-mile exclusion zone, complained that police were too slow to release details about the black Lexus car that Moat was thought to be travelling in. They released its registration at 10.30pm on Monday night, but villagers said the car had been seen in the village for much of the previous afternoon.A bakery worker on an industrial estate near where the car was found said he even saw the vehicle on Saturday and two men got out, neither of whom fitted Moat's description. But he was suspicious enough to note the number plate."I saw it on Saturday morning just 20 yards from where I am now," he said. "I saw two young men get out of it. I made a note of the registration number because I wondered if it was illegal camping."Graham Noble, whose Thrum Mill farm is at the centre of the search area, also said police had been slow in putting out the registration of the Lexus because it had been in Rothbury on Monday afternoon. Information about the presence of the car was passed on to the police early this morning.A police spokeswoman said: "This investigation has been progressing continually. When making decisions about what to release we have to take into account the circumstances we're dealing with and not release information which could potentially damage an investigation or cause unnecessary risk. The investigating team felt it appropriate to release the information at this time."Detective chief superintendent Neil Adamson said the force had been "dealing with a complex, challenging and fast-moving hostage situation" throughout the investigation. For several days police believed a white male and an Asian male were "potentially being controlled by Mr Moat". It is thought the two men arrested today on suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder were the same individuals."What I want to stress to the wider public is, I would love to be in a position to let the wider public know what is going on behind the scenes," he said. "There is a huge amount of effort going on."