The government will today unveil a battery of fresh powers to prevent the spread of youth and knife crime after another two men were stabbed to death at the weekend. Teachers are to be given the power to search pupils for drugs and alcohol in schools, while teenagers arrested for carrying knives may be forced to visit victims of fights in hospital and perpetrators in jail. The extension of powers that already allow pupils to be searched for weapons is a key recommendation of the latest report of the government's top adviser on behaviour in schools, Sir Alan Steer. The children's secretary, Ed Balls, has indicated that ministers are ready to implement the search powers, which would also cover cigarettes and stolen property. "It will ensure that everyone knows that a teacher's authority in the classroom is unquestionable and teachers are clear about their right to use them." The home secretary's suggestion that teenagers arrested for carrying knives should be forced to confront the consequences of fights by visiting hospital wards and prisons is part of a wider youth crime action plan due to be formally unveiled tomorrow.Jacqui Smith's proposals come in the face of opposition taunts that the latest measures are unlikely to curb violence unless those caught possessing a blade are given custodial sentences."I'm very keen we make people face up to the consequences of their actions," Smith told Sky TV yesterday. "It's a practical and tough approach to make young people understand the implications of carrying a knife." The visiting scheme will say that all the participants, including the families of victims, have to give their consent. No additional remission will be granted as a result, officials stress. Alongside reminders to the police and licensing authorities of the powers they possess to punish clubs, pubs and retail outlets that break the law on the sale of drink and knives, the action plan is designed to stamp out violent youth crime.Eight English police forces, led by Scotland Yard Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alf Hitchcock, have been told to concentrate on preventive action in hotspots within their areas. He said yesterday that victims of knife crimes were becoming younger and assailants more vicious. Ministers are also beefing up preventive measures, including youth forums and a hotline for anxious parents. Smith's actions were condemned by Tory spokesman Dominic Grieve, who warned that voters were "sick and tired" of "ill-thought-through, piecemeal announcements and failed initiatives". "Not only would we have tough policing to tackle knife crime on our streets now, but under our plans people convicted of knife crime would automatically face the presumption of jail," he said.Smith and her officials reject the Tory pledge. "It is simplistic and wrong to pretend that prison is an easy answer to all of society's problems," she said. "The police, as well as judges and community leaders, don't want every single young person found carrying a knife jailed, especially when we know that tough community sentences ... are more likely to stop them carrying knives in the future."The Lib Dem spokesman, Chris Huhne, called the hospital visit plan a "half-baked" response from a minister who was denying a problem existed barely a month ago. On Saturday night in Bristol a man in his 40s suffered wounds to his head and chest following a row and died in hospital. A man has been arrested. Police in Bolton named a man stabbed to death in a pub in the early hours of yesterday as Paul Gilligan, in his 30s. He was knifed twice and died in hospital. A 19-year-old man has been arrested. A 22-year-old man is in intensive care with stab wounds after an attack at the T in the Park rock festival in Kinross-shire.