A Lithuanian man was convicted yesterday of the murder of a fellow migrant worker whose severed head was found by children on a Scottish beach.Vitas Plytnykas, 41, a former member of the Red army, who already had a conviction for manslaughter, was found guilty at the high court in Edinburgh of killing Jolanta Bledaite, 35, and dumping her body parts in the sea. At an earlier hearing, co-accused Aleksandras Skirda, 20, pleaded guilty to the murder, and testified against Plytnykas.The two men bound, tortured and killed Ms Bledaite at her flat in Brechin in Angus last March after plotting to steal her savings. Once she had given them the pin number for her bank cards, Ms Bledaite was suffocated with a pillow and her body cut up.During the trial, the jury was shown CCTV footage of Plytnykas and Skirda dragging a suitcase containing her body through the streets of Arbroath. They also saw images of Plytnykas and Skirda on a bus with a plastic bag that contained Ms Bledaite's head and hands.Two sisters playing on the beach at Arbroath on 1 April found the head in a plastic bag. The girls, then eight and 11, ran home screaming. When police arrived, they found Ms Bledaite's dismembered hands on the beach. Her torso was found in a suitcase that had been thrown into Arbroath harbour. Plytnykas, who came to the UK two years ago, had been convicted of manslaughter in Germany in 2001 after a man was stabbed to death in a row over money. Tayside police said Plytnykas had developed a fearsome reputation among foreign workers in the Brechin area.The court in Edinburgh heard Plytnykas and Skirda, who was Ms Bledaite's flatmate in Brechin, began plotting her death when they heard rumours she might have saved £7,000 from her work as a farm labourer. From the start, the plan included hacking off her head and hands before disposing of her body, making identification difficult if not impossible. Ms Bledaite seemed a perfect target. She had come to Scotland to earn enough money to buy her father a house. She kept herself to herself, hardly socialised and put her money in the bank.In court, the judge, Lord Pentland, told Plytnykas that he had committed a "truly monstrous and evil crime". Both Plytnykas and Skirda will be sentenced at a later date.Ms Bledaite was one of hundreds of migrant workers from eastern Europe working for farms and factories in the Angus area, known for its fruit crops.