What would you do if you received this email, forwarded by a trusted friend? "An important message from the Police. Please pass this along to all the women you know. This actually happened a few weeks ago on the M3 Fleet Services. It was early evening and a young girl stopped to get petrol. She filled the tank and walked into the store to pay. The cashier told her, 'A man just got into the back of your car. I've called the police and they're on their way.'"So far, so creepy. "When the police arrived," it continues, "they found the man and asked him what he was doing. He replied that he was joining a gang and the intention is to kidnap a woman and take her back to the gang to be raped." The email burbles on in frightening detail, before ending:"LADIES, you or one of your family and friends could be the next victim." The warning is signed "Met Police."Laid out on the page like this, it's easy to spot that this is a hoax. The fact that the gang member immediately sings like a canary, and the email's use of the word "store" instead of "shop", provide crucial clues. But when this email is in your inbox, forwarded by someone you know and including links to genuine police websites, its falsity is less obvious. At a quick glance, it could have a warped sort of authenticity - which is, after all, the reason that your friend passed it on.The reality, of course, is that the police would never send out public safety information in this form, that this version of the service station hoax is thought to have originated in Australia, and that this email has been doing the rounds for some years - as have several other hoax emails that have recently resurfaced. For instance, have you heard about the serial killer who plays a tape of a baby crying to get women to come out of their house and on to the doorstep? The carjackers who leave a huge leaflet on your rear window and jump into your car while you're removing it? Or the man who pretends to be injured and then attacks you?All nasty and hard to dismiss. But all the workings of a fevered imagination.Where do these "helpful warnings" come from and why do so many of them target women? Tony Neate, a former police detective and now managing director of Get Safe Online, says most unsolicited emails are a form of spam: "It is scary because people don't know what to believe. Anything that comes from a large organisation such as the police or which purports to be 'very important' is almost certainly a hoax. Treat it with suspicion and do a search on it. If you type in a few key words, usually you'll find it straightaway."There is often no reason as to why people create and send these safety messages in the first place, he says. "For some, there's a kudos attached to sending out these emails. For others, it's just belligerent, like the virtual equivalent of daubing graffiti." Women are targeted because "they'll prey on anybody they can scare, anybody who is vulnerable". The emails often appeal to our sisterly side: "Please pass this on and DO NOT open the door for a crying baby. Forward this to all the women you know. It may save a life." Unfortunately, by obeying these apparently heartfelt pleas, anyone who forwards these emails is simply spreading groundless fear.Brett Christensen, who runs the internet site Hoax Slayer, says the "gang member in the back seat" story has been around since the 1950s. Another old one is the killer who gets talking to women by returning a £5 note they are supposed to have dropped, or the rapist who poses as an off-duty police officer in an unmarked car. "A lot of the stories are inherently sexist in that they involve an apparently helpless and unobservant female who needs to be 'saved' by a more attentive individual, depicted as male in most versions," says Christensen. "Such tales pander to the traditional gender role models of the female victim, the male protector and the evil male predator and are underpinned by overt or covert sexual themes." It's a modern-day version of Red Riding Hood, he says, with the perpetrators in these "true crime" stories no more real than the fictional wolf; another apt comparison would be with the ghost stories that we tell to scare each other as kids - the difference being that these emailed stories purport to be true.Very occasionally, says Christensen, some of the warnings are loosely derived from real cases or at least alleged incidents that were reported to the police. "For example, in Australia in 1999 a woman claimed to have been assaulted by criminals who used a chemical disguised as perfume to disable her. Warnings about that incident, which may not have been true to begin with, soon spread to the internet and have circulated ever since."Other warnings are born out of the fear generated by a real crime. Shortly after the Madeleine McCann case hit the headlines last year I received a "watch out" email from a friend of a friend about a local mother who claimed the police had told her a "paedophile ring" was operating in the area, after her child was almost snatched from her car. I talked to the police about this and they confirmed that there was a grain of truth in it: a local mother had reported that she had seen two men standing near her car. The police hadn't been able to ascertain any criminal intent though, and they definitely didn't mention anything about paedophiles. The story had simply spiralled.Most of the time these emails have no basis in reality and are just designed to scare women. Psychologist Donna Dawson has studied the phenomenon. "It's a power trip," she says. "Hackers have the same motivations. It's about having an impact on other people's lives." She believes that they could have some benefits: "In a perverse way they provide a service because they remind women to be careful when they are out and about. If you can conceive of something happening, it can help you to behave more safely."Which is all very well, except that women are actually often more at risk at home than in the outside world, and, if taken seriously, these emails seem to achieve little more than to keep us in a constant state of anxiety. Of course, everyone needs to be reminded about their personal safety occasionally, but is it really useful to do this by promoting stories about nonexistent crimes?For many women, forwarding these warnings is almost a superstitious impulse. The friend who sent the email to me and 44 others admitted that she found it a little far-fetched but took the view "better safe than sorry". The problem is, if half those she sent it to took the same view and sent it on, it could easily reach tens of thousands of people within hours. Increasingly, these scares are also doing the rounds on MySpace and Facebook.In some cases the police have been so inundated with queries about email hoaxes that they have had to issue denials. The "gang initiation" email that I received quoted an officer from Strathclyde police who does actually exist, but had nothing whatsoever to do with the email; after many queries, that same police force recently issued a statement about the "paper on the rear window" carjackers: "It's just the latest in a long line of urban legends to have duped the public and the authorities," said a spokeswoman.These emails usually end "BE AWARE" (excessive use of capitals is another dead giveaway). But it would be far more useful if women saved their concern for real problems, says Neate. The main thing to be aware of, he says, is that "the chance of warnings like this coming from the police is minuscule".