Arson attacks on school buildings by bored and disaffected pupils are costing millions of pounds and endangering the lives of children and teachers, firefighters and the insurance industry claim.Two separate reports will urge ministers to install heat-sensitive sprinkler systems in classrooms to prevent serious injury and to limit the growing scale of fire damage in schools, which looks set to rise above £100m this year. The London Fire Brigade, the country's biggest fire service, and the Association of British Insurers (ABI) are particularly concerned about the increasing number of daytime fires lit by children themselves, often in toilets or cloakrooms. Today the ABI, through its arson prevention bureau, will launch "School Arson: educa tion under threat" with figures suggesting that fires started during the school day are at record levels, accounting for a third of school blazes. Jane Milne, chief executive of the bureau, said there was a "very real and increasing risk" to safety. Schools suffer an average of 20 arson attacks a day, according to the ABI, disrupting education for thousands of pupils. But in an interview with the Guardian, Ms Milne, who advises the government on arson, accused ministers of brushing the problem aside.The London Fire Brigade is to publish its own report confirming an alarming increase in school arson. The study has been funded by the arson control forum, part of the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. Daytime blazes in secondary schools are principally to blame for the rise, said Mark Blomfield, arson prevention officer with the London brigade. The number and scale of school blazes are rising, with the annual cost of replacing the buildings doubling to more than £96m since 1998. There were at least 1,700 school fires in 2001, two thirds the result of arson. Since January, Britain has seen eight £1m fires. Summer holidays are the worst time for destruction. Chase Terrace high school in Staffordshire is one of many which fell victim last August. The school will have to be largely rebuilt at a cost of £9m after a huge blaze destroyed the main teaching block. No one was hurt, but the head teacher, Heather Bowman, said that the 1,300 pupils would have to work in temporary buildings for the next two years. On Merseyside, police have used helicopter patrols during the summer holidays to moni tor schools at risk. The country's leading schools insurer, Zurich Municipal, is paying for professional actors to tour schools with a drama production warning of the dangers. Zurich has warned ministers about day arson attacks putting lives at risk. England is seeing the biggest school building boom for a generation, with £3.8bn poured into new and renovated classrooms this financial year. Yet very few of the buildings have sprinkler systems, although insurers say they account for just of 1.8% of a total building cost. Today Zurich will tell council leaders that insurance premiums will have to rise again because the firm is making a 100% loss on the business. Council property premiums have already doubled over two years, a cost the education system can ill afford. The annual education conference of the Local Government Association will hear from Andrew Muckley, a forensic psychologist and acknowledged expert on child fireraisers, who will tell councillors that angry pupils are responsible for most school blazes, often those who have been expelled. Most children, he believes, light fires without intending to cause massive destruction. "The government has stuck its head in the sand on this because it won't get them any votes," he said.