A possible new witness to the stabbing of Abigail Witchalls has come forward following an appeal last night on the BBC's Crimewatch programme.A reconstruction of the attack on a quiet lane in the Surrey village of Little Bookham at the start of the BBC1 programme prompted 58 calls from the public.Among the callers were two people from outside the area, including a man who said he had been very close to the scene of the attack one month ago and may have seen the attacker running away. A woman from a nearby Sussex town claimed she had been intimidated a day earlier by a man in a similar light blue car to the one that is part of the police inquiries.Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, who is leading the investigation, said: "We have had one important call from Hythe in Kent, a guy who thinks he may have been in the area at the right time." While neighbours heard screams at the time of the attack, so far no one, apart from Mrs Witchalls herself and her 21-month-old son Joseph, is known to have seen the attacker. A woman from Crawley, Sussex, just a short drive from Little Bookham, called the programme to say that she had been "frightened" by a man in a light blue car who also followed her the day before. Mrs Witchalls has told police that she first felt uneasy when, as she pushed Joseph's buggy along Water Lane in Little Bookham, her eyes met those of the driver of a blue car. Mr Harper told the programme earlier that police had yet to trace two men who had been tending a bonfire at the time of the stabbing on April 20.Mrs Witchalls was found stabbed in the neck on the quiet country lane, and later told police a man had held a knife to the throat of Joseph before stabbing her.Mr Harper insisted that former Little Bookham resident Richard Cazaly, 23, who apparently committed suicide within days of the attack, was still only one line of inquiry. He also said that the contents of two letters left by Cazaly before his death did not amount to a confession. Cazaly fled Little Bookham five days after the attack and died of an apparent paracetamol overdose in Edinburgh on April 30. Mrs Witchalls' husband, Benoit, told Crimewatch that the attacker needed help and appealed for information to catch him so he could receive the support he needed. Mr Witchalls, a 26-year-old engineer, said: "To be honest I haven't thought much about the attacker. Obviously whoever did it needs help and it would absolutely tragic if this was to happen again to somebody." Mr Witchalls added: "We haven't had any feelings of anger; it's just a case of helping out this person, really."Yesterday, the hospital treating Mrs Witchalls said she had regained a limited degree of feeling throughout her body. The Royal National Orthopaedic hospital in Middlesex released a statement from Mrs Witchalls saying: "I can move my head, but, as yet, I cannot move my arms and legs. I can breathe and speak on my own for short periods. Please pass on my thanks to everyone for their prayers and support. God is doing beautiful things."