Wandsworth prison. A chief inspector calls. When Anne Owers last checked the jail two years ago, she had 'serious concerns'. On the visit before that, it was 'failing to meet basic standards.' Last Thursday, she inspected the fragile, sprawling mini-town of Wandsworth for the third time, and I went with her.There may never be another audit of this kind. If the government gets its way, the chief's post will be abolished and HM inspectorate of prisons will be subsumed into a single criminal justice watchdog. Almost everyone believes this will neuter a body that exposed how pregnant women were shackled at Holloway and prisoners were beaten up at Wandsworth.The House of Lords may throw the measure out of the Police and Justice Act, and former cabinet ministers from all parties accuse the government of wishing to remove 'a thorn in the ample flesh' of home secretaries. Owers told me recently that she did not see how her inspectorate could be 'anything other than diluted' unless the legislation is changed.No journalist has been allowed to accompany a chief inspector before, and it is easy to see why. Wandsworth is the biggest jail in the UK, and almost certainly in Europe. Each night, its 1,456 beds are filled with the disturbed and the deranged, with sex offenders, lifers and with young men, barely older than boys but entangled already in the tentacles of prison. Many are destined to spend much of their lives incarcerated, two to a cell, in this penal transit camp, or some other.The history of Wandsworth is stained by abuse and drug problems. It has a new and much admired governor, Ian Mulholland, but even he cannot be sanguine about the arrival of a chief inspector licensed to stray into Wandsworth's darkest corners, particularly if she has a columnist in tow. First, Owers is briefed by her inspection team, who arrived, unannounced, a week before her visit. Then she and I tramp the cells and landings for five hours.Owers, like her team, is so thorough that no kitchen cockroach is likely to escape her notice. I do not know what her report, due out in October, will say, but any outsider would be appalled by the strains the state places on those who inhabit and run its prisons. Eighty people left the jail that morning, many for court appearances, and 80 would be back at night, exhausted by hours in the 'sweatbox' vans.Some would have blank paperwork and speak no English, the receptionist said. A frightened man had arrived not long ago from court, clutching a scrap of paper which read: 'Tried suicide.' Once, people killed themselves regularly in Wandsworth, mostly in the first 48 hours. A new arrivals system, of which Mulholland is proud, has stemmed those deaths.There is, as he acknowledges, a lot else to do. Upstairs, three young men sit in a bare holding room. They are waiting for visitors, and they have been brought over early from the vulnerable prisoners' unit. One, who speaks little English, has a note scheduling his visit for 11.30am. He has been here since 8.30, staring at nothing. His cell is barely two minutes' stroll away.Owers flicks through the logs of prisoners on suicide watch and asks to see a man who tried to swallow a razor blade. Polite and softly spoken, he talks about staying off drugs, and his mother's illness, and says he has been waiting for a week to book a haircut. In the sex offenders' wing, she speaks to an old man on a dialysis machine. He hopes to get out soon, he says, to spend his last years with his wife. We meet a prisoner who helps the sick and elderly and says they now get one shower a week. It used to be one a month.And then we visit the health centre. In the dozen or so beds, one patient is being treated for a physical disease. The rest are acute psychiatric cases. Sue Copeland, the duty nurse, stares at the names chalked on the whiteboard. It is terrible, she says, to watch people lose their minds. Past patients, typical of today's caseload, have tried to kill others or themselves. Many who pass through this unit hear and speak to demons, and others are too dangerous to be allowed to smoke unsupervised. Some have tried to starve themselves; some filled out endless complaint forms in gibberish; some were made suicidal by memories of torture and the threat of deportation.'It is just heartbreaking here, trying to get people into hospital,' Copeland says. If her charges refuse medication, and many do, she cannot compel them. That bit of the Mental Health Act applies only to NHS secure units, which are over-crowded and loath to take the patients she is caring for so cheaply.This prison, like most, is heavy with tension and the shadow of mental illness. In another health centre, one of Owers's inspectors watched as a psychotic patient tried to gouge his eye out. Here, the vulnerable wing is in lockdown when we arrive because a patient has been brandishing makeshift weapons. 'Are you afraid?' interviewers ask Owers, but the frightening thing, to me and possibly to her, is the mundane detail of the lives of the truly powerless.When Mulholland first got here, he was besieged by prisoners demanding toilet rolls. Today, almost everyone frets about not being able to make enough phone calls home. Many produce crumpled pictures of their children to show Owers, as if these images are their only grip on a receding reality.One young man tries to describe why he was back again, eating prison cornflakes. 'I can't get help outside,' he says. And then I think, "Fuck everyone." I'm telling you things I wouldn't tell my mum. I try to put on a front for her.' He is Mulholland's typical inmate: 'Someone of 23 to 25, brought up in poverty, who's failed in most things and been failed by most agencies, and who is arriving for the third or fourth time in a couple of years.'Owers and I met dozens who fitted that profile. 'I've got to get a grip on my life,' they said, certain that they would never again resort to drugs and alcohol. But many were locked up for much of the day, with little or no training that might equip them to survive outside. If only Mulholland could cut his numbers by saying goodbye to those who should not be in prison, he would be able to ensure that many others do not come back.John Reid dropped in a fortnight ago. Perhaps he noticed the waste of lives and the futility of a system that fails properly to protect the public. Perhaps he saw the young men who wanted to die. Perhaps he noted that the excellent bricklaying workshop had only space for 20, or saw the problems facing a prison head committed to eradicating drugs and giving his prisoners a future.And these, for Wandsworth, are the hopeful days. It is led by a fine governor and scrutinised, in forensic detail, by a chief inspector whose service costs the taxpayer a paltry £3m a year. Yet the record prison population creeps up, each day, and the government is set on abolishing an inspectorate admired across the world. Ministers must think again. Once, they hanged people at Wandsworth jail. For this and all other prisons, another dark age may lie in waiting.mary.riddell@observer.co.uk