The five suspects in the Stephen Lawrence murder are all still living in south-east London. They keep in touch with other, and since the publication of the Macpherson report seven years ago all but one has continued to brush with the law. Among their haunts are the Old Post Office pub and the Eletriq Cafe Italian restaurant in Eltham, the area where Stephen was killedDavid Norris, 29, whose drug-dealing father, Clifford, is now out of prison, has four children aged five to 11. Until last summer he lived in his parents' £800,000 home in Chislehurst, bought with his father's criminal proceeds. After a lengthy legal wrangle the house had to be sold to meet claims from HM Revenue & Customs. He now rents a flat in Plumstead but is rarely seen there.By 2002 Norris had two minor convictions for driving offences and two for theft. But in September of that year he and Neil Acourt (see below) were jailed for a racist attack on an off-duty black detective on the same road where Stephen was murdered.Norris, a passenger in a car driven by Acourt, threw a drinks carton and shouted "nigger" at an off-duty detective constable, Gareth Reid, as he was crossing the road. They were sentenced to 18 months in prison, later cut to a year on appeal. Passing sentence, the judge said Norris and Acourt were both "infected and invaded by gross and revolting racism".Shortly before being locked up, they wrote letters of praise to London nail bomber David Copeland, who killed three and injured 139 in three bomb attacks on blacks and homosexuals in 1999. "We've been done for abusing a black copper," they wrote. " We're getting banged up. We hope we don't get slammed in with a load of niggers."In May 2004 Norris was back in prison. He was jailed for 27 months for burglary and handling a stolen Range Rover. Croydon crown court was told that he had stolen hundreds of pounds' worth of beer after breaking into a pub with a friend. In a separate offence, he was caught by police trying to jumpstart the Range Rover.Neil Acourt, 30, also has a 2001 conviction for possessing an offensive weapon, for which he was sentenced to community service. He has shaved his head, changed his surname to Stuart and shares a council maisonette in Greenwich with his mother, Pat. He drives a black Golf.Gary Dobson, 30, has a five-year-old son and lives in a flat in Woolwich with his partner, Charlotte Hunter, a secretary. In 1999 he was arrested in connection with a series of burglaries on commercial premises, but no prosecution followed.Luke Knight, 31, maintains the lowest profile of the five, living with his girlfriend in Chislehurst.Jamie Acourt, Neil's 29-year-old brother, who lives in Sidcup, has one recent conviction, for theft in 1999 (with co-defendant Norris ). He is always dressed in sharp designer clothers and drives a black Mercedes. On Tuesday morning he left London on holiday.