The theft of mobile phones, mainly by schoolchildren from other schoolchildren, is a major factor fuelling the rise in robbery and the headline violent crime figures, the home secretary has admitted.The alarm among ministers at the 36% rise in recorded robberies in London and other big cities in the past year lies behind the decision to hold the crime seminar at Downing Street yesterday but Jack Straw has made it clear that the major factor in this increase is the onset of the age of mass ownership of mobile phones, especially among schoolchildren. Ministers say that mobile phone thefts now account for one third of all robberies in some London boroughs, and many of them are committed by schoolchildren against their peers. "Before mobile phones, children would have got bullied and had their dinner money stolen which wouldn't necessarily be reported to the police, while mobile phone thefts are being reported the whole time," said a Downing Street source. Talks with mobile phone companies are to get under way to examine whether the security of the phones can be improved. Research published today shows that contrary to popular belief most robberies do not involve a lot of planning but many are carried out on the spur of the moment. As one robber told the Leicester University researchers: "All you have to do is walk up to a counter and ask for money from those who have been told to give it to you." The study, by Martin Gill of Leicester University's Scarman Centre, based on interviews with 340 robbers says that prison is not a deterrent because they do not expect to get caught. Robbers look for an "easy" target and are particularly concerned that there should be a good escape route. Some said they were encouraged to start after seeing how easy it looked on television. Most believe the chances of them being caught are "very low" and told the researchers that guns are easy to get hold of because of a plentiful supply on the black market. Although only about half carried a gun that was capable of firing a lethal shot - the rest carried imitation guns or real but un loaded weapons - they claimed they took them along to reduce the chances of injury as witnesses were less likely to argue with a gun. Dr Gill said his research also showed that some robbers felt that they had done their victims a favour, by providing them with an event and something to talk about in an otherwise dull life. It was claimed that some victims exaggerated their losses or injuries to get robbers a longer sentence. And when robbers did find themselves being sent down for longer than they expected they blamed the judge for being a "mean bastard" or a "raving lunatic" or claimed that they had suffered from racial prejudice, poor legal representation or a corrupt legal system.  • Commercial Robbery, Martin Gill, Blackstone Press, £19.95.