Police are waiting to question the mother of two young children found dead inside holdalls in her car boot in an East Sussex suburban close.The mother, named as Fiona Donnison, 43, a former worker at Lloyd's of London, was arrested after going to Heathfield police station yesterday. She had slashed her wrists and was taken Eastbourne general hospital where she is said to be stable. She is not expected to be released for questioning today.Sussex police forced entry to her silver Nissan car in Mill Close and found the bodies of a boy of three and a two-year-old girl in two holdalls in the boot. They were named as Harry Donnison and his younger sister Elise.Post-mortem examinations took place at King's College Hospital, London, today. Police would not speculate on the possible causes of death.A police cordon was in place around a three-storey detached house in Sheepsetting Lane, Heathfield, with a "sold" sign outside, close to where the car was parked. Another house in Lightwater, Surrey, which Donnison rented, was also being searched.It was reported that Donnison had recently separated from the children's father, Paul Donnison, who works in the City. She also has two teenage sons from a previous marriage.Former Heathfield neighbour Jill Radford, 61, said: "I think there used to be a couple living there until they separated. The house went up for sale some time before Christmas. I think there were some young children living there. I could see there were often toys in the front garden."Floral tributes were left at the roadside where the car was found and broken glass was scattered around. . One message read: "Sleep tight innocent ones."Donnison posted a picture of her Elise, taken in July last year, on the Friends Reunited website, with the caption: "My beautiful daughter – I know I'm biased!"Chief Inspector Julia Pope said: "This is a very tragic incident, but I would like to reassure people that it is fully contained and there is no threat to anyone in the area. We will move to restore normality and access to Mill Close as quickly as possible but, in the meantime, I have local officers in the area and residents are more than welcome to talk to them if they have any concerns."