The Director-General of the Prison Service is ready to go up against ministers by resisting any government plan to force more prisoners to share cells in a bid to ease the jails crisis.Last week the number of prisoners in England and Wales rose to an all-time high for the second week in a row. The total peaked at 80,812, up 154. Prisons now have just 320 spare places - even taking into account the 400 beds in police stations which are being used as emergency accommodation under 'Operation Safeguard'.There are now suggestions that the new Ministry of Justice will ask for more 'doubling up' - housing prisoners in cells that are meant for one offender. Prison reform groups warn that this will breach health and safety laws. They point out that since Labour came to power the number of prisoners sharing cells has risen from 9,500 to 18,000.Phil Wheatley, the service's director-general, has made it clear that when maximum capacity is reached - probably within the next month - the prison service will not be able to find more places. 'When we are full, we are full,' he has said.Last night there was a warning the jails crisis would soon spread to the courts system.'When the prisons are full they will move more offenders into police cells,' said Harry Fletcher, spokesman for the probation union, Napo. 'When those are full they will use court cells. And when those are full the whole criminal justice system will grind to a halt because you won't be able to bring people to court for trial.'A spokeswoman for the Ministry of Justice said that a plan to increase the number of offenders doubling up in cells could not be ruled out, raising the prospect of a showdown with the Prison Service.'The director-general of the Prison Service has not been asked to increase the operational capacity of the service,' the spokeswoman said. 'He does, however, keep the capacity continually under review to ensure we are making best use of the available accommodation.'Last week's record high was the first since jails policy passed to the new Ministry of Justice on 9 May. At this point last year the number of prisoners was 77,640, nearly 3,200 lower than today's figure.The Ministry of Justice is attempting to combat the crisis by speeding up the process that sees prisoners released on home detention curfews. Further long-term measures that would see certain offenders who breach licence conditions returned to prison for only a maximum of 28 days are also to be introduced. A prison building programme is expected to deliver hundreds more places by the end of the year.But such moves will take time to yield results and the prison population is predicted to increase throughout June, raising questions about what the government will do to alleviate the crisis.Today the Prison Reform Trust issues a damning report, accusing the government of 'runaway sentence inflation'. In a foreword, Juliet Lyons, director of the trust, said Labour's 1997 manifesto pledge to find better ways of tackling crime has 'ossified into talking tough and tinkering with sentencing policy'.A huge and unexpected rise in the number of prisoners being locked up indefinitely is also placing severe pressures on the prison estate. More than 2,400 men and women have received an Indeterminate Public Protection sentence since it was introduced two years ago, but only five have been released - creating further problems with overcrowding.