Among the questions for counter-terrorism officials after the Woolwich attacks is how the alleged attackers became radicalised to the point where they decided to carry out violence on Britain's streets.Part of that radicalisation can be tracked to extremist groups such as the now-banned al-Muhijaroun. Its former UK head, Omar Bakri Mohammad told the Guardian that he had known Michael Olumide Adebolajo, who had attended many meetings. These included al-Muhijaroun events at community centres and a mosque in the Woolwich area.Adebolajo attended the meetings from 2004 to around 2011 and, according to Bakri Mohammad, chose his own Muslim name after converting from his Christian upbringing. The name he chose, Mujaahid, means one engaged in jihad.Bakri Mohammad, now banned from Britain, said that, as a new convert, Adebolajo received special attention: "In 2004, Muslims were feeling a lot of pressures from new laws and from Iraq."Questions asked by Adebolajo included when violence may be justified: "He asked these type of questions, like many others," said Bakri Mohammad. "He was asking what to do, he was most likely affected by the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan."But the man who stood on a London street on Wednesday, being filmed clutching weapons, with his alleged victim lying in the street near by, was shy, said the one-time extremist leader.Bakri Mohammad said: "He was very, very shy person, he spoke very quietly."Adebolajo appears to have attended events organised by groups which succeeded al-Muhijaroun until around 2011. There are claims he may have been seen as recently as a fortnight ago in south-east London railing against the west.Attending meetings of extremists is one type of radicalisation. Another is the internet where some of the most popular extremist preachers include Anwar al-Awlaki, a preacher based in Yemen linked to major terrorist plots such as the Fort Hood massacre at an army base in the US and plots in the UK including the attempted murder of Labour MP Stephen Timms in his constituency surgery. Al-Awlaki was killed in a US drone strike in October 2011.He had no qualms in saying Muslims should attack the west in whatever way they could. His videos have been found on YouTube leading to demands they should be removed.One of the features of the two suspects in the Woolwich attacks is their Nigerian heritage.One law enforcement source said this showed the increased number of countries those contemplating violence can now travel to for radicalisation or even for training: "In the past the concern was around Afghanistan or Pakistan, but now there are a multiplicity of places."This shows the complexity of the picture. We have got Nigeria here, there is also Syria, Libya, Mali."Syria is of special concern currently, and it is estimated that scores of Britons may have travelled there.