Four years ago Joanne Cole was convicted of the murder of her former partner and jailed for life.Today the appeal court in London will hear fresh evidence as to the psychological effect on her of years of abuse by various men, in a case her legal team believes can clarify the law on provocation. Now 36, Cole was born in Jamaica, the ninth in a family of 14. A number of men sexually abused her from the age of seven upwards: she had her first child at 14, the result, she said, of being raped. In 1999, after her brother was murdered, she left Jamaica and came to Britain. She got a job working illegally as a cleaner at Buds, a club in Hackney, east London, and began a relationship with Patrick Hemmings, an electrician at the club. But the relationship soon went wrong. He supposedly became jealous, because he believed she was seeing another man, Wayne. "Patrick started to become violent with me," said Cole in a statement prepared for her appeal from Bullwood Hall prison in Essex. "Sometimes he would punch me. He also threatened to call immigration. He threatened to tell my boss I was working under the wrong name." He became obsessive about Wayne. "He would not hit me when we were arguing. He would wait until I thought it was over and that we were OK. I'd be sitting on the chair, and he would punch me in the face, catching me unaware." Cole said she had continued to see Hemmings because he wanted to continue the relationship. She said he had slapped her often, but she deserved it. On one occasion, she said, he had threatened to push her under a tube train and then kill himself. Then, in May 2000, the two had their final row. He spotted a cold sore on her lip and accused her of having contracted syphilis by oral sex with another man. According to her, he started punching her and grabbed a small knife. She tried to open the window to call for help. In the struggle the window was broken, making him even angrier. She bit him on the shoulder, and he dropped the knife and punched her again, according to her statement. She grabbed the knife and, as he pursued her, stabbed him once from over her shoulder. Hemmings died from internal bleeding three days later in hospital. Cole was charged with his murder. In a five-day trial at the Old Bailey in January 2001, she pleaded not guilty on grounds of self-defence. The jury did not accept her account, and she was jailed for life with a recommendation that she serve at least nine years. According to Cole, she "didn't tell the police the full extent of Patrick's violence towards me". Her lawyer, Harriet Wistrich, of Birnberg Pearce, believes that had the jury known of the extent of psychological damage inflicted by years of abuse, a defence of provocation could have succeeded. The fresh evidence to be presented is that of a psychiatrist, Jeya Balakrishna. Dr Balakrishna's report states that Cole was beaten not just by the man she killed but by the father of her daughter. The case is seen as similar to others over the past decade that established sustained abuse as grounds for a defence to murder on the grounds of provocation. The precedents are those of Sara Thornton, the late Emma Humphreys, and Kiranjit Ahluwalia, convicted of murder but cleared on appeal after evidence of violence in their relationships with the men they killed. Their cases were championed by Justice for Women and Southall Black Sisters, and helped to establish what seemed a basic defence for women subjected to violence over a long period, even if they did not kill in response to an immediate act of violence. Since then the issue of provocation had become cloudier, Ms Wistrich said yesterday. Her team, led in court by Vera Baird QC MP, will argue that the psychiatric evidence in the case of Joanne Cole "would have presented a picture of a person damaged by years of abuse who had developed personality characteristics and symptoms of traumatic stress that would have impinged on her self-control".