Among the many reasons that the sexual exploitation cases in places such as Rochdale and Rotherham took so long to be recognised, investigated and eventually prosecuted was that many of the victims felt unable to report to the police what had happened to them or, in a number of cases, first appeared on the police radar because they themselves were committing offences. Some of the victims, mainly very vulnerable and abused girls and women, committed theft, public order offences and sometimes much worse. In some cases, their offending was a cry for help, sometimes it was because they had no support, and sometimes it was because they felt bloody-minded towards authority. The mistake that criminal justice bodies made was not to see through this offending and appreciate that they had a victim standing before them.Hundreds of UK sex abuse victims lose compensation after committing crimes The roots of this are deep. Over the years, police, prosecutors and courts had developed crude tests of victim credibility, such as whether a victim promptly reported to the police what had happened to them, was able to give a coherent and chronological account of events and whether they had led a “blameless” life in the sense of not engaging in the abuse of drink, drugs and criminal activity themselves. And guess what? Many victims failed these tests and, as a result, for many years sexual abuse cases were not properly investigated or prosecuted.The system demanded “model” victims at the expense of real victims.As director of public prosecutions, I worked with others to bring about a fundamental change of approach to victims. In 2013, for example, I issued guidelines making clear that we had to abandon the notion of the “model” victim and do justice for real victims. That meant, among other things, jettisoning the old crude tests of credibility. Any other approach would have left those most vulnerable least protected by our justice system. The police and our courts have also made important changes with the same intent.How striking then – and dispiriting – to read recent reports that the compensation to over 400 sex abuse victims has been reduced because they had themselves committed criminal offences, including offences involving drink and drugs. When challenged about this, the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA) made clear that statutory guidance obliged it to reduce or refuse awards if victims had unspent convictions. The CICA is right about that. But that merely underlines the injustice of the scheme; and it’s not just unspent convictions that lead to a reduction in compensation. Routinely to reduce compensation for victims of sexual abuse because of much lesser misdemeanours is unjustified Ministry of Justice guidance makes clear that the compensation scheme requires that all incidents, for which a claim is made, be reported to the police “as soon as is reasonably practicable”. It goes on to explain that normally “this will mean immediately following the incident” with consideration being given to cases where the victim lacked the mental capacity to report the incident or the effect of the injuries inflicted meant that the victim could not make a full report to the police immediately. No lessons, then, from analysis of the sexual exploitation cases, which laid bare the unlikelihood of prompt reporting in the real world.The guidance is equally blunt about the justification for reducing compensation where victims have themselves committed offences: “We may refuse or reduce a payment if you have a criminal record, even though you may have been blameless in the incident which resulted in your injury”.What is stark about this is not only the failure to acknowledge the possibility of a connection between sexual abuse and subsequent criminal activity but also, and more fundamentally, the underlying assumption that victims of sexual abuse should not be compensated unless they themselves live blameless lives. As Peter Saunders, speaking for the National Association of Abused People in Childhood, has observed, in many cases there may well be a link between a life devastated by abuse and criminality.It is easy to see why taxpayers should not be asked fully to compensate victims who go on to commit very serious offences, particularly violent offences, but routinely to reduce compensation for victims of sexual abuse because of much lesser misdemeanours is unjustified. Clearly the lessons of Rochdale and Rotherham have not been fully absorbed.The scheme needs amendment. It is intended to be a set of rules to compensate real victims for the injury caused to them by serious and violent offences - not a code of behaviour for the model citizen.