The prison population in England and Wales, already at a record 72,500 inmates, is set to hit 100,000 within four years and could even reach 110,000 before the end of the decade, according to Home Office projections published yesterday.Official research shows that the explosion in prison numbers is not just being fuelled by what has been dubbed the "courts' love affair with custody", but by the government's 2001 manifesto delivery target to ensure more offenders being brought to book. The estimates, from the office of national statistics, say that if ministers hit the target to "narrow the justice gap" so that 1.2m offences end in a conviction, this alone will add a further 12,800 to the current prison population by 2006-07. Prison population projections are notoriously unreliable, but have recently tended to underestimate. Even the most optimistic scenario produced yesterday, which assumes that sentencing trends do not get harsher, predicts that the jail population will hit 91,400 in 2009. The most pessimistic says 109,600. The figure stood at 42,000 in 1990. Last night prison governors and probation officers warned that a new jail building programme - with up to 40 extra prisons - would be needed to house the extra inmates. In recent months the home secretary, David Blunkett, and the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, have repeatedly asked the courts to use jail only as a last resort for dangerous, violent and sex offenders, but this has failed to stem the rise in the prison population. The prisons minister, Hilary Benn, said yesterday: "We do not advocate any policy that will push up the numbers of those in custody for its own sake. Sentencing must be effective in preventing reoffending, and in many cases, prison will not be the most suitable option." Treasury funds of £275m have just been agreed to provide new prison places next year, with a review ordered "to look for longer term answers to stop major increases in the prison population". New measures in the criminal justice bill are expected to divert some inmates to community punishments, but the overall impact of the legislation will be to add just under 1,000 to the daily prison population. David Roddan of the Prison Governors' Association last night said: "It seems incredible that a modern government's only response to public concern about crime is to lock more people up, regardless of the cost to the taxpayer." Juliet Lyons of the Prison Reform Trust said the figures were a shattering admission of defeat: "It is a matter of national shame that we routinely lock up those in need of care or treatment and then release them from our overcrowded jails more, not less, likely to offend."