Four sectarian killers were jailed for life today for the murder of a Catholic teenager in Northern Ireland three years ago.Michael McIlveen, 16, was beaten to death in the centre of Ballymena in May 2006. Sentencing his killers, a judge at Antrim crown court said the gang responsible were high on a "lethal cocktail" of drink, drugs and sectarian hatred.Aaron Wallace, 20, Christopher Kerr, 22, and Jeff Lewis, 19, were convicted of murder. Mervyn Moon, 20, admitted the murder at the start of the trial in September 2008.The highest minimum tariff of 13 years was handed to Kerr, whom Justice Treacy said had shown no remorse for his actions and had lied consistently throughout the trial. The judge said: "This lethal cocktail of drugs, drink, youth and sectarianism provided the context in which this murder occurred."He said the fact that he had also gone to his grandmother's house to obtain the baseball bat showed his part in the murder was premeditated.Wallace and Lewis were given 11-year tariffs ‑ lesser terms because they had no part in procuring the bat or using it, the judge said. Lewis was also given an additional one month in prison for a charge of criminal damage.The judge gave Moon credit for his timely plea of guilty and said he had shown clear and genuine remorse for his actions. He was given a 10-year minimum tariff.Christopher McLeister, 18, of Ballymena, was given a three-year sentence suspended for two years for the teenager's manslaughter.The judge said he did not believe the public interest would be served by giving him an immediate custodial sentence and said he was certain the defendant would not trouble the courts again.Paul Hanson, 18, who was found guilty of affray and criminal damage, was sentenced to a total of 10 months. Peter McMullen, 18, who the jury had cleared of murder by direction of the court, was given a conditional discharge for causing criminal damage.Summing up, Mr Justice Treacy described the death of McIlveen as "a brutal and sectarian murder. As I have said, Michael was only 15 at the time of his murder and its devastating impact on his entire family has been set out in a moving victim impact statement signed by his mother," he said.In a statement read to the court, Michael's mother, Gina, said: "For anyone to have their son taken from them so suddenly is a horrendous experience, but for it to occur in such a violent manner and the public attention that followed, only magnifies it."I personally have found Michael's death extremely difficult to deal with. My health suffered and there are times when I have not been able to cope. It has been extremely difficult trying to make any sense of what happened to Michael that night and it has been a huge desire to know what happened to him that has kept me coming back to court for the trial because at times it's been difficult to listen to."She said she sympathised with the families of those convicted in connection with her son's murder.