Police were alerted to an intruder alarm at the scene of the Hatton Garden jewellery heist just after midnight on Good Friday but did not respond, Scotland Yard has admitted.In a statement likely to cause fury among the safety box depositors who lost out in the robbery, the Metropolitan police confirmed that their central communications command received a call from the Southern Monitoring Alarm Company at 00:21 on Good Friday.The call stated that an intruder alarm had been activated at the Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd. For reasons as yet unknown, the call was graded in a way that meant no police response was deemed to be required.Cops and ex-robbers on Hatton Garden heist: 'This is no bunch of mugs' Scotland Yard said it was “too early to say if the handling of the call would have had an impact on the outcome of the incident”.It is thought that millions of pounds’ worth of jewels, gold and cash may have been taken from up to 70 safety deposit boxes during the Easter weekend, when many of the local businesses had closed for the holiday. There has been speculation about why there was no security response to the break-in, with some reports suggesting that the thieves – who entered the vault after descending the lift shaft of the building and drilling through reinforced concrete with an heavy-duty drill – may have had several days to carry out the theft. The statement said the Met had been making “initial inquiries” into what calls had been received relating to the heist.“At this stage we have established that on Friday 3 April at 00:21hrs a call was received at the MPS Central Communications Command (MetCC) from Southern Monitoring Alarm Company. The call stated that a confirmed intruder alarm had been activated at the Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd,” it said. “The call was recorded and transferred to the police’s CAD (computer-aided despatch) system. A grade was applied to the call that meant that no police response was deemed to be required. We are now investigating why this grade was applied to the call. This investigation is being carried out locally.”In Hatton Garden depositors waiting for news of their belongingsreacted angrily to the news that police had been alerted to therobbery that has left some deprived of hundreds of thousands ofpounds.Simon, 46, said his brother had an uninsured box worth £150,000 – containing a £40,000 diamond, platinum gold, and other diamonds worth between £5,000 to £10,000 in it – that had been confirmed missing. Who is really to blame for the Hatton Garden security box theft? | Letters “I’m very angry. It’s my brother’s life down there and the worst thing iswe don’t know what’s happened,” he said.“You would imagine the police would come straight away, wouldn’t you, on a street like this? It’s absolutely ridiculous. That place should have been wired to the policestraight away. It’s all going to come out isn’t it. But that doesn’t help us. We’rein limbo and struggling.”Batcha Hussein, a jeweller still waiting to find out if his box and its £15,000 worth of contents were missing, said: “It’s really shocking and upsetting for what went wrong. I’m anxiously waiting to find out what really happened.”Robert, 55, who has been a diamond and gem trader for 40 years, said,with an air of sarcasm: “It’s not important enough, it’s only 2million … but don’t worry about it.”