The actor Catherine Zeta-Jones yesterday told a Los Angeles court that death threats and violent messages directed against her for 15 months had left her terrified and had prompted an anxiety attack.In a pre-trial hearing, Zeta-Jones faced Dawnette Knight, the woman police say sent her threatening letters including a mock obituary and a threat to cut her up "like meat on a bone and feed her to the dogs". Between January 2003 and March 2004, friends, family and employees of Zeta-Jones received letters and phone calls the actor described to the court as "satanic". Her husband, actor Michael Douglas, told the court that his wife had been close to a nervous breakdown as the stalker seemed to be closing in on her family. Zeta-Jones told the court she lived in fear because the stalker knew details about her movements, the name of her children's nanny and the layout of one of her homes. "I didn't know where it was coming from. It seemed to be closing in on me and getting closer and closer to home, and that in itself was horrific," she told the court.While Zeta-Jones was in Amsterdam in May filming for Ocean's 12, the hotel she was staying at took three calls that were "violent" and "shocking to the phone operator", she told the court. She said she had had a severe anxiety attack on her way to her home in Spain three days later. She felt faint, was sweating and shaking, and had difficulty breathing, she said. "I've never in my life had anything or had anyone say anything to me so satanic," Zeta-Jones said in a hearing to decide whether Ms Knight should stand trial. "I can't even imagine how a sane human being could have these images locked in their brain. This will affect me for the rest of my life." Ms Knight, 32, was arrested at her Beverly Hills home in June. She is charged with 25 counts of stalking and making criminal threats against Zeta-Jones. If found guilty, Ms Knight faces a maximum sentence of 19 years in prison. She has already apologised for sending letters to the family, calling herself a "confused young woman", obsessed with Douglas. Her lawyer, Richard Herman, has said Ms Knight had a "girlish crush on Michael Douglas", and had sent him a note telling him she would show him "a good time". Mr Herman added he was "not convinced my client wrote all the letters". Yesterday, Zeta-Jones read from some of the letters allegedly written by Ms Knight. They included references to the violent deaths of President John F Kennedy and OJ Simpson's wife, Nicole Brown Simpson. "The bitch will be shredded to pieces like Sharon Tate was. This is going to be entertainment history," one said, referring to a brutal murder by the Manson gang. "See ya at the funeral," said another. Staff members, friends and relatives, including Douglas's father, Kirk Douglas, received the letters, the court heard. In March, a Bermuda hotel owned by the couple received two threatening calls. Douglas told the court how his wife had been driven to the brink of a nervous breakdown. "She just felt that she was a marked person," he said. "She was having a difficult time maintaining emotional control." He added that his wife "showed all the signs of having a nervous breakdown".