The daughter of killer GP Harold Shipman's final victim today called for an overhaul of the way deaths are certified, to help prevent murders going undetected.Angela Woodruff told the public inquiry into Shipman's crimes she believed a second doctor should examine all deaths before a certificate was signed. Mrs Woodruff, whose suspicions over the death of her mother, 81-year-old Kathleen Grundy, led to the police investigation into the doctor, said the existing procedures were "remarkably lax". The hearing heard earlier today from the inquiry's lawyers that the system of death certification was easily manipulated and had allowed Shipman to carry out 215 murders without being discovered. Counsel representing many of the families of Shipman's victims, Richard Lissack QC, told the inquiry chairman Dame Janet Smith: "It is a sobering thought that the system in place at the time of Shipman's murders remains in place today virtually unchanged."There was real confusion over the real needs of the system and a "reticence to challenge potentially suspicious information in relation to a cause of death", he added.Mrs Woodruff, a solicitor from Warwickshire, said after her mother's death she had never actually seen the death certificate but had just taken it to the registrar in a sealed envelope and had been told it certified "old age". Shipman had been "strangely vague" about her mother's condition when she saw him after her death, she said, and her and her husband had experienced a "growing sense of unease". But there was an "enormous barrier" that she had to cross to believe that a trusted GP could have forged her mother's will and committed the murder."We just felt we were in almost an Alice In Wonderland world," she explained. "We kept on thinking it looked as though Dr Shipman had done something but it couldn't be and we couldn't believe it. We were thinking we were going mad. We even had various theories, such as that my mum was really ill and had asked the doctor to help her die or that she had committed suicide. But I couldn't imagine anyone more unlikely to do that. It was an unreal world we were living in." Eventually Mrs Woodruff asked another lawyer in her practice to look at the facts and take an objective view before deciding to go to the police. A second doctor should inspect the body, see the medical records and speak to the GP or specialist involved, in all deaths, she said. "I think it is very, very important to speak to relatives. I realise that in so many cases had the relatives known the facts about their loved one's death things would have been very different." The first time she had learned Shipman had made a telephone call to the coroner about her mother's death was at his trial at Preston Crown Court."I was very surprised in the evidence at the trial but the two people from the coroner's office said they wouldn't have recorded the telephone conversation and of the people who took the calls one appeared to be a secretary," she said."I would have thought the coroner or his deputy should have taken the call and any call should be logged. I would have thought it was important for the coroner to ask some questions about the health of the person and maybe see the medical records." The inquiry was adjourned until tomorrow.