 A double child killer has been jailed for a third murder carried out nearly half a century ago, after modern forensics helped prove his guilt.David Burgess, 65, who was jailed for life in 1967 for killing two nine-year-old girls, was sentenced on Monday to serve at least another 27 years for murdering the 17-year-old nanny Yolande Waddington in 1966.Thames Valley police will now contact other police forces with unsolved murders on their books from a period of about two years between 1996 and 1998 when Burgess was out of prison.Three notorious murders took place during that time. The hospital worker Melanie Hall, 25, went missing from a nightclub in Bath in June 1996. Her remains were found on a motorway verge north of Bristol in 2009.In November 1997 Kate Bushell, 14, was murdered while walking her dog in Exwick on the outskirts of Exeter, Devon.Then in February 1997 Billie-Jo Jenkins, 13, was killed in Hastings, East Sussex, on the patio of her foster parents' home.Peter Beirne, investigations manager at Thames Valley police's major crime review team, confirmed thatdetectives would be passing details of Burgess on to Devon and Cornwall, Avon and Somerset and Sussex forces.He stressed that no firm evidence links Burgess to the three murders but that he may be "of interest" to those forces. Thames Valley will also speak to the National Police Improvement Agency, which works with all UK forces.Burgess's trial at Reading crown court was told that Yolande was last seen alive at the Six Bells pub in the Berkshire village of Beenham at around 10pm on Friday 28 October 1966. Burgess was also in the pub.Her naked body was found two days later in a ditch next to an isolated barn known in the area to be used by "courting couples". She had been stabbed and strangled.In the barn, police found a bloodstained beige sweater they believed belonged to Yolande. The stains were consistent with two stab wounds to her chest and back.Also in the barn were items, including an empty polythene sack, stained with another person's blood.Police took blood samples from every male villager aged between 15 and 50 in one of the earliest examples of scientific screening in a investigation.They tested Burgess, then 19, whose blood matched that at the scene in three out of four aspects tested, but was not a complete match. The investigation began to wind down but was never closed.In April 1967 the bodies of the schoolgirls Jeanette Wigmore and Jacqueline Williams were found in a disused gravel pit in Beenham. The following month Burgess was arrested and convicted of killing the nine-year-olds.He remained a key suspect for Yolande's murder and twice told prison officers he was responsible, but when interviewed by police in prison helater denied it.Last year, bloodstains on items still available from the murder scene were re-investigated using modern techniques. DNA samples taken from the stains on the sack helped prove that Burgess killed Yolande.The prosecution said Burgess stabbed Yolande with a penknife after a consensual sexual encounter went wrong, cutting his finger in the process and leaving his blood at the scene, as well as the blade.Sentencing Burgess to life, Mr Justice Nicol said Yolande had a "zest for life" and was excited by her new job as a nanny."Abruptly you cut all of that short," he said. "It was a tragedy for her. It was a tragedy for all her family. It was a tragedy for the small community of Beenham where this happened. It spread fear and suspicion."Yolande's brother, Giles Waddington, who was just eight at the time of his sister's killing, said the family was grateful justice had been done.He added: "Yolande's murder had a traumatic and irreversible effect on our family life and has cast a long shadow over nearly five decades."The dates when Burgess was at liberty in 1996 are not clear. It is understood that he was out of prison on licence for a while that year before being ordered back to jail.He then went on the run and was recaptured in Hampshire in late February 1998. He was returned to prison and was still behind bars when he was finally arrested last November over Yolande's murder.