More people than ever before are behind bars in England and Wales. When Labour came into government in 1997 the prison population was 60,131; last week it reached a record 85,706. All three main parties intend to cut public services, but support investment in prisons. Although Britain has western Europe's highest rate of imprisonment, both Labour and the Conservatives are committed to the largest prison building programme in the region. According to the government's own estimates the new prison-building programme alone will cost £4.2 billion.​Building more prisons expands a failed system. According to the government's own statistics the prison population has more than doubled since 1990 even as crime levels have fallen. Offences such as car theft, burglaries and violent crime, as experienced by victims, have fallen by more than 40% since 1995. The number of people being found guilty in court has not changed significantly, but the number and length of prison sentences have. This trend will continue if more prisons are built.The government cannot build its way out of the prisons crisis. Too many people have lost their lives to the prison system. History has shown that if more prisons are built, they will be filled: more prisons lead to more prisoners, as courts are more likely to give custodial sentences, deny bail and hold people on remand for ever more minor offences. Since plans for expansion could lead to more than 100,000 prison places by 2014, more people will be jailed unless we end the commitment to imprisonment. The only sustainable solution is to reduce the number of prisoners and reduce the use of prison. This was what a parliamentary select committee recommended earlier this year, calling the new prison-building programme "a costly mistake".But in terms of costs, it is marginalised communities who really pay the price. Locking people up avoids the responsibility of seriously engaging with the structural inequalities of our society, such as those caused by racism and poverty. It is those communities that are the most affected by these issues that are disproportionately imprisoned. People of colour, for example, make up less than 9% of the general UK population but 25% of prisoners. Same goes for the poor, migrants, people with mental health issues and people with learning disabilities. This is not because some groups are more criminal than others, but because they are specifically targeted by the criminal justice system.Enver Solomon, deputy director of the centre for crime and justice studies at King's College London, says: "Prison will never be an effective crime-control tool because the evidence clearly demonstrates that it actively creates or compounds the factors that contribute to offending." Indeed, separating prisoners from their families, friends and communities in a violent and abusive environment makes pre-existing problems worse and causes increased social and economic hardship for their families and communities.In this general election, fear of crime has been exploited by all political parties. We need to address violence and harm in our communities, but prison is part of the problem not the solution. Alternatives to imprisonment already exist in forms of transformative and restorative justice, but building more prisons takes away power and resources from communities to develop these.Prisons detract resources from education, housing, health and welfare. These public services deliver clear benefits to our communities and make us safer, but are currently being cut. While all three of the main political parties support cutting them, they are pushing for continued investment in incarceration. We need to reverse the current priorities, and cut prison instead. Our resources would be better used to build safer communities not more prisons.