A science teacher who blackmailed and threatened girls as young as 13 to force them to send him explicit sexual images of themselves has been jailed for six years.Zahid Akram, 37, posed as a teenage boy to trick the girls into sending the photographs. He then told the teenagers he would send the images to parents, friends or their school – or would find them and rape them – if they did not send him even more explicit pictures.Exeter crown court heard about four girls who were conned by Akram, who is from Redditch in Worcestershire, but police believe he targeted scores of teenagers across the UK.Judge Francis Gilbert QC, the recorder of Exeter, told Akram, a father-of-two, that his actions were vile. The judge said: "You were a schoolteacher, a married man with your own daughters. You targeted young girls who were still at school, knowing of their susceptibility and vulnerability."David Sapiecha, prosecuting, told the court that Akram targeted teenagers across the UK, from Northern Ireland to the south of England.Sapiecha said the first victim, aged 16, was approached by Akram – posing as a 19-year-old called Curt – on social networking site Badoo."He then asked her for photographs of her in her underwear," Sapiecha said. "She said no a few times but eventually agreed. She took photographs of herself in her underwear. That was the weapon he needed to use against her. The speed and aggression of what happened next is quite chilling."Within three days, Akram had contacted the girl again, told her he knew who her parents were and threatened to post the images on a pornographic website and send them to her school.He demanded "more pictures – kinky stuff" and credit for his mobile and told her he was the devil when she asked for his real identity. She used her webcam to pose in a series of outfits he had detailed.The second victim, aged 13, thought Akram was a boy called Jason and sent him a photograph of her in her underwear.Again Akram demanded more images, threatening to post her picture on the internet if she refused. He also said he would come to see her in person if she did not comply.The third victim, who was 18, willingly sent him sexual pictures on Badoo but was left horrified when he replied: "I know where you live."She agreed to send more explicit images after Akram told her "he would come up, burst through the door and rape her".Akram's final known victim, aged 17, was contacted by Akram – pretending to be a teenager called Rick – online. He again tricked her into sending a photograph then told her he would post it in her neighbourhood if she did not send more. "Everyone will know who you are," he told her.Akram was arrested in January 2012 but insisted he was just using the social networks to flirt with women as his marriage was failing. He later admitted four counts of blackmail and one count of causing or inciting a child to take part in prostitution or pornography.Representing Akram, who resigned from his teaching post in Dorset last year, Lawrence Wilcox told Exeter crown court his client was a devoted father to his children, aged seven and 11."What is very apparent is that this behaviour was entirely out of character for Mr Akram," Wilcox said.