I described the futile existence of my friend Louise, a 23-year-old working girl from Leeds, in a Society Guardian article earlier this year. How she would wake up rattling, desperately needing drugs to feel normal again; hunting down the minimum £100 a day she needs to buy those drugs; scoring her drugs - a dangerous and time-consuming activity in its own right; doing her drugs; then back out on the streets to find more cash. Endlessly, three, four, five times a day. And the same the next day. Over and over again.The mixed reaction to the piece surprised me: everything from wholehearted agreement to complete disbelief. A friend of a friend, for example, thought I must have made it up, or exaggerated. Surely, people don't live like that in this day and age. People seem to see in Louise whatever they want to see. She's like a mirror on society - a kind of down-market Chantelle. Without intending to, I have created a celebrity smackhead.Louise, meanwhile, takes it all in her stride. "Maybe we could sell tickets, or organise coach trips. How about Underclass Holidays or something like that? Cash in while the going's good."There comes a point when articles like this become intrusive or exploitative, so this will be the last one for a while. I wrote about her because I'm angry that she has to live the way she does. Every shivering wreck in a doorway is someone's son or daughter; every shambling bag lady, someone's mum or sister; every prison suicide, someone's precious little baby.Louise is one of mine. I go back a long way with her and I care what happens to her. She's not just a case study. I've known her since she was child. She tells people I'm her dad, which gives me a moral responsibility. She might be a prostitute and a drug addict, but she's also a living, breathing human being. To me, she will never be anything but the cheeky, freckled, naive, provocative, mickey-taking, loyal, lost and lonely 13-year-old who I first met.On the townNow she fights off rabid sex offenders by the canal in the middle of the night while the rest of the city sleeps. Now she sells her body, or picks the pockets of gullible men out for a night on the town. Now she whacks other girls' heads into walls for real or imagined slights and taxes their drugs. Now she piles into crowds of black men in Chapeltown, men who are obviously armed and dangerous, and tells them they're a team of stupid-looking black bastards who'd better hurry up and get her gear sorted out before she really does start kicking off. I've seen her do it and the black guys just laugh. I think they kind of admire her spirit. She's off her head, but she wasn't always like that.Where did it go wrong? I'd like to say it's all down to drugs, but I don't believe it's that simple. Her problems began well before that. Maybe we can trace them back to the day she was born. The year was 1982 and Margaret Thatcher had been in power for three years. Britain's heavy industries - coal, steel, shipbuilding, engineering - were ailing. Millions were thrown out of work and sentenced to lives of idleness, poverty and a soul-destroying dependence on benefits. Health, education, all the social services, were starved of investment until they began to fail. Communities, no longer valued, crumbled. The warm, nurturing nuclear family began its decline.Louise was born in this brave new world. Raised in Belle Isle, a council estate with a beautiful name but a less beautiful reputation, she failed to thrive, suffering from asthma and skin problems. Her family was dysfunctional and her mother had an alcohol problem.Anger, bitterness and disaffection had been added to the existing social cocktail of hopelessness and despair. Leeds, in those days, was surrounded by pits, and the miners' strike of 1984 was a bitter blow to us all. My father was a miner and my own family was badly hit by the conflict. Many of us lost hope and a sense of ownership, involvement or community; many of us took to the bottle or the drugs. It was dog eat dog and every man for himself. Louise was brought up in this, the prevailing atmosphere at the time.Despite this bleak background radiation, she did surprisingly well in her early school career. She learned the three Rs with ease and showed artistic promise. The school liked her and she liked going to school. It was better than watching everyone drinking and arguing at home. Her mum and dad were in the process of splitting up and the atmosphere at home was becoming unpleasant. Louise took to roaming the street at all hours and fell in with the wrong crowd. The older she got, the more her behaviour and attitude deteriorated. By the age of 12, she had been excluded from school.I met her when she was 13 and living in a garden shed with a crowd of similarly dispossessed children. Alienated from her family, excluded from school and normal society, her only refuge was the shed. With no restraints in place, like the rest of the crew, she began experimenting with drink, solvents and entry-level drugs. She was sexually active and had already acquired a reputation among the boys. No surprise, then, when she fell pregnant at 14.Louise's daughter, Laura, was born in 1997. Louise was given a council house and a health visitor, but no other worthwhile support. The child's father was nowhere to be found. Louise, isolated and alone, struggled as a single mum from the beginning. The estate where she lived was rife with smack, and it wasn't long before she was using it to wind down the day once Laura was safely tucked up in bed. Over the next three years, little by little, she developed an addiction. By the age of 18, she was working on the streets to pay for her drugs.On the whole, Laura was well looked after in her first three or four years of life, despite her mother's increasingly chaotic lifestyle. The problems really started when Laura reached school age. Louise was having trouble getting her to school on time and by now was using crack cocaine. Things were starting to fall apart.Horribly corrosiveCrack is an insidious drug. In the 60s, it was the practice in this country to give out free heroin to addicts on the NHS. Had that still been the case, Louise - freed from the burden of having to find £100 a day to buy her drugs - might have led a normal life. But with crack there is no question of leading a normal life. It is almost instantly addictive, mind-bendingly expensive, the high lasts only minutes, and it is horribly corrosive to both mind and body. Social services were becoming increasingly concerned. When Louise gave birth to a second child, they felt compelled to intervene.I have no problem with that - I only wish they could have offered her the help and support she needed when she was 15. But I do have a problem with the way things were handled from there. I went through the whole process with Louise: the social workers were hostile, suspicious, belligerent, bullying, over-assertive and accusatory. They took the children, while promising that contact would be maintained. They lied. Contact wasn't maintained. Louise nominated me as her friend and adviser, but I wasn't allowed in to the courtroom when her case appeared. She never had a chance. Finally, her children were given over for permanent adoption without her permission, and contact was discontinued. Or, as Louise sees it: "They stole my children and gave them to rich bastards who can't have kids of their own."Louise can be exasperating. She might turn up for an appointment under the influence, or not turn up at all. I understand that years might pass before she kicks drugs, or she might never kick them at all. Her child's welfare must be paramount. I understand that. But I don't understand why all hope of redemption should be taken away from Louise. She needs the hope of seeing her kids again if she is to have any chance at all. Take that away and you destroy her.I still see Louise regularly, but I've given up trying to help her quit drugs. I asked her a while back why she won't make any serious effort to sort herself out. She replied, quite simply: "Because I've lost so much."· Bernard Hare's Urban Grimshaw and the Shed Crew, has been shortlisted for the 2006 Orwell Prize for books.