Armed police mounted a series of raids yesterday in the hunt for the gang which escaped with up to £50m from a security depot.Within hours of senior officers confidently predicting that "the net is closing in" on the criminals who carried out the record-breaking robbery, a number of people were arrested at several locations across Kent. The raids followed the recovery of weapons and clothing which had been abandoned by the robbers, along with £1.3m in cash.Eyewitnesses to one police operation in the seaside town of Tankerton described how marksmen appeared to shoot out a rear tyre of a BMW car before officers in plain clothes and wearing black police caps surrounded the vehicle and handcuffed the two men inside."I heard a loud bang, just before 1pm, looked out of my window, and there were about eight plainclothed police officers all armed with guns," said one woman, who did not wish to be identified. "They had a guy behind the back of the car with his hands behind his back, and there was another guy in a nearby bus shelter being held with his face against the wall."Earlier, several handguns, flak jackets and balaclavas had been examined after being found in a van abandoned by members of the gang close to the Eurostar station in Ashford on Friday. If any of the clothing had been worn by the robbers, it could hold strands of hair, saliva and even traces of skin, all of which could yield DNA samples. Police also found 14 steel cages used to carry the haul away in a 7.5 tonne truck, as well as a number of "other significant items".Officers said that they had now counted the cash, in new banknotes, found in the van, and said it totalled £1.3m. They have still not disclosed the precise amount of money taken in the raid early on Wednesday morning, other than to say it amounted to at least £20m and may have been as much as £50m.Six people who were arrested earlier during the investigation have all now been released on police bail. They included a Salvation Army nurse from south London who was arrested after attempting to open a building society account with cash which had come from the depot. She was freed after proving that she had withdrawn the cash from another bank. A pair of hairdressers from London were released on bail after being questioned about wigs and hairpieces. Three men aged 55, 49 and 33 from the Maidstone area of Kent who were questioned on suspicion of conspiracy to commit armed robbery were also released.Nevertheless, police said they were confident that all of the gang would soon be identified and arrested. "Leaving firearms, clothing and cash in the van suggests to me that there are people in the gang who are now making mistakes," said Adrian Leppard, assistant chief constable of Kent. "They are under pressure and we want to keep the pressure on. I am very encouraged at this stage by the progress we are making. The net is closing in."During the last 24 hours we have executed a number of search warrants. A number of those search warrants, because of the risk posed, have involved preplanned firearms operations."Over the weekend police released a written statement by Colin Dixon, the depot manager, describing the terror that he and his family experienced when they were abducted and he was forced to help the gang. "The horror of what might have happened is with us in every waking moment," said Mr Dixon, 51, who lives less than five miles from the scene of yesterday's armed police raid at Tankerton.The gang had put guns to the heads of his son, Craig, and his wife, Lynn. Craig, who turned nine on Friday, was deeply traumatised, he said. "He will carry this for the rest of his life. How dare they do this to a little boy?" Recovered so far · A red van which had been painted to resemble a Parcelforce vehicle was discovered on Thursday in the village of Hucking, near Maidstone· Stolen Volvo saloon and Vauxhall Vectra, possibly used to abduct depot manager Colin Dixon, were found burning in the nearby village of Leeds that evening· White Transit van containing £1.3m, handguns, flak jackets and balaclavas was found outside a hotel in Ashford on Friday afternoon· Fourteen metal cages and packaging material used to carry away the haul were recovered from fields in Detling, east of Maidstone, late on Friday evening