A father who tortured and battered his three-month-old son to death because he was jealous of the attention the baby's mother showed him was jailed for life yesterday.By February last year, Paul O'Neil, 33, had grown so angered by his partner's love for their son, Aaron, that he held his face against a gas fire. Four days later, after spending hours drinking and smoking cannabis with friends, he returned to the home he shared with his partner, Jodie Taylor, 21. He waited for Taylor to visit her mother before killing Aaron by shaking him and either hitting the baby's head or striking it against hard surface.A post-mortem examination revealed 37 separate injuries and marks on Aaron's body, caused by a catalogue of non-accidental burns, bruises and broken bones during his 92-day life.Some of the injuries, among them a healing skull fracture, had been inflicted days or weeks earlier, Newcastle crown court heard. There was also evidence of a cigarette burn on Aaron's shoulder and a scalding injury.Paul Worsley QC, prosecuting, said jealousy had been the motive for Aaron's murder. "The defendant resented Aaron and the way Jodie Taylor gave him attention. He held his face to the fire to punish him," Mr Worsley said. "He inflicted serious harm, which caused so many bones in his little body to be broken.""The defendant was alone with Aaron when he collapsed and alone with him when he was repeatedly burned."He was responsible for all those injuries and kept Jodie Taylor in such fear that she dare not take Aaron to a doctor."O'Neil, of Banbury Road, Kenton, Newcastle, had admitted cruelty but denied murder and five charges of GBH with intent between November 2004 and February 2005. The jury was unable to reach verdicts on three charges of GBH, which the judge ordered to lie on file. O'Neil was jailed for life, with a recommendation he serve at least 22 years. He was also sentenced to 14 years for GBH and five years for cruelty, both to run concurrently to the life sentence.Passing sentence, Judge David Hodson, the recorder of Newcastle, said O'Neil had apparently treated his son without "a scrap of compassion or a morsel of remorse". He added: "Aaron was entitled to expect that as his son you would care and attend for him."Judge Hodson jailed Taylor for three-and-a-half years, telling her she had "failed as a mother" in not protecting Aaron.It emerged after the trial that O'Neil had fathered five children by two other women before meeting Taylor, and that his access to those children had been restricted because he had been violent towards them and their mothers.It was revealed that the local Safeguarding Children board had commissioned a report into Aaron's death, which discovered that Taylor's probation officer was concerned about the baby's welfare after hearing of her pregnancy.The officer alerted social services who looked into the threat O'Neil posed. Despite completing an initial child protection assessment, they failed to protect Aaron. The report said cooperation between the parents and social worker and health visitor was "superficial" and in the case of the O'Neil "non-existent".Catherine Fitt, executive director of children's services at Newcastle city council, said health and social workers should have done more to see the baby.