A City trader is being investigated by police in connection with a bogus website that appealed for cash to help to find Claudia Lawrence, the chef who went missing two weeks ago in York.The Observer can reveal that Maichel Los, a 39-year-old Dutchman, is also behind a complex web of internet companies and domain names asking the public to contribute to worthy causes.Los, who lives in west London, has used a foreign company to create websites bearing the names of famous pop stars and registered scores of internet domain names, many relating to leading figures in the worlds of art and religion.Los, a father of twins, is being questioned regarding his links to the now defunct site, claudialawrence.com, where visitors could make donations to a Paypal account. Set up six days after Claudia disappeared, the site claimed that donations "will help keep the Find Claudia Lawrence appeal online".But it has emerged that neither Claudia's family nor friends were behind the site. A spokesman for North Yorkshire Police said: "Officers are looking into several lines of inquiry to trace who is responsible for the website and establish whether any offences have been committed."Attention has now switched to Los's alleged role in constructing the site and his registration of scores of other websites. Internet domain name searches reveal that he uses a number of pseudonyms, including "Dries Coms" and "Norbert Van Vaalsen". He reportedly calls himself "Los Bol" on social networking sites such as Myspace. "Los Bol" is Dutch for someone with no moral scruples.Under his aliases, Los encourages internet users to visit sites registered through his company, Hebsite. Other now defunct sites linked to Hebsite, based in the Netherlands, include savesamson.com, an appeal to raise money for Britain's largest dog, a four-year-old Great Dane-Newfoundland cross which needed a life-saving operation.Hebsite is also selling domain names such as rowanwilliams.co.uk, after the Archbishop of Canterbury, and antonygormley.co.uk, which he claims to be the copyright of the sculptor. Hebsite also offers internet addresses relating to Georgina Baillie, the burlesque dancer and granddaughter of the actor Jonathan Sachs who was at the centre of the Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross phone call scandal, and Kate Summerscale, author of The Suspicions of Mr Whicher.Los has also registered scores of Dutch and Australian domain names, primarily for companies involved in financial services and gambling.Los has been suspended from his job as a trader at an international energy firm, Spectron Futures, based in central London, while police continue their investigation.A spokesman for the firm said: "We are shocked and concerned about the allegations, and the individual has been suspended until further notice while a full internal investigation is carried out."Los was not available for comment yesterday, but he has told others that he did not intend to deceive anyone. He has pledged to refund any donations and said he used false names to avoid spam.Meanwhile, the search for Claudia, 35, continues. Friends and family say her disappearance, on 18 March, as she was returning from her job at the University of York, was "completely out of character". She vanished without taking any money or bank cards.Almost 500 statements and reports have been collected during the police inquiry and 220 properties have been searched. Police have admitted that she may have come to harm after meeting someone she knows, but say they hope she could still be found alive.