A squad of barristers specialising in rape prosecutions is to be set up after an inquiry revealed that fewer than one in 10 cases resulted in conviction.Harriet Harman, the solicitor general, told the Commons yesterday: "We must ensure that women can have confidence that the criminal justice system will take rape allegations seriously and prosecute them effectively, and that offenders and potential offenders must know that they can't get away with it." Ms Harman also suggested that a large rise in the numbers of female barristers and senior judges was needed to improve women's confidence in the system. The report, by the inspectorate of constabulary and the crown prosecution service inspectorate, found that of 1,741 cases examined, attackers were charged or cautioned in just 28%. From a snapshot of 230 cases referred to the crown prosecution service, 43% went to court and seven out of 10 defendants who denied the charges were acquitted. It found serious failings in the way victims were treated at every stage of the criminal justice process. Ms Harman told Vera Baird, Labour MP for Redcar, who accused the judiciary of outdated views, that the lord chancellor was aware of the need to involve judges in discussions. But it was also important to appoint more female judges, she said. "I think it's unlikely that women victims alleging rape will have confidence in a criminal justice system where the barristers are nearly all men and nearly all the judges in the higher courts are men." She added: "What is sad is that there is clear evidence of under-reporting because many women think that the man is just going to get away with it because the criminal justice system won't take it seriously." There will also be efforts to improve the handling of cases, with sessions being held after both successful and unsuccessful cases to discover what lessons can be learned from them. The Liberal Democrat spokesman, John Burnett, asked whether the government would change rules on the disclosure of previous convictions in sex cases. Ms Harman told him that this was part of a separate review of the criminal justice system by Lord Justice Auld and the government's decision would be included in its response to his report. A source said that the crown prosecution service had a number of very able women prosecutors who had been driven out of private practice by the long hours culture, and who would form the nucleus of the proposed new team of experts. Ms Harman also promised action on domestic violence so that more reported cases come to court.