A jilted former policeman stabbed his estranged wife to death at her high street hair salon because he could not cope with the idea of her being with someone else, a court heard on Tuesday."Violent and controlling" Ivan Esack, 38, knifed Natalie Esack, 33, up to 11 times with such ferocity that the blade tip broke off, jurors were told.Esack could not cope with the fact she had started a new relationship so murdered her at Esack Hair and Beauty in High Street, Ashford, Kent, on 30 April, it is alleged.Maidstone crown court heard Esack behaved in a threatening way towards his 5ft 1in estranged wife, who would sometimes sport bruises that she said he had inflicted on her.It is also claimed he was abusive in phone calls and text messages towards her. During one exchange he told her she was a "walking dead woman" before adding "tick tock, tick tock".Esack, a former Kent police officer living in Ashford, denies murder.In his opening speech, prosecutor Philip Bennetts QC said Esack would claim his responsibility was diminished at the time and that he was suffering from a recognised mental condition.Bennetts told jurors: "It's the prosecution's case, after you have considered all the evidence, that you will conclude that the defendant was a violent and controlling person who, unable to deal with the separation from his wife, killed her because he didn't want her to be with anyone else."Esack bought the knife used in the killing from a Sainsbury's supermarket in Ashford shortly before he stabbed his wife for starting a relationship with Justin Khadaroo.After buying the blade, CCTV footage played in court showed him parking his car at a car park before walking the short distance to the salon Esack and his wife had set up in January 2008.Earlier he had made sure she was working that day by telephoning the salon and asking one of her colleagues what time her first appointment was due to take place.Jurors heard that as Esack walked into the salon armed with the knife, his estranged wife was on a computer at reception. He "mumbled something" before lashing out with the knife in his hand, sending blood up the walls as the blows struck her.He stabbed her between nine and 11 times in the chest and neck, Bennetts said. Defence-type injuries suggested she tried to fend off the repeated blows before falling to the floor.Esack then walked over to her colleague and said something like: "She deserved it, the bitch." He then walked back out of the salon, paid for his car park ticket and drove home, where he was later arrested on suspicion of murder.Bennetts said: "In interview he said his intention was to kill himself in front of her but when he entered the salon she told him to get out and he lost control and killed her."The couple married in 2006 but by October 2011 they had split up. Bennetts said Esack threatened to kill her, their dog and himself. When the threats were reported to police, he was forced to surrender a shotgun he owned.The couple made an attempt to revive their marriage by going to Mexico on holiday but during the break he kicked her, causing bruising to her leg, Bennetts told jurors. By the end of February, their relationship was beyond repair and Natalie Esack left home to live with her father.On 15 February, Esack was alleged to have sent more than 40 text messages saying he was going to kill her. A month later, a 999 call was made after Esack was turned away from her father's home after she told him: "You're not allowed to come in. You tried to kill me."On another occasion, Esack pushed his estranged wife to the floor at the property before fleeing, and during a counselling session the couple attended at a recovery clinic on 21 March, she recalled his attempt to try to strangle her, to which Esack replied: "I'm sorry."Bennetts said the day before the killing there were a series of phone calls between Esack, his estranged wife and her new partner, in which it was disclosed that she was in a new relationship.The court heard that Esack responded by threatening to take her away, and threatened to kill her and Khadaroo, whom she had known since 2007. In one recorded message, Esack told her: "You're going to die babe. You are going to fucking die. I hope you are happy." He added: "You are going to fucking die so fucking enjoy the fucking time you have with him."Esack said he had nothing to lose with no job and no career. In another exchange, he said: "I'm going to murder you, seriously. Is this what you want, is this what you fucking want?"In one message played in court, Natalie Esack told her estranged husband: "We are not a couple any more." He replied: "That's what you think."In another exchange, she asked him: "What are my options?" Esack told her: "Death, death and death."