McDonald's, Greggs, KFC and Subway are today named as the most littered brands in England as Keep Britain Tidy called on fast-food companies to do more to tackle customers who drop their wrappers and drinks cartons in the streets.The government also said the industry must take greater responsibility for the mess after surveys in a dozen cities and towns found branded products were often causing a problem. McDonald's material accounted for 29% of litter, Greggs 18%, KFC 8% and Subway 5%, according to Keep Britain Tidy's survey. Unbranded litter from fish and chip or kebab shops made up 21% of the fast food total, while other branded coffee rubbish totalled 5%.Phil Barton, chief executive of Keep Britain Tidy, launching its new Dirty Pig campaign, said it was the first time it had investigated which brands made up "littered England" and the same names appeared again and again. "We condemn litterers for dropping this fast food litter in the first place but also believe the results have pertinent messages for the fast food industry. McDonald's, the local chip shop, Greggs, KFC and Subway need to do more to discourage littering by their customers. Fast food makes up a quarter of all litter found on our streets."He recognised efforts made by McDonald's, including logos on its packaging, litter bins and litter patrols, but its litter remained "all too prevalent". All fast food chains should reduce unnecessary packaging, he added. Companies could also reduce prices for those who stayed to eat food on their premises, offer money-off vouchers or other incentives for those who returned packaging and put more bins at strategic points in local streets, not just outside their premises. A spokesman for McDonald's said: "We do our best. Obviously we ask all our customers to dispose of litter responsibly." Trials of more extensive, all-day litter patrols were under way in Manchester and Birmingham. KFC said it took its responsibility on litter management "very seriously", and would introduce a programme to reduce packaging on many products. Subway said that it worked hard to minimise the impact of litter on communities, but it was "still down to the individual customer to dispose of their litter responsibly". Greggs said it recognised the "continuing challenge for us all", despite having already taken measures to help tackle the issue.About 45,000 people were prosecuted for litter offences by English local authorities in 2006-07, up from 33,000 the year before. Fast food firms have backed a voluntary code on keeping litter down but the report by Keep Britain Tidy will raise questions about whether it is working.The environment department, Defra, said: "Litter is everyone's problem - we all need to do our bit - and the fast food industry must shoulder more responsibility to put a stop to litter on our streets."It added that more legislation was not the answer as local authorities already had the power to fine individuals and outlets that persistently allowed litter to build up outside premises. McDonald's topped the litter list in Newcastle, Leicester and Birmingham, while Greggs packaging was most often found to have been discarded in Manchester, Leeds, Market Harborough, Bristol and Weston-super-Mare. In Sheffield KFC was the most branded rubbish, while in London coffee cups from a mixture of brands accounted for most litter. Unbranded wrappings from fish and chip shops or burger outlets caused most problems in Liverpool. There were 12 checks over two days last month in city centre zones and in surrounding areas, some of which were regularly cleaned, others not. Nearly 1,700 fast food items were counted at 20 sites.Food blog: which food brands' packaging do you imagine would be the most faithfully recycled? Join the debate