A pensioner died after being pelted with sticks and stones by a jeering mob of children aged between 10 and 13 as he played cricket with his son, a court was told today.Ernest Norton suffered a heart attack and died after collapsing at outdoor tennis courts in February last year.The 67-year-old was playing cricket with his 17-year-old son, James, at the Erith leisure centre, in Kent, when a group of 15 youths gathered at the fence and began shouting insults, the Old Bailey heard."As the abuse worsened, the group began throwing stones and pieces of wood at father and son," David Fisher QC, prosecuting, said. "Ernest Norton was struck at least twice on the head by these missiles. "One of the stones hit him on the left side of his face causing a fracture to his cheekbone."He collapsed and suffered a heart attack. He received medical attention at the scene, but was pronounced dead later that afternoon." The mob, allegedly including the defendants, ran away. Five youths, now aged between 12 and 14, deny Mr Norton's manslaughter and violent disorder. Mr Norton lived with his wife, Linda, and son in Erith. He underwent a triple heart bypass operation in 1977 but had a "fit and active lifestyle", Mr Fisher said. He said Mr Norton had been in good health on the Sunday when he died, but "the stress and trauma of abuse and a physical attack would make him vulnerable to a heart attack". The defendants, two brothers aged 12 and 13, one boy aged 13 and two 14-year-olds, sat in the dock with their parents. "Nobody relishes the fact that these five boys are on trial," Mr Fisher told the jury. "But their youth is no defence."They were quite old enough to know that to abuse Ernest Norton and his son was wrong and that to throw stones and pieces of wood at them was wrong. "I expect they deeply regret the death of Ernest Norton and no doubt did not intend that he should die. But it was their joint course of conduct, quite probably with others, that caused his death."The trial continues.