It could, perhaps, happen to many or any of us: a misunderstanding at the Safeway checkout; the discovery of your stash of dope; a punch-up at closing time; a moment of insanity while driving . . . If the worst comes to the worst, and you are jailed in Bedfordshire or Cambridgeshire, you end up right here: being led in handcuffs up a flight of echoing stone steps by a Group Four employee, to be greeted by a gruff, burly figure like senior officer Rick Barnsdale, of the reception department of Her Majesty's Prison, Bedford. There is a brisk exchange of information while he fills in the first of the countless official forms. You hand over your property to be bagged and tagged: some of it will come back within the hour; some won't. Banned are alcohol-based toiletries (which might get drunk); wind-up radios (bomb-making potential); protein powders (mixable with drugs); bracelets (possible knuckledusters); football shirts (which might provoke a fight); and bananas (the mind boggles, but apparently you can smoke the skins). Then you get photographed and strip-searched, without ever being entirely naked: if you have heroin or (they swear it has happened) a knife hidden up your rectum, they won't find it unless it falls out when they tell you to squat. You are examined by a nurse and a doctor. If you are on remand, you can have your clothes back, the football shirt excepted. If you are convicted, you get the prison uniform: blue-striped shirt, grey sweatshirt, maroon jumper and jeans - perhaps not dissimilar to the clothes you were wearing in the first place. Then, past one further instruction - TUCK YOUR SHIRT IN - you are led to a cell. It is like checking in to a very, very bad hotel. If Mr Barnsdale and his colleagues seem edgy, it is partly because they have no idea what to expect. Some prisoners arrive fighting mad; others are tearful. Most, however, are compliant - they do know what to expect. There is a theory that prisons ought to make the reception procedure twice as nasty, then open the door and boot first-timers out on the street. That way they might never come back. Bedford has more regulars than the best hotels. There is no such thing as a typical British jail. They all have their foibles, and connoisseurs - both volunteers and conscripts - can discuss the differences with relish. But Bedford will do as an example. It is small: 400 inmates (all male) and 150 officers. It is a local prison: Category B, which means all but the worst villains start here, though most will be transferred onwards. It provides an authentic prison experience, too. The new jails often feel like comprehensive schools with very high windows. This one was opened in 1801 (the bicentenary ball is in August - residents not invited) by the penal reformer John Howard. It was state-of-the-art then; it certainly isn't now. The 12 by 9ft double cells date back to the 1840s, changed only for the addition of electricity and a not-very-private en suite toilet and basin, when slopping out was abolished a few years back. If it is ever closed down, Bedford could be used as a film set - from the 20ft outside wall to the Alcatraz-style exercise yard. The "topping-shed" where James Hanratty was hanged 40 years ago has been demolished, and the death cell is now a canteen. Almost everything else has been preserved, if not lovingly. But this jail may last another 100 years, even though it's on prime land in the town centre. A trust owns the site, so it cannot be sold off. And, though once it was considered to be the most overcrowded jail in western Europe, Bedford is now well regarded. The chief inspector, Sir David Ramsbotham, was complimentary when he came to visit in 1998. The Board of Visitors, who inspect regularly, feel the same: "This is a very well run jail," says Peter Baldwin, its chairman. Bedford's glory, if that is the word, is its staff-prisoner relations. Like most greenhorns, I stepped over the threshold imagining that being buggered or bashed would be an absolute certainty. After a few days talking to dozens of people - jailers and jailed - this seemed far less likely. Indeed, I came to feel, like Jonathan Aitken, that prison could hold few terrors for anyone who endured a British public school in the 50s or 60s. At least fagging and beatings are officially barred. Most of the screws I met were - in theory, anyway - thoughtful and caring. They didn't tuck the prisoners up and kiss them goodnight, but they were not heavy-handed. There are a surprising number of women officers, many of them pretty: "a humanising influence" is the consensus. The food (three choices at supper plus vegetarian option; ethnic night every Wednesday) seemed better than in the average school or hospital. And for smokers - which here means almost everyone - prison is about the most liberal place left in Britain: far more tolerant than the Guardian office. It helps that there is a high turnover of inmates in Bedford: potential barons have less chance to get established, and officialdom has more of a chance to maintain the upper hand. The endless battle to keep out drugs is a stand-off, with the advantage - at least on cannabis - perhaps just shifting towards authority, thanks to mandatory testing. We hear about prisons when good order breaks down but, mostly, order does not break down. A prison runs properly only with the inmates' consent. "On a Saturday afternoon there will be 95 prisoners at exercise and only four prison officers," says Peter Clarke, the deputy governor. "If they didn't want to go back, we couldn't make them". "Of all the TV programmes I've ever seen on prisons," says Mr Barnsdale, "there's only one that's ever been remotely true to life." He pauses for effect. "Porridge. The public perception is one of violence. But it's mostly a good-humoured place to work." Nonetheless, this is a place containing hundreds of frustrated individuals, jammed together and moaning constantly. And that's just the warders. They have a vital, responsible and - humour or not - sometimes dangerous job. They are paid badly and public sympathy is zero. "It's the same every Christmas," says one officer. "They'll say on TV about all the poor policemen and nurses who have to work. No one ever mentions us". Prison officers are said to have the highest sickness rate in the country, and Bedford is not immune. Indeed, the good humour has been in short supply lately. A new, young governor, Andrew Cross, arrived in October and uncovered a financial crisis he is fighting to put right. "When we compete with the private sector," Mr Cross says to me at one point, "we give a high level of service delivery for minimum cost." He might have been in charge of the borough refuse collection. As one of his aides puts it: "Management, efficiency and budgets figure far more in the equation now than prisoners. They're treated as a compliant commodity." So far, Bedford has not had to compete with the private sector. Hence the crisis, in the Mr Cross view. "I actually embrace the opportunity to deliver better value for money for the taxpayers," he says. "I have no qualms about that. If you look where staff are deployed, we can offer big savings. We all know there is going to be a fire in a street in the course of a year, but you can't have a fire engine on every street corner the whole year round. This job is all about risk assessment." His staff say they have been enduring cutbacks for years, and that the risks are too great. "Our primary role is to keep prisoners here," says one officer. "And a lot of time is spent standing round watching them watching us watching them. If that means standing round in a big circle holding hands, so be it. You've got the threat of physical violence 24-7." At least the prisoners get fed. The staff mess has been closed as a loss-maker, so officers have to cross the furiously busy A428 (Bedford's equivalent of the shark-infested waters round Devil's Island) to get lunch. Some go and have a few pints, which angers the governor. However, the prisoners are no more content. "I'm not boasting," says one of the kitchen workers, "but I've been in seven different jails. This one's shit. It's pure bang-up." Translation: Bedford prisoners spend a lot of time in their cells. This is partly true. The transit-camp aspect of the place means not everyone has a job, and the unemployed get locked up a lot. The authorities insist that everyone can find something to do. Some of the stuff is actually imaginative. Even the prisoners praise the Enhanced Thinking Skills course, in which they are forced to consider the consequences of each action. And there is a charity workshop that produces chess pieces (exquisite) and wedges, which Bedfordshire Crime Prevention give old ladies to stop their doors being forced open (exquisitely ironic).But it takes time to find a niche in jail. For the newcomer (after that mishap at Safeway or whatever), it is those first few hours that are so terrifying, as you come to terms with the uncertainties of prison - and the certainties. Lock-up is at eight. For the next 11 and a half hours there is no way out of the cell. The blocks slowly get quieter: the radios and (for the privileged) the TVs get turned down; the jangle of keys gets more infrequent. Then, perhaps, true desperation sets in. Come the dawn, things get better. There is an induction course where an officer like Bill McCready - small, stocky, northern, ex-RAF - takes the previous day's intake through the rules. There is an accompanying booklet, which is fine for the literate. So there is also an airline-style video, in which a soothing female voice talks about the "well stocked canteen" as if advertising the in-flight duty frees. Mr McCready himself is not soothing - "If you expect everything to be done at once, you've come too far over the bridge. It's the Moat House you were looking for" - but not unkind. The probation officer - who will at least call you Mr - the doctor, the chaplain and the education officer, may be truly kind. Then you can make a telephone call. And Day Two will pass, slowly. From what I saw, no single minute need be obscenely awful in Bedford. It's the hours, days, weeks, months and years. Does any of this work? Of course not. The most regular visitor I met was a poor inadequate on his 21st sentence. His only hope would be a place in some kind of halfway house. No one can find him one: he knows he'll be back. So will many, maybe most, of the others. About 70% of their crimes are in some way drug-related. Until that is addressed, there is little hope. Yet there was one promising sign. It struck me when I watched C Wing queue up for supper (shepherd's pie; chicken and mushroom pie; vegetable hotpot or rather manky kipper fillets). Most of the inmates would not have looked that out of place queuing at the refectory of an Oxford college. There was hardly anyone over 30. Some - the serious drinkers and druggies - never make 30. But most, it seems, actually do get smarter. "It's the wives and girlfriends who do it," one officer theorised. "They get fed up and start issuing ultimatums." And that seems to work far better than all the Home Office penal policies put together. Harshness for its own sake is out of fashion under Labour. But liberalism is hardly the watchword either. "We have to treat prisoners well, and we do at Bedford," says Cross. "That's our saving grace. But it's not enough. We have to treat them well, and do it cheaply."