A 17-year-old accused of the murder of black teenager Anthony Walker with an ice axe today said that the first time he saw the weapon it was in the victim's head.Michael Barton told Preston crown court, sitting in Liverpool, that he had chased Mr Walker's cousin, Marcus Binns, but that he did not witness the fatal attack on the 18-year-old.He claimed he had tried to help Mr Walker and attempted to remove the axe from his head after he saw him lying in the park following the attack.Paul Taylor, 20, has pleaded guilty to murder, but prosecutors claim that Mr Barton supplied the ice axe and took part in the attack. Mr Barton denies murder.The prosecution claims Taylor and Mr Barton began hurling racist abuse at Mr Walker, his cousin and his girlfriend, Louise Thompson, outside a pub in Huyton, Merseyside, on the night of the attack.It is claimed the three friends did not respond to the baiting and walked away, but they were followed into McGoldrick Park and attacked.Mr Barton today said he left the pub when Taylor told him to "come 'ed" in an aggressive way."I went to the car," he told the court. "When we were in the car he said, 'We're going for a fight.' He said, 'We're going for a fight with two black lads.'"Asked by defence barrister David Steer QC why he went along, Mr Barton said he wanted to help his cousin.He said Taylor was driving the car aggressively and then parked it by McGoldrick Park.The pair then jumped over the wall and began walking along the path, where they "bumped into" Mr Walker, Mr Binns and Ms Thompson.Mr Barton said: "One of the lads and the girl ran off so I chased the lad. Paul stayed there. I chased the lad up Grahams Road, then I heard a glass bottle smash so I went back to the park to see if my cousin was all right."Asked what he saw on his return, Mr Barton said: "Anthony Walker. He was lying there. He had something out of his head. I tried to help him. I tried to remove the weapon gently."He said the first time the saw the ice axe was "in Anthony Walker's head".Mr Barton told the court: "I felt sick and in shock. When I couldn't move it I ran away back to the car."There was blood on the top of my right hand. I kept my hand in front of me in case blood dripped on to my clothes."Asked if he said anything to Taylor, Mr Barton replied: "What have you fucking done?"He said Taylor did not reply immediately but as he was driving away said several times: "I can't believe it."Mr Barton told the court he left school at 14 and worked sporadically in a warehouse and as a roofer.He joined the Territorial Army as a cadet but failed his entrance exam to the regular army after scoring just 19 out of 50.He said he had begun to socialise with Taylor in March this year and the two had started to "go stealing". Mr Barton said he helped Taylor steal tools from building sites and valuables from hotels, earning £100 for each spree.The trial continues.