Scotland Yard has been accused of sending threatening letters to men who have refused to supply it with samples of their DNA as part of a long investigation to catch a rapist.The force has been asked to justify its tactics after suggesting to black men in south London that their failure to submit to voluntary DNA tests is hampering the investigation, one of the largest ever undertaken by the Met. In the letter, Will O'Reilly, a senior detective, urges those who have refused to cooperate to think again: "Consider that the suspect is likely to refuse to provide a voluntary sample; catching him will be far easier if he is the only one." He tells them: "I will be reviewing the circumstances surrounding your refusal and will notify you of my decision. In the meantime I would ask you to reconsider the request." The tests are being conducted as part of Operation Minstead, an inquiry set up in 1998 to catch a serial rapist-burglar who has been preying on elderly women in south London for more than 10 years. The perpetrator has committed 84 offences against women aged between 68 and 93. In their search, police have identified 21,000 "persons of interest". Around 1,400 are believed to have been specifically targeted. Lynne Featherstone, a mem ber of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said: "This kind of intimidation is exactly the opposite of what should be happening. "It not only jeopardises finding the criminal, it also damages the fragile relationship between the police and the community." She questioned the legality of the DNA trawl and said authority members had not been aware of its extent. Last week, after questioning Deputy Commissioner Sir Ian Blair, MPA members thought the collection of DNA samples had ceased. Cindy Butts, another MPA member, said: "The letter is intimidatory. If you are asking for people's cooperation and support how can you send them this letter? The two things don't marry up." Leroy Logan, the chairman of the Metropolitan Black Police Association, said his organisation had been consulted on elements of the investigation but not the DNA trawl. "We know this is a horrendous case, but the use of such strong-arm tactics is a big issue," he said. With traditional methods having failed, the Met is keen to make full use of scientific advances. It said the wording of the letter was agreed with the force's lawyers. 