I have recently been forced to take evasive action whenever I've spotted any barristers moving in my direction. I can no longer bear to listen to the litany of complaints that I know will emerge from their fevered lips. Only those who practise in the field of commercial law seem immune from the malaise. Is this a case of hypochondria or is the bar facing a real crisis – a word increasingly being bandied about?Several factors have combined to produce this vulnerability of a once arrogant profession. One of them was the subject of the speech by the chairman of the bar, Desmond Browne QC, on Saturday.His target was the government's policy of trying to reduce the legal aid budget of England and Wales by cutting the fees of barristers in criminal trials, by as much as 23%. This, says Browne, will result in experienced barristers refusing to take on cases, which will mean a decline in the standards of advocacy in court and, in turn, result in more miscarriages of justice, with the innocent being found guilty and – just as important – the guilty getting away with it.Hold on a moment. Have we not recently been told of a barrister in the criminal courts earning a cool million a year from legal aid – taxpayers' money – and others trousering hundreds of thousands of pounds? They are, though, a small group. The average workhorse in the criminal field has a relatively modest income for a professional – a lot less than GPs. I know several who struggle to make ends meet.There are similar complaints from barristers in family cases, also facing reduced fees. Fewer of them willing to take on legal aid work, they say, will hit vulnerable children the most.Barristers are also losing out to various recent laws, rules and practices in the civil and criminal areas of law which reduce the need for their services in the courtroom. For instance, the police are dishing out more and more cautions and fixed penalties to offenders who, two or three years ago, would have had to stand trial and be legally represented. Fewer trials mean less need for barristers.That's not the end of the profession's woes and whinges. They are unhappy that a growing number of court trials are being handled, on the defence side, by solicitor-advocates, and, for the prosecution, by employees of the Crown Prosecution Service. Barristers claim they would do the job better, but the reality is that they're losing more and more gigs.So the bar's crisis divides into three.Part of it is the result of an irreversible move towards streamlining the justice system, so that more options are available which do not necessarily require the services of barristers.Part of it has to do with the government's obsession with cutting legal aid, but doing so clumsily and without adequate consideration. Access to justice – the cornerstone of the legal aid system's creation 60 years ago – is being sacrificed.The third aspect is the human motive of barristers (and just about everyone else) to earn more, not see their incomes diminish. That may no longer be possible. On the whole, they've done very well over the last few decades. But the legal world has changed, and they will have to adapt.