MI5 and MI6 are planning to introduce psychological testing to identify "adverse character traits" among their staff, it was revealed yesterday. The move was disclosed by parliament's intelligence and security committee in its latest annual report, which is so littered with deleting asterisks as to make much of it unintelligible.Its report does not mention David Shayler and Richard Tomlinson, the renegade former MI5 and MI6 officers who have tried, but failed, to address the committee about their concerns. "The committee doesn't deal with people but with issues," Tom King, the former Conservative cabinet minister and chairman of the committee, said.However, the committee makes it clear it remains unhappy with the security and intelligence agencies' personnel policies and internal security. The members of the cross-party committee, all appointed by the prime minister, say MI5 and MI6 should adopt even stricter vetting procedures than those they are already planning.There should be more interviews of serving officers in their own homes, as part of the positive vetting process, to detect "lifestyle mismatches and the possession of unexplained wealth", says the committee. It also makes clear that MI5, MI6 and GCHQ, as well as the Defence Intelligence Staff, are not doing enough to fight organised crime, including drug traffickers and illegal immigration rings. "The briefest study of Dover and Heathrow reveals immediately how fragile our present defences are, and without intelligence they would be virtually non-existent," Mr King tells Tony Blair in his introduction to the report. The report says the combined budget of MI5, MI6 and GCHQ will increase from £800m to £940m over the next three years, a rise of more than 17%. The government still refuses to allow the committee to reveal how much the individual agencies spend and how they spend it. However, the committee does express its concern about plans to build a new headquarters for GCHQ, the government's electronic intelligence-gathering centre in Cheltenham. The building is the biggest single item ever spent by Britain's security and intelligence agencies. It is now estimated to cost £540m, well above the original estimate of about £300m. This does not include what GCHQ calls transitional costs, which will amount to at least £240m, over four times the original estimate. The committee's report is studded with asterisks covering information suppressed by ministers and the intelligence agencies. It refers to a visit to the US National Reconnaissance Agency, noting: "We believe that the UK needs to be *** to ensure the UK remains ***." The committee concludes: "We believe that the UK cannot afford not to be involved in this work" a reference to spy satellites. The report chides Mr Blair for never having called a meeting of the cabinet's committee on the intelligence services. •A former Russian security service member seeking political asylum in Britain was being questioned yesterday by special branch officers after saying he feared for his life in Moscow. Alexander Litvinenko flew to Britain with his wife and child on Wednesday, the day the Russian authorities announced they wanted to arrest his patron, the Russian media and oil tycoon Boris Berezovsky.