Hi there. My name is David Williams. I'm calling you because one of my colleagues has been trying to get hold of you because someone in your household entered our draw last year and we've been trying to let you know you've won a major prize. Now basically, you've either won two first-class return flights to New York, a Spanish cruise, £5,000 in cash or a BMW coupé. Now, to claim, you can write to me at our London ... no, actually; it's getting near the closing date so it might be better for you to call our 24 -hour claim line ... I'm not such an idiot. And to be honest, I didn't even want to win a Beamer, let alone the Spanish cruise. I wouldn't have minded the trip to New York, but I've never won prizes before, so why should my luck change now? But there was something in David's message on my answerphone. He was slightly bumbling, and sounded trustworthy - how many people are going to tell you not to bother writing in because you may miss the closing date? I waited till everybody was out of the house. I don't know why, but it seemed slightly seedy; something to be done in private. By now I'd set my sights on the £5,000. Ah, the things we could do with five grand. Happy new year, Simon, you lucky bleeder. Strangely, I couldn't remember entering the competition, but that made it all the more exciting. I phoned up to speak to David. I wanted to thank him for making sure that I wouldn't be short-changed. Unfortunately David wasn't there. There was no one with a name, in fact. An interminable computerised message told me what I might win. It said that I might have won the flight - and described what New York is like, and what a plane is like, and how it takes off from a runway. It told me about the five grand - how it would be presented in crisp 50s. It described the BMW - how you can turn the switch that unfolds the sunroof while driving at 10mph, and how I'd end up being the envy of family and friends because the BMW has become the lifestyle must of the decade. Jeeez. I was getting bored. But I'd held on for so long, it was pointless giving up now, and we all have to suffer for our five grand ... The man at the other end sounded just like the man at the other end when you phone the Odeon hotline - the one whose voice goes up and down inappropriately and who makes you say thank you and yes please while booking your cinema ticket. He told me, rather casually, that the call cost £1.50 a minute, but it should not last longer than five-and-a-half minutes, and it was almost time for the prize draw.  Now, let's get down to details and find out what you've got. By calling us you've alerted our computers, who may just need to check your award. You'll need a pen to write down your award number, but don't worry, we'll repeat it, and it's been designed with you in mind to be easy to remember, because we want you to get your reward ... I won the Spanish cruise. Suddenly the man at the other end spoke quickly. I can't really remember all the details. I think he said something about only one person in the household qualifying. He gave me a magic security number, and told me to write to a postbox number in Yorkshire. "Congratulations, it's really fabulous news," he said, before the phone went dead. A month has passed since then, and I have heard nothing. So a couple of nights ago I was with my friends on the way to football. I decided to do a little test. "Does anybody know what this is?" I said, and I started speaking in a matey, trustworthy voice, " Hi, my name is ..." Both Pete and Neil cut me off. " I'm calling you because one of my colleagues has been trying to get hold of you because someone in your household entered our draw last year and we've been trying to let you know you've won a major prize. Now, basically, you've either won two first-class return flights to New York, a Spanish cruise, £5,000 in cash or an Audi TT." Yesterday, the Office of Fair Trading announced that telephone scams like these head their top 10 frauds. According to its report, Britons will lose £1bn over the next year to credit scams, matrix schemes, Nigerian advance-fee frauds, investment-related scams and, of course, premium-rate phone scams. The OFT says that it is hard to track down the dodgy companies because most operate from abroad, but they are clamping down as fast as possible. Some companies have been fined a maximum £100,000, had their service barred for two years and had to give refunds to complainants. Many people, often vulnerable pensioners, have lost hundreds of pounds to companies asking them to send off administration fees of up to £40 a pop in order to claim cash prizes. It is not even necessarily illegal. On the one hand, there are the telephone lottery cons, in which you get a call telling you you've won in a foreign lottery, probably in Canada. "Well that is straightforward illegal," says an OFT spokesman "because there is actually no state lottery in Canada. People have gone to prison for this." But there is also my kind of scam. "Ah yes," says the man from the OFT. "If there is simply no prize, that is illegal. But there are some where the prize is incredibly substandard, or you've not actually won a holiday but vouchers tied up in red tape and restrictions that make them nigh on impossible to use. This scam tends to come under Control of Misleading Advertising Regulations." Misleading offers are a civil offence, and companies will be fined for them. Ofcom, the UK communications regulator, is in discussions with the Department of Trade and Industry to work out how best to clamp down on the scamsters. Missed-call marketing - the call is invariably left as a message - is definitely on the increase, Ofcom says, although nobody seems to know exactly how widespread it is; it has proposed that the maximum fine be raised and that there is a 30-day freeze between the transfer of money from the phone service to the network provider, so that the duped can claim a refund. I put out some tentative feelers, asking colleagues if they, too, have been called by the phantom prize givers. I am bombarded with messages from people saying they have been bombarded with messages and are sick of it. "I've had three messages left on my answerphone in the past week telling me that 'someone in my household' entered a draw last year and has won a prize," Nick says. "In the message, Don Stevens from the Open Travel Prize Line tells me I've won either two first-class tickets to New York, a Spanish cruise, £5,000 cash, or a BMW coupé. As the deadline for claiming is approaching, he says, 'it's probably best if you phone our claim line on 0906 5983106'." Sam has also heard from Don Stevens recently; he's heard from a variety of people recently, in fact. I try the three numbers Sam gives me. Two of them are dead. I phone the Independent Committee for the Supervision of Telephone Information Services, another regulatory body, and speak to Richard Sullivan, head of external affairs. He explains that the network provider may have already had the wisdom to take the numbers down, or the scamsters may have just made a run for it before they were caught. How can we beat them, I ask. We can't, he says - all we can do is shut them down as soon as possible. But I want my prize, I say a little pathetically. I'm getting annoyed. I decide to ring all the numbers I have been sent, determined to get myself a prize of some description. I phone up Nick's number for Don Stevens, but the Open Travel prize line has turned into Palm Travel promotions, and Don is nowhere to be found. Instead, I get a computerised woman. "It just goes to show how far a little bit of loyalty can go. Let me tell you a little bit about our star prizes. You never know, you could be the envy of all your friends by the end of this call ..." I hang on long enough to learn that my lucky number this time is 320394. And guess what - I win the Spanish cruise! Hurrah! Next I try Sam's number for Don Stevens - 09065 983105. Just one digit different; obviously Don has two phones sitting next to each other. I get Palm Travel promotions again, and no sign of Don. But this time I'm up for the Mercedes coupé or the five grand or the Spanish cruise. The computer fails to notice that I'm ringing from my phone instead of Sam's, it just tells me I'm a winner. My new lucky number is 320461. I wonder if that means 67 people have rung since my last call, a couple of hours ago; if so, that must be about £600 the lucky winners have splashed out on their six-minute calls. I win the Spanish cruise. That's three Spanish cruises I'm owed so far. I send off my claim to Open Travel, Suite 22, 27 Colmore Row, Birmingham B32 EW. I phone up directory inquiries for a number for Open Travel. Surprisingly, it can't find one. Nor can it find one for Palm Travel. My friend Rick passes me a new number. I'm feeling better. I'm going to crack the big one this time. "Hello and welcome to the Halo promotions hotline." Blimey, the prizes are endless - DVD player, iPod, digital camera, two grand in £50 notes and fantastic holidays in America. This guy is amazing. He sounds like Clive James and he just talks and talks without repetitions, hesitations and deviations. He tells me that it costs £1.50 a minute, but who cares, this guy is good value. "New York is now the most happening place on the planet. Is there anybody who hasn't been to Manhattan? Whilst London and Paris sprawl endlessly, Manhattan keeps its shape and scale; an island of romance where the friendly geometry of its streets conspire to make rendezvous easier. I swear that Gershwin plays in my head every time I walk down Fifth Aveneue, and because of the good exchange rate everything in New York seems to be a bargain compared to England. Go to Macy's, the world's largest store, on the intersection of Broadway and Sixth Avenue, or try Saks Fifth Avenue, one of the most famous retailers in the world. This elegant department store has been dressing the world since 1902 ..." He's equally rhapsodic about Washington DC, Boston, Philadelphia, you name it. Just listening to his lyrical homage to the great cities almost makes me forget the cost of the call. Almost. Kerching. Kerching. Kerching. After 15 minutes of this, including a rhapsodic section on the virtues of Jaguar motors, I've already spent twenty-something quid. I learn that I've won a return flight to America - which is great, especially considering it's really Rick's prize. All I need to do to redeem my award is text the word HAPPY with my name and address and unique security number to 07946 400400. That was 24 hours ago. Haven't heard a dickie bird yet. I've not lost faith, mind. Oh no. They're probably just trying to find me a decent suite at the Plaza.