I talk and write about poison, murder and crime fiction. Many people have asked me whether I worry about people using the information I provide to go out and commit crimes. I have certainly thought carefully about what information I give out and how much detail to go into in terms of obtaining and preparing poisons. But anyone using my lectures as a step-by-step guide on how to poison someone will come unstuck very quickly. They will have to do a considerable amount of independent research to fill in the gaps even before they prepare and administer their chosen compound. You can’t just lash out in the heat of an argument and poison someone. The longer it takes someone to achieve this, the more time they have to consider what they are doing and change their mind. This is perhaps one of the reasons why, thankfully, so few murders are committed using toxic compounds.Poisoning is a lengthy and involved process and there are much “easier” ways of killing people. Statistics show that most murderers go for alternative options, such as stabbing, shooting or hitting. However, there are a very small number of individuals who have a psychological or neurological quirk that means they are prepared to do their homework and see the process through to its fatal conclusion. Of course, laws exist to make poisoning as difficult as possible, and forensic science has developed to a level that means poisoners are very unlikely to get away with it. That’s why, to give you some idea of how difficult it is to poison someone, I’ve outlined some of the considerations that need to go into the process.There are a staggering number of options for the poisoner. Any substance can be fatal in the right amount. As Paracelsus, the sixteenth-century scientist and founder of toxicology, said: “The dose makes the poison.” For example, too much water can kill (about seven litres drunk fairly quickly). However, a poisoner is likely to choose a substance that kills in relatively small amounts, say less than a gram. Even then there are a huge number of compounds to choose from. What factors might the poisoner take into consideration? Do you go for something fast-acting? Or slow, cumulative poisoning? Do you choose something exotic and unlikely to be tested for postmortem? Or do you use an everyday substance in excess to make it look like and accidental overdose?Agatha Christie festival to host cookery demonstration with poisonous twist The first consideration must be availability. The sale of highly toxic compounds is tightly regulated and very restricted. The days of walking into a chemist’s shop and buying enough arsenic or cyanide to wipe out a household, with no questions asked, are long gone. Internet searches for certain substances are monitored. So getting hold of ready-prepared poisons is not easy. Still, you could always make your own.There are plenty of plants that grow wild in the UK that contain highly toxic substances. Plants such as deadly nightshade can kill if enough of the plant is ingested. Some plants contain nerve poisons, but they produce very different symptoms. Coniine will cause a slow creeping paralysis that moves through the body from the feet up and eventually stops the victim being able to breath. Atropine causes a range of symptoms that have been handily simplified into “hot as a hare, blind as a bat, dry as a bone, red as a beetroot and mad as a hatter” to help medical staff identify poisoning cases. Aconitine creates a burning sensation in the mouth, cold skin, muscle weakness and a feeble pulse.The real problem is getting someone to eat what you have foraged. A victim is likely to spot an unusual bit of foliage in their dinner. Even if it is chopped up and hidden, the taste is likely to give the game away. The toxic compounds in these plants can be extracted and purified, but it takes knowledge and effort and the isolated compounds taste very bitter and unpleasant. A considerable amount of work is going to have to be done to disguise the flavour and not alert the victim.Assuming the poisoner has overcome these initial hurdles, there is the reality of what happens when the poison is absorbed into the victim’s body. TV dramas often portray someone eating a bit of tainted food, choking a bit and then dropping on the floor dead. There are very few substances that can kill so quickly and cleanly. More likely is profuse vomiting (the body’s natural response to remove noxious substances) and several hours, sometimes days, of agony before the victim succumbs. There is often time for medical intervention, and advances in medicine mean poisoning victims today are much more likely to survive.Toxic shock: Agatha Christie’s poisons At the end of this lengthy process there is still the problem of disposal of the body. Some poisons leave tell-tale signs on that can be discovered in a postmortem examination. However, body fluids and tissue will be tested by toxicologists for signs of alcohol, drugs and other toxic substances as standard. Methods for extracting and identifying poisons in the body have been available since the middle of the nineteenth century. Chemists, pathologists and toxoicologists have had over a century-and-a-half to refine and develop new techniques that can extract and identify toxic compounds in minute quantities. Some poisons (arsenic, for example), will stay in the body for years, meaning forensic evidence can be obtained long after the murderer may think they have managed to get away with it. Other poisons, such as morphine or heroin, will be broken down rapidly in the decay process. However, the fragments of decomposition can often be identified and used to determine the presence of a poison at the time of death. The potential poisoner will have to do their research to minimise their chance of detection. They could choose compounds susceptible to decomposition, or better yet, compounds whose effects mimic that of natural disease and avoid postmortem examination of the body. Strychnine poisoning has been mistaken for tetanus as the symptoms are similar, but the compound can easily be tested for postmortem. One death from phosphorus poisoning was initially attributed to ruptured stomach ulcers, but was ultimately identified. In any case, if the victim has never shown symptoms of any of these illnesses before, their death will be deeply suspicious and postmortem tests run, which will detect these poisons. There is a lot to think about.The best option is, of course, not to poison anyone in the first place. Dr Kathryn Harkup is a chemist and science communicator. Her book, A Is for Arsenic: The Poisons of Agatha Christie, is published by Bloomsbury.