The wife of "back from the dead" canoeist John Darwin has been charged with two counts of deception and will appear before magistrates this morning, 24 hours after her husband was remanded in custody by the same court for his part in the alleged fraud.Anne Darwin, 55, who flew home from Panama via the United States on Sunday, is accused of dishonestly obtaining mortgage funds of £137,000 and £25,000 in life insurance by money transfer, both in 2003.John Darwin told his solicitor, John Nixon, he was worried about his wife and was missing her. "He is desperate to see his wife, to be reunited with her. He is anxious to know about her wellbeing. It is their wedding anniversary in 10 days. They are going to spend their wedding day apart. He is anxious for everything to be resolved. He is in good shape, bearing up."Detectives in Hartlepool described Mrs Darwin as very co-operative with "a surreal investigation". They had issued a picture of her husband disguised by a wispy beard with a silver streak, and appealed for anyone who recognised the image to come forward with details of his movements since his fake drowning in 2002.The photograph, which enabled the 57-year-old owner of a failing bedsit business to obtain a passport after his supposed death while sea-canoeing, was released after he made a short court appearance at Hartlepool magistrates court, five years after his disappearance."People may have seen him when he looked like this," said Detective Superintendent Tony Hutchinson of Cleveland police, brandishing the grainy blown-up image shortly after the former prison officer appeared in court.Looking nervous and unkempt, Darwin spoke only to confirm his name and give his date of birth before being remanded to Durham jail on two fraud charges. Reporters crammed the court to see Darwin stand in the glass-fronted dock, in the same maroon tracksuit top he was wearing when he was arrested at the home of his younger son, Anthony, last week.Prompted by the court clerk to give the legally required reason for refusing bail, the chair of the bench, Alan Langshaw, said: "Clearly, this is a case where we must consider the possibility that Mr Darwin could be likely to abscond."Mrs Darwin had been arrested at Manchester airport and spent Sunday night under the same roof as her husband, albeit in separate cells.Hutchinson added that detectives had interviewed the couple's two sons, who have declared themselves aghast at the news of their father's deception, which Mrs Darwin claimed had always been hidden from them. Hutchinson said: "There is nothing whatsoever to suggest that they are anything other than victims of this case. If that is the case, they have been duped in what can only be described as a really disgraceful fashion."The Darwins' elder son, Mark, 32, arrived back at his home in Basingstoke yesterday after visiting relatives in the north-east. Although John Darwin had been thought to be dead until he appeared this month at a London police station, police reopened their brief investigation into the 2002 "drowning" three months ago, because of what Hutchinson called "financial transactions".The inquiry, at one stage lightheartedly dubbed Operation Lazarus, is the biggest in geographical terms tackled by the Cleveland force. Hutchinson appealed for more information about where the Darwins had been in Europe and North and South America. "We need to know what they have been saying and who to."The precise motive for the bizarre events remained uncertain, Hutchinson said, but detectives are focusing on the scale of the Darwins' financial problems.Darwin was charged with making an untrue statement to obtain a passport and obtaining £25,000 by deception from an insurance company.