Any police investigation into the ITV phone-in scandals can begin without a formal approach from either the broadcasting regulator Ofcom or another interested party.The Serious Fraud Office has launched an investigation into GMTV after requesting the file on the company from Ofcom, which recently fined it a record £2m for misconduct over premium phone lines.But Scotland Yard has made clear it will wait for Ofcom's report on the other ITV shows before making any decision to mount an investigation. After that, a file would go from the police to the Crown Prosecution Service, which would decide whether a crime had been committed and who could be charged.Prosecutors would probably look at a range of deception offences under the Theft Act. These include obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception. The prosecution would have to prove that the defendant acted dishonestly.These offences have been repealed from January 15 2007 and replaced by new offences under the Fraud Act 2006. But for any crimes partly committed before and partly after that date, the old offences will apply.If prosecutors concluded there was a reasonable prospect of a conviction on the evidence, they would have to decide whether a prosecution would be in the public interest. At this stage, the fact that ITV has offered to pay back everyone who lost money would be a strong factor weighing against prosecution.The main playersMichael Grade, ITV executive chairman Mr Grade pledged "zero tolerance" of viewer deception in July, sparking speculation that executive resignations might be inevitable following the publication of the Deloitte report, and even that he might fall nobly on his sword. But Grade was not even at ITV when many of the irregularities took place. Yesterday he clarified that "zero tolerance" should apply to present and future conduct, not past transgressions. "To have conducted a witch-hunt on the basis of the fear that you were going to get fired if you owned up to anything would not have produced as full and frank and honest and clear a picture as this report has produced," he said.Simon Shaps, ITV director of televisionSome staff disciplinary proceedings are said to be under way at ITV, but apparently none involving ITV's director of television, Simon Shaps, who was head of ITV Productions when many of the incidents took place. Shaps has the full backing of Grade and as a senior executive was almost certainly not involved in any of the day-to-day decision-making on some of the programmes, which included denying viewers any chance of winning a giant pig full of cash unless they lived close to where the production team happened to be.Jeff Henry, chief executive of ITV's consumer divisionChief executive of ITV's consumer divisionAs the head of ITV's consumer business, Jeff Henry was the person in charge of competitions and public interaction. He was also the brains behind the controversial ITV Play phone-in quiz shows which were censured earlier this year in a separate Ofcom ruling for including a balaclava and Rawlplugs in a test of 12 things a person is most likely to find in a woman's handbag.Ant McPartlin and Declan Donnelly, star presentersThe pair apologised to viewers after Gameshow Marathon, which they fronted in 2005, and Ant and Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway were accused of misleading viewers and compliance failures in the report. But while they are "extremely disappointed" that two of their shows were singled out, and although they had an executive producer credit on Saturday Night Takeaway, they said they had "no idea" about the irregularities. Grade has backed them, insisting their executive producer credit was simply for vanity.