A retired policeman who killed his terminally ill wife in a failed suicide pact received a nine months' sentence suspended for two years, with a supervision order, at the Old Bailey yesterday. Brian Blackburn, 62, of Ash, Surrey, pleaded guilty to the manslaughter of his wife, Margaret. Judge Richard Hawkins QC said that Blackburn's case was one of "exceptional circumstances": he had brought about his wife's death after she said it was "the last loving thing" he could do for her. The court heard how, on the morning of October 15, Blackburn killed his 62-year-old wife before attempting to take his own life. He placed a flannel over his wife's face to shield her view, before cutting her wrist, severing an artery. He then held her for some 20 minutes as she died. Afterwards, he took the flannel from her face and combed her hair, as she had wanted. He then cut his own wrist. However, he failed to sever an artery. He rang the emergency services shortly before 7.45pm. Richard Whittam, prosecuting, said that when the police arrived, Blackburn told them: "I did what she asked me to do. I failed myself. Now I have to pay the price." The court heard that Mrs Blackburn, a former nurse, suspected she was suffering from stomach cancer, and that as a result of her work with cancer patients in hospices had a fear of hospitals and an "abhorrence" of surgery. A postmortem showed that Mrs Blackburn had a 3kg (6.5lb) malignant stomach tumour at an advanced stage. The pathologist said that it was the worst he had seen, and she would have died from its effects in weeks or less. By late September, Mrs Blackburn was in such constant pain that she had begun asking her husband to end her life. In a police statement, Blackburn said: "She said we have got to do something, so I said 'what?'. She said, you are going to have to cut my wrists and then yours and we will meet each other on the other side. "I said I can't do that ... She kept on. She said it's the most loving thing and the last loving thing you can do for me." The couple had married in 1998, after the death of Mr Blackburn's wife, Angela, from breast cancer. Mrs Blackburn had been married twice before and divorced. Her sons from her first marriage, Colin and Martin Lawrence, had written to the judge asking him to show mercy to their stepfather, whom they referred to as dad. The sons described the lov ing relationship between their mother and Mr Blackburn: "Mam and Brian just seemed to click - they were like soulmates. She was a changed person, and the six good years made up for the previous 20. " Both told how the last time they had seen their mother, she had told them she loved them, and in hindsight they realised she was saying goodbye. Appealing to the judge to show compassion, Peter Binder QC, defending, said Blackburn, who had been in custody for three months, had found prison "extremely distressing" and that his mental state was "fragile." Sentencing Blackburn, Judge Hawkins said that in attempting to kill both himself and his wife, Blackburn had shown he was "willing to make the ultimate sacrifice to be with her. The fact that he survived was down to accident rather than design." He stressed that Mrs Blackburn's death had come about in "exceptional circumstances", and cautioned: "It is, and must remain, a serious offence to take another's life." The verdict was welcomed by supporters of a bill put forward by Lord Joffe that would allow doctors to assist terminally-ill adults undergoing unbearable suffering to die. "This is a desperately sad case which would never have happened if Lord Joffe's bill were in place", said Deborah Annetts, chief executive of the Voluntary Euthanasia Society. "This inhumane law causes more harm than good." But Elspeth Chowdharay-Best, honorary secretary of anti-euthanasia group Alert, said it feared the verdict would set a precedent. "We think there are better ways of helping people than killing them, though it's a very tragic case," she said.