The public should be given a key role in deciding how to use the 8m hours of community work that criminals are ordered to do each year, according to an independent inquiry into sentencing.The report, published today by the commission into alternatives to prison, chaired by the former Scottish high court judge Lord Coulsfield, also says that offenders given community punishments should be seen to be "sent down" and not just walk out of the courts as they do now. The inquiry, funded by the criminal justice thinktank Rethinking Crime and Punishment, says that only by rebuilding people's trust in community punishments can the record rise in prison numbers and overcrowding be reversed.Lord Coulsfield said that community sentences should be the first option for most non-violent criminals. But the public should be given a much bigger role, with panels of local residents given the power to decide what they should do, whether cleaning up graffiti or picking up litter. He said that such offenders should be "sent down" from the dock when they are found guilty as a symbolic way of making the point that they were not just being "let off". Lord Coulsfield, a judge in the Lockerbie bombing case, said: "They would not just walk out of the court with their friends and family. Under the present system if someone is given a community service order it can be a very long time before their first appointment is arranged and even longer before their first session - possibly weeks." They should stay in the court building after sentence until a probation officer had time to see them. The inquiry also raised doubts about the early release scheme. Lord Coulsfield said it would be better if a criminal who was sentenced to two years should serve a full two years. The £455,000 inquiry concluded that the early release scheme created a lack of public confidence because it meant that a prison sentence did not mean "what it says". The report is also critical of the plan by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to introduce a "custody plus" sentence which mixes a short spell inside with a longer period of community punishment, saying it sent a "mixed message". It says the short period inside would not be of particular benefit to anybody, and predicts that judges would use the new sentence to "cover their backs" in case they were criticised for being too lenient.