Chris Langham, the Bafta-winning comedy actor, was last night sentenced to 10 months in prison for downloading pictures and videos of child abuse on to his home computer. The 58-year-old actor was convicted last month of 15 counts of making an indecent photograph of a child after a three-week trial.Langham, of Golford, near Cranbrook, Kent, will serve five months, less the 43 days he has already spent in custody.Passing sentence, Judge Philip Statman said the children in the images Langham had accessed had been subjected to "horrifying sexual abuse". One of the victims was about eight years old, while others were between 11 and 13.Judge Statman said: "Some of the children viewed are clearly prepubescent, others are fully developed, some of the children are clearly of Filipino [extraction]. All have had inflicted upon them horrifying sexual abuse and, I want to make this absolutely clear to you, I must think first of those children. They are too young to consent."When one sees their faces, in my judgment, they are vacant and lacking in expression ... you never ever see the faces of the perpetrators."Your activity took place in the comfort of your own home, no doubt at the time feeling safe in the knowledge that you would never be caught," he said.The father of five sat for most of the lengthy sentencing hearing at Maidstone crown court with his head bowed. At one point he broke down in tears.When the judge handed him a jail term he stood but did not appear to react. As he left court he blew kisses at his three adult sons and his father, who were in the public gallery.During the trial last month, the court heard that when police raided Langham's home in November 2005 as part of Operation Ore they seized three computers with files called "Lolita", "incest", "rape", "whore" and "hussy".There were also videoclips entitled "Kiddy 11-year-old", "13-year-old preteen underage" and "preteen sex education".The star of the BBC satire The Thick of It broke down in court when he admitted downloading child abuse images but said he was pleading not guilty because he was not a paedophile. He had told the court he was researching a sex offender character for the BBC comedy Help. He claimed he and a co-writer had created a paedophile character called Pedro whose catchphrase was "I'm only a minor offender", and wanted to explore the way society viewed sex offenders through him. The episodes were never made.He also said at the earlier hearing that looking at the images had helped him come to terms with the sexual abuse he had suffered as an eight-year-old. At one stage, he sobbed and sank to his knees. "I'm one of the children in the photographs," he said.He said the abused children were "the only brothers and sisters I have".In an 11-page statement he read to the police following his arrest, he compared himself to Charles Dickens, saying that as a writer he had wanted to "dig a little deeper into the darker and more fundamental places". He said he had downloaded the images because, as an artist, he felt "condemned to feel the pain for all of us and try and express it".At the earlier hearing the jury found him not guilty of having sex with a 14-year-old fan he had befriended outside a London theatre in the mid-1990s. Their relationship had begun when he gave the girl acting lessons in his room at the Palace Theatre while he was starring as Thenardier in Les Misérables in 1996, the court was told.But the jury accepted his account that he had only had sex with her when she was 18 and cleared him of six counts of indecent assault and two counts of buggery between January 1996 and April 2000. Langham had denied all the charges.Langham's arrest came at a time when the actor's formerly turbulent life and career had apparently settled into stability and success. Feted for his portrayal of the hapless government minister Hugh Abbott in The Thick of It, Langham won a series of awards, including a Bafta.