Detectives hunting the killer of 13-year-old Amanda Dowler have matched DNA from the inquiry with a sample found at a church which was burgled hundreds of miles away from her home, it emerged today.A mystery sample of male DNA discovered on the schoolgirl's clothing in her bedroom months after her disappearance matches a sample found on a coffee cup at a church in Sunderland after a break-in on October 31 last year. The breakthrough comes 10 months after Amanda, who was known as Milly, went missing from near her home in Walton-on-Thames.The link between the DNA on the item of Milly's clothing - which police would not specify - and on the coffee cup in St Paul's church in Ryhope, Sunderland, was made after the national computer database matched the two samples just before Christmas.However, a Surrey police spokesman said the DNA discovered at the church after the burglary did not belong to those who were responsible for taking money from St Paul's church, who had been tested. The discovery raises the possibility that Milly may have been abducted and killed by a man she had met before. But the spokesman said: "What we are trying to stress very strongly is that the person [who this DNA belongs to] is not at this stage a suspect in the murder inquiry." He added: "We want to interview this person to get some explanation. There is nothing to suggest that they are linked to the abduction and murder of Amanda Dowler, but it is a very odd coincidence that we need to find an explanation for." Detectives from Surrey visited Sunderland this weekend and took DNA samples from 46 members of St Paul's church's congregation and others linked to it. These have been sent away for testing. The spokesman added that the item of clothing from which the DNA was taken had been found in Amanda's room "some time ago" but that the DNA itself had been discovered as a result of recent testing. Milly disappeared while walking home from school in Walton-on-Thames on March 21 last year. Her remains were discovered in Yately Heath Woods in Hampshire on September 20. The Reverend David Meakin, from St Paul's church, was among those who gave DNA samples to detectives from the murder inquiry team. He told the Sunderland Echo today: "It was a shock to realise that we were involved in such a large investigation." Detectives are appealing for any men who have links with the church to come forward, so they can be eliminated from inquiries.The Surrey police spokesman said that if tests on people associated with St Paul's church in Ryhope fails to provide a match with the DNA found on Amanda's clothing, officers may look to carry out further tests in the area. The spokesman added that there could be a perfectly innocent explanation for the DNA link, such as someone else owning the item of clothing before Milly.