Police last night urged all women to stay away from the red light area of Ipswich amid fears that a serial killer has murdered three prostitutes, and possibly more.The naked bodies of the three women have been discovered in the space of nine days this month. Yesterday, as police in wetsuits searched rivers, detectives leading the murder inquiries confirmed two other women known to work as prostitutes in the Suffolk town had been reported missing.Faced with the prospect that a serial murderer could be on the loose, police issued a warning to all women in the area.Jacqui Cheer, Suffolk police's assistant chief constable, said in a message to the 30 or 40 prostitutes who ply their streets in an industrial area in the west of the city: "My message to you is simple - stay off the streets. If you are out alone at night you are putting yourself in danger."She said an effective amnesty would be in place to encourage prostitutes and their clients to come forward in confidence, and issued a personal mobile number in an appeal for information.But she also said she was concerned for the city's wider female population. "We are coming up to the party season and up to Christmas. By all means enjoy yourselves but plan your nights out. Go out together, stick together and do not leave your friends alone."Detective chief superintendent Stewart Gull, who is heading the inquiry, said police might be looking for a serial killer.He added that there were "distinct similarities" between the two women known to have been murdered and dumped naked in the same stretch of water - Gemma Adams, 25, and Tania Nicol, 19 - and the death of a third woman, who has not yet named but is believed to be a 24-year-old sex worker.Unlike the other two, she was not found in water but dead in a wood at Nacton on Sunday afternoon. She was also naked.Police were also anxious about the safety of two other Ipswich prostitutes - Paula Clennell, 24, and Annette Nicholls, 29 - who have been reported missing since the weekend. Ms Nicholls has not been seen by her family for more than a week. "While we can't formally link the discovery of the body at Nacton with the two murders, the facts speak for themselves," said Mr Gull."At this stage we don't know how long the body may have been at that location. Clearly there are some distinct similarities. We have already linked the death of Tania and Gemma, clearly there are significant similarities in the finding of this latest woman."With forensic analysis still being done, no cause of death has been established for any of the women. However police suspect Ms Adams and Ms Nicol were killed and their bodies disposed of at different times. None of the women appear to have been sexually assaulted.Detectives added that the discovery of a body of a woman in Lincolnshire was "unlikely" to be connected to the Suffolk murders.Around 100 officers are working on what is possibly the largest multiple murder inquiry faced by Suffolk police, who are believed to be pursuing several lines of inquiry. One theory is that the Ipswich deaths could be linked to a series of unsolved murders of prostitutes committed in Norwich over the past 15 years.Officers yesterday revisited at least five mysterious murders of prostitutes in East Anglia stretching back to the death of 16-year-old Natalie Pearman in 1992.Potentially, a killer could have moved from Norfolk to Ipswich. In both sets of murders the killer was suspected to have a sound knowledge of the area. Detectives are also examining the movements of 393 violent sex attackers known to have been active in Suffolk.They will be focusing on 21 offenders listed under a multi-agency protection register as the "critical few" who pose "the highest and most imminent risk" to the public. But the main point of the investigation is a call for information from the dozens of sex workers and their clients who work in Ipswich's red-light district, an area of industrial streets near to the city's football ground.One sex worker, who gave her name as Suzy, who knew at least one of the murdered prostitutes, said neither she nor her colleagues would heed the warning to stay off the streets. She said they were unlikely to approach police. "With Christmas coming up we don't have the choice to stay off the streets," she said. "The police make it sound like it's our fault if we get attacked."She added: "Two women I know recently reported attacks. One was hurt badly, but police did nothing. They told her there was no chance it would come to court. That attitude gets around and so other women don't come forward. You have to ask how many women have reported violence and nothing was done?"Ms Cheer admitted that police needed to reach out to the city's street sex workers, many of whom work to fund their drug habits. She added: "There are clearly bridges of trust that we need to build with some of the women out there."