In recent weeks, horrifying reports of gun crime have, understandably, been increasing the fear of guns among the British public. Next week, the Metropolitan police will also have guns on their minds. They will be guarding people selling them.From September 11-14, about 1,000 officers per day will be policing Defence Systems and Equipment International (DSEI), one of the world's largest arms fairs. It will take place at the Excel Centre in east London, with more than 1,000 arms companies selling weapons ranging from handguns to fighter jets. When DSEI was last held, it cost taxpayers over £4m in policing costs.The UK government has an inclusive attitude to DSEI: regimes who abuse human rights are happily allowed in. Previous guests included Indonesia, Libya, Israel and of course Saudi Arabia - the tyranny of choice for the UK's largest arms company BAE Systems. India and Pakistan both attended DSEI in 2005 - where they could buy weapons to aim at each other. While this year's guest list is still to be released, we can be sure that despotic regimes are likely to return.But don't be fooled into thinking that nothing has changed. While the ethics of arms companies are no different, the attitudes of society certainly are. Arms traders are coming to London in a year that has seen political and commercial support falling away from the arms trade in the UK. This has led to DSEI's owners attempting to sell it.DSEI is one of several arms fairs owned by Reed Elsevier, best known as a publisher. In June, Reed's bosses bowed to pressure from their authors and shareholders and agreed to sell their fairs by the end of 2007. They are looking for a buyer, but who will buy DSEI? Any business not deterred by ethics or reputational damage was put off in July when Gordon Brown announced the closure of the government unit that helps to organise DSEI. This is the infamous Defence Export Services Organisation (DESO), which acts as a marketing agency for private arms companies. Its closure has long been a key aim of the Campaign Against Arms Trade (CAAT).The closure of DESO was a heavy blow to the arms companies, with BAE described as "furious". Reed's decision to sell DSEI is a major sign that participation in the arms trade is no longer an option for any business concerned about its reputation. Businesspeople have insisted that Tony Blair's decision to cut short a corruption inquiry into BAE has harmed the reputation of British business. CAAT's campaign to have the inquiry reopened has won support from across the political spectrum, due to public anger at BAE's undemocratic power. The Local Authority Pension Fund Forum is questioning arms companies about ethics. Axa and Hermes have declared that they are withdrawing from large arms companies involved in cluster munitions. Buying an arms fair in this climate would be like buying a dairy farm in the middle of the foot-and-mouth outbreak.And yet somebody, somewhere may well be considering it. The crucial question may be whether the government would be willing to subsidise DSEI through other departments once DESO closes in December. People from all walks of life will therefore be demonstrating against DSEI at CAAT's peaceful demonstration on Tuesday. Together we will call on businesses not to buy DSEI and on government to find better uses for taxpayers' money.The arms dealers would like you to believe that the people protesting against DSEI are extremists. We are not. We are ordinary people who see how the arms trade fuels war, poverty and repression. We can see that DSEI is a threat to our security and a drain on our economy. And we would much rather see 1,000 police officers tackling gun crime instead of guarding gunrunners.