The dust has barely settled on the case of Tulay Goren – the Turkish schoolgirl murdered by her own father. Tulay's murder will not be the last of its kind, but she should be the last who was failed by a system that tiptoes around cultural sensitivity."Honour" killings, which tend to feature in Middle Eastern, Turkish and south-east Asian communities, derive their motivation from the idea of shame and honour within conservative and religious frameworks. The key problems are that because it's perceived as a "cultural issue" and communities are reluctant to come forward, progress has been slow – it took a decade to conclude Tulay's case, while the case of Surjit Athwal, who was murdered in 1998 by her mother-in-law and husband, was only resolved in 2007. Additionally, in two high-profile cases now – of Tulay and Banaz Mahmod (who was found stuffed in a suitcase) – the victims contacted the police but nothing was done. An investigation is under way into how the police "failed miserably" to prevent Tulay's murder, examining any "missed opportunities", and surely enough, they will find them.But while the police may be criticised for failing Tulay, we need to look at the bigger picture – namely what leads the perpetrators to carry out these acts, and what the government is planning to do about them. The Association of Chief Police Officers estimate that 17,000 "honour" crimes are committed each year.While I'm loth to use the hackneyed phrase "wake-up call", the communities concerned need one. Any section of society that believes murdering someone is more palatable than suffering the indignation of the community needs much more than a softly-softly approach. The only organisation that can send this message, however, is the government. Yes, it launched the Forced Marriage Act in 2007, but without the muscle and coherency to put it into action the act is toothless. What is needed are funds for organisations and charities that can reach out to men, women and children who are at risk. One such organisation is Karma Nirvana, which does crucial work helping victims of "honour" crime and forced marriages, but will soon have going to have to close its Honour Helpline because the government has not provided any funding to help keep it open. The founder, Jasvinder Sanghera, told me:The Forced Marriage Act is a great piece of legislation, but the government need to think about how they are implementing it. It hasn't been used once in Leicester, Bradford and Tower Hamlets – predominantly south-east Asian areas – what does that tell you? That they aren't being proactive about reaching out to victims who feel very isolated. The Honour Helpline is the only one of its kind in Britain, and apart from victims being able to speak to an expert, we've got links to agencies who can help them further.The good news is that the Metropolitan police has just released figures showing an increase in recorded incidents and crimes, which means the force is tackling it rather than brushing it under the carpet. Moreover, I hope the bravery displayed by Tulay's mother, who reported her domineering husband to police, will inspire other mothers who are complicit in many of these crimes just by remaining silent.