The mother of a four-year-old girl shot dead by her estranged father during a confrontation at the former family home on Tuesday died in hospital yesterday without regaining consciousness.Julie Harrison, 40, of Aldershot, Hampshire, had suffered head wounds in the attack that killed her daughter, Maisie. She was airlifted to St George's hospital in south London after the shootings.Her former partner Andy Copland, a 56-year-old builder and decorator, also died in the incident. It is believed that when Ms Harrison arrived to drop off Maisie for a visit, Copland locked them in the house then shot them during a row over custody and access arrangements. He then turned the gun on himself.Last night Julie Harrison's father, Reginald Harrison, said his daughter was a "happy-go-lucky, bubbly girl" and also paid tribute to his "beautiful granddaughter" Maisie. He described his granddaughter as a "confident, happy, chatty, active, animated, bright young girl who brought joy to our lives".Police were called to the house after neighbours reported hearing a violent dispute. Officers broke in and found carnage. The little girl was found with head wounds and died in a police officer's arms.Detective Inspector Darren Rawlings said officers had discovered a "very traumatic" scene. They attempted to resuscitate the girl, but she was pronounced dead a short while later. The couple had split up in November and investigators are not looking for anyone else.Acquaintances described Copland as angry, violent and vengeful. It was claimed that he had served a prison term after stalking a previous lover with a crossbow and setting fire to her car two decades ago. He also had a grown-up daughter who now serves with the Surrey police.Neighbour Rachel Bryan, who moved in shortly after Ms Harrison and Maisie moved out, said she had been scared of Copland. "When I moved in a neighbour told me Andy wasn't having a very good time because his partner had taken the child and moved out. Someone told me he was obsessed with her. He struck me as someone who hated women," she said.The terrace house was still sealed off yesterday. Ms Harrison's car, which she had left double parked with the engine running while she delivered her daughter, was taken away for tests.Sally Denny, 35, whose four-year-old son, Noah, was in the same reception class as Maisie, said: "She was so full of life – a happy, funny and cheeky girl who knew how to bring a smile to people's faces. My last memory of her was seeing her perform in the school nativity. She was dressed as a star, but she will always be an angel."Ms Harrison's ex-husband described her as a bubbly personality with many friends. Kevin Moody, 47, who only found out about the tragedy when he got up yesterday, said they split amicably in 1996.He said: "We didn't have any children and basically we split because she wanted to do the things that a single woman wanted to do and I didn't. I'm really in shock. It was all a long time ago for me now. At the end of the day she was a woman I loved."Liz Mathias, the headteacher of Maisie's school, St Michael's Infants in Aldershot, said: "We were devastated to hear about the tragic incident involving Maisie. She was a lovely little girl and a daughter that anyone could be proud of. Although she had not been at our school for very long, Maisie was an involved member of our school community and she will be sadly missed."Classmates wept as they laid flowers and toys near the house, before being taken to the nearby church to say prayers.