The Metropolitan Police were unable to find or contact three key witnesses in the Stephen Lawrence murder despite another police force giving them their names and addresses, the Guardian has learned. Detectives from Kent, which investigated complaints by the Lawrence family against the Met's first murder squad, had to be sent to help the Met's third team of detectives covering the case. The revelations about the third Met investigation, which started in 1997, suggests that the Met's mishandling of the case was not limited to its first murder team in 1993 which has been exposed by a public inquiry. A senior source at the Police Complaints Authority, which supervised the complaints inquiry, has told the Guardian that the authority believed Kent should have pursued the 11 new lines of inquiry they had identified rather than hand them over to the Met, because Kent had made such good progress and because of concern over the Met's failings. The source said that would have provided a greater chance of Stephen's murderers being prosecuted, rather than leaving it to the Met. The revelations of fresh Met errors were not heard by the public inquiry chaired by Sir William Macpherson, whose report will attack the Met for its first investigation following the racist murder of Stephen in April 1993 at a London bus stop. No-one has ever been convicted for the attack. The Lawrences have said that police are still not taking the case seriously, despite promises from Met commissioner Sir Paul Condon to the contrary. The report by Kent for the PCA was the first official recognition that the Met murder investigation was flawed. It identified 11 lines of inquiry which were either new or had been missed by the first Met team. Detective Chief Superintendent David Clapperton, second in command of the Kent re-examination, said that Kent's findings were handed to the Met in November 1997. In February 1998, the Met contacted him. 'We weren't anticipating that the Met would need our assistance to reach these witnesses. They said they were having problems contacting the witnesses. I sent two Kent officers to work with them. They found and contacted the witnesses within days." Det Chief Supt Clapperton said some of the witnesses were scared, but the approach Kent used had worked. On the reasons why the Met initially failed, he said: 'It was a mixture of did the Met try hard enough, was their approach right, and also we'd built up a rapport with the witnesses throughout 1997." Kent had to help the Met contact or find three people with potentially vital information. Kent made progress with an informant given the pseudonym of James Grant, who within 24 hours of the murder had given the Met the names of suspects, Jamie and Neil Acourt and David Norris. Kent passed its interview notes to the Met, but the Met could not get him to talk to them. Kent also made progress with witness K, who saw the Acourts in their house after the murder with wet hair and stripped to the waist, as if they had been washing themselves. The Met could not find him despite having his address, Det Chief Supt Clapperton said. Kent also identified the author of two anonymous notes naming the Acourt brothers, David Norris and Gary Dobson, recovered by police within 48 hours of the murder. He refused to talk to the Met until Kent intervened. PCA sources have said the authority believed Kent should have had a far bigger role in the murder investigation. It would have been unprecedented for the Met to have handed over a murder case to another force. Det Chief Supt Clapperton said his detectives had wanted to continue. 'The Kent police had a very competent team and were more than capable of carrying out and investigation into the lines of inquiry we had found, ourselves. 'My team would have liked to have continued, but it wasn't to be. We discussed it with the PCA, there were discussions at a very high level." Richard Offer, spokesman for the PCA, said: 'Our terms of reference were to handle the complaint inquiry, not the murder inquiry. It was outside our and Kent's remit to tell the Met what to do. If the Met had felt that there was any advantage in Kent continuing, they could have asked them." The Kent force is expected to escape serious criticism when Sir William's report is published next week. The Lawrence family criticised Kent for not finding that the Met's officers had been racist.  But with the public inquiry expected to find that the Met was institutionally racist, Det Chief Supt Clapperton said they found no evidence of officers being directly racist and added: 'We neither had the resources or skills to determine if the Metropolitan Police service were a racist organisation and we weren't asked to do that."