In Channel 4's Dispatches programme Undercover Copper, a policewoman complains that a woman who claimed she had been raped had been phoning her constantly but, days later, had yet to see a scene of crime officer. 'Things should have changed ... for fuck's sake ...,' says the policewoman.In fact, in the investigation and prosecution of rape things have changed. While the force's vocabulary (if not its views) has become more politically correct, the situation has become much worse. In 1977, 33 per cent of reported rapes led to a conviction. In 2004, the conviction rate had fallen to 5.29 per cent - barely one in 20. In 2003, it is estimated that 50,000 rapes occurred; 11,867 were reported. Only 1,649 of those went to trial, resulting in 629 convictions.The gap between 50,000 and 629 signals that those who are so inclined have a licence to desecrate a woman's body, potentially damaging her psychologically and physically while trampling on her human rights with scant fear of retribution.The government has introduced a number of measures to improve conviction rates. None addresses the attitudes and ineptitude of the police - by which I mean not a few unrepresentative members of the force, but the performance (or lack of it) of the 52 UK police forces.A postcode lottery operates in rape convictions. In 2004, in Gloucestershire in 0.86 per cent of rapes resulted in conviction, compared with the highest rate, 13.8 per cent, was in Northamptonshire. Even the best is a disgrace.By secretly filming members of the Leicestershire force for Dispatches, former PC Nina Hobson has exposed a culture in which police appear to regard domestic rape as 'petty' and think rape allegations by prostitutes should be 'taken with a pinch of salt'.It is completely unjust that on the issue of sexual violence such judgmental views are allowed to influence police reaction. If rape is to be properly investigated and conviction rates improved, this film forces us to ask the question: Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? Who polices the police?