A nurse has been arrested on suspicion of murder by police investigating three deaths at a hospital in Stockport.Rebecca Leighton, 27, was arrested at her home in the Heaviley district of Stockport at 6am by detectives investigating the contamination of saline with insulin, which is thought to have killed three patients at Stepping Hill hospital in Hazel Grove. A team of 60 detectives from Greater Manchester police is working on the case.Tests are continuing to determine whether the tainted saline was directly responsible for the deaths of Tracey Arden, 44, George Keep, 84, and Arnold Lancaster, 71. A fourth patient, a man in his 40s, is critically ill. A woman who had a seizure after her blood sugar levels dropped is recovering.They are among 14 patients on two acute medical wards – A1 and A3 – whose treatment since 7 July is being examined by police.Thirty-six bags of saline in a storeroom were found to have been contaminated with insulin. On Tuesday police said the person responsible could still be at the hospital.Police said a 27-year-old woman had been arrested and was being questioned. Crime scene investigators were at her flat in Buxton Road above a parade of shops, about a mile from the hospital.Officers were first called to the hospital eight days ago after an experienced nurse noticed unexpected drops in blood sugar levels in a large number of patients on the ward. Staff have now been told to work in pairs when checking and administering drugs. A single keyholder has to be asked for access to locked drug cabinets.Police have said a product containing saline found damaged in the maternity ward at Stepping Hill was not contaminated according to preliminary tests. Assistant Chief Constable Ian Hopkins, who is leading the inquiry, said: "The damage could very well be accidental, as can happen quite easily in a busy hospital."He added: "Staff are alerting police to anything they feel might be suspicious or relevant to the investigation and to date there has been no further contamination of any product since the control measures were introduced."Inquests into the deaths of the three patients have been opened and adjourned to a later date at the request of the police.Arden had been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis 12 years ago. She had been admitted to the hospital on 7 July suffering from associated illnesses. Her parents, who live nearby, said she had been in good spirits when they left but within two hours began to deteriorate. Hospital staff called and told them to return urgently but she died before they arrived.Keep was admitted with a fractured hip after falling on 27 June and had seemed to be recovering. He ran his own house maintenance company and was described by relatives as a keen gardener and very strong for his age. His health suddenly deteriorated at the hospital and for six days doctors struggled to keep him alive. He was given blood and put on a saline drip for hydration but died last Thursday.Retired photographer Arnold Lancaster, from Romiley, had worked for the Stockport Express. He died on 11 July.The hospital said it is was not concerned about the health of nine other patients who were affected by the saline.Dr Chris Burke, chief executive of Stockport NHS Foundation Trust, said: "We are aware that Greater Manchester police have made an arrest this morning of a 27-year-old female."As the police are continuing with their inquiries we are unable to provide any further details but it is important to stress that no charge has been made at this stage."The Nursing and Midwifery Council confirmed that Leighton had been arrested. Chief executive Professor Dickon Weir-Hughes said: "The NMC has now received confirmation from the Greater Manchester police force intelligence branch and Stockport NHS Foundation Trust that registered nurse Rebecca Leighton has been arrested and is being questioned by the police."We have commenced fitness-to-practise proceedings with a view to suspending her from the register as quickly as possible."The NMC is the only organisation with the authority to protect the public by suspending a nurse's registration while they are under investigation.As this is now an open fitness-to-practise investigation, we are unable to provide further comment about the details of the case at this time"The heightened security remains at Stepping Hill despite the nurse's arrest. Other hospitals across the north-west had also been warned to be vigilant.