Belatedly, but all the more urgently needed, a series of initiatives aimed at curbing the mis-selling of alcohol is about to be launched. Last week's crime statistics painted a familiar picture: a continuing decline in recorded burglary, robbery and car crime, but an 11% rise in violent crime and a 21% surge in "low-level thuggery". The precise reasons for the rise are unclear. Some of the increase is due to a higher proportion of victims reporting violent incidents, as well as an increase in the proportion recorded by the police. Unlike these police statistics, the usually more reliable British crime survey, published on the same day, suggested violent crime had in fact fallen by 5% last year. But whatever the precise movement has been, the time for action is overdue.Home Office research has shown that alcohol is the root cause of nearly half of all violent crime, and of 70% of hospital emergency and accident weekend-night admissions. Friday and Saturday nights across the country see large numbers of young people - many under the legal age for drinking - spilling on to the streets at a late hour, ready for trouble. The government's new crackdown will rightly attempt to reduce underage drinking through "sting operations" to catch pubs, clubs and off-licences selling alcohol to underage people, followed by the "naming and shaming" of irresponsible vendors. We hope it will go beyond this as the vendors - who include leading retail chains - are breaking the law. Even the industry's lobby group, the British Beer and Pub Association, is calling for irresponsible operators to be sacked. The BBPA, which represents half the pubs in the country, recently tightened its code to curb various forms of "happy hours" that encourage binge drinking. Local authorities, which take over licensing responsibilities at the end of this year, have been given new powers to penalise licensees who breach the law. It should not be limited to those serving underage drinkers, but apply to landlords who serve already inebriated adults. The move to a more mature drinking culture is unlikely to be fast, but the quicker it emerges the better.