Police in Japan have denied bungling the investigation into the death of English teacher Lindsay Ann Hawker, but admitted yesterday they were no closer to finding the prime suspect, who escaped as they were about to question him.The results of an autopsy on Ms Hawker, 22, from Brandon, near Coventry, showed she had been beaten and suffocated over the weekend. Her naked, bruised body was discovered on Monday inside a bath filled with sand on the balcony of an apartment near Tokyo after she failed to return home and did not answer her mobile phone. Investigators did not say whether she had been sexually assaulted.A hunt has been launched for Tatsuya Ichihashi, who had reportedly followed her home several days before her death and begged her to teach him English. She apparently agreed to give him his first lesson at his apartment in Ichikawa, in Tokyo's eastern suburbs, on Sunday morning. Neighbours said they had heard scraping noises from his fourth-floor flat - possibly while the bathtub was being dragged from inside the apartment on to the balcony. Ms Hawker's handbag, identity documents and clothes were found inside the flat.Mr Ichihashi, 28, fled when police officers arrived at his apartment on Monday night. He dropped a rucksack filled with clothes and money during his escape."When officers arrived at his apartment they had no idea there was a body on the balcony," a senior detective said. "I don't think it is fair to say that he escaped from us"About 100 officers are involved in a nationwide hunt for Mr Ichihashi, who was said to have left the area in a taxi, but police have yet to identify the cab company.Ms Hawker's body was released to her father, Bill Hawker, yesterday. He and her boyfriend, Ryan Garside, were expected to fly back to the UK with her body.Details emerged about how Mr Ichihashi befriended Ms Hawker, who started teaching at the Koiwa branch of the Nova English school near Tokyo last October. Some reports suggested Mr Ichihashi had seen her in a bar and later approached her at a railway station near her home. Others said he had been her student, a claim denied by Nova and police.