The key witness in the Damilola Taylor murder case said yesterday she "lived in fear" of the youths accused of killing the schoolboy and knew there was a risk she would be beaten up for being "a grass".The 14-year-old said the day Damilola was stabbed had "changed her whole life", and that giving evidence to the police and going to court had turned her into a different person. "I have not really got an outside life anymore. Most of the time I stay at my house. I cannot walk down the street." The teenager is the only person who claims to have seen the four defendants attack the 10-year-old schoolboy in Peckham, south London, on November 27 2000. After five and a half days of searching cross-examination in which she was repeatedly accused of lying, the girl finished giving her evidence to the Old Bailey yesterday by saying she did not regret coming forward. "None of my friends really mind about this and they are sticking by me. But the girls [were] saying there's no need to tell the police what you know and that you are just going to get yourself into trouble and get beaten up. "If the worst comes to the worst and I go out in the street ... well, I don't really care if I get beaten up because I'm doing the right thing." Asked by Mark Dennis, prosecuting, whether she was telling the truth about being at the scene, the girl replied: "Yes." Earlier in the hearing, the girl giggled when she was questioned by John Ryder QC, about her account of what happened moments before the stabbing, which took place in Blakes Road. The teenager told police she struck up a conversation with a Scot, but that he had not noticed Damilola was being attacked. "So, you were talking to a Scotsman while something that looks like a robbery or a beating up is going on across the street from you," said Mr Ryder. "And he said to you, 'this is a nice area', and you said 'no it's very dangerous'. Didn't you think to say, 'what's going on over there?'" Mr Ryder said the story was "ridiculous". He asked the girl why she was laughing. "It's just the way you came out with it," she said. The teenager denied his claim that she had developed her story from rumours. The four youths, one aged 14, one 17, and two brothers aged 16, are accused of murdering Damilola, and also, jointly, of manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. They have pleaded not guilty. The trial continues.