The bodies of two people found buried in the back garden of a house in a quiet cul-de-sac could be an elderly couple who used to live at the property, police have said.Nottinghamshire police believe they could be William Wycherley, who would now be 100, and his wife Patricia, 79.The couple moved into the semi-detached house in 2 Blenheim Close, Forest Town, Mansfield, in 1987. There has been no trace of the pair since 1998, police said on Monday.Neighbours last week said they believed the couple had emigrated after they vanished from the address in the 1990s.One woman, who did not want to be named, said: "I only saw the man a few times. I never saw the lady or any family."I've lived here for 18 years. They were living at the house when I moved in. But they never had any visitors. I never saw anyone coming or going."My friend and I always used to say: 'I wonder what happened to that couple.'"They just disappeared. We thought they had emigrated."It is thought the house stood empty for a number of years before a new tenant moved in seven years ago. Police have ruled them and the current owner of the house out of their investigation.On Monday Nottinghamshire police said the couple's disappearance was central to their inquiry into the remains. The circumstances of their disappearance remain a mystery, police said.Detective Chief Inspector Rob Griffin, who is leading the investigation, said: "Neither William nor Patricia was ever reported missing and we can find no evidence of either of them being alive or dead. The discovery in their former garden last week may be the reason why."We have yet to formally identify the remains, and so cannot say with 100% certainty who we have found, but it's not a great leap to imagine it might be the Wycherleys."A postmortem examination has been carried out on the bodies but the results have not yet been released. Police said further tests were due to take place on Tuesday. Formal identification of the bodies is expected to take several weeks.Griffin added: "While we await the results I would like to appeal to anyone who knows what happened to William or Patricia, after they disappeared from their home in Forest Town in 1998, to call police."William, known to many as Bill, would have turned 100 last year and Patricia, or Pat, would be 79. Do you know them? Have you seen or heard from them since 1998?"If you have any information that may help our inquiry, no matter how small, and you have yet to speak to us, please phone us."The bodies were unearthed last Thursday after police received a tipoff about an "incident" that happened in the late 1990s. No further details have been released about the nature of the incident.The police have said they have been inundated with calls from people with information about previous residents of the house, including about the Wycherleys, since the bodies were uncovered.Officers have also spoken to members of Mr and Mrs Wycherley's family.Meanwhile forensic inquiries are continuing at the rear of the property where the bodies were found.