Colin Blanchard, who was at the centre of a paedophile ring involving the nursery worker Vanessa George, was today given an indeterminate sentence with a minimum term of nine years.The IT consultant Blanchard, 40, convinced four women – George, 40, Tracy Lyons, 41, Tracy Dawber, 44, and Angela Allen, 40 – to sexually assault young children and share the images.Also sentenced alongside Blanchard at Bristol crown court were Lyons, who was jailed for seven years, and Dawber, who was jailed for four years. Fellow paedophiles George and Allen are already serving prison sentences.Prosecutors have described the defendants as "one of the most sickening paedophile rings this country has seen". Passing sentence, Mr Justice Royce said: "Your influence Colin Blanchard, described this morning as Svengali-like, over four separate women so they engaged in sexual abuse of children in such tender years, is frightening."It is more extraordinary when one appreciates you never actually met three of them face to face. It is beyond the ken of decent people how any of you could stoop as disgustingly low as you did."Before sentencing, the court was told that Blanchard, of Greater Manchester, was sexually abused by an uncle and tried to kill himself when he was a teenager.Blanchard was now a "broken man … terribly isolated" who regretted his "disgusting behaviour" and could not understand why he acted as he did, his barrister, Greville Davis, told the court.Prosecutors described the case as "one of the most sickening paedophile rings this country has seen".The gang was smashed when a work colleague of Blanchard found child abuse images on his computer in June 2009 and called the police.Detectives discovered that Blanchard met the women over the internet and encouraged them to abuse children and share the images of the abuse taking place.Blanchard, George, Allen and Lyons pleaded guilty to a string of charges of sexual assault as well as making and possessing child pornography. Dawber, of Merseyside and the only woman who actually met Blanchard and was in a year-long relationship with him, was found guilty of sexually abusing a child and allowing Blanchard to take pictures of it.Opening the case today, Simon Morgan, prosecuting, said that between December 2008 and June 2009 there were more than 7,000 contacts between George, a married mother-of-two, and Blanchard on what she called her "fun phone".It emerged during the opening that Lyons – like George – had worked as a volunteer for a nursery, though only on two occasions and always with others.Mitigating for Blanchard, Greville Davis said he was abused for "seven or eight years" by his uncle and his uncle's friends. This had left a "deep psychological scar" and in 1988 he tried to kill himself. His uncle was later convicted and died of a heart attack, the court heard.During an interview with a psychiatrist, Blanchard claimed the four women members of the gang were the "sexual predators".But Stephen Smyth, for Lyons, said Blanchard had a "Svengali-like" hold over her. He said Lyons, of Portsmouth, was dim and a vulnerable woman who was targeted by Blanchard. "He made her feel good about herself," he said. She had now lost her home, her children, friends and self respect, Davis said.Ann Reddrop, the Crown Prosecution Service lawyer who dealt with all the cases, previously said: "Colin Blanchard turned out to be an evil man who controlled four women in one of the most sickening paedophile rings this country has seen."He encouraged these women to take and share ever more horrific images of the sexual abuse of children. As if that was not bad enough, he encouraged them to physically abuse children to produce those pictures."