A recording of the 999 call made by the widow of a murdered banker moments after he was shot dead on his doorstep in a quiet Highland town was released yesterday by police who are still searching for his killer.In an understandably hysterical call to emergency services, Veronica Wilson, the widow of murdered Nairn banker Alistair, is heard telling the operator: "My husband has been shot." Mrs Wilson then screams, before telling her father to "get the kids".Detectives also released a video of the moment when the Wilsons' four-year-old son, Andrew, learns that his father is dead. In the video, Andrew tells a child psychologist, Helen Kenward, that he believes his father is still in hospital. But, as he sits on his mother's knee, the psychologist takes him back to the "night daddy was shot" when he heard "the big bang"."Well daddy's not going to come back," the psychologist tells him."Why?" he responds."Because the shot made him dead."Detectives hope that by taking the unusual step of releasing the 999 call and video they will finally get a concrete lead on the anniversary of what has been a difficult and frustrating murder inquiry."I would defy anyone who sees or hears that not to be moved," said Peter MacPhee, the detective chief inspector who is leading the investigation. "My hope is that if there is somebody out there who has information for us, that they find the courage to come forward and give us the information that we need."Mr Wilson's murder has baffled detectives since he was shot dead on November 28 last year. Despite deploying huge manpower and DNA testing, they are still no closer to discovering either the identity of his killer or why someone would want to murder him. Mistaken identity remains a theory.On the night her husband was killed, Mrs Wilson answered the door to a stranger. He said only: "Alistair Wilson." Mrs Wilson went to get her husband. She remembers little of the man's appearance other than that he was wearing a baseball cap and dark trousers.Mr Wilson spoke to the man for no more than a few minutes. He returned upstairs to speak to his wife, clutching a blue envelope the man had thrust into his hands. Detectives are all but certain Mr Wilson closed the door behind him.Upstairs in their home, Mr Wilson spoke to his wife for a few minutes. Police will not reveal the precise details, but they say Mr Wilson did not appear to know why the man had called. He never opened the envelope. Although at first Mr Wilson seemed to have finished with the man, a few minutes later he decided to go back to the front door. It was a fatal error.The man had been standing on the doorstep for around seven minutes. Mrs Wilson watched her husband go back downstairs, but she heard nothing of the conversation on the doorstep: their home was once a hotel and a firedoor at the top of the stairs deadened the exchange.Moments later, she heard a succession of loud sounds, like wooden crates falling. Alarmed, she ran downstairs to find her husband dead on their doorstep. The blue envelope was gone; police believe the killer must have taken it.Police cannot explain why Mr Wilson was killed. They believe the murder must have been planned, but say its execution was bizarre. They cannot explain why he was not shot when he first went to the door, especially when he initially appeared to have no intention of returning to speak to the man.Several witnesses have come forward to give hazy descriptions of a man who could be the killer: he is described as being in his mid 30s, around 1.72m (5ft 8in) and white. Careful examination of CCTV footage has proved fruitless.Attempts to deduce the killer's motive have drawn a blank. Police have no idea why he was killed. They are certain Mrs Wilson had no involvement. Initially, they expected to find some skeleton in his closet that would lead them to his killer. But his closets have proved to be empty.Mr Wilson was a reserved and unassuming man who worked as a new business manager for the Bank of Scotland.Yesterday Mr MacPhee was hoping the release of the video and transcript would give them a lead. "The fact that we have come down this road is because we need help in solving this and we need help from members of the public."The emergency callThe transcript of the 999 call made by Veronica Wilson on November 28 2004 as she reported the killing of her husband, Alistair.Veronica: (screaming) My husband's been shot. Dad, get the kids (screaming). My husband's been shot. Get the kids. (screaming)Operator: Do you need the fire, police or ambulance?Veronica: My husband's been shot.Operator: I can't hear you, do you want the fire, police or ambulance?Veronica: Oh my God! (Gives address.)Operator: Who do you want to speak to, the fire, police or ambulance?Veronica: Police and ambulance, my husband's just been shot!