The three mothers were furious. Their four sons, aged 13 to 17, had picked up four of the 66 anti-social behaviour orders issued to residents of the Little London area of Leeds in a crackdown on drugs. "It's all lies," said one, who did not wish to be named, as a vanload of police took a coffee break 30 yards across Blackman Lane. "Our kids are doing nothing. They have not got the big guys who are doing the drugs so they have gone for the little kids." She claimed one order - or Asbo - had been served by being thrown into her front garden. "It's still there," she said. Leeds city council has been granted the orders - the largest number issued in one go since the system began in April 1999 - against alleged dealers, addicts and pimps. The youngest boy named is 10. The Home Office met the legal costs and paid for the extra police time involved. Yesterday the home secretary, David Blunkett, claimed the Asbos would make Leeds a safer city.The mothers were not convinced. They explained that their sons used to gather, like many in the area, on the wall outside All Souls church. But they cannot meet there again until December- and possibly not until 2005. Cheryl Lawson produced the order given to her 14-year-old son: it is a ring file with 20 pages containing allegations against all 65 recipients. She got an identical file herself. A map in the file shows an area marked in red in which he must not be seen. A blue line shows the only route he can use to leave home to reach nearby Meanwood Road. And as he walks he must not wear a hooded top or a baseball cap. "They seem to be able to say what they want," added Ms Lawson. "It's like house arrest. If the boys have done half the things listed in that file, why have they not been arrested?" "We are not saying our kids do not do wrong," said Jacqueline Buchanan, whose 13-year-old son has received an order. "But where is the evidence?" The file says of one boy: "You were seen on Blackman Lane and subsequently searched. You were found in possession of a red broom handle, the carrying of which caused harassment, alarm and distress." Another youth is described as running the drugs round in one area. "He has a large number of males dealing for him and has taken to issuing them with walkie talkie radios." A third is alleged to have links with local dealers and is suspected of "a number of large-scale armed robberies. He is seen as a 'hard man' ... He is always aggressive towards the police and is a large physical presence, which he used to threaten and intimidate." Mr Blunkett called the Asbos "an important tool in our fight against criminals and yobs". The leader of Leeds city council, Keith Wakefield, said up to 12 dealers were operating in the area at any one time and often employed young children to act as look-outs. "For too long the Blackman Lane area has been plagued by drug dealers and users, who are ruining the lives of local people. My message is simple: this kind of behaviour will not be tolerated and to those who refuse to play a civilised part in society, then your time is up."