The parents of missing 17-year-old Shafilea Ahmed have been arrested on suspicion of kidnapping her, police said yesterday.Detectives arrived at the family's home in Great Sankey, Warrington, at 8am to arrest Iftikar Ahmed, a 44-year-old taxi driver, and his 41-year-old wife, Farzana. A police spokesman said the couple were helping inquiries at a Cheshire police station. He said the couple's two children had been taken into care by social services. The 17-year-old, described as "vulnerable, not very streetwise and with no money," has not been seen since September 11. Officers suspect Shafilea is dead and launched a murder investigation last month. She had visited Pakistan with her family earlier this year and had been introduced to a potential suitor. But in an apparent cry for help, she drank bleach and was admitted to hospital with serious internal damage. Her parents did not report her disappearance to police - teachers from her former school contacted officers after they overheard her younger siblings discussing it, more than a week after she went missing.Her father denies harming his daughter. He said there was no arranged marriage planned when they were in Pakistan and the trip was only a family holiday. Speaking earlier this month, Mr Ahmed said: "I love my daughter. Why would I ever want to do anything to hurt her? The last few months have been absolute torture. Not only has my 17-year-old daughter vanished and is feared dead, but the police are trying to frame the family for a crime I know I could never commit." Police searches of wasteland near her home proved fruitless. Two poems written by Shafilea were read out by Shobna Gulati, who plays Sunita in Coronation Street, a fortnight ago during a press conference. One of the poems, entitled Happy Families, said: "I don't pretend like we're the perfect family no more. Desire to live is burning. My stomach is turning. "But all they think about is honour. I was like a normal teenage kid." At the press conference, Detective Chief Inspector Geraint Jones, who is leading the inquiry, said it was unlikely that Shafilea was still alive. "The likelihood is that she has been a victim of crime," he said. He added that her family could not understand why Shafilea had gone missing and were assisting police with the investigation. Detectives were liaising with Interpol and the Foreign Office to find out more about what had happened to Shafilea when she was in Pakistan.