A farmer accused of murdering a teenage boy who tried to burgle his house had laid booby traps and slept fully clothed with his boots on, a jury heard yesterday.Tony Martin, 55, who described himself and his way of life as eccentric, lived in an isolated property called Bleak House, kept three rottweilers in a nearby cottage and had lashed a number of ladders to trees and outbuildings to make a series of "lookout posts", Norwich crown court was told. Ground floor windows and doors of his home at Emneth, Norfolk, had been fitted with iron bars, parts of the inside staircase had been removed and there was "a booby trap at the top end of the landing". The farmer had regularly professed his hatred of burglars, once threatening that if he caught them he would blow their heads off. The jury heard he had told police that Gypsies should be rounded up, put in the middle of his field and machine-gunned. Martin is accused of killing 16-year-old Fred Barras, a market trader from a Gypsy travelling family based in Newark, Nottinghamshire, during a late-night incident at his home last August. He is also accused of attempting to murder and unlawfully wounding Brendon Fearon, 29, with intent to do him grievous bodily harm. He has denied these charges and another charge of possessing a firearm and ammunition with intent to injure life. Yesterday he pleaded guilty to possession of a Winchester pump-action shotgun without holding a firearm certificate. Barras and Fearon had gone to Bleak House with another friend, Darren Bark, with the intention of burgling the property. They had heard that the place was filled with antiques. As Bark waited in his car, Barras and Fearon were shot while prowling in the house. Fearon was severely injured and Barras, who was shot in the back, was found dead the following afternoon. The court heard that Barras had pleaded for his life, saying: "I'm sorry. Please don't. Mum." A courtroom filled with friends and family of Martin and Barras heard that the farmer, a bachelor, had "security measures" and "he would also sleep fully clothed, wearing his boots in contemplation of something happening". Police had found rounds of ammunition all over the house and its outbuildings. Rosamund Horwood-Smart QC, prosecuting, said Martin had been burgled in May last year and items were stolen. "When he reported the burglary he told the police operator, Mrs Wood, that the burglars had left some furniture outside and that they may come back and if they did he would blow their heads away," she added. "Over the years Mr Martin and his family had undoubtedly been the victims of crime. Mr Martin was well known to have strong views on policing matters." Ms Horwood-Smart said that when officers visited his house to take details of the May burglary, Martin was "vitriolic about criminals, especially Gypsies, and talked of putting Gypsies in one of his fields, surrounded by barbed wire, and machine-gunning them". At a meeting of a local Farm Watch group, Martin showed his contempt for the police. "During that meeting he said 'out there you are on your own and you are the law'." The police were "a waste of time". A neighbour who saw Martin two or three days before the shooting remembered him referring to burglars as "light-fingered pikeys". Ms Horwood-Smart told the jury: "He said if he caught the bastards he would shoot them." The jury heard that Fearon and Barras spotted a dresser in Bleak House and began shining a torch towards it. "Fearon remembers Fred Barras following closely behind him. He saw a man on the stairs. Then he heard Barras shout 'he's got me' at the same time as he heard a loud bang. He then made his way towards a window. He was going towards that window when he heard a second shot and his left leg at that moment went numb. "He then heard a third bang and felt pain in his right leg and in his panic he managed to pull the whole window out of the wall." Sobs from the Barras family could be heard when she added: "At that point he heard Fred Barras say: 'He has got me. I am sorry. Please don't. Mum.' " The jury was told that Barras followed Fearon out of the window. The teenager would have died within two minutes but it was not until the following day that his body was found. Barras was wearing rubber gloves and a chisel was found nearby. Fearon was badly injured and approached the cottage of one of Martin's neighbours who called an ambulance. "In the meantime, Mr Martin took a pump-action shotgun to his mother's house and left it in her lavatory and that was the gun that was used in the shootings," said Ms Horwood-Smart. Martin claimed that he had not fired the gun before and did not know how many cartridges it held. "He said he kept it under his bed," she said. "He had gone to bed that Friday evening at around 9pm having put his two rottweilers to bed and leaving another dog, Bruno, to patrol the grounds. "He said that he was wakened by noises. At first he thought that Bruno had got into the house. Then he saw flashes of light downstairs. He said he returned to his bedroom and retrieved the gun. "He loaded it until it was full. He did not know how many cartridges it held. He says he returned to the landing. He negotiated the step at the top and he says that he went halfway downstairs. At that point a torch was pointed at him. He took aim and fired a shot below the light of the torch and he continued to fire until the gun was empty." Ms Horwood-Smart said: "He told the officers that he had at no time warned the intruders or given them the chance to surrender. He said he thought he would hide upstairs but then thought 'I have had enough' and went downstairs with the gun." The case continues today.