Scotland Yard's most senior anti-terrorism officer is facing questions about his expenses claims, it emerged yesterday.Assistant commissioner Andy Hayman has been asked to explain the bills, which insiders say are higher than for other officers of his rank.He has claimed £15,000 over a two-and-a-half year period, including bills for hotel rooms and drinks for staff and other non-police personnel. Senior sources say some of the entertainment bills appear high by Metropolitan police standards. The news comes amid concerns over money spent by officers who were issued credit cards by the Met to cover their expenses.It also comes days after Met commissioner Sir Ian Blair avoided the process being started for his removal from office after he won a confidence vote from the Metropolitan Police Authority.A report into Hayman's spending has gone to the MPA's professional standards sub-committee and it is expected to make a decision within the next month .It could ask an outside force to investigate. It has the power to recommend Hayman's suspension or that his duties be restricted, though at this stage such options are thought to be unlikely. The issue has gone to the MPA because of Hayman's seniority.Yard insiders say officers of his rank and above do not fill out their own expenses forms. Those with knowledge of the case say Hayman's spending was picked up by an MPA audit. He was asked to explain the spending but his answers left the auditors with questions. The Conservatives, who want the commissioner removed from office, used the revelations to reignite their attack on Blair.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "This is clearly serious and we have to await the outcome of the review."However, it may be the case that this raises further concern over Sir Ian Blair's leadership and control of the Met, since there have been criticisms of the control of expenses, ever since he was first appointed."Hayman was heavily criticised in an Independent Police Complaints Commission report into the killing of Jean Charles de Menezes, who was shot dead by police after being mistaken for a suicide bomber on July 22 2005. Hayman received words of advice after investigators concluded he had misled the commissioner on the day of the shooting.The MPA confirmed that a report into expenses allegations would be examined by a committee of its members. A spokesman said: "The report concerns expenditure relating to hospitality and will be considered in due course." Scotland Yard referred inquiries to the MPA.Hayman was Blair's personal choice for the counterterrorism job. His duties include leading the fight against al-Qaida-inspired terrorism, and protecting the royal family.