Secret lives: other cases of witness protection and anonymityDanielle Cable In 1996, 17-year-old Cable witnessed the fatal stabbing of her boyfriend, Stephen Cameron, by notorious gangster Kenneth Noye in an apparent road rage incident on the M25. Noye, who had been released from prison only two years previously after serving part of a 14-year sentence for laundering gold from the mammoth 1983 Brinks Mat bullion robbery, was eventually tracked down to Spain in 1998, extradited, and found guilty of Cameron's murder in 2000. Cable agreed not only to fly out to Spain to identify him, but to testify, in the presence of the accused and his associates, at the trial. She was given a new identity and has been living under a witness protection scheme ever since; Alan Decabrel, another eyewitness who refused the offer of police protection, was subsequently found shot dead in his car.Witnesses in the case of Jamie Robe Robe, 17, was beaten to death with baseball bats, snooker cues and cricket stumps by a gang of six youths from the Osprey estate in Rotherhithe, south-east London, in August 1997. Three of his killers were given life sentences in November 1999, but not before some 20 people who agreed to testify had been moved off the estate and found new identities, jobs and homes by the Metropolitan police's witness protection unit. One crucial witness, a Turkish illegal immigrant facing deportation, was given Home Office permission to stay in the country. Another, 19-year-old Traci Broughton, was so nervous at the prospect of being recognised in court that she lost two stone in weight before the trial (all were eventually allowed to give evidence from behind a screen, wearing balaclavas and boiler suits). Local Lib Dem MP Simon Hughes persuaded many to give evidence, and for a time was himself given round-the-clock police protection.Martin McGartland A warning that witness protection does not always work. The Republican supergrass had been leading a double life as "Agent Carol" since the mid-1980s, rising steadily through the ranks of the IRA and Sinn Fein while all the time passing information to his RUC and Special Branch handlers. Exposed in 1991, he escaped IRA execution by jumping from a third-floor window and was subsequently moved to England and given nearly £100,000 to buy a house and build a new life under a new identity in Whitley Bay, North Tyneside. Six years later, he claimed his cover was blown when he was charged by Northumbria police with holding driving licences in different names. In 1999, in an attack blamed on the IRA, he was shot six times in the stomach by two men. McGartland was moved to a new secret location and placed under the protection of MI5; his life is still considered in danger.Mary Bell Identity protection is also occasionally given to killers released from prison whose own safety is thought to be at risk because they could be the target of vigilante or revenge attacks. Injunctions barring the publication of their whereabouts, or of any information likely to lead to their identification, are often referred to as Mary Bell orders, after the 11-year-old girl convicted in December 1968 of the double manslaughter of Martin Brown, four, and Brian Howe, three. Both were strangled. Bell, the abused daughter of a Glasgow prostitute, was released from prison in 1980 and granted anonymity under a new name. In 2003 the order was extended to her daughter, born in 1984, after the pair's whereabouts was discovered by reporters.Robert Thompson and Jon Venables The boys were 10 years old in 1993 when they beat two-year-old James Bulger to death after luring him away from his mother in a Merseyside shopping centre and dragging him to a railway line. The pair, who were identified by name only after their conviction, were the youngest people to be charged with murder in England in the 20th century; public revulsion at the killing prompted death threats against their parents, who were moved to different parts of the country and given new identities. Soon after the trial, a court injunction was imposed preventing the publication of any details about the boys; it remained in force following their release, on a life licence in 2001, after serving eight years in a secure young offenders' institution. Despite numerous rumours and press reports, the identities and whereabouts of Thompson and Venables remain secret.Maxine Carr A unique case, in that she was neither witness nor killer. Carr provided a false alibi for her then boyfriend, Ian Huntley, during the police investigation into the August 2002 murders of the 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman in Soham, Cambridgeshire. Convicted of perverting the course of justice, she was sentenced to 42 months in prison and released in May 2004 after serving half her term. After receiving a number of death threats, she was placed under round-the-clock police protection and in February 2005 won a lifetime injunction from the high court safeguarding her new identity indefinitely. Despite this, she has reportedly been recognised and forced to move home, with her police guard, at least a dozen times in the past two years. Women from Kilbride to Cornwall have been threatened after being mistaken for her.