New immigration rules are to be introduced to make it more difficult for foreign criminals to resist deportation by invoking their right to a family life under the European convention on human rights.Theresa May, the home secretary, announced on Sunday that changes will be in place by the summer to make clear the ECHR can only be used as a bar to deportation in "rare and exceptional cases".May, who was involved in a public dispute with Kenneth Clarke at last year's Conservative party conference over the deportation of illegal immigrants, said the changes could be introduced after a Home Office consultation on article eight of the ECHR, which says that a right to family life should not be interfered with except "in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic wellbeing of the country".May told the Sunday Telegraph: "By the summer, I will have changed the immigration rules so that we can end the abuse of the right to a family life. Believe you me, I get as frustrated as anybody when I see somebody who should not be in this country remaining in this country."Home Office sources told the Sunday Telegraph that the UK Borders Act 2007, passed by the last Labour government, complicated deportations by creating an exemption if an individual's human rights are breached. May will make clear in the new rules that a right to family life will not prevent the deportation of a foreign national who has been convicted of a criminal offence, has breached immigration rules or cannot maintain themselves or their family.May ran into trouble with Clarke last year when he mocked her claim that an illegal immigrant had resisted deportation on the grounds that he had a pet cat. The justice secretary told a fringe meeting: "I've never had a conversation on the subject with Theresa, so I'd have to find out about these strange cases she is throwing out. They are British cases and British judges she is complaining about. I cannot believe anybody has ever had deportation refused on the basis of owning a cat. I'll have a small bet with her that nobody has ever been refused deportation on the grounds of the ownership of a cat."May, who said at the time that she would like to scrap the Human Rights Act, indicated that the presence of the Liberal Democrats in government meant she would have to settle for a change in immigration rules. In her Sunday Telegraph interview May made clear that scrapping the act was now only a remote possibility."I have every confidence it [her new rules] will work. If it doesn't, if it is tested in the courts and we find there's a problem, we'll obviously look at other measures, but I'm confident in what we're proposing to do."The home secretary also expressed confidence that Abu Qatada, the radical Islamist cleric whose deportation was blocked by the European court of human rights earlier this year, would be returned to Jordan by the summer. The court blocked the deportation of Qatada on the grounds that he risked facing a trial in Jordan based on evidence that could be tainted by torture.May, who recently visited Jordan to negotiate with the authorities, told the Sunday Telegraph: "Hopefully I'm not talking about the end of the year. We are making good progress. I hope you'll see from the fact that we sent another group of officials over there just this last week, in the last few days, that I am keen to keep up the momentum on this."The public want him to be deported. I want him to be deported."