Tania Nicol, 19The first of the women to be reported missing, Tania Nicol was last seen on October 30 when she left the house she shared with her mother, Kerry, and younger brother, Aaron, 15. It is believed she was heading for Ipswich's red-light district, although her mother told police she did not know her daughter was a sex worker until she disappeared.Ms Nicol used to attend Chantry high school, a 1,200-roll comprehensive. A former schoolfriend who did not want to be named yesterday said she was a "lovely little girl". "We were always the ones at the back of the class giggling, and I think we must have got told off quite a bit."Later Ms Nicol had several jobs, including working as a room attendant in an Ipswich hotel, but she drifted into drug use shortly after finishing her education, friends and neighbours said yesterday. She worked at a number of massage parlours in the town but was asked to leave 18 months ago. A woman called Sandra, who owned one parlour, told the Ipswich Evening Star it was because of suspicions she was using drugs. "She was a placid and quiet girl and took the news that she had to leave very well," she said. Sandra said Kerry Nicol had worked in the parlour as a cleaner, but not at the same time as her daughter.Another former schoolfriend calling herself Holly, who works in a different massage parlour, said she had been surprised to learn in April that Ms Nicol was working on the streets. "It seemed totally out of character for her," she said. "She was a truly wonderful girl, so quiet and nice to everyone. She was so pretty and always wore nice clothes."Her body was found on December 8 at Belstead brook by police divers.Gemma Adams, 25Last seen on November 15 outside a BMW dealership in West End Road, Ipswich, Gemma Adams was reported missing by her boyfriend after failing to return text messages.Ms Adams grew up with her parents, older sister and younger brother in Kesgrave, a village near Ipswich. Her parents have described her as a "bright and bubbly" girl who was in the Brownies and grew up playing the piano and horse riding."She was good company, bright and intelligent. If you asked her to do anything she would do it well. We never had any rows with her at home," her father, Brian, said.Ms Adams attended Kesgrave high school and later did a part-time GNVQ in administration.She worked for a time at an insurance company but drifted into "the wrong crowd", her father said, and gradually lost touch with her family, getting involved with drugs around the age of 17.She and her boyfriend, Jon Simpson, a heroin user, had been together for 10 years. Ms Adams is believed to have been addicted to heroin and crack. Her parents took her to see doctors and a community drug rehabilitation team, but she was sacked from her job and the family had little contact with their daughter in the past two years. Her parents did not know she was working in the sex industry before she died.Her body was discovered on December 2, close to where Ms Nicol's body would later be found.Ipswich police are examining a pair of white and chrome Nike trainers that they believe she was wearing on the night she died.Anneli Alderton, 24Anneli Alderton's naked body was found in woodland close to the village of Nacton, near Ipswich, on the afternoon of December 10 and police today launched a murder inquiry, saying she had been asphyxiated and "probably strangled".A passing motorist spotted her body. Unlike the first two women to be found dead, she had not been reported missing and her body was not found in water; detectives said the DNA of her killer or killers might be recovered. Police said today that it was not known if she had been sexually assaulted.Ms Alderton, of Colchester, Essex, caught the 5.53pm train from Harwich to Colchester on December 3. Detectives said there were no known sightings of her after that.A passing motorist might have seen her body in woodland at Nacton at 10.30am on December 7 but mistakenly thought the figure was an abandoned mannequin.Police said she worked as a prostitute in Ipswich and probably knew Ms Nicol and Ms Adams. Sources said she had no fixed address. Her family has refused to comment.Paula Clennell, 24Paula Clennell, a mother of three, has not been seen since 10.40pm on Saturday. She was reported missing late on Sunday. She is a sex worker and a known drug user, who had been using drug services in the town, a source confirmed to the Guardian.Neighbours at an address in London Road, Ipswich, said Ms Clennell had lived there until about two years ago, in a property they believed to be a brothel, but she had moved on to an unknown address.Police said last night a friend had been in touch with the force to say she had received a phone call from Paula on Sunday night, but detectives remain concerned for her safety.Annette Nicholls, 29Following widespread publicity about the other murders and disappearances, Ms Nicholls' family grew concerned and reported to police that she had not been heard of since December 3 or 4.She is described as white, about 160cm (5ft 3ins) tall, of slim build with shoulder-length brown wavy hair.