Families whose loved ones have been stabbed to death launched an emotional appeal yesterday, urging Tony Blair to jail those who carry knives as weapons for at least five years.Among those who went to Downing Street to hand in a letter to the prime minister were Jayne and Paul Walmsley - the parents of 14-year-old Luke Walmsley, who was stabbed in a Lincolnshire school last year - and Antoinette Rodney, the mother of Kieran Rodney-Davis, 15, who was knifed for his mobile phone in Fulham, south London, in June.The relatives are backing a campaign by the independent charity, Victims of Crime Trust. It claims that a child dies from stab wounds every two weeks in the UK and that knife killings outstrip fatal shootings by three to one.They want the government to make carrying a blade longer than 3in (7.6cm) as serious an offence as possession of a gun, with the same minimum jail term of five years. The Knives Destroy Lives campaign also wants adults caught with a blade shorter than 3in jailed for six months, and a three-month term for juveniles. David Blunkett, the home secretary, is meeting police chiefs tomorrow to agree measures to tackle knife crime, including raising the minimum age for buying a knife from 16 to 18. But a mandatory minimum prison sentence for possession is not under active consideration. A Home Office spokesman said that, under current legislation, people could be jailed for up to four years for having knives and blades categorised as offensive weapons in public, while having other knives in a public place without good reason carried a maximum two-year penalty. "However, it is important to recognise possession of a knife may be for a legitimate reason, such as use at work," said the spokesman. "Any consideration of a mandatory minimum sentence would need to be workable, taking into account the risk of criminalising law-abiding citizens." John Denham, the home affairs select committee chairman, called for higher maximum jail terms but cautioned against mandatory minimum sentences, saying that the courts needed to have some discretion. But Ms Walmsley, whose son was stabbed by another pupil at Birbeck secondary school in North Somercotes, Lincolnshire, in November last year, broke down in tears at a press conference in central London yesterday as she condemned the lack of government action. "If it was one of their children had been murdered, measures would have been brought in within a year - but, of course, we are Joe Public," she said. Nasim Akhtar, whose 25-year-old son, Nafees Chowdhury, was stabbed to death as he sat in a car in Beckton, east London, in September 2003, said raising the age limit for buying knives was "too little, too late". She added: "The man who killed my son is serving 14 years in prison. It will never be long enough for what he did to my family. I would rather a life sentence meant life. But I am lucky as others have been given a lower sentence or not been caught. "It's as quick and easy to kill with a knife as a gun. My son died with one stab wound to the chest. Knife crime should be treated the same as gun crime and the government should be doing a lot more."Michael Heggerty's brother, Bernard, an architect, was stabbed to death while out shopping for a carpet for his new flat in his lunch break in Bethnal Green, east London, in August. "Total devastation wouldn't even come close to it," Mr Heggerty said. "We're going through it every day and every night. It's the first thing you think about when you wake up, the last thing you think about before you go to bed. How many more families are going to go through it before there's a change in the law?" Norman Brennan, the Victims of Crime director and a serving police officer with 26 years' experience, narrowly escaped death when he was stabbed trying to arrest a burglar in 1985. He claimed knife crime was growing out of control, with derisory penalties having a detrimental effect on public confidence. He cited the recent murders of financier John Monckton and teacher Robert Symons in their respective homes in Chelsea and Chiswick, west London, saying: "Knife crime affects all communities. It's no longer just about attacks outside pubs in the evenings. "The number of people who have lost their lives after being burgled is now a real public concern." Mr Brennan said if the government did not take decisive action before February 20, he would organise a nationwide petition.