A lack of resources is putting the public at risk of attack by paedophiles and violent offenders living anonymously in the community, Britain's leading police spokesman on public protection has admitted.There are more than 30,000 registered sex offenders in Britain who have been released from prison. Of these, at least 1,300 are classified as the 'critical few' who present a severe risk to the public. In some areas of the country, this is defined as meaning they could re-offend within four weeks.'When it comes to dealing with sex offenders it would be true to say resources don't match demand,' said Chief Constable Terry Grange, the Association of Chief Police Officers' lead spokesman on violent crime. 'We manage as best we can, but that obviously involves making decisions about who poses the greatest risk.'Grange's admission comes as an Observer investigation today reveals the tensions at the heart of Britain's public protection system. The investigation found police and probation officers fighting an increasingly difficult battle to prevent some of the most dangerous offenders in the community from committing further crimes.An Observer journalist was granted unprecedented access to the heart of the multi-agency public protection (Mappa) arrangements, under which panels of experts decide how the most violent and dangerous offenders in their community should be supervised.For two weeks, the Observer attended panel meetings that usually take place in secret and observed a system stretched to its limits. 'Managing these [offenders] is not as straightforward as the public likes to think,' said John Godley, co-ordinator of Mappa for the Humberside area. 'When a criminal reoffends, the public cry out that those charged with managing them should have anticipated it and stopped it before it happened.'But the public assume there are a small number of violent and sex offenders in any community, and a large number of agencies able to supervise their behaviour. In reality, it is absolutely the other way round.' According to the probation officers union Napo, there are some 400 extremely dangerous offenders across the country whom experts believe will strike again. Home Office statistics show there is a 91 per cent chance the most dangerous sex offenders will reoffend within 15 years. The figure falls to 11 per cent for those in the lowest category of risk.But Grange said it was important for society to acknowledge there would always be risks to the public. 'The media, and sometimes politicians, create impossible expectations which we can't live up to,' Grange said. 'We can mitigate risk pretty well but there has to be an understanding that a risk-free society is not possible.'Grange admits that while many public protection agencies would benefit from increased funding, he is so concerned by the flaws in the system for protecting the public from the most dangerous offenders in their community, that he would support a national roll-out of community-based paedophile support groups.He said circles of support groups, which have proved successful in countries like Canada, could play a vital role in reducing the risks paedophiles pose.