The hype is building for the broadcast sensation of this Easter. ITV's documentary on the Army major who cheated his way to the jackpot in Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? is expected to attract at least 10 million viewers. In comparison, the European Cup game between Manchester United and Real Madrid got nine million.From the final episode of Cold Feet (eight million) to the Blair and Bush launch of Towards Freedom, the Pentagon's 'interesting and entertaining package' for Iraq (ratings unknown), few television events are as magnetic as the story of Major Charles Ingram.The programme, to be shown on Easter Monday, relates the downfall of Major Ingram, his wife, Diana, and their friend, Tecwen Whittock. Last week, all three received substantial fines and suspended jail sentences for attempting to defraud the quiz show out of its £1 million top prize. Mr Whittock, a business studies lecturer, had guided the major to the right answers by a series of coughs. Immediately after the show was recorded, Celador, the production company, realised that Mr Whittock was not as consumptive as he seemed, nor the major as smart. The scam, an executive said, was 'ludicrously obvious'. Not so the media reaction. In the view of some pundits, the major is a martyr. Why, they wonder, was the trial brought? Was the offence more repugnant than the behaviour of Celador, which makes a fortune charging would-be contestants 60p a minute for their phone applications? The major, who was only after a bloodless cash grab, finds himself instead at the nucleus of a parable on the nature of greed and crime. Take avarice first. How unsurprising, Ingrams' apologists suggest, that military men with officer lifestyles to maintain on less than £50,000 a year should fall prey to the something-for-nothing culture corroding public life. But if the average citizen's greed impulse was half as potent as it is made out to be, then the National Lottery would not be struggling, and viewing figures for Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? would not have slumped from 19 million to seven million over the past four years. Celador may lack ethical kudos, but it produces nothing dangerous unless you believe, as I do not, that popular culture corrupts society at large. Those alleging corporate rapaciousness are really mourning the passing of the Reithian dream, under which Call my Bluff contestants could debate whether a xeme was a fork-tailed gull or an Andean nose flute, without any bronchial manoeuvres from the back row, or thought of personal gain. The Daily Mail 's Stephen Glover argues that the major and his accomplices were law-abiding citizens who had never committed a crime until they were tempted by cash-packed Celador, 'with its alluring offer of easy riches'. Presumably, impoverished shoppers of previous good character might feel similarly tempted, on reading of soaring profits at Tesco, to help themselves from the store's displays of children's clothes. Were they to do so, their story might diverge considerably from that of the Ingrams. Delivering sentence, Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC told the couple 'to thank their lucky stars' that they were escaping prison. Although their offence demanded a custodial term, he was anxious that their three young daughters, two of whom have learning difficulties, should not see their parents jailed. Had Mrs Ingrams and her husband been benefit claimants plotting to steal from Tesco, clemency would have been less likely. Of the record 4,477 women now in jail, all but 15% committed non-violent crimes, such as shoplifting. Forty per cent of those convicted for theft and fraud go to prison, compared with 19% a decade ago. Of those women, 66% are mothers. As the Prison Reform Trust points out, all but 5% of them go to jail, knowing that their children will be farmed out to relatives or put in care. Such social wreckage need not bother the better-off. In the age of Enron and WorldCom, the privileged criminal remains a protected species. Although white-collar crime involving financial fraud remains the middle classes' peccadillo of choice, wider-ranging miscreants also benefit. From Robert Maxwell to Jeffrey Archer, posh crooks have mystique. That is why Donald Rumsfeld quotes Al Capone's dictum that you'll get more with a kind word and a gun than with a kind word alone. It is why Harold Shipman got away with murder for so long and why Lord Grabiner's report on the black economy was sanguine about serious tax evasion and draconian about school dinner ladies with a cash-in-hand cleaning job on the side. It is why Dick Turpin is known as an English folk-hero rather than a prototype Kray brother who murdered, tortured and scorched the victims he set out to rob. Three centuries on, successful raiders, though less in-your-face than Turpin, are increasingly effective. Of the £35 billion annual cost of crime in the UK, embezzlement accounts for 40 per cent. Despite a beefed-up Serious Fraud Office, a recent analysis says white-collar crime increased by 500% in 2002. By contrast, the British Crime Survey, the most accurate barometer, suggests a 7% drop in offences such as burglary and robbery, making the chance of being a victim the lowest in 20 years. Unfounded fear has created a mythology of crime that turns reality on its head.The laissez-faire approach to the real crime explosion is bolstered by charges that bringing cases like the major's is an outrageous waste of public money. Not half as wasteful as, for example, the Damilola Taylor murder trial, in which the prosecution failed to get a case together. But trials involving low-life defendants run to different rules. Long after the French philosopher Michel Foucault pointed out how the powerful pin crime on the lower orders, the untruth persists that the rich are intrinsically more honest than the poor. The wealthy are often just better at avoiding court and, when they do end up there, affluence counts. Current research suggests that judges are more inclined to be lenient towards middle-class crooks, on the grounds that those with jobs and reputations have more to lose than miscreants with nothing. Social background has wired-in mitigation. And so the justice gap grows. Lord Carlile's report for Nacro, published last week, shows that the number of under-15s locked up has increased eightfold in a decade during which youth offending fell. A very recent hint that the rush to jail young people is slowing may be a matter of pragmatism as well as policy. Community punishment schemes rolled out by the Home Office bear ever tougher names. First 'intensive supervision and surveillance'; now 'intensive control and change'. Expect 'intensive shock and awe' next, for those who cannot be crammed into overflowing prisons. Obviously, Ingrams and his wife should not be in jail. But nor should many others whose crimes are more minor and children more vulnerable. Save the pity for them. The prison population stands at 73,015, a new pinnacle, and conditions are often hellish. As the judge suggested, the cheating major can truly thank his lucky stars. Or, non-astrologers might think, his upper-crust credentials.