A judge and the parents of a murdered teenager appealed for her killer to reveal where he had hidden her body after he was sentenced to life in prison yesterday.Nicholas Rose, 23, a scaffolder from Ilfracombe, Devon, was found guilty of murdering 16-year-old Charlotte Pinkney after an all-night party in February last year. The teenager's body has never been found, despite more than 50 police searches. Charlotte's mother, Sara McKee, and father, Robert Pinkney, said they hoped her killer would not be freed "at least until our precious girl's remains have been returned to us". Police said they would interview Rose in prison to try to discover where he had hidden the body. In a statement, her parents said they had waited "11 tortuous months" and endured a process that "has attempted to strip Charlotte of her dignity". Exeter crown court heard how Ms Pinkney, who had been unemployed since leaving school, enjoyed partying and hung out with friends her father described as "scumbags". When she vanished a week before her 17th birthday, Mr Pinkney tracked down and confronted Rose, moments before detectives arrived on his doorstep. Rose, who was known to local bar staff and police who described him as a "romancer, an exaggerator of facts", picked up Ms Pinkney when she went out on the night of February 27 after arguing with her boyfriend. "Vulnerable" and "sensitive", according to her aunt, Ms Pinkney was also considered "quite a wild child" by her friends, who took drugs together in Ilfracombe. When she left a house party at 4.30am the next morning in a borrowed Vauxhall Cavalier driven by Rose and Dean Copp, a fisherman, she was said by a fellow partygoer to be "completely wasted". The three called at another house in the town and, when Mr Copp got out to knock on the door, he turned to see Ms Pinkney on Rose's lap in the driving seat, apparently kissing him. It was the last time she was seen alive. Rose then drove off, leaving Mr Copp on the doorstep. The jury heard that Ms Pinkney probably died during an argument about sex with Rose, who was banned from driving and had convictions for violence and possession of cannabis. He claimed to have returned her to the party they had left together, but friends noticed his face was scratched on the morning after Ms Pinkney disappeared. Paul Dunkels QC, for the prosecution, said they were "typical of injuries a girl might inflict trying to protect herself". There had "plainly been a struggle in the car, and she had scratched and gripped him as she tried to protect herself". Rose was seen with the Cavalier in a tunnel near two local reservoirs, where Ms Pinkney's bag was found. He claimed he had driven there because he was banned from driving and thought he was being chased by police. He blamed his scratches on bushes he had brushed against when he ran from the car. But Mr Dunkels said Rose "took her somewhere to see if he could have sex, there must have been an argument, there was a struggle, and he ended up killing her and hiding the body". The court heard that Ms Pinkney's blood was found on the Cavalier's roof lining, the boot carpet and on items in the boot. Her blood was also on the tongue of one of Rose's training shoes, and a button of the type on her trousers was found in the vacuum cleaner Rose used in the car . Judge Graham Cottle told Rose he should serve a life sentence of at least 20 years. "Charlotte was a popular girl. She was attractive and outgoing, with her whole life in front of her. You decided you wanted sex with her and you drove her away from a party. It is clear there was a violent sexual assault, although the precise extent cannot be known. "At some point, you killed Charlotte. That killing was completely unprovoked and there was a clear link between the killing and the sexual assault. "You continue to harbour that dreadful secret as to where you took her and, in so doing, you deprive her parents of the opportunity of a proper burial for their child. "I consider this the most serious aggravating feature in this case because her parents can never rest until they know what happened to their child."