The home secretary, Jack Straw, today unveiled a package of supervised rehabilitation schemes designed to break the cycle of repeat offending as part of the government's new crime reduction strategy.Prisoners will be offered better drug treatment, education and skills training, and help with jobs and housing on release. But Mr Straw said those who continue to offend would face harsher penalties with judges being able to take greater account of previous convictions when passing sentences. A third of the £700m programme will be spent on rehabilitation, which will also create 2,500 more prison places.Mr Straw told the Commons that rules on allowing juries to see evidence were outdated and should be reformed. He said: "We need to make sure that law enforcement agencies have the right tools, that prosecutors and courts are operating with fair and simple rules of evidence and that prisons and probation deliver punishment that works to protect the public and prevent reoffending."The 10-year crime reduction plan, Criminal Justice: The Way Ahead, states: "One option for simplification would be to allow evidence of previous convictions where relevant."Ministers believe that 100,000 offenders are responsible for half the country's crime. Around 90,000 people are released from British jails each year, of whom 46,000 have served sentences of less than 12 months. About 60% of those who serve shorter sentences are re-convicted within two years.Mr Straw told MPs that he wanted to stop re-offending by introducing "rigorous" supervision for those released after short jail sentences.Under the proposed custody-plus system, criminals would be called back before courts to assess how well they were progressing, for example to check whether they were staying off drugs.The Conservatives have argued that would mean more criminals released early in their sentence. However, Mr Straw said it could mean those who would have escaped with a community sentence spending a short spell in jail followed by supervision. Anyone released on licence following a longer sentence would also automatically be back behind bars if they breach their conditions of release.In a speech at the Peel Community Centre in London's King's Cross earlier today the prime minister, Tony Blair, said the strategy offered prisoners a "new deal" to escape a life of crime. Mr Blair, the first serving prime minister to visit a jail, said they must seize the opportunity or face the harsh consequences. "Every prisoner leaving custody who needs follow up support or supervision should get it - whatever the length of their sentence," said Mr Blair. "For those who reject this helping hand the message will be equally clear. "Rigorously enforced punishments which get progressively tougher the more times an offender returns to court. With prison as an option for those who breach community sentences or offend on bail." The home office minister, Paul Boateng, said: "The evidence shows prisoners are less likely to reoffend if you do make sure that they are supervised when they leave prison. All prison sentences ought to carry with them an element of supervision and control when they come to an end." However, the shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, claimed that custody plus would lead to a further 32,000 prisoners being released early each year. Home Office figures showed 11,500 criminals were given sentences of between six and 12 months each year, making them eligible for early release under "custody-plus", if it were introduced, she said. This would add to the 15,000 released early each year under the home curfew scheme and the 5,400 whom Home Office minister Charles Clarke has estimated will receive shorter sentences because of planned restrictions on jury trial, Miss Widdecombe added. Opposition leader William Hague said the government's plans were just another "eye-catching initiative", which would have little impact on crime. "Last year 'TB' owned up to being 'perceived as soft' on crime and asked that he be 'personally associated' with 'eye-catching initiatives'," said Mr Hague. "Only yesterday, Jack Straw's special adviser said that their new crime plan 'doesn't look very impressive'. So when Tony Blair and Jack Straw offer their 10-year strategy for crime today, they hope the public will fail to take their previous record into account."Other initiatives in the new crime strategy include a "superbobby" bonus for senior police who chose to stay on the beat rather than be promoted to desk jobs. But Mr Straw was unable to set out his final plans to shake up the court system because Lord Justice Auld, who began a review two years ago, still has not published his report. Latest Home Office figures show overall crime dropped by a negligible 0.2% in the 12 months to September 2000, but headline-grabbing violent crime rose by 8%.