Women who lived near the murdered television presenter Jill Dando told an Old Bailey jury yesterday how they had been approached by a strange man who behaved in a threatening way.The prosecution alleges that Barry George, 48, who lived near Dando in Fulham, west London, made a habit of stalking women and compiling details of where they lived. George, who was not in court because he was unwell, was said to have made unwelcome approaches to a number of women. George, who denies murdering Dando, was first tried in 2001.Claudia Casey wept as she told the jury of eight women and four men of what had happened to her a few years before the BBC Crimewatch presenter was shot dead on her doorstep in Gowan Avenue, Fulham, in April 1999. Casey said that she had been returning home to nearby Lambrook Terrace, in Fulham, in the winter of 1994/95 when she realised she was being followed by a man. "As I turned the corner," she said, "I felt there was someone following right behind me. He caught up with me and started talking. I just ignored him. He kept saying 'I would like to talk to you'. He grabbed my left arm after he had been talking to me for quite a while, walking beside me."She said that she had ignored the man at first because "alarm bells were ringing". She added: "When I started walking faster and he kept up with my pace, I told him to piss off ... he handed me a business card and it said Freddie Bulsara on it and I knew it was Freddie Mercury's real name [the lead singer of Queen]." The court has heard that George claimed to be Mercury's cousin. Casey said that she realised that there was "something very strange" about the man. "This is when I knew I had to get away from him," she said. "I was walking very, very fast and I started to run and that is when he grabbed my arm." She tried to push him away and shake him off. "He kept saying 'I only want to talk to you'," she said. "He kept holding on to me as I was running." She stopped a passing car and jumped into the passenger seat to escape him. She described the man as having short, dark hair and possibly a moustache. "He looked very neat, quite military." Casey failed to identify George after his arrest. By that time, the prosecution says, he had grown a goatee beard. Angela Gordon described returning to her home in Fulham late at night in 1985. "Suddenly, I noticed a presence on my right. There was a man standing there. I jumped, obviously. He asked me if I lived there." She told him that she did but she pointed to a different flat from the one in which she really lived."He told me he had been in the SAS and asked if he could kiss me," she said. She managed to get the key into her door and after arriving in her flat called a neighbour. "I was a bit shaken." She identified a photograph of her car that George had allegedly taken and kept in his flat.Margaret Milortholland said a man she later identified as George had followed her from an underground train and turned up at her flat in Fulham. He told her: "Now I know where you live." He later asked her out to dinner. "My heart was pounding, I was petrified." The case continues.