One Sunday 20 years ago, loyalist gunslingers, stewarded by the British security services, burst into the home of one of Northern Ireland's most audacious lawyers. A hail of bullets hit the body of Pat Finucane and wounded his wife, Geraldine, in front of their three children eating Sunday dinner. Without the stewardship of the security services, the loyalist gunmen couldn't have found their way to his house. But with it, they had access to everything they needed to know.It was a consummate moment – when collusion between the British security state and its loyalist auxiliaries reached an apex of confidence – and vulnerability. Because when a state enlists proxies to kill citizens it loses control of the state's secrets.We know that, in February 1989, the British state conspired to kill this lawyer because that year the conspirators coughed: so assured were they of their symbiosis with the security services that they were proud to announce it.Twenty years later Downing Street, after three police inquiries and an independent review by a judge – which found prima facie evidence of collusion – Britain is still dissembling. The Northern Ireland Office claimed on 10 February that ministers might decide "whether it remains in the public interest to proceed with an inquiry". What is this public interest? And why wouldn't we be interested in our state killing lawyers?His family is "the public". His wife, Geraldine, has become an eloquent, even presidential, campaigner for the truth. She has acquired friends in high places – from Washington to Geneva to Dublin, among politicians, human rights alliances and journalists, who have exposed the security services' sponsorship of death squads. His children have spent all their adult lives seeking the truth and a public acknowledgement of Britain's policy of traducing defenders of the law as enemies of the state. Why should the Finucane family have to live like this? In 2001 Tony Blair reluctantly recognised at the Weston Park talks that he had to do something. He conceded a review by a judge of international standing and agreed to abide by his recommendations. No one knew what to expect. But the retired Canadian supreme court judge Peter Cory was quietly forensic. He went where no one had gone before: he scoured the secret files, saw for himself evidence of the conspiracy and recommended a public inquiry into collusion. Blair reneged, he didn't honour his pledge to publish and implement Cory's recommendations until forced to by international pressure. Then Britain changed the law to stiffen its control of public inquiries.The Finucanes refuse to co-operate with such a compromised process. They won't give up. Quite right, agreed Cory. Why does this matter? Pat Finuncane's people only want truth and justice. It matters to the story Britain tells itself about Northern Ireland: his death signals Britain's promotion of sectarian death squads while it promoted itself as peacemaker. Finally, it matters because Britain is mired in proliferating counter-insurgencies across our planet, and we need to save it from repeating its horrible history across the Irish sea.