Labour's 10-year strategy for tackling youth crime has failed, according to a damning internal government report. The briefing document says that around 25 per cent of under-18s have committed an offence, while reoffending rates are 'very high and have not significantly changed' since 1997. The embarrassing disclosures come despite a massive increase in the budget for tackling youth crime and counter Labour claims that the government has had significant success in reducing rates of offending among the young.The briefing, drawn up by the Ministry of Justice and the Department for Children, Schools and Families (DCSF), and seen by The Observer, comes ahead of Labour's Youth Crime Action Plan, a major new initiative which will be unveiled in the summer. The plan is expected to trigger a sea change in the approach to youth crime, with the DCSF arguing for a more welfare-based approach, something that would be welcomed by penal reform groups.One controversial suggestion to be presented to ministers is for the supervision of young offender institutions to be transferred out of the Prison Service. But the proposal has alarmed some senior cabinet figures who believe anything that could be interpreted as a move to a more 'liberal' criminal justice system will be seen as soft on crime and play badly with the public at a time when concerns about juvenile violence are on the rise.Justice Secretary Jack Straw and Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary, disagree over the future direction of the youth justice system, although Balls is believed to be winning the argument.The briefing states that there is a need to 'address the underlying needs of young offenders to improve their outcomes' and 'produce an ongoing package of care that will provide support after their supervision period ends'. But the Conservatives denounced the move as too little, too late. 'After 10 years there has been no improvement,' said David Burrowes, the shadow justice minister. 'Cutting youth crime was one of New Labour's first big projects, and it's gone off the rails completely.'The briefing notes that '5 to 6 per cent' of young offenders commit between 50 and 60 per cent of all juvenile crime, with an average of 30 to 40 offences a year. The worst offenders have a 96 per cent reoffending rate, with each costing taxpayers £80,000 a year.Despite the courts handing down some 34,000 community and 7,000 custodial sentences a year, reoffending rates in Britain remain some of the highest in the world. The document reveals that 70 per cent of male offenders under the age of 18 who receive a community sentence commit further crimes, compared with 76 per cent of those who are given a custodial sentence.The briefing suggests that the youth justice system raises 'barriers to effective resettlement' after young offenders have finished their sentences and that by setting strict supervision conditions it leads to an increasing number of children breaching their orders, which in turn triggers more custodial sentences.'Labour policies on youth justice over the past decade have resulted in a huge rise in children jailed,' said Harry Fletcher, of the probation union Napo. 'It's to be welcomed that this policy is being revisited so that more emphasis can be put on support and education of the poorest children.'Last month the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies conducted an independent audit of Labour's youth justice reforms. It found that, since the start of the millennium, spending on youth justice has increased in real terms by 45 per cent but has had no discernible effect on cutting offending rates.'Youth justice in the past 10 years is a tale of the ineffectiveness of custodial crackdowns that ignore the broader welfare context which is absolutely necessary to tackle reoffending,' said Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform. A Ministry of Justice spokeswoman said the government had been successful in tackling some aspects of youth crime. Reoffending among under-16s had fallen by more than 17 per cent between 2000 and 2005 and overall youth offending remains stable.She added: 'We continue to recognise the need to take a rounded approach to crime prevention, looking at parental intervention, social exclusion, illiteracy and unemployment, drugs and alcohol misuse. But at the same time we will not hesitate in bringing persistent and serious young offenders before the courts and, where necessary, into custody.'