Maxine Carr sobbed as she told the Old Bailey yesterday that fellow prisoners had branded her "Myra Hindley mark two".Ms Carr, 26, denies giving her former fiance Ian Huntley a false alibi knowing that he had murdered Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman at their home in Soham, Cambridgeshire. "It took me about four days after I got to Holloway until I realised that the person they were shouting at was me," Ms Carr told the court, adding that she had been put into a segregation unit for her own protection. "All the women were shouting at the windows. I had never heard the word 'nonce' before in my life... I was being branded Myra Hindley mark two."Michael Hubbard QC, for Ms Carr, told the jury that she had not been in Soham when the girls died on August 4 last year, and had no control over what had happened. Mr Huntley, 29, denies the murder of the 10-year-olds but has admitted conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender. Mr Hubbard asked her what she would have done if she had an inkling that her partner was responsible for the girls' disappearance. "I would have been out of that house like a shot straight to the police, or straight to the nearest person I could talk to, to tell them," she replied. Ms Carr said she had not heard Mr Huntley's claim that the two girls died in an accident at their home until the trial began. The girls' families watched as Ms Carr, a classroom assistant at the girls' school, said Holly was "the kind of daughter I would want to have". She admitted lying persistently, but said she had believed she was "doing the right thing at the time, for that person" because Mr Huntley had been accused of rape in the past and feared he would be "fitted up". Mr Hubbard asked his client if she had loved her fiance. "Very, very much, yes," she said. "Did he appear to love you?" asked her counsel. "I thought so," Ms Carr replied. But late last year she had cut off all contact with Mr Huntley. "I just didn't want anything to do with him any more," she said. The case continues.