Who are these tables for? Not the Home Office, for sure. They have always known which were the worst nicks.For the record, Kirklevington now tops the tables and, surprise, surprise, Brixton is at the bottom - by quite a distance: it is the only prison out of 137 on level one, the lowest of the four categories.What makes a bad nick? Usually bad screws. In the seventies, Wandsworth, Strangeways and Dartmoor tended to share the top (ie worst) slot. All of them were Prison Officers Association strongholds, and all were run by the screws. "This is our nick," they would tell you in reception, just in case you hadn't guessed it by then. "We run it, not the governor." Brixton sunk to the bottom six in the late eighties, when there was a strong POA presence: racist attitudes, big boots and slashed peaks on caps. I know because in 1990 I spent three months with them before getting bail. We went to war from day one and I probably scraped a draw. Goals scored by them: a couple of spells down the segregation unit plus one good hiding. Goal scored by me: getting rid of a chairman of the board of visitors when I pointed out that he had been in the job 18 months longer than the rules allowed. Clearly little has changed since my time. Kirklevington in Cleveland is a resettlement nick, which actively encourages its inmates to adjust to outside life, usually after a long spell in a closed prison. It is everything that Brixton isn't. The staff treat prisoners with respect and give them significant responsibility over their own lives. Not surprisingly, most men respond well. To get to Kirklevington or any other resettlement prison, an inmate has to show evidence of a desire to change, and show that he needs a resettlement regime. (Don't all prisoners?) They also have to show that they are a "manageable risk when granted temporary release". There are 74,000 people in jail, and all but a handful of them will be released one day. They will all need resettling -but there are only a handful of resettlement prisons in the country. In December 2000, I left a resettlement nick at Sudbury in Staffordshire and felt like a human being, bearing the system little ill will. But when I left Brixton in 1991, I was full of hatred and rage towards the place. I still am. · Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent. He served a total of 15 years in prison between 1965 and 2000