If the principles of Rational Choice Theory hold good, when choosing to get involved in gang activities, the typical teenager (let's assume he's a he for now) is conducting his own cost-benefit analysis.On the one hand he stands to gain money - weekly earnings of say £100 might be a slavery wage to a responsible adult, but it is Croesan wealth to an inner city 14-year-old. He may see gang membership as a route to respect; status among his peers and security - particularly if he is already involved in any kind of criminal activity. (If you are a teenage drug dealer, the biggest risk is not being arrested, but being robbed of money or merchandise. Gang membership is an effective shield against that.)On the other side of the scales, the potential costs are broadly perceived as the risk of being arrested and imprisoned, getting shot, stabbed or beaten; and (comfortably at the bottom of the list for most gang members) the long-term damage to education and/or career prospects.If it is our aim to tip the scales of the analysis away from joining a gang, the traditional answer from advocates of RCT is to change the costs in the equation by increasing policing levels and performance, thereby increasing the probability that our gang member will be caught in his crimes; and making punishments more severe - both in length of sentencing and brutality of prison conditions.There is a problem with this however. Since the days of Willie Whitelaw's Short, Sharp, Shock, British politicians have been attempting to deal with each generation of troublesome hooligans by precisely this method, and it has shown no sign of actually working. A long succession of home secretaries, each talking tougher than the last, has overseen a constant expansion in serious youth crime, while simultaneously locking up more young people for longer periods. According to figures from Nacro, since 1991 the number of custodial sentences issued annually by youth courts has risen from around 1,500, peaking at 7,500 between 1998 and 2002, and has now levelled off at about 6,500. The average length of those sentences doubled between 1994 and 2006. Young gang members I have talked to simply laugh off the horrors of prison, either showing blank denial of the risks or - more commonly - nihilistic indifference to their own fate.One reason the approach seems ineffective may be that the status and prestige gained from youth crime is deeply bound up with the inherent risks of the behaviour. Committing a risky crime, with a high probability of getting arrested and a heavy punishment attached - is a more "sick" activity than shoplifting some sweets. Shoot at someone, even kill someone, and your status will go through the roof. We could reintroduce hanging (and throw in drawing and quartering), and the status attached to committing a murder would rise proportionately. While we might have more young thugs locked up and out of the way, we are encouraging more to take their place.The other favoured solution of politicians and pundits is to condemn family breakdown, absentee fathers and irresponsible parenting. There can be little doubt that many persistent young criminals have distorted values and a deeply discordant emotional landscape. They lack empathy and have a comprehension of right and wrong that is far removed from civilised social norms, and this originates in the home. However, it is impossible to envisage any realistic social policy that will have a significant impact on the number of families that happily stay together to provide a stable, secure upbringing for their children. We cannot legislate for people to be nicer to their relatives. Nor will cutting (or abolishing) benefits result in a drop in birth rate or a race to self-improvement among the unworking class. Both our own history and the developing world provide innumerable examples of societies without welfare benefits. None is notable for the low birthrate and rapid social mobility of its poorest citizens - quite the opposite. So, while acknowledging these factors as part of the problem, we should be realistic - they will not be part of the solution.If we can't change the rational choice equation by use of parenting orders, cops or courts, is there any hope at all? Perhaps, although the solutions might not be painless, and may not fit the economic and political certainties of the day.First, we have control over the earnings of our young gang member. Where is that £100 a week coming from? In most cases, it is largely coming from selling marijuana. Take the weed out of the hands of criminal networks, make it legally available to adults (whether from coffee shops or chemists) and the prime motivation for gang membership has just vanished. You may also get fewer teenagers stoning their way through their GCSEs.Secondly, look at the opportunities lost to gang members. Young working-class boys grow up perceiving a future either on the dole or on minimum wage in a call centre or stocking shelves at Tesco. Tell these lads that alternatives are available, and you will be laughed at. The much-trumpeted New Labour plan to get working class kids to higher education has failed dismally. Not only do inner-city schools still need to improve, there needs to be effective corrective action to give working class children a chance to go further. Beyond education, our inner cities need jobs that people actually want to do. Apprenticeships are a start, but increasing the minimum wage would do more than anything else to remove incentives to crime, not to mention freeing up hard-working, low-paid parents to spend more time with their children. Young offenders tell me that anyone who gets a job at 16 or 18 is a "Muppet". We need to make Muppetry far more appealing than it is today.Finally, we need to change how we value and provide for young people as a generation. When we routinely consider our youth to be antisocial, feral criminals until proven otherwise, there is little for a young person to gain in the way of respect or status for keeping out of trouble. Not every teenager can be an Olympic athlete or an X-factor winner, but all can fulfil themselves and entertain themselves given the right opportunities. Genuinely attractive diversionary activities help to keep young people off the streets and out of trouble, but their importance is deeper than that. They give young people the one thing they lack most of all: something to lose.And that perhaps, is the key. When a young person has something to look forward to, something to aspire to, something he really wants to hold on to, then keeping within the law and avoiding the gangs might just become the rational choice.