The prime minister's recent risible suggestion that police officers accompany "louts" to their cashpoints to relieve them of £100 tells us that although he has made hardline law and order the New Labour thing, he just makes it up as he goes along.His home secretary also exposed himself last week when he complained that his community safety orders could have constrained the Euro 2000 "yobs" who had been giving England a bad name in Europe. The violence of the well-heeled rioters, men with mobiles and more money than sense, was part of a "wider English malaise in English society", he cautioned.Nothing to do with football or with men, you understand, but bad behaviour bred by bad morals and booze. Straw moaned that a mere 80 Anti-Social Behaviour Orders (ASBOs) have been so far issued by the courts. In fact, ASBOs were irrelevant to the malign manifestations of macho patriotism in Belgium. Once again Straw was mobilising morality to obscure the obvious: that there's something about men and football that harvests misogyny. Men fork out four-figures sums for season tickets in exclusive enclosures in British stadiums that endorse the routine racism and appallingly specific sexism that assail players such as Cantona and Beckham. That ugly culture is not confined to working-class laagers populated by Andy Capp and Sid the Sexist. ASBOs and the other community safety orders introduced by Straw were never aimed at such people, nor at the corporate men who, al though they own and control football, are unable or unwilling to reform its culture. Instead, the orders were targeted at people deemed to be low-life and their low-level tyrannies against the rest of the community who have the misfortune to share the same streets. In practice these orders so loved by Straw affect women and children. Or to be more precise mothers and sons. Straw's Euro 2000 comments included an injunction to social services that they "should be asking why young children are running riot at night". Also irrelevant. Although Straw may see feral children as the spectre haunting the country, the newly-empowered youth offending teams, set up to do joined-up law and order, don't think riotous tiny tots are the problem. No local child curfews have been is sued, according to the Home Office. Child safety orders, targeting prolific offenders under 10, have been used controversially to control a few infant offenders: boys. This is not surprising, because around 90% of young offenders are boys.  But it is mothers, not men, who are being targeted for parenting orders. "It was never intended that these orders should be used just on women," comments the manager of the youth offending team in one of the pilot areas for the community safety orders. But Straw's statute makes it "quite difficult to get at the men". Working with mothers has nevertheless revealed to youth offending teams in hard-pressed communities that what they need to do is not scold the mothers, but empower them. Something about which both Blair and Straw have been silent. In one area, all of the mothers under parenting orders were the victims of domestic violence and most had endured abuse in their own childhoods. Many mothers ultimately appreciate the parenting programme. After all, at last they are getting help. But some of the women dread the challenge to their relationships with men for whom no one but these women take responsibility. "These boys have watched their mothers being beaten to hell by their fathers," says one YOT manager. "They're all misogynists. We try to deal with these gender issues in an ongoing way but you can't undo the effect of 16 years of doctrine in a child's life very easily." Sometimes the objects of ASBOs are unfortunate souls whose mental health problems make them irritating or even menacing, but not necessarily criminal. Everyone expects them to breach their ASBO (a civil order), and thus face criminal sanctions. They can't be locked up for their habits, but they will be locked up for breaching their ASBOs. The home secretary invokes the "broken windows" theory imported from America, which proposes that if you prevent incivility you pre-empt serious crime. That's why he promotes ASBOs. Amazingly, despite the high profile of Straw's community safety orders, the Home Office can't tell us what kind of people - age, sex and race - are the subject of 80 or so ASBOs already issued, or the other orders introduced in pilot schemes. Former sports minister Tony Banks spotted the usual suspects in his comments on the football riots. Their only distinguishing features were that they were young, white and male - as if that explained the government's paralysis. But at least Banks was in the ballpark if not on the ball. It is snobbery as well as sexism that blind both Blair and Straw to the alchemy of mastery and masculinity - not morals or mothers - which creates football rioters and anti-social criminals and, lest we forget, New Labour lads. comment@theguardian.com