Postmortem tests on the body of a Georgian multimillionaire who collapsed at his mansion in Surrey have found that he probably died of natural causes.Police had sealed off the area around the home of Badri Patarkatsishvili, 52, and brought in a large team of detectives, because he had previously claimed that he was the target of an assassination plot.However, Surrey police said yesterday that interim results of the examination suggested he had not been murdered. "Following initial inquiries and the postmortem carried out last night Surrey police can confirm that at this stage there is no indication that the sudden death of Badri Patarkatsishvili was from anything other than natural causes," a spokeswoman said. She added: "Extensive toxicology testing is yet to be carried out. This will take a number of weeks."Police concerns were heightened not only by the alleged assassination threat but by the death of Alexander Litvinenko, the Russian former intelligence officer who was poisoned with polonium-210 during a meeting at a London hotel. Scotland Yard has named Andrei Lugovoi, a former KGB bodyguard, as the prime suspect and intelligence sources say the use of polonium indicates the involvement of figures within the Russian state. Both Litvinenko and Patarkatsishvili were associates of Boris Berezovsky, the British-based Russian multimillionaire whom Moscow has repeatedly tried, and failed, to have extradited to face trial on a number of charges. He has always denied any wrongdoing. No signs of any radioactive substances were found within Patarkatsishvili's body or at the scene of his death. He is now thought to have died of a heart attack.Patarkatsishvili had been dividing his time between Britain and Israel since late last year, after he was accused of plotting a coup in Georgia. After making a fortune during the rush to privatise state assets in 1990s Russia he had returned to Georgia to avoid fraud charges in Moscow, taking control of a television station and football team in Tbilisi.After deciding to run for president last year he was secretly video-recorded during a meeting in which he appeared to offer an enormous bribe to a government official who was offering to orchestrate a coup. He subsequently claimed that he had evidence that government officials were attempting to hire Chechen gangsters to kill him in Britain.