Alan Travis reports that the cost of representing prisoners at parole hearings has increased tenfold in five years (Legal aid bill for parole board challenges tops £2m, May 20). The parole board has explained that this is because the number of parole hearings has increased massively over the same period: Britain imprisons more people than any other European state and has a larger number of people serving life sentences than the rest of Europe combined. However, Nick Clegg of the Liberal Democrats worries that "recent changes in the law should not be a gravy train for lawyers"; and David Davis for the Conservatives repeats the old mantra that the human rights laws are simply a waste of money - he finds it "appalling ... that so much taxpayers' money is being spent on allowing prisoners to be legally represented".Even the chief inspector of probation, Andrew Bridges, has taken a swipe: Travis reports that in a recent inquiry Bridges "complained that increasing use of barristers to represent prisoners at parole board oral hearings was allowing protection of the public to be undermined by rights considerations".As a lawyer who has worked in this field since oral parole hearings were first devised in 1992, I find it worrying that these misconceptions are being perpetuated. Oral hearings first came about many years before the Human Rights Act was conceived, in response to the arcane system which entrusted the secretary of state to decide how long those serving life sentences should spend in prison. Neither prisoners nor victims, let alone the general public, had any idea of how long life sentences actually were, or when and why release was authorised. In contrast, the system now allows both the home secretary and the prisoner to put forward evidence and legal argument at a hearing, and for an expert and independent tribunal to reach a decision. The victims of the crime are consulted at the outset and informed of the result, and the board's primary concern is the protection of the public.The increase in the legal aid budget for parole is directly attributable to political decisions taken over the past 10 years to massively increase the range of crimes for which life sentences have to be imposed. The financial consequences should not be treated as an unexpected afterthought. The spend on legal aid in this area remains small given the number of hearings, with lawyers' payment rates the lowest in the legal aid system.In January, in his introduction to my book, the chairman of the parole board welcomed the changes which had taken them from the "dark ages" to the current system. Nick Clegg suggested that "what we need are short, effective hearings which allow both sides to examine reasons for parole decisions", but seems unaware that this is precisely the system now in place. Attempts to undermine these procedures can only serve to diminish the rights of everyone involved with criminal justice, and will signal a return to the dark ages not just for prisoners, but for the victims of crime.· Simon Creighton is a specialist in prison law, and co-author of Parole Board Hearings: Law and Practice  s.creighton@bhattmurphy.co.uk· The Response column offers those who have been written about in the Guardian an opportunity to reply. If you wish to respond, at greater length than in a letter, to an article in which you have featured either directly or indirectly, please email response@theguardian.com or write to Response, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. We cannot guarantee to publish all responses, and we reserve the right to edit pieces for both length and content