The mother of Shannon Matthews today burst into tears within minutes of starting to give evidence at her trial.Karen Matthews began sobbing in the witness box as she was asked questions by her barrister, Frances Oldham QC, at Leeds crown court about whether she had anything to do with Shannon's disappearance.Matthews and Michael Donovan, 40, are accused of kidnap, false imprisonment and perverting the course of justice in connection with Shannon's disappearance in February. Both deny the charges.Matthews told the jury: "I'm just disgusted because I haven't had nothing to do with it."Matthews, 33, of Moorside Road, Dewsbury Moor, West Yorkshire, stood in the witness box wearing a stone-coloured jacket.The court has heard how Shannon, who was nine at the time, was found in Donovan's flat 24 days after she went missing from her home.The prosecution alleges that Donovan kept her drugged and imprisoned in his flat as part of a plan he and Matthews hatched to claim £50,000 in reward money.Oldham asked Matthews if she had planned the kidnap of her daughter."I did not," she told the jury.She also denied she threatened to have Donovan killed or have his car burnt out.During cross-examination, Alan Conrad QC, for Donovan, accused Matthews of "putting on a staged performance" for the jury. Matthews denied that she had practised her answers and her tears for the court. "You're putting on, for the jury today, a staged performance," Conrad said. "Just as it was a staged performance during the three and a half weeks your daughter was missing. "You can play for the cameras and play for the court, can't you?" Conrad continued: "If you're right, you've been the victim of a terrible injustice, haven't you? "You're just a loving mother who's done nothing wrong?" Matthews replied: "I love my children." Matthews repeatedly denied knowing where Shannon was while she was missing. She said: "I never, ever knew where my daughter was and I've said that all along because it's true. "I've always said that I didn't have nothing to do with it."