The idea that human sympathies and our instinctive solidarities are the products of warfare goes back at least as far as Darwin. In a Darwinian world co-operation and kindness can only flourish if they benefit the kind and co-operative more than alternative behaviour would. And the chief way for co-operating within groups to flourish is if it helps the co-operative group in its competitions with others.Using the general rule that what biologists would analyse as strategies we must experience as emotions, this explains not why we behave as if we loved other people unselfishly, but why we actually do love them that way, or we can.This view of things leads to some fairly clear predictions. Common danger will increase people's feelings of solidarity, but common danger requires a common enemy. That is perhaps the deepest and most existential threat that liberalism poses to society, because it has an aspiration that there should be no enemies, and that society should enfold everyone.A "big society" is not like that. It is big, but there must always be people outside it, even if they are foreigners. Certainly, the Scandinavian welfare states were nourished as much by patriotism as by anything else, and their relative decline has coincided with a lack of patriotic self-belief. British society has always defined itself against outsiders – Catholics, French, Germans; and since the end of the empire and the growth of official tolerance we have watched the partial failure of attempts to define another "other" – black people, "Brussels", Muslims, even, laughably "forces of Conservatism" – which could serve to rally the rest of us.These riots have promoted the underclass to that position.The essence of a "big society" is voluntary effort, informally co-ordinated. You get this when people think society is fundamentally fair; where virtue prospers, on the whole; and where it is all under threat from outsiders.All this is obvious in the behaviour of the broom squads who came out on the streets this week. The real point about them is that London is not normally a city where anyone picks up litter. It took flying bricks to get people waving brooms in the air. The response to threat from the outside was increased solidarity on the inside.The same dynamic explains the savagery of the punishments meted out. There are two reasons, in evolutionary theory, for such punishment. One is to ensure that free-riding does not pay. Altruistic behaviour only prospers when no one cheats – if the cry of "women and children first" goes up, the man who puts on a dress is likely to be pitched overboard without ceremony. So there is a natural, fierce, and vindictive egalitarianism reported in most hunter-gatherer societies.This in itself would be enough to ensure some punishment for the rioters. But when you look at the anger that the riots roused, the most striking complaint was not that the rioters had transgressed our social norms but that they didn't recognise them at all. They lived "ferally", "like animals". They are scarcely human. This isn't the way we think of ordinary criminals, who might be shamed into good behaviour. It's how we think of "outlaws" in the original, Anglo-Saxon sense of people who may be killed without it being accounted murder.This is not a very comforting reflection. If I am right, the great uprush of decency, courage, kindness and bravery that we have seen in the aftermath of the riots is not opposed to the urges that led people to call for live ammunition to be used against the rioters. It comes from exactly the same roots. You can't have one without the other.