It was only when water started gushing down the walls of the Grade I-listed 15th-century church of St Peter’s and St Paul’s in the medieval town of Lavenham in Suffolk that anyone realised there was something wrong. As rainwater stains spread across pews and blockwood flooring, it quickly became apparent that there was something missing: the church roof.Thieves had struck in the night, stripping an estimated seven tonnes of lead. Taken from the 25ft-high roof, the pliable metal was rolled up and transported in the church’s wheelie bins across a field to a waiting truck, leaving ancient roof timbers exposed to the elements – and the church with a massive repair bill.For St Peter’s and St Paul’s – a jewel in a county dotted with more than 450 listed churches, mostly dating from Norman times through to the Reformation – it was little comfort to know that the robbery was not an isolated event. In the past six weeks, nine Suffolk churches have been targeted, reflecting a spike in lead roof thefts across East Anglia which police believe is the work of an organised gang. The most recent theft was at St Bartholomew’s in Groton last weekend.After a change in the law in 2012 – following vigorous lobbying by the Church of England – to make cash payments for scrap metal illegal, casual robberies from churches plummeted. But, according to Tony Baldry, chairman of the Church Buildings Council, “what we are now seeing is commercial gangs starting to steal lead as an organised business. This is clearly a very worrying and unwelcome development.”Suffolk police and church officials believe the gang or gangs are systematic, identifying churches that are isolated but close to relatively main roads, parking getaway trucks nearby. After raids on scrap metal merchants produced no trace of stolen lead, the assumption is that the hauls are being shipped abroad for sale. Local people mutter darkly that eastern Europeans could be involved.The value of the hauls is relatively small. The London Metal Exchange lists the price of lead at just over £1,000 a tonne, but criminal gangs would probably get half that amount – giving a rough value of £3,500 for a seven-tonne haul. Yet the cost to churches of replacing their roofs could run into six figures.At St Mary’s in Combs, another Grade I-listed 15th-century church that stands amid fields and woodland, the initial estimate for replacing the stolen roof was more than £100,000. Insurance has paid for a temporary roof which will last up to three years, but a serious fundraising effort is needed for a permanent replacement. At a public meeting a week after the theft, there was standing room only, said curate Rachel Cornish. “There was a massive community response. Good comes out of bad.”As well as laying the temporary roof, the church has installed 10 CCTV cameras at a cost of more than £8,000, and a black and yellow vehicle barrier at the entrance to the churchyard. “If we’re going to have the church open for people to be able to come in freely, we have to make compromises,” said Cornish.A dozen miles away, Stephen Earl, rector of St Peter’s and St Paul’s, whose regular congregation of up to 80 is four times bigger than St Mary’s, said his church was relatively fortunate. “Lots of people know of and have visited us, and we’ve seen staggering generosity, not only within the church and local community but from far and wide. It’s not so easy for smaller churches in the sticks.”Disbelief at the robbery – “that no one saw, no one heard a thing” – was quickly followed by “outrage that such a special, holy, sacred place could be desecrated. But there’ve also been positive effects. We’ve seen people in church in the following Sundays that hadn’t come before, but they wanted to show support. This dark, miserable cloud has a bright silver lining,” said Earl.Nearly all Anglican churches have cover from Ecclesiastical Insurance, which said metal theft claims for this year up to the end of last month stood at 207 nationally. Before the changes to the Scrap Metal Act, there was a 2011 peak of 2,589 claims. Now, “we are disturbed to see lead theft on the rise,” a spokesperson said.Insurance payouts are capped at £7,500 unless premises are fully alarmed, at an installation cost of more than £5,000 – another burden for churches already struggling with heavy maintenance bills. “If we put an alarm in every church in the diocese, it would cost more than £2 million,” said James Halsall, a local church official. Martin Seeley, bishop of St Edmundsbury and Ipswich, said the thefts were “devastating to the rural congregations who year in and year out work very hard to make ends meet and now have to find major sums of money to replace the stolen lead”.On Thursday, West Suffolk MP Matt Hancock called on the government to provide funds for churches where roofs have been stolen. “Without adequate funding to repair their roofs, it is likely that these historic places of worship will deteriorate further, which would be a real loss,” he said.Police and church officials fear there will be more robberies to come. “A lot of churches are calling the diocese, fearing they could be next in line and asking for advice,” said Halsall.Beneath St Peter’s and St Paul’s lofty stone arches, Earl speculated that the thieves were working through a hitlist of vulnerable churches. “This won’t die down, there’ll be more,” he predicted. “They’re getting away with it, so why would they stop?”