  Peter Lawrence, father of missing chef Claudia Lawrence. Photograph: Anna Gowthorpe/PAThe father of a woman who has been missing since last week made a fresh appeal for information to help find her today, saying the family was trapped in a "living nightmare".Claudia Lawrence, a 35-year-old chef, was last heard from last Wednesday, and North Yorkshire police have not ruled out the possibility that she has been kidnapped.Peter Lawrence, a solicitor, visited a parade of shops on the outskirts of York today and handed out flyers with photographs of his daughter, asking: "Have you seen her?"Ms Lawrence spoke separately to her parents, who are divorced, by telephone on Wednesday afternoon shortly after leaving work at York University's Goodricke college.During her last conversation with her father, he offered to lend her his car for the three-mile journey to work on Thursday morning because her own vehicle had broken down. But she told him the weather was beautiful and she would walk.However, she did not arrive for her shift at 6am and has not been seen since.Detectives said she was popular, had no known personal or work-related problems that could explain her disappearance and did not take her passport, debit card or any clothes with her.Normally, she sends dozens of texts to her friends each day, but her mobile phone has been switched off.Her father described her as "sociable and great with her friends, but would not go off with strangers". He said she would not miss work without saying anything. "Claudia is someone who is always on the phone by voice or text but, all of a sudden, there has been no contact."As you may imagine, we are distraught and we need your help. It has been a living nightmare not knowing what's happening and we are sick with worry. This is no jaunt she has gone on."Lucy Pope, the detective chief inspector who is leading the investigation, knew the Lawrence family as a child and was a friend and fellow pupil of Claudia.She said: "She has never gone missing before and there is nothing to suggest that she had any concerns or worries that would make her want to leave. Her disappearance is completely out of character."It's certainly a possibility that an abduction could be involved, but I have seen nothing to suggest that."North Yorkshire police has about 40 officers working on the investigation. They have conducted extensive house-to-house inquiries and looked into the chef's background. They are examining CCTV and phone records.Ms Lawrence is described as white, 5ft 6in and of slim build, with brown hair and brown eyes. She was last seen wearing a white T-shirt, blue skinny jeans and white trainers.Police are appealing for help to find a small blue or green rucksack that she used to carry her chef's whites to work.