 The man suspected of stabbing to death six people, including three young children, in Jersey had apparently taken an overdose recently after allegedly discovering his wife had had an affair. However, friends claimed that the couple had appeared to be reconciled.The 30-year-old, named locally as Damian Rzeszowski remains under police guard in the general hospital in St Helier, and has been formally arrested in connection with the murders on Sunday which have shaken the island's Polish community.His wife, Izabela, 30, daughter Kinga, five, and son Kacper, 18 months, are believed to be among the victims. Her father Marek Gartski, 55, who lived with the couple, and best friend Marta de la Haye, 34, a care worker, and her daughter Julia, five, are also believed to have been killed. Police were not confirming identities.As police inquiries continued, Rzeszowski was heavily sedated having undergone surgery for life-threatening knife wounds believed to have been self-inflicted. It could be weeks before he is fit enough for questioning.House-to-house inquiries continued on Tuesday in the secluded road on which the couple lived in a flat in Victorian Crescent.At the waterside apartment which Marta had shared with her husband, Craig, 37, a relative said the family did not wish to comment.A friend of Izabela's claimed Rzeszowski had taken an overdose after discovering his wife's alleged affair. But she said she had ended the affair, and that the couple went on a reconciliation holiday."They went away and I don't know what happened. I hadn't spoken to her and they had just got back. When I heard about the murder I was in complete shock."There were also unconfirmed reports he may have faced financial problems.According to Polish television's TVP website, the couple had spent two weeks at the beginning of August in Nowy Sacz, southern Poland, where his family live. Relatives in Poland were being questioned at the request of British detectives.A postmortem examination performed by a Home Office pathologist on one of the women confirmed her death was caused by multiple stab wounds. Postmortems on the other five victims will be carried out over the next few days.As detailed forensic examination of the scene continued, the back garden remained covered by a large tarpaulin. One neighbour who phoned police, told the Jersey Evening Post, he heard trouble outside his window and looked out to see a man brandishing a knife.Former workmates of Rzeszowski said he has lived in Jersey for at least 10 years, and worked as a block layer on building sites. One said: "He worked very hard to support his family and was a very reliable guy. I would often see him in the supermarket with his kids. This has come as a huge shock toeveryone."He was described as a man who "did everything for his family".Detective Superintendent Stewart Gull, leading the murder inquiry, said: "This is an extremely complex investigation, involving two young families and, inevitably, impacting on a whole community, and our inquiry continues to establish exactly what happened on that fateful afternoon last weekend."