The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 9 April 2010 A reference to the official estimate of the number of people in prison in England and Wales as of late March should have been given as 84,897. A figure of 86,637 which we cited was the prison system's "usable operational capacity" at that point. New Labour has many achievements to its credit, but none more impressive than its ability to break its own records for locking people up and throwing away the key. Just about two weeks ago, on the last available estimate, there were 86,637 people in jail in England and Wales. The figure was not unexpectedly up on the same Friday of the previous year when it rounded out at 82,985. Passengers on Prison Ship UK have more than doubled in the last 17 years, thanks, in part, to Blair and Brown managing together to invent 3,600 new criminal offences during their period in office.Look below the headline figures and you'll find something even more striking. Not only do we top the incarceration league for this part of the world but there are actually more people serving indeterminate life sentences here than in all other 46 countries in the Council of Europe put together – and that includes Russia. 67% of all prisoners are caught reoffending within two years of their release. Last year we locked up 600 children aged between 12 and 14, some of them for summary offences.Martin Narey, who now runs Barnardo's, was for five years the inspirational director general of HM Prison Service until he resigned in 2003 because he believed demand had to be controlled. "I spent 23 years working in prisons and I do believe I made some improvements in decency and in making the conditions less depraved," he said. "But if we want a prison system to make a genuine difference, to change offenders' lives and thereby to protect the public from offenders, then we have to be able to offer enough rehabilitative activity. We could be turning people's lives around. It's essentially why I left – because as long as numbers are continually rising that's not going to be possible."It's a little blip on history and nobody remembers but we did once come perilously close to capping numbers," he explained. "At one point I got the then lord chief justice Harry Woolf and the home secretary, David Blunkett, to agree to have judicial guidelines shaped so that the population wouldn't rise above 80,000."It's always been politically naive to talk of cutting numbers but I did think you could cap them. It was the most significant thing I'd ever managed in public affairs. Then David got in trouble getting a visa for his nanny, Charles Clarke arrived, and, as he was absolutely entitled to do – he was home secretary after all – decided he didn't want to go through with it."Like so many people who have lived long with these issues – "I miss it every week, I loved the humour of prisons, I miss the prisoners themselves, managing a wing for lifers was the happiest time of my life" – Narey respects Douglas Hurd's observation that prison is "an expensive way of making bad people worse". But he also believes that any serious public discussion about penal policy is now impossible. "In this country we have a love affair with custody. I'm not critical of politicians, because it is their life, it's their parties' electoral success. All the home secretaries have been entirely convinced by the intellectual arguments, but they say it's impossible to them to go and do. Cutting numbers would be political suicide. Of course, part of me thinks they should just take on the press. But it would need courageous behaviour."The week I left the civil service I looked back to the same date 10 years previously, when there were 29 shoplifters in prison. The day I left there were 1,500." The great ignored, indeed.