As pensioners tended to their lawns and children raced happily out of the school gates, Winton’s quiet warren of streets seems a million miles away from the tit-for-tat gangland violence that once blighted Manchester.But on Tuesday locals woke up to find their streets teeming with armed police, forensics officers, detectives and television cameras after the latest in a string of bloody shootings came to their doorstep.“Shock is what everyone’s thinking – that, and hope that the perpetrator is caught and that the two victims are doing well,” said one woman, peering out of her front door down the cul-de-sac where a young mother and her seven-year-old son were shot at close range on Monday night.The shooting, alarming for its callousness, is the 21st gun attack in Salford in 18 months. It follows four other shootings over the weekend in Bolton and Salford, the scenes of separate turf wars being played out between rival drugs gangs.Salford shooting of mother and son linked to gangland murder of Paul Massey This attack is being linked by detectives to the tit-for-tat violence in Salford, which has been bubbling under the surface for more than a year.The feud burst into the open in July with the murder of Salford’s “Mr Big”, Paul Massey, who was shot dead on the drive of his family home in Clifton, four miles away. His killer remains at large.“If it’s owt to do with Paul Massey, people won’t say nowt. They’ll be too scared of reprisals,” said one elderly woman walking her dog, who asked not to be named because “that’s how it is”.Days after Massey’s murder, a local councillor, Paul Wilson, expressed concern that it was only a matter of time before an innocent person got caught up in the violence. On Tuesday, he said he was horrified to see his worst fears realised.“I hope those responsible for what happened last night and those involved in organised crime do see what happens when innocent people get caught up in gun crime,” he said. “The ordinary people of Salford are absolutely appalled at what happened last night. Clearly, as a society in Salford, we need to pull together and eradicate gun crime here.”Concerned by the recent flare-up in gang violence across Salford, Greater Manchester police have assigned 50 specialist officers to several major investigations into organised crime in the city. Undercover officers are deployed throughout Salford, with at least 60 known criminals being monitored. Written warnings have been handed to Massey’s affiliates, telling them not to exact revenge.Wilson, who has lived in the city all his life, is reluctant to admit that Salford has a gun problem and urged anyone with information to talk to the police, not carry out reprisals.He said: “It’s understandable that the public are concerned about talking to the police when they see the seriousness of what can happen. The police have got very good systems in place for anybody who wants to report anything anonymously. I would urge people not to take the law into their own hands but to go through the police.”Deputy chief constable Ian Hopkins, who appeared visibly shocked by the latest shooting when he spoke to the press in Salford, appealed to locals to “search your soul and come forward with what you know” as the manhunt continued into Tuesday night.“This has to be a turning point – people can no longer remain silent,” he said. “The vast majority of people in Salford are law-abiding citizens who are very proud of the city and will also be sickened by this horrific attack.As Salford buries its Mr Big, his gang want revenge and the turf wars grow “However, there is still a core of people in Salford who are prepared to use firearms to threaten people and sort out disputes between crime groups. This is clearly putting the wider public at risk.”At the local convenience store, Winton News, shopworker Mahand Shava, 30, said he had heard three loud bangs but didn’t realise it was a shooting. He is new to the area, moving from Croydon in south London three months ago, but now worries for his safety. “I’m a bit scared. We’re open till late. We’re alone here,” he said.Another elderly neighbour, who has lived on the street for 30 years, said the shooting made her think twice about leaving the house. “I can’t believe it really. It’s frightening. It’s a lovely area but all areas start out like that I suppose,” she said.“That’s the frightening thing, going out at night. Now they’ve reduced the lights outside for anybody like me who’s not capable on their feet it does make you think twice.”Alert to those concerns, police have stepped up high-visibility patrols in the area with officers on foot, horseback and bicycle in an attempt to reassure local residents. But the people of Winton are likely only to sleep a little more soundly when they know that the gunmen – and Massey’s killer – are behind bars.