A fresh political row over the integrity of the police crime figures broke yesterday after the Home Office disclosed that up to 17 police forces have been under-recording some types of the most serious violent crime.Senior Home Office officials said that the bulk of an apparent 22% rise in the most serious violence category, which includes homicide, attempted murder and grievous bodily harm, was due to a "misinterpretation" of the counting rules by at least 17 police forces rather than a surge in actual attacks.Although the police minister, Vernon Coaker, insisted that the quarterly crime figures could still be trusted, both Conservatives and Liberal Democrats heaped embarrassment on the government, claiming the incident proved it was incapable of delivering crime statistics that the public could trust."I would be embarrassed if I wasn't coming forward ... and not trying to draw to public attention something which is important," said Coaker. "I want the statistics to be as accurate as possible. We have every confidence in the crime statistics."The latest set of quarterly crime figures, whose integrity has been regularly questioned since they were first introduced in 1857, actually shows continuing falls in crime despite the threat of an economic slowdown. Total crime fell by 6% in the year to June 2008 on both the more reliable British Crime Survey and police recorded crime figures, with the risk of becoming a victim of crime at the lowest level since 1981.The BCS shows violent crime has remained steady in the last 12 months, with the police figures suggesting a 7% overall fall in violence against the person. Murders fell from 202 to 182 between April to June 2007 and the same period this year. Gun crime also continued to decline, with a 6% fall recorded by the police.There are signs, however, that incidents of knife crime are growing increasingly serious, with a 28% rise in the number of attempted murders with a blade during the period covered.The political row followed a Home Office briefing, held with the Association of Chief Police Officers, to explain what lay behind the 22% spike in the most serious violent crime figures. Eighteen police forces whose figures almost doubled following a clarification of the counting rules agreed by the Home Office and the police in April were asked to recount their figures.Thirteen forces agreed and it was estimated that two-thirds of the spike in the "most violent crime" category was down to this clarification of the counting rules. The change does not affect the overall violent crime total recorded by the police, which fell by 6%. Instead, it is about which category the police assign an incident to if it does not involve an actual injury.The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said that the increase in most serious forms of violence had been accompanied by a significant drop in less serious violent assaults. "This change means that this quarter's figures are not comparable with last year's. However, for most types of violence where the guidance has not changed - like homicide, robbery and death by driving - the numbers are down and the overall number of violent crimes is down too - by 7%, almost 18,000 fewer," she said.Keith Bristow, the Acpo spokesman and Warwickshire chief constable, later indicated that all the police forces in England and Wales had been affected by the problem to a greater or lesser extent.Humberside, Derbyshire, Cambridgeshire, Thames Valley and North Wales were amongst those forces that were able to complete the recount exercise in time for the publication of the quarterly crime figures yesterday. It is believed that the Metropolitan police were not amongst the four that were unable to take part in the recount.Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said the failure to tackle serious violence was an alarming blemish on an otherwise encouraging fall in overall crime."These figures show that police forces have been understating the seriousness of some of the most violent offences. Correcting that problem has led to an apparent sharp jump in recorded serious violent crime. Serious violent crime - whether gun or knife crime - has to be the police's top priority."Dominic Grieve, the shadow home secretary, claimed that the figures fatally undermined the government's spin that violent crime was getting better and betrayed a government that was completely out of touch with what was going on in the streets."Labour's target-driven approach has simply been to manipulate the statistics. They should now face up to the reality of their failure and realise that if you can't count a problem, you can't combat it."