Ray Gosling, the veteran TV presenter who confessed on television to suffocating a gay lover in a mercy killing, said today he would refuse to answer police questions – "even under torture" – about whom he killed, when and where.As detectives from Nottinghamshire police's homicide unit launched an investigation into his claims, the award-winning 71-year-old presenter said he killed the young man, who had Aids and whom he described as "a bit on the side", with the tacit consent of a doctor after the two men had made a pact.Officers today interviewed BBC staff who were involved in the production of BBC East Midlands' Inside Out programme, which featured Gosling's apparent confession during an item intended as a personal and "quirky" look at death. Police visited the BBC's studios in Nottingham and are expected to interview Gosling soon."We are now liaising with the BBC and will investigate the matter," said a spokesman for the force. "Our detectives have been at the BBC in Nottingham to speak with those involved in the making of the programme. We fully intend to speak to Mr Gosling."Today, Gosling was at the sheltered accommodation centre in Nottingham where he lives as pressure on him grew to justify his claims, with former colleagues questioning his grounds for the claim."I am not going to tell, no way," he said. "That was the pact. That was part of the story. That was how we agreed. It is nobody's business." He said the pact was that if his lover "got into terrible pain and nothing can be done I would end it".He said he had no regrets about killing the man and admitted he was resigned to the possibility that he could face a jail term if found guilty of murder or assisting suicide, which is punishable by up to 14 years in jail.The BBC today said it had no further information that could help identify the supposed victim or his family."Ray didn't provide any further details over and above what has been broadcast and these weren't sufficient to identify those affected," a spokesman said. "The first the BBC knew of this incident was during filming for the programme that was broadcast on 15 February 2010."Gosling claimed the doctor treating the man had deliberately given him time to kill his lover. "The doctor had said to me: 'I am going to pop out, have a fag or go to the canteen or go round another ward.' I have forgotten what the exact words were," he said. "In my mind its almost as though it was an invitation. He was in a situation of almost terminal pain."The Crown Prosecution Service said Gosling was within his rights to maintain his silence during the investigation. But it is unheard of to carry out a prosection for murder without a body and a name for the victim, and opponents of euthanasia last night called for Gosling to come clean."This is very different from helping someone to go to Dignitas for an assisted suicide – this is smothering someone with a pillow," said Alistair Thompson, of Care Not Killing, an alliance of organisations opposed to the legalisation of assisted dying. "Here is someone who has admitted murdering someone else. That is pretty damning evidence. There needs to be a proper and thorough police investigation."In response to Gosling's claim that the details of the case are "nobody's business", Thompson said the police and criminal prosecutors had a right to know the details. "We don't know whether there was a pact, we don't know whether he actually was terminally ill," he said.Gosling, an award-winning programme maker for both the BBC and ITV, has a history as an eccentric, former colleagues said. According to the BBC, when he stood for Nottingham council in the 1960s his party affiliation on voting papers was "madman".Last night, some TV executives who knew and worked with him said the absence of details about the case raised doubts over whether Gosling's story was true."I would question it," said Paul Watson, a documentary maker who knows Gosling and last year made a film about the euthanasia of an Alzheimer's sufferer. "I think it is desperate seeking of attention. He is a lovely man, but he does know how to manipulate the media."Ray Fitzwater, an independent producer who worked with Gosling, said: "I wouldn't put it past him to do something to make a stir. He was extremely eccentric. But it would be a dreadful thing to do."Gosling could not be contacted to respond to the claims.