Individual company directors will escape prosecution and imprisonment under legislation to strengthen the offence of corporate manslaughter, the home secretary, David Blunkett, disclosed yesterday.Details given by him confirmed that companies would face unlimited fines if found guilty of the new offence of corporate killing. A draft bill is to be published, with legislation expected in the autumn. Mr Blunkett said: "There is great public concern at the criminal law's lack of success in convicting companies of manslaughter where a death has occurred due to gross negligence by the organisation as a whole. "The law needs to be clear and effective in order to secure public confidence, and must bite properly on large corporations whose failure to set or maintain standards causes a death." A Home Office spokesman confirmed that individual directors would not be targeted by the proposals and the weakness in the current law was considered to be in corporate responsibility. An official assessment of changing the law claims that it will not have large cost implications for companies. The decision not to target directors was welcomed by the Confederation of British Industry which praised Mr Blunkett's approach. Michael Roberts of the CBI said: "We are particularly pleased that the government has avoided the temptation to target individual directors. Good health and safety comes from shared responsibility across the workforce, not from trying to blame an individual unfairly." Labour MP Andrew Dismore, who has campaigned for a law on corporate killing since representing victims of the King's Cross tube fire of 1987, said he was confident the government would act, but said he wanted individual directors to face prosecution. "If you can prosecute individual directors, which you can, for breaches of company law by a company, or for cooking the books or whatever, I fail to see why you can't prosecute them if they kill somebody." Ruth Lea of the Institute of Directors agreed, arguing that if a manager or safety officer was responsible for recklessness that led to a death, they should have the book thrown at them. The bill will also have to address crown immunity that prevents prosecutions in the public sector. The health and safety executive estimates that more than 600 employees and members of the public die each year in work incidents. The promise to strengthen the law was made in Labour's 1997 manifesto and repeated in that of 2001. Mr Blunkett made his announcement this week in the face of amendments to the criminal justice bill demanding immediate action backed by more than 80 Labour MPs.