A former Broadmoor patient murdered a young woman when he was released back into the community after a catalogue of errors by social services and the Home Office, an inquiry revealed yesterday.Winston Williams was convicted two years ago of stabbing 25-year-old Katie Kazmi 77 times and then concealing her body in his flat in Reading, Berkshire, for four days. The inquiry, commissioned by the Thames Valley health authority, identified "serious shortcomings" in his treatment and care before he committed the murder, including an almost complete failure to effectively supervise him. Williams, 54, who suffered schizophrenia and was a habitual drug abuser, was sent to Broadmoor in June 1979 for stabbing two people in London the previous year. He had told one victim, a boy aged 13 who had a newspaper delivery round: "I want to take your life." In 1991, Williams was released from secure hospitals, under Home Office licence, but was then re-admitted for 11 months during 1994 after refusing to take his medication and threatening to kill his social worker. The inquiry found that after his release, and despite his dangerous record, his care and treatment had been "unplanned and chaotic". Among the serious shortcomings identified was poor communication between agencies, a failure to apply effective supervision in the community and ineffective monitoring of his drug abuse. The report also criticised the failure of the Home Office's mental health unit to recognise these failings, despite the fact that they took place over a long period of time. The report said: "If he had been managed in a proactive, assertive, intrusive and informed way Mr Williams would still have been an extremely difficult patient to supervise. However, by 1999 he had been allowed to progressively undermine his supervisors' control of his community care so that he came to be managed as if he were a minimal risk, socially stable and not substance abusing. "If Mr Williams had been managed assertively the conflict of interest between public safety and his own wishes would have been inescapable." The inquiry found that corridor chats had taken the place of formal, regular and minuted discussions between supervisors about the case. No single file was kept on Williams, instead records were spread over several offices and not brought together for analysis. Both the psychiatric supervisors who were responsible for his care failed to see him at the frequency required by Home Office guidelines, or in his own home. A statement issued by Ms Kazmi's family said: "Winston Williams was a gun waiting to go off and anyone could have been his victim that day. It is clear from this report that the professional bodies and procedures they should have followed were completely ignored. "We urge the government to review all patients released on conditional discharge and ensure that their monitoring in the community is flawless." Speaking on behalf of the NHS, and Reading borough council, the chief executive of Thames Valley health authority, Nick Relph, said: "This was a tragic event and we offer our sincere and unreserved apologies to Ms Kazmi's family. There were, without doubt, significant failings in the care that Mr Williams received. "It is vital that we learn from these mistakes and ensure that we do everything we can to avoid this happening again." Martin Salter, the MP for Reading West, described the report as "possibly the most damning indictment of official incompetence I have read in over 20 years".