The tragic story of Fiona Pilkington and her disabled daughter, Francecca, demonstrates how taunts and threats can cut just as deeply as blades. Worn down by unrelenting intimidation and bullying from callous locals, Ms Pilkington set light to her car in 2007, killing herself and Francecca. This Monday an inquest ruled that police indifference had "contributed" to the deaths, with 33 separate complaints of abuse and yet not a single arrest.This formed the backdrop for Labour's conference announcements on antisocial behaviour yesterday. The prime minister railed against the tragedy, after Alan Johnson had wheeled out New Labour's traditional weapon, the antisocial behaviour order, and announced that whenever an asbo was breached in the future a prosecution would follow.Long before details of the Pilkington case emerged, Mr Johnson had made antisocial behaviour a priority – rightly so. Fear of low-level thuggery is not some Whitehall confection, but a reality that makes hard lives even harder. It does most damage in the country's most deprived corners, where it blights people who often struggle to make themselves heard. It is also true that the criminal law is a poor instrument for tackling sub-criminal bullying, especially when – as in the Pilkington case – police forces lazily presume that they have bigger fish to fry.Resolve, however, is not the same thing as producing an intelligent plan, and this the government has abjectly failed to do. Despite Tony Blair's great enthusiasm, asbos eventually fell out of favour for solid, practical reasons. Many of those served with them simply ignored them, with nearly half the total being breached; for others, including some whose original misdemeanour was not all that serious, asbos served as a trap door to the jam-packed jails which make bad people worse. Whitehall's own research showed that asbos were costly, which is one reason why new instruments were developed – such as parenting orders and acceptable behaviour contracts – which aimed to nip bad behaviour in the bud.The prime minister spoke yesterday about one scheme that could extend this more thoughtful approach, by providing the most disturbed families with help in co-ordinating their (frequently complex) dealings with other agencies, exactly the sort of mundane step that might make a difference. But as rhetoric and new legislation encourage the issue of extra asbos, the scarce cash available will surely be swallowed up by costly flexing of the authorities' muscles. As with crime, so too with antisocial behaviour. The need to look tough will scupper the chance to get tough on the causes.