Detectives hunting the killer of Amélie Delagrange arrested a nightclub bouncer at his home yesterday on suspicion of murdering the French student and attacking another woman.The arrest of Levi Bellfield, 36, a former company director, was described as a significant development by police, who have linked the murder of the 22-year-old to five similar attacks on young blond women in west London. Mr Bellfield was also arrested in connection with the previously unreported attempted murder and robbery of a woman in 2002 near Twickenham Green, where Ms Delagrange was bludgeoned to death after she took a short cut across the cricket pitch. After searching seven addresses across west London, Scotland Yard launched an appeal to find a van they believe the suspect could have been driving on the night of the murder. A white Ford Courier, with the registration number P610 XCN, was caught on CCTV in Twickenham on the evening of August 19, when the language student was found dying. She had been on the way home from meeting friends in a bar. "The vehicle was seen in and around Twickenham Green on the night of the 19 August about an hour to an hour and a half before Amélie was murdered," said Detective Chief Superintendent Andy Murphy. "We believe that the van was used by a suspect on the 19 August and was certainly in his possession prior to that." A forensic team searched the semi-detached house where Mr Bellfield was arrested in West Drayton, near Heathrow, eight miles from where Ms Delagrange was killed. Neighbours believed the house had been under police surveillance for up to three months. Mr Bellfield is the fifth suspect to be arrested over the murder. "The arrest itself clearly is important for us, but I have to stress we are in the early days of procedures," said Mr Murphy. Commander Andy Baker described the man as a "suspect" rather than a "person of interest" and said there were "reasonable" grounds for his arrest. Criminal profilers studied similarities in the attacks and police said they believed the killer could have had local knowledge after Ms Delagrange's keys, purse and Sony Discman were found in the river Thames at Walton in Surrey. Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner, personally pledged to catch the killer after detectives warned women a serial attacker could be behind a string of similarly brutal assaults in west London. Police formally linked the murder to five other incidents in which women were set upon after dark with a blunt weapon: an attack on a 28-year-old woman who was found unconscious in Feltham four days after Ms Delagrange's murder; an assault close to Twickenham Green in April; an attack in Hatton Cross in November last year; the murder of Marsha McDonnell, 19, who was beaten to death in Hampton in February 2003; and an attack on a 17-year-old girl in Strawberry Hill in early 2003. Detectives had not previously revealed the November 2002 attack, which they only became aware of when the victim, who was not born in Britain, came forward after the murder of Ms Delagrange. "At this moment in time, we haven't had any reason to unlink the murders and attacks," said a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan police. The arrest came days after police revealed that one of four potential witnesses identified by CCTV pictures on buses travelling past Twickenham Green around the time Ms Delagrange was killed had given officers a statement.