For almost two years it has served as a constant reminder of a crime so appalling it defied all understanding. But yesterday morning, in the space of little more than 90 minutes, 5 College Close was reduced to a pile of dust.The house in Soham where the school caretaker Ian Huntley murdered schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman was demolished by a 20-ton bulldozer, to avoid it becoming a permanent reminder of their deaths. The only sound was that of the digger's massive engine as the machine moved forward and crushed the wooden fence at the end of the former front garden. It then began pulling down slates from the corner of the roof before tearing down each of the walls. The internal fittings of the three-bedroom house had been removed by forensic scientists during their investigations. All that remained were the labels they left behind, identifying the position of items of furniture and individual rooms where the girls met their cruel end. The local people of Soham, burdened by the terrible events of the summer of 2002, hope that the house's destruction will enable them to put some of the memories behind them. There will be no memorial in its place. Work on knocking down the house began shortly before 8am while dozens of journalists wearing hard hats and fluorescent jackets looked on from specially constructed hydraulic platforms. Police, officials from Cambridgeshire County Council and security staff stood in silence. Holly and Jessica's parents were not present. Huntley was jailed for life for the 10-year-olds' murders in December following his trial at the Old Bailey. His then girlfriend, Maxine Carr, was jailed for three and a half years after being convicted of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. She is currently in Holloway, but is due to be moved soon. The demolition work was shielded from public view by a 30ft-high solid metal fence which had been placed around the house shortly after Huntley's arrest in August 2002. Police had earlier taken the decision to begin the demolition while most of the locals in the village were still asleep to minimise their discomfort and prevent any possible disruption. The detached house sits at the end of a short terrace adjacent to the entrance to Soham Village College where Huntley worked as caretaker. He moved in with Carr less than a year before killing Holly and Jessica. College principal Howard Gilbert said: 'This has been a long time coming. For the school in particular there is a sense of relief. We have understood the reasons why the house had to stay with us for so long, but it is not the environment we want the school to operate in. ' Thinking about his pupils, he added: 'I am sure from their point of view it has been a reminder they could have done without having. I think there will be a sense of a burden being lifted when they return. A sense of lightness.' The house joins a macabre list of buildings in Britain which have been razed to the ground because of the terrible crimes committed within them. Number 25 Cromwell Street in Gloucester, where Fred and Rosemary West buried many of their victims, was also demolished, partly because of the grim sightseeing tours which had begun to visit there at weekends. Yesterday's demolition was carried out by local firm C J Murfitts, which signed a confidentiality agreement to ensure none of the rubble finds its way on to the souvenir market. Rubble from the demolition will be crushed into dust and disposed of at a number of secret locations, said a spokesman for Cambridgeshire police. A garage also belonging to Huntley close to the property will be demolished during the school half-term, and the hangar building where the girls' Manchester United shirts were found will be demolished at a later date. Gilbert said that the site would not be turned into a memorial. 'We have consulted with the families and there is no desire for a memorial or any kind of building. It will either be landscaped or concreted over in some way. Whatever is done we will try to ensure that the site blends in with its surroundings. We do not want to do anything to draw attention to it.' A father of two, on his way to a children's birthday party at the college soon after the demolition, would only speak anonymously. 'I'm glad it's gone,' he said. 'It was a constant reminder of what had happened. I think they should turn the area into a memorial garden. It doesn't need to be macabre. You have to do something with it, you can't pretend nothing happened.' An elderly resident disagreed. 'There shouldn't be anything there, because the house is by the entrance to the college and the children have to walk past it every day.'