After 126 years of the lucrative “Who was Jack the Ripper?” mystery, the case, apparently, is cracked. Aaron Kosminski, a 23-year-old Polish immigrant hairdresser was “definitely, categorically and absolutely” the man guilty of the 1888 killing spree, according to “armchair detective” Russell Edwards. He claims to have solved it using DNA evidence from a blood-stained shawl belonging to one of the Ripper’s victims, originally lifted from the crime scene by acting Sergeant Amos Simpson. Over the years, more than 500 people have at one time or another been put forward as Ripper suspects. Here are a few who are now, it seems, off the hook.Prince Albert Victor      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Prince Albert Victor. Photograph: Contract Number (Programme)/PREveryone loves a conspiracy theory, and there have been few better than the theory that Prince Albert Victor impregnated a “shop girl” called Annie Crook, after which the royals had Queen Victoria’s physician Dr Gull brutalise her at a mental institution until she forgot everything, left the illegitimate child with prostitute Mary Kelly, who blabbed about the relationship to her friends (also prostitutes) who were quickly and quietly disposed of – in a series of killings so grisly and high profile that we’re still talking about them over a century later. There is also talk of him contracting syphilis from his many dalliances in East End brothels, causing him to become “insane” and, naturally, a serial killer. The story is spoiled somewhat by his being out of London at the time of the murders and, indeed, the total lack of evidence for any of this.Walter Sickert      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Walter Richard Sickert Photograph: George C. Beresford/Getty ImagesIn 2001, American crime novelist and former mortuary assistant Patricia Cornwell spent millions trying to prove that Victorian painter Walter Sickert was the Whitechapel murderer. The motive, she said, was rooted in a defect in his penis, and she pointed to his admittedly creepy paintings of women that were shockingly similar to autopsy pictures of the victims. One of his paintings was called “Jack the Ripper’s bedroom”, depitcing a room he himself had lodged in – though Sickert claimed it had once been used by the serial killer, as his landlady had suspected a previous lodger.Lewis Carroll      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lewis Carroll. Photograph: CSU Archv/Everett/REXEven though more than 500 people have at one time or another been put forward as Ripper suspects, the most outlandish must be Richard Wallace’s theory put forward in his 1996 book, Jack the Ripper, Light-Hearted Friend. Wallace took passages from Carroll’s children’s books and derived rubbish anagrams from them, changing and leaving out letters as it suited his very weird purposes. From The Nursery Alice, he took “So she wandered away, through the wood, carrying the ugly little thing with her. And a great job it was to keep hold of it, it wriggled about so. But at last she found out that the proper way was to keep tight hold of itself foot and its right ear” and turned it into “She wriggled about so! But at last Dodgson and Bayne found a way to keep hold of the fat little whore. I got a tight hold of her and slit her throat, left ear to right. It was tough, wet, disgusting, too. So weary of it, they threw up – Jack the Ripper”. If that’s proof, I don’t know what isn’t.Dr Thomas Neill Cream  Thomas Neill Cream. Photograph: Evening Standard/Getty ImagesThis doctor was hanged for an unrelated murder at Newgate Prison. His executioner, James Billington, swears Cream’s last words were “I am Jack the …” Which is, admittedly, a weird thing to say if your name is Thomas. It was taken by many as a confession to being Jack the Ripper, of course, but being cut off by his execution meant no one managed to quiz him on it. He was in prison at the time of the murders and the notion that he was out killing prostitutes while a “lookalike” served his prison sentence for him are, to say the least, unlikely.Mary ‘Jill the Ripper’ Pearcey  Mary Pearcey. Photograph: PRThe only female suspect at the time, Mary Pearcey was convicted of murdering her lover’s wife, and some suspect her of being behind the Whitechapel killings as well – though evidence is pretty much nonexistent. Sherlock creator Sir Arthur Conan Doyle speculated at the time that a woman could have carried around blood-stained clothing without suspicion if she had pretended to be a midwife. DNA results found by an Australian scientist in 2006 suggested the Ripper “may have been a woman” – but only because they were inconclusive.