The modern timber-clad frontage of Southwark coroner's court belies the building's history. It has been in the same spot, a short stroll south of London Bridge station in the shadow of the new Shard skyscraper, since Tudor times. Having served the area for hundreds of years, you imagine it would be a slick machine but court journalists often complain about how it is run.They grumble about obstructive staff who make reporting the inquests difficult and, at times, nigh on impossible. Reluctance to provide basic information that should be in the public domain is top on the list of gripes. On my arrival, there is a sign at the front desk asking all witnesses and visitors to report to reception. There is actually no legal requirement for me to make myself known to staff but I want to check which cases are sitting.I am here to see an inquest into the controversial death of a man in police custody. A friendly and polite woman directs me to the press room because the court is full. It's hard to get a feel for much watching proceedings though a camera and after a little gentle persistence I am ushered into the courtroom. It is indeed busy but there's ample room for me on one of the oak benches at the back. From what I can make out, I'm the only journalist in there and I'm pretty sure the press room was empty.Coroner Dr Andrew Harris is hearing the inquest of Sean Rigg, a 40-year-old man with mental health problems who died in a cage in the yard of Brixton police station in August 2008. It is a complex case and is listed for seven weeks. It is now day four and it has already started over-running. Because Rigg died in police custody, a jury will give its verdict at the end on how he met his death. It is rare for juries to sit for inquests.They are commonly used when the coroner has identified potential failures in a system which contributed to the death and could put future patients at risk is they go unchecked or, like in this case, when someone has died in police custody.Dr David Ndegwa, a consultant psychiatrist responsible for Rigg's care in the days leading up to his death, is being vigorously cross-examined by Leslie Thomas, the barrister representing Rigg's family.A host of other legal teams for other interested parties fill the front benches, including those representing the NHS trust and the Metropolitan police. Thomas wants to know why the doctor spoke to Rigg on the phone rather than see him face to face and why he doesn't believe his patient was relapsing into a mental breakdown.The court takes a break shortly before 11am so Dr Harris, who had a distinguished career both as a doctor then lawyer before being appointed a coroner in 2007, can preside over the opening of another inquest of a man who has been murdered. As the courtroom clears, the only people left are me, the coroner, a coroner's officer and a detective chief inspector. The coroner's officer gives me a pained expression and asks if I can leave the court because the case involves "investigations", alluding to the police inquiry. The coroner explains to her that inquests are public and are to be heard in an open court. She proceeds to speak quietly and very quickly as she outlines the details of the case.It is surprising and disappointing that a member of staff at such a busy London coroner's court – it serves the boroughs of Greenwich, Lambeth and Lewisham as well as Southwark - seemed so unaware of the principles of open justice. After a short opening, the case is adjourned to a later date and Sean Rigg's inquest continues for the rest of the day.Unlike criminal trials, jurors are allowed to quiz witnesses. The extent to which they do this is refreshing. It seems empowering for them and gives them the opportunity to get to grips with the complicated nature of the case.I lose count of the number of questions they ask throughout the course of the day, during which two more health professionals give evidence, but it must be close to fifty. They are articulate, attentive and absorbing every word of what is said. As the court draws to a close for the day, their role and involvement leaves a positive impression about how open justice can work so well. But there have also certainly been glimpses of the problems that regular court reporters encounter.Being asked to leave the court by the coroner's officer made me wonder whether staff see the press as more of a hindrance than a help. Had I been a member of the public and not known that it was my legal right to stay, I would probably have scurried out apologetically. And yet it is enshrined in British law that proceedings such as these should be open so that justice can be seen to be done. Surely that openness should be cherished.