It's official. There is such a thing as a bad barrister. We've all known it, of course, but I don't think the bar council, the professional body, has acknowledged it openly before. Not that they've actually said so in words. They've done it by way of proposing a system of quality control to root out substandard barristers.The proposal is for a sort of informants' system. Barristers whose advocacy has apparently been below par can be reported - or "grassed on" if you prefer - by judges before whom they have appeared, or dissatisfied solicitors who have briefed them.They could even be informed on by other barristers - their opponents in a trial, for instance. The alleged second-raters can then be sent to an advisory panel, who will advise them on how to improve their performance.The BBC has been much criticised for its quick surrender and payment of £75,000 after Lady Falkender's claim for compensation over an alleged libel contained in its television drama The Lavender List, even though publishers of books containing the same allegations have not been sued.Her lawyers, Peter Carter-Ruck & Partners, are said to be asking for substantial legal costs, some estimates exceeding £100,000, though no writ had yet been issued. The firm is clearly following the example set by its founder, the late Peter Carter-Ruck, the libel world's pioneer rottweiler.Many years ago I asked him how he justified charging £5,000 for sending out one short letter. Because, he told me, when any other solicitor sent out such a letter it was treated as being the start of negotiations. "When I do it the other side is likely to capitulate immediately."It is not often that this column gets to tell you a heartwarming story about judges and lawyers. Here is one. Cynthia Grannum was a shorthand writer at the Old Bailey, a joyful, exuberant woman of Trinidadian origin, much loved by judges, lawyers, staff and journalists.When she was diagnosed with cancer and couldn't work (she was a freelance), barristers held a musical benefit to help her financially. Last week she died, aged only 43. The famous Court 1 was crammed as the Old Bailey's top judge, the recorder of London, Peter Beaumont QC, delivered a moving valedictory eulogy for Cynthia - an honour usually reserved for eminent legal figures.It was exciting to see Counsel's Opinion, one of our legally named racehorses, achieving even greater fame on our news pages on Saturday. He was, it was reported, owned by Judge Jeremy Roberts QC of the Old Bailey, who had dealt knowledgeably and kindly with the case of a woman who'd gambled away £460,000 of her employers' money via online betting.Strictly speaking it is the judge's wife who is listed as owner, but no matter. What is more important is that Counsel's Opinion has not won a race for us for a couple of years, and last week he came in only seventh at Pontefract.