August 1995 Allegation of under-age sex Father complains to police that his 15-year-old daughter has been having a sexual relationship with Ian Huntley. A police and social services investigation takes place. Huntley interviewed. Girl says she does not want matter to go any furtherNovember 1995 Burglary  Huntley breaks into a neighbour's house and steals electrical goods, jewellery and a small amount of cash. He admits burglary to police. When the case comes to court three years later it is allowed to lie on file April 1996 Allegation of under-age sex  Another complaint to social services that Huntley is having a sexual relationship with a 15-year-old girl. The girl "actively avoided" speaking to social workers May 1996 Allegation of under-age sex  A family raises concerns that a 15-year-old girl is having a sexual relationship with Huntley. Girl refuses to discuss the matter with social workers. May 1996 Allegation of under-age sex  Another family expresses concerns that a 13-year-old girl is involved with Huntley. Police and social services involved. Girl denies she is having sex with Huntley September 1997 Allegation of indecent assault  A 12-year-old girl claims Huntley assaulted her in orchard. He is arrested but denies the offence. There is no forensic evidence and no witnesses. The police decide there is insufficient evidence April 1998 Allegation of rape  An 18-year-old claims Huntley raped her at her home. Huntley claims woman consented to sex. Police decide there is insufficient evidence May 1998 Allegation of rape An 18-year-old is raped as she walks home from nightclub in Grimsby. Huntley is charged but case dropped after CCTV footage shows pair were together in club February 1999 Allegation of rape  A 17-year-old meets Huntley and they go to a club together. The woman claims that at the end of the evening he raped her. Huntley claims she consented to sex. The matter is dropped July 1999 Allegation of rape  A 17-year-old is raped as she walks home after an evening out. Huntley becomes a suspect because of the previous allegations. Maxine Carr provides an alibi. The woman does not now think she was raped by Huntley