A young mother enters a flat on the southern edges of Edinburgh and moves beyond the eye of a security camera. Inside are three young men. Something happens.The woman, 21 at the time, said they raped her. They said it was group sex and gave the oldest excuse in the book, that it was consensual. She told the police she had been raped on the stairs, until the CCTV showed this to be false. Yet a doctor who examined her said her injuries were consistent with sexual assault and some of the worst she had ever seen. And the jury were convinced by her evidence.The three men were each sentenced to six years in jail and sent to a sexual offenders' unit in Peterhead. They have consistently been refused parole because it would have meant admitting guilt, something they vehemently deny, as do their families and several of her friends.In this, they are supported by Liberal Democrat MSP Mike Pringle, human-rights lawyer Aidan O'Neill and John McManus of the Miscarriage of Justice Organisation (Mojo).'I don't know about this particular case,' said Sandy Brindley of Rape Crisis Scotland. 'But given how hard it is to get a conviction, the concern is much more about guilty men walking free.' There are eight rape crisis centres across Scotland, all busy, yet despite this, only 62 men were convicted of rape or attempted rape by Scottish courts during 2003. Only 4 per cent of reported rapes end in convictions; who knows how many rapes go unreported?In these terms, it almost seems wrong to talk about the case. The men were tried in Edinburgh's High Court in 2000. There, the woman's story was corroborated by a friend who saw her arrive back at the party distressed. A majority of the jury agreed, an appeal was thrown out, the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission refused to send it back to appeal, although the Scottish Legal Aid Board has decided to fund the families' attempts to seek a judicial review of that decision.You can sense the families' frustration as they fight a grand apathy. They have legal statements from four people who know the woman well. Two say they overheard her say she was not raped and made the allegations to get money from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority. Another said the victim wanted to drop the charges because she had made them 'for a laugh', but the police wouldn't let her, a claim the fourth backed up. Even one of her family has said she might have made it up.Pringle said that he would like to meet the woman and 'speak to her face to face in order to convince her to come forward and explain what did happen that night, rather than what she said in court'. Meanwhile, McManus said: 'If we didn't think these guys were innocent, we wouldn't touch them with a bargepole. [But] just because the nature of the allegation is sexual does not mean we should turn a blind eye.'Why would anyone want to overturn a conviction for a sex offence? In Edinburgh and the Lothians, the success rate for prosecutions of rape and attempted rape that have actually come to trial has dropped from 79 per cent to 40 per cent. The Crown doesn't like admitting its mistakes at the best of times, but when it comes to rape, a mistake among so few convictions would be horrifying.There are moves to try and improve the situation. Two studies are underway in the hope that justice can be swung in favour of victims. The Crown Office is looking at reported rapes to see why so many are falling out of the system. Meanwhile, the Scottish Law Commission is looking at the very definition of rape, which is horrifyingly narrow. There is no such thing as anal rape under the law. There is no such thing as male-on-male rape. These are indecent assaults, which seems far too coy.The problem with looking into a potential miscarriage of justice is that there is no one to argue the side of the Crown, except in court. The Crown's responsibility ends with conviction, and the Crown Office suggested I contact the executive's justice department for comment, a road to nowhere.So, while the arguments of the families, of the convicted young men and of the forces who have chosen to stand at their shoulders seem compelling, I don't know what happened in that flat and I am glad I don't have to decide. What is certain, though, is that the police, the prosecutors and the courts are aware of the desperate need for convictions. They are pressured to put people in jail using a system tilted against justice for the victim.Pringle and McManus are right to say a miscarriage of justice has to be faced, whatever its nature. The men are fighting so hard because they know their lives are ruined if they emerge from jail on the Sexual Offenders' Register.Perhaps this miscarriage of justice, if that is what it is, will heap proof on the need for the reform of this system. For those legions of women who haven't received justice, it is a terrible and ugly truth that their cases don't seem to be troubling us much at all.ruaridhnicoll@hotmail.com