The Soham murder case has revealed a substantial defect in the current vetting process for school staff. Schools are now employing considerably more support staff than, say, five years ago. Classroom assistants, bursars and caretakers are being joined by cover supervisors, to be followed soon by higher-level teaching assistants. Many of these staff, who are deeply valued by head teachers, will have a great deal of access to pupils, and they will form relationships.But there is no compulsion on schools to check the background of these staff as thoroughly as they are required to check that of teachers. After Ian Huntley, this cannot be allowed to continue. There is no longer any justification for support staff to be treated differently from teachers. All potential employees should be the subject of higher-level checks, to provide the maximum amount of information a head legitimately needs before making an appointment. An additional danger is that at present, even for teaching posts, each chief constable decides just what information, beyond a criminal conviction, should be disclosed. This is tantamount to a lottery, with the result that head teachers are at the whim of the police when it comes to the provision of appropriate data, prior to appointment of a new member of staff. My own organisation has been involved in cases in which schools have received inadequate information and have complained to the police. For instance, a head appointed a teacher, only to discover that he had been the subject of numerous allegations of child abuse. These had led to a trial when some of the charges were dismissed, and then to another trial when the prosecution offered no further evidence, leading to acquittal. This teacher committed further acts of child abuse after his appointment and was later convicted. The head complained, but was informed by the relevant police force that this was its policy on the provision of information, and it did not intend to change that policy. The NAHT intervened on behalf of the head but the police still refused to budge. We took it to the Department of Education and to the Home Office and have been pressing ever since for chief constables to be more closely regulated. Maybe now government will listen. Over the past two years we have had at least six other similar cases. How many more children have to be put at risk? There is an urgent need to analyse the range of information which should legitimately be provided. There will be understandable demands for the human rights of school staff to be protected - teachers themselves are increasingly the subject of malicious allegations. They will rightly be concerned at the prospect of those allegations being revealed even when they have been rejected as unfounded. Then there is the question of acquittals and, further, of information in the hands of other local authority departments. The fundamental issue is how we define what is the "greater good". Governors, school staffs and, above all, parents will expect head teachers to have before them all the information that they need to arrive at an appropriate judgment. The opportunity for schools to make unfair decisions which are prejudicial to prospective employees, and which might damage their careers, is obvious. Equally, head teachers will feel that they must never be put in a position where they make an appointment on the basis of inadequate information. We must arrive at an agreement embracing government, chief constables and school leaders that delivers consistent and acceptable information from every police force to every school. The home secretary is right to order an inquiry. There may be particular aspects which must be addressed without delay. For instance, how can schools prevent a prospective employee obtaining a job by providing a false identity? Head teachers need to be reassured that they cannot be put in a position in which they are misled, however inadvertently, into employing staff who are a danger to children. The current vetting procedures had a stormy initiation 15 months ago, with chaos caused by delays associated with the introduction of a new system. Things have improved. Now we need to make sure that the system is as foolproof as possible. The schools of the future will be staffed by many more support staff than ever before. Both they and teachers are part of the same team and should be treated equally. Let us look at the facts of the Soham case, change practices that constitute a risk, without riding roughshod over employees' human rights, and come up with answers that will satisfy school communities. Let's do it urgently. · David Hart is general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers naht.org.uk