Leroy, 20, Clapham, south London I watched the rioting. I don't condone people burning down houses but at the same time what can I say to them? If that's what they feel they need to do to get people's respect and get noticed, I'm not going to argue with them or blame them for what they are doing.I'm angry and frustrated. I feel the same as them. Angry with everything – society, police, the way they treat us. They don't treat us like human beings. I've been stopped and searched and I've refused to give my details, and because I don't give my details the police officer says he's taking you for a strip search. I can't tell you why everyone decided to do this now but it has been a build-up over the past few years. Especially for people in my age group and younger.Nas, 28, involved in riots in Brixton, south London There are different reasons [why people rioted], some are doing it for the right reasons, some just for the sake of doing crime, people have had enough. But even the people taking advantage have a reason. It's very hard to get jobs, these people are from poor areas, have nothing, they want stuff for free. Other people, like myself, have had enough of the government. It's self-explanatory – the government doesn't care about us, there are no jobs.I don't think people are protesting in the right way. I saw people from 13 to 30 there. I saw everyday, normal people in the shops, helping themselves. Everyone has had enough of paying taxes so the rich get richer.A lot of trials and tribulations led to this, people think everyone has no reason. It can't get worse for us, people in the ghetto. No one cares about us so what are we supposed to do? There has always been a big gap between youth and the police. We're trying to get their attention. People are crying out for help.Kevin, 17, Isle of Dogs, east LondonI was passing through Mare Street, [in Hackney, east London] and saw a lot of looting. There was a wide range of people there: young people, mothers, some people who were definitely at uni. I can't say why they were doing it but I think this whole Mark Duggan [shot by police in Tottenham, north London] thing is an excuse. People are using that as an open door to get free stuff.People are angry with the police though, that is real. They have mistreated youth, I've experienced that myself. I was walking out of a jewellery shop the other day and I was searched. I'd say I've been searched at least six times this year, they've never found anything on me. I know my white friends don't get searched as much.It does frustrate me but I think it's an efficient way of stopping crime.Pierre Neil, 28, south-east London, former So Solid Crew member and youth mentor We know that the cause of the upheaval is that a young man died at the hands of the police and we haven't been able to get any truthful answers or a comprehensive statement as to what happened. The relationship between the police and the black community is obviously not good, so when anything happens with the police and the community feels they're not being co-operated with, it creates an explosion and that's what you've seen.I think this [rioting] is criminal behaviour but the police have shown criminal behaviour against a lot of the young people, they stop and search us disproportionately. And young people feel they don't have a voice or they don't have the energy or the power to press charges because they feel they won't get anywhere.Some names have been changed.