As Sally Clark walked down the steps of the royal courts of justice to freedom last week, hopes were voiced for the other mothers still in prison after being convicted of murdering their babies. Could Angela Cannings, Donna Anthony and others go free too?Sadly for them, it's not as simple as that. The clincher for Clark was the smoking gun lurking in the hospital records that Alan Williams, the pathologist who did the postmortem on her second son, Harry, failed to pass on to the other doctors in the case. The bacterium Staphylococcus aureus had been found in eight sites on Harry's body, including his cerebral spinal fluid, raising the possibility that his death could have been caused by an infection. This made Clark's conviction unsafe because the jury had not had the chance to weigh it up along with the other evidence. It was the missing "natural causes" hypothesis that could stand against the opposing hypotheses of smothering or shaking. The chances of a similar find in the other cases are probably small. Some of the other mothers behind bars may be innocent; the chief lesson of the Clark case, for anyone who reads the evidence, is just what an inexact science forensic pathology is. But the media picture is invariably painted in stark black and white: unexplained baby deaths are either murders or cot deaths, the mothers murderers or wrongly accused innocents. Yet there is a third group, and it is into this group that most mothers who kill their babies probably fall. In the grip of postpartum psychosis - an extreme form of postnatal depression - they lose their grasp on reality. Typically they are devoted mothers, and their husbands often stand by them, either unaware that they did it or realising that it wasn't their fault. These mothers cherish their babies but their depression leads them to believe that the babies would be better off without them. Sometimes, as with Suzanne Killinger-Johnson, a Toronto GP and psychotherapist who stepped in front of a tube train in August 2000 clutching her six-month-old son Cuyler, they kill themselves along with their babies. Mothers who fall into this group are guilty not of murder but of the much lesser crime of infanticide - the killing of a child under the age of 12 months while "the balance of her mind was disturbed by reason of her not having fully recovered from the effect of giving birth to the child". The offence is punished in a similar way to manslaughter: the judge has complete discretion in sentencing, and perpetrators are rarely jailed. For a mother whose crime is really infanticide, life imprisonment for murder is just as much a miscarriage of justice as it is for a mother whose child died of natural causes. Infanticide is commoner than might be imagined: between 1979 and 2000, 105 women were convicted of it in England and Wales. Only two went to prison; the rest were dealt with by probation, supervision or hospital orders. But the numbers are almost certainly larger, because mothers who commit infanticide often find it hard to admit it. Yet unless they do, their lawyers cannot mount a psychiatric defence and they find themselves standing trial for murder. Mrs Justice Hallett, the judge who presided over Cannings' trial - and, coincidentally, one of the three judges who freed Clark - clearly thought Cannings was a case of infanticide, not murder. Three of her babies died in the first few weeks of life and a fourth suffered an acute life-threatening event. She was charged with murdering two of the babies: seven-week-old Jason in 1991 and four-month-old Matthew in 1999. The judge, left with no choice but to jail her for life once the jury delivered its murder verdict, said: "There was no evidence before the court that there was anything wrong with you when you killed your children. I have no doubt that for a woman like you to suffocate these babies there must have been something seriously wrong with you. "You wanted these babies and you cherished them. It is no coincidence, in my view, that you committed these acts in the weeks after their births. It is not my decision when you will be released, but I intend to make it known in my remarks that in my view you will never be a threat to anyone in future." Four babies died or came near to death in Cannings' care. The inference that she was responsible seems inevitable. Yet retired forensic pathologist Dr Bill Hunt remembers a postmortem he carried out when suspicions were aroused after a fourth cot death in one family. "The heart was sent to an expert, who found a congenital abnormality of the conducting system. Presumably, the babies all had the same abnormality." Hunt, a former vice-president of the Royal College of Pathologists, thinks research in which mothers have been caught by concealed cameras trying to suffocate their babies have influenced pathologists' thinking. He believes there is a wing of the profession - the "think dirty" brigade - which is too ready to suspect foul play. "It would appear that forensic pathologists tend to divide into three - hawks, doves, and don't-knows, of whom I think the don't-knows would be the majority. It really is a minefield and to be either a hawk or a dove is quite wrong." The motto, instead of "think dirty", should be "think objective", he says. In the Clark case, eight pathologists argued for days about what the postmortem findings meant. They included highly specialised neuro-pathologists, paediatric pathologists and an expert in the pathology of eyes - haemorrhages into the eyes can be a sign of asphyxia. Both babies had apparent injuries, but were they inflicted on them during their short lives, or were they sustained at birth, or when attempts were made to resuscitate them, or even during the postmortem? Shaken babies do produce particular signs on postmortem, but suffocation may leave no evidence at all and is impossible to diagnose for certain, says Hunt. "I had a case where a mother came rushing up to the top of the stairs holding a plastic bag saying, 'I've suffocated my baby.' I did a postmortem and there was nothing to find whatever." When pathologists with years of training and experience are so uncertain - several in the Clark case (both for the prosecution and the defence) said that, while the deaths did not appear to be natural, the only cause they could specify was "unascertained" - how can an ordinary jury know where the truth lies? When doctors disagree, how can the jury, with none of their experience or knowledge, decide between them? When the eminent paediatrician Sir Roy Meadow dropped the statistic - since acknowledged as seriously misleading - that for an affluent, non-smoking couple like the Clarks, the chances of two cot deaths were one in 73 million, it is easy to see how the jury could have grasped at it as offering some apparent certainty. "In most cases, the problem can be reasonably disentangled," says the child-law expert Allan Levy QC. "But there's no doubt that there is a category of cases that are a real puzzle. And it may well depend on the particular direction an expert is coming from - some may have particular agendas. "It's still very much a medical frontierland. A great deal more research needs to be done. There are no certainties and each case needs to be scrutinised in all its aspects. Even with apparently the best expertise, there are still great difficulties. Until we know the causes of sudden infant death syndrome, no real progress can be made. It's a worldwide problem."