For years the police had been trying to claim the scalp of Terry Adams. After at least six failed investigations, he believed he and his family were untouchable.His criminal organisation had been allowed to flourish and expand for two decades before the combined efforts of Scotland Yard, the National Crime Squad and its successor, the Serious and Organised Crime Agency, finally caught the man who was the chief of a criminal outfit considered far more dangerous than the Krays in their day.It was in 1997 that a select team of detectives began their inquiry, a year after an Inland Revenue investigation into Adams forced him to account for some of his wealth and resulted in him being forced to pay £95,000 in back tax for six years.The police enlisted the help of MI5 and for two years sophisticated listening devices were planted in the Finchley home where Adams lived with his wife, Ruth, and daughter, Skye.AttacksAt least one device was concealed deep in the sofa, others were hidden all over the house. Thousands of hours of tape recordings caught Adams and his associates discussing violent attacks on their rivals and the need to find a way of cleaning up the millions he had earned through his criminal activities.Adams is heard talking of one associate assaulting someone and "taking half his face off". He tells another enforcer: "You've got to liven him ... put the fear of God in him." On another occasion, boasting of his violence, he said: "I went crack. On my baby's life, Dan, his knee cap come right out there ... all white ... all bone."Adams, who began his criminal career in the playground of his Islington school before graduating to protection rackets, extortion and drug trafficking, reveals his bitter split with his brother, Tommy, who along with their other brother, Patsy, now lives in southern Spain.All three brothers were key figures in the organisation and, in the past, targets of the police. Tommy was sent down for seven and a half years in 1998 after being overheard on a bug discussing cannabis shipments as large as three tonnes, and the vast profits from that importation.Terry Adams, however, believed his brother had turned grass.On one tape he says: "When your so-called brother is saying he represents the family behind our back. Who gets us put into the newspapers. He's trying to get us all fucking done, so he can have his freedom ... Worse than a fucking grass."The hours of tapes detail the lavish lifestyle enjoyed by Adams and his family - with million pound houses, yachts, regular foreign holidays, first class air travel, private education for his daughter at the Sylvia Young theatre school, and on her birthday the gift of a Mercedes sports car.The tapes reveal that the conspiracy to launder his millions started after the Inland Revenue began poking around in Adams's affairs in 1995. Until that point he had never paid tax, but the revenue appeared determined to make him quantify his assets. In the end, after much negotiation, Adams was ordered to pay £95,000 in back tax.Following the tax inquiry, Solly Nahome, Adams's financial adviser, is heard telling him it is imperative that he now cleans up his money."We've got to think of a way to kosher you up," Nahome says.The tapes reveal that between 1997 and 1999 Adams, with the help of Nahome, built a false veneer of legitimacy to his empire. Two sham businesses were created to pay him a salary and the bookkeeper created jobs - ranging from a meat porter to a PR consultant - in order that Adams could justify an income to the authorities.Explaining one of his sham jobs to a friend, Adams is recorded saying: "I'm a consultant, Tone."Tone: "A consultant?""Yeah, Tone, I consult about anything you want me to consult about."Apparently aware that his home was being bugged, Adams is heard telling his mother: "They've got listening devices in this house. Me and Ruth have had a right giggle with them."He is also heard declaring he has "gone straight".In 1999 Adams bought a million pound gated house in Barnet, north London, with a mortgage obtained, like all his mortgages, as a result of applications containing false details of his employment and income, all of which, the Crown said, was evidence of the "layering of illicit funds to disguise the original source - crime back in the early to mid 1990s".But Adams's careful conspiracy was thrown into chaos when his bookkeeper, Nahome, was killed in a gangland hit in 1998, leaving the gangmaster with little clue of the whereabouts of his tens of millions."It's all over the fucking place," his wife, Ruth, said on the MI5 tapes.LuxuriousBy 2003 the police were ready to arrest Adams. When they knocked on the door of his house, Fallowfields, early on the morning of April 30 they walked into a luxurious home filled with £500,000 of antiques and paintings - mostly stolen property.In one of the bedrooms they discovered £48,000 of jewellery and in the loft, hidden away in a shoebox to use as pocket money when he fancied, £50,000 in cash.When it came to his arrest and trial, however, Adams was granted legal aid. His antics over the last three years have seen the court costs rise to tens of millions. But Adams, who sacked two legal teams, and asked for the surveillance tapes to be transcribed at a cost of £2m to the public purse, will now be made to pay for much of the vast court costs he helped to run up. · Adams family valuesTerry Adams on his family in general"I want to keep [them] at arm's length."On his own brother Tommy, in particular, who he considered a "jealous, evil cunt""When you have got your so-called brother having it off with fucking Paki informers getting us in the fucking papers and with the fucking Old Bill..."When you have got a so-called brother who is trying to get us all done in so that he secures his freedom..."Tommy was "worse than a fucking grass because he's had it with a grass".On violenceSpeaking to an accomplice about a dispute over money, he said: "A hundred grand it was, Dan, or 80 grand, and I went 'crack'. On my baby's life, Dan, his kneecap came right out there...all white, Dan, all bone and white...""When I hit someone I do them damage."