A man described as the UK linchpin of a global conspiracy to sell fake medicines over the internet was yesterday sentenced to four and a half years in prison following what police described as the biggest counterfeit drugs bust in British history.Ashish Halai, 33, masterminded the multimillion-pound movement of fake Viagra and other lucrative drugs from factories in China, India and Pakistan into the UK and then on to the Bahamas and the US.Three other men were also convicted of conspiracy charges; Gary Haywood, 58, Halai's brother-in-law Ashwin Patel, 24, and Pakistan-based Zahid Mirza, 45, are yet to be sentenced. Four others face a retrial after the jury failed to agree verdicts.Sentencing Halai at the end of a nine-month trial at Kingston crown court, Judge Nicholas Price told him: "I'm satisfied that greed is the overriding motivation for such offences. I have absolutely no doubt that large profits were made...You are undoubtedly a highly intelligent man. I accept that you have business acumen which should have been better employed in legitimate enterprise."It was a chance find that led to the unravelling of a massive global prescription drug fraud in which UK criminals were key players. Customs staff at Stansted airport opened a package containing plastic tubs of fish protein and dog protein. Inside were 12,000 little blue diamond-shaped pills.It was counterfeit Viagra, destined for thousands of young men seeking pleasure and older men seeking help for impotence not only in the UK but in other countries around the world. The tablets, repackaged to look like the original, would be sent out to customers who had ordered Viagra through internet websites, either because they were too embarrassed to see a GP or because they did not qualify for a prescription. What few realise is that most lifestyle drugs sold on the internet are fake.The package was intercepted in November 2002; several more that arrived later were logged and sent on their way. Investigators from the Medicines and Healthcare Regulatory Authority (MHRA) watched as the evidence grew of a fake drugs trail that led to the door of Haywood, a Leicester businessman and linked him to a company called Stormgrand based in Edgware, north London, which was owned by Halai, a Kenyan citizen.At the end of June 2003, the MHRA received a call from DHL. A package the firm had been delivering to Haywood had split open to reveal the tell-tale blue Viagra tablets, wrapped in Chinese newspapers. Chick Hatchwell, the MHRA's senior investigator, told them to seal the package and deliver it on July 2. His team went in 15 minutes later."We saw the first box and there was another DHL delivery too. In the garage, we found big wads of patient information leaflets and a press to put on the caps of the pots and labels with Pfizer on," said Mr Hatchwell, a former police officer.Inside a filing cabinet, he found 30 or 40 tubs full of tablets at the back of a drawer. In all, they found more than 100,000 fake tablets, which cost around 25p each and are sold for £15 a time - an estimated value of £1.6m.Correspondence at Haywood's house threw up the names of a number of pharmacies in the UK and a company called Global Medz in the Bahamas. It was the first clue to the global nature of the counterfeiting scam. Global Medz was handling website orders from all over the world, including delivery to the US. The United States is vigilant against internet medicines purchased from countries in Asia, where it is known that legal factories sometimes turn out illegal fakes at night; other counterfeiters are known to produce copies in cement mixers in back yards.The internet trade - even if the products are not fake - undermines the multibillion-dollar US pharmaceutical industry, the biggest in the world.Global Medz was sending crates full of envelopes to pharmacies in the UK from where they could be dispatched with a UK stamp.Seven days after the raid on Haywood's house, he fled the country despite agreeing to be interviewed by the MHRA at Hinckley police station in Leicestershire. Instead, he phoned them on his mobile, claiming to be in Costa Rica. He said his wife had left him.Days later, he sent a text message saying he was dying in hospital and the Triads were after him for non-payment of drugs he had bought from China. The he sent a fax. It amounted to a two-page confession, naming others involved in the medicines trade, including Ashish Halai. The MHRA got a warrant for his arrest for non-appearance at court. Then, in March last year, police boarded a plane returning to London from Thailand to make random checks on the passengers and found Haywood and his wife.But the key figure at the UK end of the global conspiracy was Halai, who was supplying counterfeits to the US market. He claimed he was an innocent go-between for his father in Kenya who did not speak English, but the court was told he organised the movement of fake drugs manufactured in Asia to his company, Stormgrand in London - often via Gary Haywood - and on to Global Medz in the Bahamas and elsewhere.The operation involved fake packaging, labels, patient information leaflets and even fraudulent documents laying false trails to bona fide companies. Halai operated at first through a pharmacy in north London, which he set up with his wife, a registered pharmacist, and originally specialised in herbal weight-loss drugs.After Haywood fled the UK and the US authorities, tipped off by the MHRA, moved in on the US end of the operation, Halai continued to supply fake drugs through a new company called Health First Marketing. Halai was arrested in June 2005 and pleaded guilty to four counts of conspiracy relating to the marketing and sale of the fake drugs.Several big players in the US have been arrested and $13m (£6.5m) worth of confiscations have been made. Others have been arrested in Dubai, which was a transit point for disguising shipments from China heading to London. Factories making counterfeit drugs have been closed down in China after representations from the US government.This has been the biggest worldwide conspiracy involving medicines ever brought to trial, and the authorities expect that it will have damaged the counterfeit trade, if only temporarily."It's really taken off," said Mr Hatchwell. "I think it's getting as big as some of the major drug deals."