Intercept evidence should not be allowed into British terror trials, the government's terrorism reviewer said today.In a report into Operation Pathway, an anti-terror swoop on 11 men in north-west England, Lord Carlile said he had considered whether the admissibility of such evidence could have led to any of the men being charged.Previously open to allowing intercept evidence, he said: "I have yet to see material to justify the conclusion that the permitting of such evidence in terrorism cases would do more good than harm."I believe that this debate should now be drawn to a conclusion, against the introduction of intercept evidence in terrorism cases."Carlile criticised Greater Manchester police as unwise for failing to take legal advice before arresting the suspects in Liverpool and Manchester on 8 April this year. After 13 days all the men had been released without charge after Crown Prosecution Service lawyers told police they had no evidence on which to hold them. Carlile said he was surprised the police did not realise they would have to give an evidential basis to extend the period of detention.The men were arrested in daytime raids in a counter-terrorist operation based on intelligence which police believed suggested an attack was imminent. The arrests were brought forward by several hours after the Metropolitan police assistant commissioner for counter-terrorism, Bob Quick, walked into Downing Street carrying secret papers about the operation which were visible.Carlile said CPS lawyers were only contacted the day before the arrests, not by the senior investigating officer but by an unnamed source concerned that lawyers should be consulted.There was evidence to justify arresting some of the men, Carlile found. An email published in his report caused officers serious concern. It referred to a wedding and stated: "They said you should be ready between these dates." The dates were 15 and 20 April, raising police concerns an attack was imminent.The email was sent from a cafe in Manchester that had been under police surveillance and was frequented by the suspected ringleader and other men suspected of involvement in a plot.Carlile said the security breach by Quick impacted on community tensions by forcing police to bring forward the arrests to daytime and carry them out in "combat style".Dave Thompson, the assistant chief constable of Greater Manchester, rejected the criticisms. Carlile had stated "we were justified in making arrests and that there was a compelling case for those arrests to be made. We would always have needed to arrest all the individuals that we did in April. We did speak to the Crown Prosecution Service ahead of arrests being made and will continue to work with them. However, none of the conversations would have changed our decision to make arrests or the number of people arrested."