"Yob tsar" Louise Casey, who provoked an outcry just weeks ago after threatening to "deck" Downing Street colleagues, is to lead the government's drive to root out disrespect in society, it was confirmed today.Ms Casey will head a new cross-governmental taskforce charged with leading the government's Respect agenda on a number of fronts, including encouraging respect for public servants, and continuing work previously led by the antisocial behaviour unit under her watch.The surprise appointment comes less than two months after Ms Casey was forced to apologise for an after-dinner speech made at a conference organised by the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers.In it, she mocked the government campaign on binge drinking, threatened to "deck" Downing Street officials and boasted how she liked to get "hammered".The decision to appoint her as head of the Respect agenda is all the more surprising since the home secretary, Charles Clarke, is understood to have been frustrated by her trademark outspokenness.Ms Casey will stay in the Home Office and report directly to Mr Clarke. Previously, she was told to report directly to the prime minister, Tony Blair, in a move that was seen as a rebuke to Mr Clarke over his lack of progress in tackling yob culture.Ms Casey is believed to be one of the prime minister's favoured civil servants. The former deputy director of the housing charity Shelter, she first joined Whitehall as head of the rough sleepers unit six years ago, before being appointed as "yob tsar".Now, as head of the Respect Taskforce, she will work to support parents and guardians to build their skills and accept responsibility for the impact their childrens' behaviour has on others. Announcing the new taskforce today, Mr Clarke said that tackling disrespect in society was an "absolute priority"."From bad behaviour in schools and poor parenting, to binge drinking and noisy neighbours, disrespect for others can take many forms," he said. "It is absolutely crucial, therefore, that the task force is joined up across government, bringing together officials from all relevant departments." "We all have the right to live our lives free from harassment. But with those rights come responsibilities, and we all need to play a part in tackling disrespect and unacceptable behaviour." Earlier today, Tony Blair announced a major extension to schemes designed to force parents to rein in their yobbish children as part of new measures to crack down on antisocial behaviour. In his first keynote speech since returning from his Caribbean holiday, the prime minister said schools will be able to apply to the courts to make parents go on parenting programmes.Under the measures, parents must undergo counselling or guidance on raising their children and agree to ensure that they behave. More than 2,000 parents have already signed orders saying they will make sure their children attend school.