Two sisters were jailed yesterday for heading a multi-million-pound prostitution business in which hundreds of Thai girls and women were brought to Britain to work in a chain of brothels.Southwark crown court in London heard that the women were the "controlling minds" of a gang which tempted the women into the country by promising them cleaning jobs but sent them to a "finishing school" for prostitutes. The women were then sent to one of 15 brothels in London and the south-east where they had to earn almost £50,000 - by having sex with about 500 customers - to buy their freedom. Judge Paul Dodgson said it was one of the most serious cases of its kind imaginable. He told the sisters, Bupha Savada, 45, and Monporn Hughes, 40: "Each of the girls you controlled had to perform sexual acts with literally hundreds of men. These were girls in a foreign land totally dependent upon you and you used them as animals." During the hearing one of the women forced to work as a prostitute, an 18-year-old known by the alias Mary Pondee, told how at the age of 16 she was duped into leaving her job working in the rice fields of northern Thailand by the promise of cleaning work which would earn her twice as much in a month as she earned in a year. She said she borrowed £650 to pay the gang's fixer in Thailand for a false passport, visa and plane ticket. Within days of arriving in the UK she was in a brothel in Southampton. She said she was told that her family in Thailand would suffer if she did not cooperate. Brendan Kelly, prosecuting, said the gang's empire included brothels in north and south London, Basildon, Crawley and Southampton. He said Savada's husband, Pathinage Ranasinghe, 33, who was also involved, spent thousands of pounds advertising "Thai massage services" and the services of "young beautiful Oriental girls" in local newspapers. Undercover police were offered sex at the brothels for as little as £50. They were also offered sex without a condom. Vice squad officers raided brothels and "safe houses" in September 2002 and found 36 prostitutes. At a "safe house" in East Ham, east London, they discovered more than £40,000 in cash, false passports and dozens of prostitutes' calling cards. Savada was jailed for five years and Hughes for three-and-a-half. Both women pleaded guilty to controlling prostitution. Ranasinghe, 33, was jailed for two years after he admitted living off immoral earnings.