A 15-year-old boy is being questioned about the attempted murder of a man who was attacked in the street near his home after he confronted a group of youths.Phil Carroll woke from a coma on Tuesday in Hope hospital, Salford, on the eve of his 49th birthday. He has undergone three operations to relieve pressure on his brain. Doctors said his condition was improving after more than a fortnight in a critical condition. He is said to be showing vague awareness of his surroundings and is a "poorly but stable" condition. His wife, Jean, and their children, Lisa, 23, Wes, 21, Alan, 17, and Samantha, 12, were at his bedside when he began to wake up. The 15-year-old, from Higher Broughton, Salford, was arrested more than 200 miles away in London by officers from the Metropolitan police. Last night he was being taken back to Greater Manchester, where he will be questioned by detectives. A spokeswoman for the Greater Manchester force said: "A 15-year-old boy from Higher Broughton has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder. Officers from the Metropolitan police force arrested the boy in London on behalf of Greater Manchester police." Mr Carroll was attacked as he was testing a new satellite navigation system in his Range Rover with his brother John, 34, when one youth threw a stone at the vehicle. He confronted the gang and was punched twice and knocked to the ground. Days later, Chief Superintendent David Baines, of Greater Manchester police, warned that gangs of youths were running wild across the country, sparking a debate on Britain's yob culture. He claimed there was "no control from adults or parents". He said: "We have gangs of young people with alcohol, hanging around on street corners being abusive, swearing, intimidating and causing trouble. They then go on to damage property or, as we have seen with Mr Carroll, to commit a very vicious and unprovoked attack." Detective Inspector Geoff Wessell, of Salford CID, said the incident was an unprovoked attack against a man trying to protect his property. A neighbour of the family said the community was "extremely relieved" that Mr Carroll had come round from the coma, but there was still a long way to go. Mr Carroll's brother, John, has repeatedly asked his brother to leave the area but he refused because he was born locally and enjoys living there. His home, a neat, red-brick terrace house in a conservation area, has been broken into on three occasions in recent years. According to eyewitnesses, there were at least 20 drunken youths hanging around near Mr Carroll's home in the lead-up to the attack. One resident said there was a big social gap between the street and homes 500 yards away, but it had seemed safe until Mr Carroll was attacked. Greater Manchester police have stepped up patrols in the area.