A mother of two has been killed after apparently being mowed down during a road rage incident in rush hour traffic.The woman, named locally as Christine McHugh, was in traffic in Barnet, north London, on Monday evening when she got into an altercation with another female driver, police said.Witnesses told detectives how the woman left her car and during what seems to have been a dispute with the other driver she was carried a distance on the bonnet of the other car until she fell into a belisha beacon. Ambulance crews who arrived shortly afterwards found the woman dead at the scene.DCI Howard Groves, of the Metropolitan police's homicide and serious crime command, said he was seeking more witnesses to the death on Monday at 6.40pm on East Barnet Road. The car involved drove away from the incident.Scotland Yard said police later went to an address in Barnet and arrested a woman. She was taken to a police station for questioning on Monday night but has since been released on police bail. Officers have recovered a Vauxhall car insignia from the scene.The victim's relatives have been informed of her death but she has not yet been formally identified. She is understood to have been in her 30s with a five-year-old son and baby girl with her husband John.On Tuesday evening, bunches of flowers were laid on the spot where she died beside a zebra crossing. Paul Lawrence, landlord of the Lord Kitchener pub opposite, told his local paper: "She was a lovely lady. It's very sad and tragic. She was a local girl – she would come in here quite a bit."One card at the scene read: "We are so going to miss you Christie. You're one special person and mother. All our love Lee, Tash, Jade and Robyn. RIP xxxx."A shop assistant in New Barnet Fruit and Veg, who asked not to be named, told the local paper: "I was here when it happened – I was sitting in the store and I heard a lot of shouting outside."I saw a woman and her head was bleeding and then I saw a car speed off."Someone came and tried to massage the woman's heart for ten to 15 minutes and then the paramedics came but they couldn't bring her back."I'm just in a bit of shock. I feel very sorry for the woman and her relatives."A police spokesman said: "At this early stage it appears that the woman was a driver involved in a dispute with another woman driver. She left the vehicle and an incident occurred during which she was injured. Early inquiries indicate that she was carried on the bonnet of the other car and fell from the bonnet and was in collision with a belisha beacon. The vehicle drove away. Police are appealing for witnesses or anyone who has information that may assist the investigation."A postmortem is due to be held on Wednesday.Witnesses are being asked to contact police on 0208 247 7821.