In the high-rolling world of drug trafficking, the plot that has landed Curtis Warren in prison again was small fry. It was, as Warren himself dismissed it in a secret police recording, "just a little starter".As he awaits his sentence in La Moye, Jersey's only jail, after being found guilty of conspiring to smuggle 180kg of cannabis on to the island, Warren must be wondering where it all went wrong. A veteran of some of the world's biggest and most audacious drug deals with an estimated personal wealth of anything from £80m-£460m, he must never have thought he'd get caught dabbling in a mere million-pound deal.The 46-year-old was once Interpol's most wanted man, a drugs kingpin who earned the nickname the "Teflon criminal" after he walked free from court in 1993 despite smuggling 1.4 tonnes of pure cocaine into the UK hidden inside lead ingots. Now here he is, behind bars for a possible 14 years, for masterminding a piffling plot that never came to fruition.The potential haul of the 2007 Jersey conspiracy was estimated by prosecutors at a street value of £1m, but inflated island prices mean the same amount would fetch a third of that amount in England, according to customs sources. The plot that landed Warren in jail last time, in Holland in 1997, involved smuggling 400kg of cocaine, 100kg of heroin, 1,050kg of cannabis and 50kg of ecstasy, worth at least £100m.In the latest plot, no drugs were recovered. There is no evidence that any were ever bought, let alone whizzed across the Channel by speedboat. Warren and his co-conspirators were arrested before even an ounce of cannabis reached the island.If the conspiracy had involved almost anyone else, a round-the-clock surveillance operation would almost certainly not have been mounted. Every phone box in Jersey would not have been bugged. Police would not have swooped until they had a consignment of drugs to photograph as proof to the public of their sleuthing skills.When Warren's scalp was in sight, however, no expense was spared, no risk taken. He was the big prize, the lottery jackpot. For drug enforcement officers, being part of the team who put Interpol's most wanted behind bars again must be like being on the winning side in the World Cup final.It was a coup for Jersey's police force, a small band of officers who usually lead a quiet life keeping the island's 90,000 generally well-behaved residents in check, when not investing allegations of historic child abuse within the care system.But the Jersey police would probably never have nailed Warren were it not for a tip-off from the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca), which began an intelligence-gathering operation against him in 2006 when he was still sitting in his Dutch jail cell.Under the auspices of its lifetime offender management programme, Soca, along with the Dutch prison service, kept tabs on Warren's visitors to Nieuw Vosseveld prison, which is on the site of a former Nazi concentration camp near the town of Vught.Soca officers gathered what the agency described as "first-class intelligence material indicating that Warren was still engaged in drug trafficking activity whilst in prison".When Warren was released on 14 June 2007, Soca continued to monitor him and soon established that his next job would be in Jersey. Denied a passport, Warren was limited in his smuggling destinations. Soca officers tipped off Jersey police's drug squad, who were already investigating Jonathan Welsh, one of Warren's five co-conspirators.Somewhat embarrassingly, it emerged during the two-week trial that many of Jersey's drug enforcement officers had never heard of Warren, but once Soca filled them in they bugged Welsh's car and listened to the conversations he had when Warren came to visit on several separate occasions in the five weeks he was a free man.What the secret recordings revealed was hardly sensational, but it proved enough to secure the men's convictions. The two drove to St Catherine's Breakwater, a picturesque spot on Jersey's east coast, where the pair had a rather oblique conversation which the prosecution successfully argued revealed that this secluded cove was to be the "drop-off point" for their 180kg of cannabis.By bugging Jersey's distinctive yellow phone booths, the police managed to record a conversation Warren had with someone called Mohammed Liazid. The Moroccan was, the prosecution claimed, Warren's "right-hand man in Holland", whose role was to "process the sale of the drugs and arrange safe transit to the Normandy cost" where they would then be shipped to Jersey by boat.Warren's defence counsel, Stephen Baker, told the court that Liazid was a police informer who had been tasked with coercing Warren into "loose talk" that could be falsely construed as relating to drugs.In the most damning call to Liazid, made from a public telephone box near the Jersey home of Warren's girlfriend, Kimberley Lockley, Warren said: "Even if we get 20 or 30 pieces ourselves I will be happy." The prosecution said this was a clear reference to 20 or 30kg of cannabis.Somewhat implausibly, Warren's defence was that he was trying to buy guns to protect himself. Making reference to the armed guards who stood watch throughout the trial, Baker said to the jury: "You know he is being brought to court in an armed convoy and there are armed police everywhere. Jersey police are worried about Warren and the sort of world he moves in."How secure does he feel when he is a free man? How safe are the streets of Liverpool for a man dealing in drugs? You read about it in the paper all the time. There are regular shootings in Liverpool."He added: "Well, 'pieces' is a reference to guns in slang as well ... Can you imagine how much kudos there would be on the streets of Liverpool if you shot Curtis Warren? Those crazy kids on the streets of Liverpool: 'I am the man who shot Curtis Warren'."Baker suggested Warren's reputation as a violent man was justified, telling the jury how he kicked a fellow prisoner to death in 1999, earning himself a manslaughter conviction to add to his criminal record.There was another creative explanation to justify the 112 phone calls that Warren made from public phone boxes during the five-week conspiracy period. Warren didn't use any of his numerous mobile phones because he was trying to throw the authorities off as he tried to access the "many, many, many tens of millions of pounds" he had made through drug dealing, said Baker.This boastful and highly risky defence was a major about-turn for the previously unflashy Warren. In June 1997, at the start of his Dutch prison sentence, Warren faxed a statement to some Granada journalists disputing his status as Britain's richest criminal and the owner of hundreds of properties. His position on the Sunday Times rich list "cannot be substantiated in any way, shape or form", he wrote, adding that far from owning homes all over the world, he had owned one house in the Wirral, and two "very small properties in Liverpool" that he rented out.In the end, the jury were not convinced. They believed that Warren was indeed the mastermind of the conspiracy, and for that he will spend yet more of his life behind bars.