A couple who claimed benefits while sailing around the world in a £100,000 yacht were told yesterday that they face jail.Shashi Bacheta, 52, and Jeffrey Coles, 58, had spent almost two years sailing around the world on the 70ft vessel, living off the proceeds from their post office and property businesses. They were found out when photographs emerged of them sailing the yacht in the Canaries.Bacheta claimed she was so ill she could not get out of bed in Swansea, when in fact she was scuba diving off Kenya. By the end of the sailing trip she had claimed almost £50,000 in housing benefits, disability living allowances, council tax relief and income support. Coles helped her to obtain an extra £12,000 and backed up her claims that they were not living together. Judge Huw Davies, sitting at Swansea crown court, said he would postpone sentencing until next month, but he warned that sentencing guidelines indicated jail sentences. They were granted bail.The fraud came undone after they came across two former police officers in Gran Canaria who were also sailing the world. Months later, Jeffrey Fish, who investigated the couple on behalf of Swansea county council, found mention of their yacht, Kismet, on a blog kept by the retired police officers and a photograph showing Bacheta and Coles looking tanned in the Canaries. Fish said the pictures contradicted Bacheta's claims that she was so ill she needed 24-hour care. "The photograph said it all." She had also kept a log of her diving hours while in Mombasa. Bacheta, of Fforestfach, Swansea, admitted 16 charges of false accounting, fraud and deception between October 2002 and January 2008. Coles, of Sketty, Swansea, admitted four offences of obtaining wrongful credits and false accounting. Melanie Surridge, the Department for Work and Pensions official in charge of the case, said: "It was quite staggering. This lady, while claiming to be bedridden, was in fact regularly able to go scuba diving from her boyfriend's yacht." Tal Davies, the investigations manager at Swansea council, said: "They were stealing from all those people who pay their taxes to help provide important public services. It was an affront to those who can't afford the lifestyle they had been enjoying. The couple were arrested in January last year. Bacheta's daughter, Anju, has pleaded guilty to fraudulently claiming to be her mother's carer.