A mother whose son was taken into care after she "saw red" and hit him with a hairbrush said today that she did not know when the youngster would return home.The woman, 42, who cannot be named, was handed a community order for 12 months at South Somerset magistrates court after admitting assaulting the eight-year-old boy by beating. The woman, who snapped because the boy refused to get dressed to go to school, hit him with the back of the hairbrush on one shoulder and with the spiked side of the brush on the other, leaving red marks.She told the court in Yeovil that it was a moment of madness in which she "saw red" and immediately apologised to him and gave him a cuddle when he started to cry. He complained of a sore shoulder at school later that morning and when a teacher saw the marks police were called.In interviews he told officers that he and his mum often had fights because he went to bed late. The single mother, who also has a daughter aged eight, was fighting breast cancer and was stressed about her health. She has had a mastectomy and will return to hospital for more surgery next month.Ben Tabiner, mitigating, told magistrates that she had voluntarily attended anger management courses."This is a difficult case interfering in the upbringing of a child, this is about a single mum with a difficult child at the end of her tether and in that moment she snapped," he said."She realises that she cannot behave that way and she is remorseful. She has been punished by her son no longer living with her, and she is distraught by what has happened in terms of her relationship with him."Magistrates said they took into account her co-operation with the authorities in giving her a 12-month community supervision order. She was also ordered to pay £30 in costs and would have to report to probation services once a week.Since the incident the boy has been in foster care and has seen his mother for two hours a week, now increasing to four hours.The court was told the mother was expected to regain custody of her son once the sentence was completed.Outside court she said: "Whenever I see him he says he misses me and wants to come home, but I've not been allowed to tell him all that has happened with court and why he can't."I am working with social services to get him back but I don't know when that will be, I just have to do things the right way."I am relieved today is over, but it has been very emotional and I think the sentence is right because it will help me."The past few months have been a nightmare, I know what I did was wrong but you always see angry parents around town losing their temper with their children. I think this could have been sorted out without it coming to court. There has been so much hurt and upset caused by this."The case caused much debate when it emerged earlier this month. At that time Somerset county council said it hoped to return the boy to his mother as soon as possible.The children's charity the NSPCC said it believed the law should be changed to make physical punishment of children illegal. "The law in the UK on hitting is confusing and leaves children of all ages vulnerable to abuse," a spokesman said at the time.But the family welfare charity the Family Education Trust said the case showed the law as it stood did allow the authorities to intervene where a child was harmed.