The strategy for Maxine Carr's release from prison will not be changed despite the theft of documents relating to the secret arrangements, the prisons' boss said today.Martin Narey, head of the National Offenders Management Service (Noms), admitted he "can't be sure" the release plans had not been compromised but insisted they would still be followed. The 27-year-old former girlfriend of the Soham murderer, Ian Huntley, is expected to be released tomorrow and has almost certainly been given a new identity, drawn up by a team of senior probation officers and police.Her release has been carefully planned to avoid a tabloid witch-hunt and to reduce the possibility she may be threatened or attacked. The confidential arrangements have been under review since the documents were stolen on Tuesday afternoon in Hampstead, north London, from the car of the Home Office official who drew them up. The car is not thought to have been broken into with the specific aim of stealing the documents, which were found by police four hours later dumped on Hampstead Heath. Mr Narey said the documents did not give details of any new identity. It is not known exactly what the documents do reveal, but a source involved in previous operations to give people new identities told the Guardian last night that in the worst-case scenario officials would now have to "change everything - social security numbers, address, bank cards, the lot".The source added that if one part was known, "then you have to start again", and said the plans would have taken months to prepare. But Mr Narey told GMTV the theft had not altered any "meticulous planning". He said Carr was moved from Foston Hall prison, near Derby, into police custody yesterday "exactly as planned ... and will be released into the care of the Probation Service tomorrow." Asked if he believed details of the plans might now be in the public domain, Mr Narey said: "We can't be sure, but we don't think so, and in any case there was no information in the back of that car relating to her identity, as is being alleged."He said the Prison Service had been "disturbed that some papers were taken", and that the official involved had made a mistake that needed investigating. Mr Narey said: "I am extremely confident that the arrangements which have been made, ironically by the official criticised for losing the papers, are very good quality arrangements and will ensure that this person doesn't offend again."The civil servant had left the documents in her car while she went to a friend's birthday lunch party at a pub. Witnesses said she became frantic when she realised her Ford Fiesta had been broken into. She told the police what had been stolen, and at least 10 officers arrived to scour the nearby area and Hampstead Heath. Carr has served half of a 42-month sentence imposed for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. She provided a false alibi for Huntley by lying to police over her whereabouts on the weekend in August 2002 when he murdered 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. In addition to serving the licence period of her jail term, she will be under the supervision of probation officers after a new sentence was handed down on Monday. The former teaching assistant, who worked at the primary school where Holly and Jessica were pupils, was ordered to complete a three-year community rehabilitation order (CRO) by Nottingham crown court after admitting benefit fraud and lying in job applications. Carr pleaded guilty to 20 counts of deception, and will be supervised by a probation officer until May 2007. Mr Narey said it was not yet known what the cost of resettling her would be. That could depend on whether her whereabouts became public knowledge, he said."We won't know the cost until Maxine Carr has been released for some time. It is very much a matter for the police.""When she has been released, she will be under probation service supervision, and it depends on whether she is threatened in any way. I hope that doesn't happen, and there is no reason why it should." Mr Narey said officials had considered the possibility that Carr's new identity and address could be uncovered and made public. "I would be very disappointed if that happened because it wouldn't do anybody any good and wouldn't do Maxine Carr any good," he said. "But obviously, we have to take account of the possibility that this may happen at any time in the next two or three years." The Home Office said the parents of Holly and Jessica were informed of arrangements for Carr's release and transfer from prison before the news was made public yesterday. Scotland Yard confirmed that inquiries were continuing to trace the thieves who snatched the documents and other items from the civil servant's vehicle. The Home Office refused to discuss reports that Carr was today meeting the team of probation officers and police who will supervise her licence period and community rehabilitation order.