"Charles Bronson has cost the taxpayer an inordinate amount of money because of his life of crime," said Glyn Travis, assistant general secretary of the Prison Officers Association reacting to the forthcoming film about Britain's most infamous prisoner entitled simply, Bronson. Travis is angry about the film, on general release in 11 days' time, because, he says, it glorifies the man who has spent 29 of the past 35 years in solitary confinement. "It's a sad state of affairs in society when we want to glorify someone who has committed horrendous acts of crime by making a film about him," he says.It seems clear to me, however, that Travis has not yet seen the film. If he had, he might think differently. I have seen the film and I would like to reassure Travis and anyone else with similar concerns that rather than glorifying Charlie Bronson, the prisoner formerly known as plain Mickey Peterson, the film provides valuable insights into why our prison system tends to fail the most damaged people in our society who end up embroiled within its confines, and should be required viewing for anyone interested in a career in the Prison Service.Bronson, jailed in 1974 for the armed robbery of a post office during which he stole just £26, was initially sentenced to seven years. There was no excuse for his behaviour and the crime could indeed rightly be described as "horrendous." But most of his criminal activity since then, to which I guess which Travis is referring in particular, has taken place inside the nation's prisons and special hospitals. There is still no excuse for what then became Bronson's unrelenting campaign of anti-community behaviour. The system's response to Bronson however, especially in the form of Travis's colleagues and former colleagues, was insensitive to say the least. Bronson's violence was met with greater violence. Often naked during the confrontations, Bronson was routinely subdued by gangs of prison officers in heavy-duty protective clothing, wearing crash helmets and wielding staves. While Bronson usually managed to swing a few punches, their effect was hardly noticeable in comparison with the force used by the officers in their efforts to incapacitate him. Bruised and bloodied, Bronson refused to be cowed. When he was sectioned and transferred first to Rampton "special hospital" and then Broadmoor, he fought back with almost superhuman strength, overcoming the drugs they used to control him and staging a roof top protest in Broadmoor that caused over a quarter of a million pounds' worth of damage. Finally his wish was granted and after seven years in the asylums he was sent back to prison. But still his needs were not being met – and he began taking hostages – usually members of staff, but on one occasion he grabbed two Iraqis who were on remand in Belmarsh prison for the hijacking a plane in Sudan and directing it to London. The Iraqis, who had released their hostages unharmed at Stansted airport and then claimed asylum, must have been puzzled by their introduction to life in a British prison. Bronson threatened to eat one of them if his demands – for a helicopter, two Uzi sub-machine guns and an axe – were not met. (His first demand was usually a cup of tea for himself and his hostages and on at least two occasions he demanded, "a blow up doll".) During the siege involving the Iraqis he asked one of his captives to beat him over the head with a metal tray, to make it "quits", before taking off his trainers and ordering the men to tickle his feet, "because I hadn't had my feet tickled in years," he later explained. He then began to self-harm, slicing himself with a razor blade. It was not the first time Bronson has resorted to self-harm, nor would it be the last. When he took the art teacher hostage in Hull secure unit in 1999, the offence for which he is now serving life in a specially constructed cage deep inside Wakefield high security prison in West Yorkshire, he almost electrocuted himself by standing in water under which live wires were submerged. Most of Charles Bronson's violent behaviour in prison has been in direct response to the circumstances he found himself in. His lack of emotional maturity and other behavioural imperfections led him to react badly to being confined, infantilised and oppressed. The system should have recognised that he was unable to cope with its rigors and badly needed help. For Bronson, punishment and rehabilitation, the key elements of what prison is supposed to be for, were irrelevances. He needed prolonged intense therapy and counselling. Instead the system sought to crush him, a course of action that did indeed, as Travis points out, "cost the taxpayer an inordinate amount of money." Millions in fact. It would have taken a great deal less money to help Bronson, and many of his victims would not have had to suffer various degrees of trauma at his hands. The fact is that Travis and anyone else concerned at the film's content needs to actually watch it, and learn what works in prison and what manifestly does not.