Five young Muslim men yesterday had their terrorism convictions quashed after judges concluded that reading Islamist material was not illegal unless there was "direct" proof it was to be used to inspire violent extremism.The men had been jailed in July 2006 with the trial judge saying they had been "intoxicated" by extremism after Islamist ideological CDs and computer downloads were found in their possession. The prosecution at their trial claimed the men were preparing to train in Pakistan before fighting in Afghanistan.They were prosecuted under section 57 of the Terrorism act 2000, which makes it an offence to have books or items useful for a terrorist. Striking down the convictions, the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Phillips said: "[Section 57] must be interpreted in a way that requires a direct connection between the object possessed and the act of terrorism."Directions given to the jury by the trial judge did not tell jurors "that they had to be satisfied that each appellant intended to use the relevant articles to incite his fellow planners to fight in Afghanistan". The court of appeal ruled that the "basis upon which the appellants were convicted is shown to have been unsound."Defence lawyers said later that the ruling made it permissible to download such material so long as there was no intention to use it.The Crown Prosecution Service had attempted to use Section 57 against other young people for downloading similar information, but would now be severely restricted unless it could prove unlawful intent, the lawyers said. It is the first time the court of appeal has quashed guilty verdicts passed by a jury since the war on terror began in 2001.The court said the prosecution's case was so weak, it should not even have gone before a jury. Included in the case were emails and messages taken from the defendants' computers talking about fighting abroad. The judgment says: "While they lent support to the prosecution case that the appellants had formed a plan to go to Pakistan to train and then to Afghanistan to fight, there was nothing that evidenced expressly the use, or intention to use, the extremist literature to incite each other to do this. We think it doubtful whether there was a case of infringement of section 57 ... that could properly have been left to a jury." One of those cleared, Usman Malik, said that his life since his arrest had been "worse than a nightmare" and he denied wanting to be a terrorist or supporting violence. Four of the men were Bradford University students who were arrested after a schoolboy, Mohammed Irfan Raja, ran away from home in February 2006. He left a note for his parents saying he was going to fight abroad and they would meet again in heaven, the Old Bailey heard. Raja, now 20, of Ilford, east London, and students Awaab Iqbal, 20, of Bradford; Aitzaz Zafar, 21, of Rochdale, Lancashire; Usman Ahmed Malik, 22, of Bradford; and Akbar Butt, 21, of Southall, west London, were accused of having extreme material on their computers.Jailing them for up to three years, the Recorder of London, Judge Peter Beaumont, said they were preparing to train in Pakistan and then fight in Afghanistan against its allies, which included British soldiers. All said the material was not intended to encourage terrorism or martyrdom. They denied having extremist views and some said they were researching ideology, including visiting websites about violent jihad. Malik's solicitor, Saghir Hussein, said: "The judgment means there must be a direct connection between possession [of material] and acts of terrorism. A book about how to make bombs would come under section 57, not a book that contains ideological material. It's just like reading Mein Kampf does not make you a Nazi." Imran Khan, Zafar's solicitor, said young Muslims seeking to explore the world of their religion should no longer be victimised: "My client is over the moon. He says it is surreal and cannot see why he has spent the last two years in prison for looking at material which he had no intention of using for terrorism. Young people should not be frightened of exploring their world." Usman Malik, speaking through his lawyer, said: "The last 18 months have been worse than a nightmare. I was away from home for the first time when I was arrested and accused of being a terrorist. I was never a terrorist and have never supported violence."The Crown Prosecution Service is considering an appeal to the House of Lords.