Five police stations have been closed every month since Labour came to power, a disclosure that will undermine New Labour's claim to be the party of law and order.There are 198 fewer police stations than there were in 1997, a 10 per cent drop, according to new figures from forces across Britain. The news comes as the Home Office faces a crisis in recruitment and plummeting numbers of serving officers. Around 3,000 - equivalent to two small forces - have retired or quit since Tony Blair won power promising to be 'tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime'. Although a similar number of stations were closed in the final three years of the last Tory government, the Police Federation, which represents beat officers, said last night that the rate of closure was no longer sustainable and had contributed to rising levels of violent crime and mugging.Dave Rodgers, vice-chairman of the federation in London, said: 'No one buys the idea that it is good to close police stations, whatever the Government or senior police officers say about new technology or rapid response. People like a local station that is open all hours.' In some parts of London beats were now so large and police stations so few that whole areas never saw a police officer on patrol, Rodgers said. Outside the capital, the highest levels of closures are in Essex, where 40 stations have disappeared, South Wales (27), and Nottinghamshire (27). Norman Brennan, national director of the Victims of Crime Trust, said last night: 'It is bad enough that members of the public no longer see a police officer on the beat. But it is appalling that they can turn up at a police station after being mugged and find the doors closed, or at best a phone linked to a police station several miles away.'Brennan, a serving policeman, said officers in squad cars in the shires often had a beat of 60 square miles, and some London boroughs only had a single police station open 24 hours a day. 'It is an indictment of the criminal justice system that people now expect to be robbed, burgled and have their cars stolen. The Government needs to ask itself if people feel safer on the streets since they came to power.' Campaigners believe the figures for the country's lost police stations should be even higher because the Home Office tally is a net total, arrived at when newly built stations are taken into account. Critics say these are rarely the traditional high street cop shops, but highly automated command centres requiring lower manpower. Last November the Home Office Minister Charles Clarke responded to concerns about rural policing by ordering constabularies to reopen some part-time police stations and appoint special constables to pound the beat in country areas. But the Government is bracing itself for new figures to be published at the end of April, which will reveal the full toll on police stations during Labour's first term in office. It is believed the full figure for closures could rise to more than 250.