One in eight bottles of spirits consumed over Christmas and one in six cigarettes smoked are likely to have been smuggled into the UK, figures in the annual estimate of revenue lost by customs suggest.The latest report by Revenue and Customs (HMRC) puts the maximum amount lost from smuggled alcohol, cigarettes, hand-rolled tobacco and petrol at nearly £5.5bn. The share of smuggled alcohol has increased over the past year, from one in 10 to one in eight bottles. The trade in illegal cigarettes also went up. The government has been at pains to clamp down on the smuggling of cheap cigarettes, amid reports that poorer smokers are more likely to quit if prices increase. In October a report published in the British Medical Journal said that cheap cigarettes and other tobacco products smuggled into Britain caused 4,000 premature deaths, four times the number from illegal drugs. The study by Prof Robert West found that if smuggling were stopped, tobacco prices would rise by about 12%. A price increase would encourage over 5% of smokers to stop smoking, his report added.The Liberal Democrat spokesman for the Treasury, Matthew Oakeshott, described the amount of revenue lost to smuggling as "shocking". He said: "HMRC's upper estimate of the annul revenue loss totals nearly £5.5bn. This is almost £100 for every man, woman and child. It's enough to pay every pensioner a £500 Christmas bonus every year."The figures in HMRC's annual report are based on the General Household Survey. According to the figures, one in eight bottles of spirits consumed - 40m litres - was illegal and one out of every six cigarettes - 11bn out of 64 bn - was smuggled into the country.The figures also showed that over half of all hand-rolled tobacco entered the country illegally. HMRC said that it was unable to estimate the amount of revenue lost from smuggled beer.The report also showed that in Northern Ireland a quarter of petrol and almost half of all diesel is illegal.The government announced a strategy against tobacco smuggling in 2000, but it is under pressure to follow other European countries and sign agreements with the tobacco firms Philip Morris International and Japan Tobacco International to ensure that they control distribution and stop supplying contractors who have smuggling links.Responsibility for tackling smuggling will soon pass to the UK Borders Agency. HMRC was criticised last month by the National Audit Office, which showed the UK was one of the easiest places in the European Union to bring in counterfeit goods. The watchdog said there was lax rveillance at border crossings and that only 1% of goods entering the country were physically inspected by officers.