Speaking as somebody who has been in the business, my classification of burglar differs from the ones identified in the latest report. Generally, I regard those intending or at least prepared for confrontation, as robbers; those who may have switched from security vans to other ways of seizing cash in transit, and to raiding wealthy homes.Leaving this heavy mob aside, the rest I split into two groups: the professionals, or semi-pros, and those addicted to hard drugs (the smack and crackheads). You ought to know where you are with the former, who know it's not to their advantage to engage in confrontation. Those whose game is breaking and entering will usually make the preparation of their exit - the "offmans" - a first priority after entry. They will not want to scramble out of a window in a hurry. Such people will target houses they think are empty. Or, if they are creeping a "drum" (house), aware that the residents are asleep upstairs, they will confine their activities to downstairs. If they are bold enough to quietly "spin" the bedrooms looking for jewellery and purses, they will leave in a lively way if the occupants wake up. My advice to anyone wakened by someone downstairs is to barricade the bedroom door before calling for assistance. You can be reasonably confident the miscreants will leg it once they've heard sounds of you waking up. These days though, the majority of burglars will be class-A users looking to subsidise their habit. This mob is unpredictable and prone to panic. They are usually the ones who lash out at those whom they see as threatening their supply. Short of legalising class-A drugs and making them available to addicts on prescription, it is difficult to offer advice to householders at risk from this group. Personal attack alarms for the elderly and vulnerable would help. The louder the scream the better: burglars hate noise. A good dog serves that purpose even better. The animal would deter most casuals before they tried to get in - even if it wasn't minded to attack. It just has to sound like it is. I would leave a relatively valuable, portable item near entry points. Addicts often look no further than the next fix, so there's a better than even chance they will gratefully accept this speedy answer to their problem and do one lively.· Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent. e.allison@theguardian.com