Anti-war protesters yesterday launched a high court action against Gloucestershire police, claiming that its officers breached human rights law by barring them from a demonstration at RAF Fairford.Lawyers for 60 of the 120 passengers on three coaches who were intercepted on their way to the protest at the US airbase against the war on Iraq accused the police of being guilty of an abuse of power and unlawful action. The case is being brought in the name of one protester, Jane Laporte, who boarded one of the coaches outside Euston station in London for the journey to Fairford in Gloucestershire on Saturday March 22 last year. They were stopped and searched in the village of Lechlade, about 10 miles from the airbase. The police claimed they believed that members of a hardcore direct action group known as the Wombles were on board. Chief Supt Kevin Lambert of Gloucestershire police decided that the passengers intended to cause a breach of the peace and that the coaches should be returned to London non-stop under a police escort. The vehicles were forced back on to the motorway, where they were surrounded by police vans and motorcycle outriders on the way back to London. Michael Fordham, for the protesters, said the police action was a case of a preventative restraint, not because of anything that had happened, but because of something that was said to be anticipated. "We submit, both by reference to well-established common law and also by reference to human rights law as it now is in domestic law from October 2000, that that police action was an abuse of power," he told the court. Mr Fordham said that there was no evidential basis for concluding that the passengers as a whole were Wombles, and articles seized from the coaches did not justify the police assumption of a collective intent to breach the peace. He said that what was absent throughout was any attempt by the police to investigate the identity of the coach passengers before concluding that they were violent "ringleaders" of the Wombles. He asked the court to grant a declaration that the action of Gloucestershire police was unlawful. He also said that there was no reason why it should not also assess a damages claim on Ms Laporte's behalf, which he put at £2,500. The Gloucestershire force, which is contesting the judicial review proceedings, argues that its officers were not only entitled to take the action they did, but were obliged to. The police case is that the items seized from the coaches, included body armour, masks, spray paint, two pairs of scissors, a smoke bomb and five shields, justify its actions. In papers before the court, the police counsel, Simon Freeland QC, said the coach passengers were "evidently remarkably well-armed" for a group of peace activists. He said any damages award should be no more than £500.The case continues today.