Crime-ridden communities will be able to trigger snap inspections of their local police force by gathering petitions, the home secretary, David Blunkett, said today. The move will be part of a wider crackdown on crime and antisocial behaviour, which will also see thousands of extra civilian wardens recruited. Mr Blunkett also announced a radical 'Big Brother'-style network of border controls to keep track of terrorists and criminals. The home secretary wants every traveller entering or leaving the UK to have a photograph taken, which could be instantly compared with national and international suspect databases. The system would use hi-tech "facial mapping" techniques and would begin to roll out in 2008 alongside a controversial national ID scheme. Use of electronic tagging will double so that 18,000 people are tagged at any one time, including advanced new satellite tagging which can pinpoint the exact position of offenders. Explaining how would make police more responsive to local needs, Mr Blunkett said: "We are talking about snap inspections that would have to be made where there is widespread disaffection. "We are thinking of issues like the levelling of a petition where people could trigger these particular measures." Local people will also be able to call for the greater use of curfews and antisocial behaviour orders against local tearaways and nuisance neighbours. The plans will be set out in a consultation paper this autumn. Mr Blunkett explained that the measures would need to included safeguards to communities pursuing "vindictive" actions.Mr Blunkett also announced an extra 5,000 civilian wardens, or community support officers (CSOs), on top of the 15,000 announced last week in the government's spending review. The funding boost means the number of CSOs will rise from the current 5,000 to 25,000 by 2008. The main points of Mr Blunkett's announcement are: · Neighbourhood policing teams across England and Wales; · Powers for local people to call on the police to take action to combat local problems · A new neighbourhood policing fund of £50m to begin recruitment this year of 20,000 additional community support officers over the next three years; · 50 action areas that will find new ways to tackle antisocial behaviour, targeting the worst offenders in the area; · Extending fixed penalty notices to a range of additional offences · Using new technology, such as enhanced tagging and satellite tracking, to provide more effective monitoring of offenders; and · Enhanced electronic surveillance at borders and ports.