Britain's police forces are facing the prospect of a revolt by their minority staff following a decision by the Police Complaints Authority to sabotage a deal between Scotland Yard and a senior black officer.In an extraordinary parting shot, the PCA, which is officially wound up at midnight tonight, has ordered the Met to start disciplinary proceedings against Superintendent Ali Dizaei in spite of the deal, which ruled that out. The agreement, reached last year, headed off plans by minority police staff to march on Scotland Yard to support Supt Dizaei. His plan to take the Met to an employment tribunal was also dropped. The PCA's intervention is all the more remarkable because the deal struck by the Met had the blessing of the Metropolitan Police Authority and David Blunkett, the home secretary, who was concerned about the repercussions for recruitment if the protest went ahead. The MPA condemned the decision as "ridiculous". Though the PCA has the power to force the issue, responsibility will pass tomorrow to its successor, the Independent Police Complaints Commission. Unless the IPCC decides to rescind the decision, it faces the prospect of an internal prosecution being led by a force which has already taken the view that the relevant issues do not merit disciplinary action and which has no apparent wish to punish the officer. Supt Dizaei was the subject of Operation Helios, a four-year criminal investigation by the Met into allegations of corruption, dishonesty and misconduct. He was twice cleared following trials at the Old Bailey and returned to work earlier this year. A PCA spokesman said Supt Dizaei, who has begun a senior command course, should answer nine alleged breaches of the police code of conduct: four concerning honesty and integrity, three alleging that he disobeyed lawful orders, one concerning his performance of his duties, and another concerning his general conduct. The PCA also recommends that he receive "strong advice", a formal oral warning, about three matters and "advice" on three others. Sir Alistair Graham, the PCA's chairman, said: "It is in the public interest that these allegations should be tested before an impartial tribunal. In ordering the hearing we have followed the procedures exactly as laid down by parliament." He said a senior officer from another force should chair the misconduct panel. But Toby Harris, chairman of the MPA, said it disagreed with the PCA. "This is an individual who has been to court twice and these matters have not been proceeded with," he said. "It is slightly ridiculous for the PCA to come in at this stage and suggest that another hearing is going to solve things. We had reached an agreement and as far as the Met was concerned that was the end of the matter." Supt Dizaei was unavailable for comment. But the decision prompted an angry response from the National Black Police Association, which accused Sir Alistair of "inciting racial disharmony in the police service", and said it was considering asking the Met to register the PCA's decision as a "racial and a critical incident". Ray Powell, the NBPA's president, said: "Having personally approved Helios, the chair of the PCA has no choice but to try to justify it now by forcing a disciplinary hearing which will cost the taxpayer millions and achieve nothing but satisfaction of the PCA's own ego. "It is ironic that only now the PCA has seen a sense of fair play at the end of its existence. For years we have been writing to them registering our concern about racist officers ... to always receive a cold response."