Operation Trident may be just five years old, but already it can point to impressive results in tackling black-on-black murders and shootings. Murders are down, clear-up rates have risen and confidence in the operation within the black community is starting to grow.But the murder last weekend of Toni-Ann Byfield and her father Bertram has focused minds on the fact that Trident's work is just beginning. Now it is about to enter a new phase. Currently, the operation has 267 officers; by the end of the year that will have risen to 300, all of them with at least seven years experience. Much of their task will be to reassure black communities that they can challenge gunmen by coming forward with the information which would allow detectives to act. The initial thrust was against gangsters from Jamaica - dubbed Yardies - and to that end links have been forged with police authorities and government officials in the Caribbean. But the focus changed as it became apparent that much of the violence is being perpetrated by young black British men. Trident now seeks to tackle both phenomena. Unpublished internal analysis seen by the Guardian reveals the scale of the task. The figures show how British and foreign gangsters often have different motivations for committing acts of violence. Almost a quarter of the incidents involving British gunmen or British victims last year were linked to gang activity. Nine per cent occurred because an argument broke out over the issue of "disrespect", 8% were attributed to drugs and 12% related to robbery. But an analysis of the shootings involving Jamaicans showed that only 2% were predominantly caused by gang activity. However, 16% followed an argument about "disrespect", 25% centred on drugs and 23% were linked to robbery. Of the shooting incidents, 18% occurred in private dwellings but the greater concern is that many more occurred in public places: 16% in nightclubs or pubs, 16% in the street and 14% involved someone sitting in or firing from a vehicle. Eight per cent were "drive-by" shootings and in 13% of the cases, shots were fired between two rival vehicles. It is this ruthlessness and recklessness which has made the incidence of gun crime and the performance of Operation Trident such a huge issue for communities and politicians alike. Officers know that distrust of the police is a long-standing tradition in many areas and Trident has made great efforts to build bridges. Each of Trident's target areas has a representative on the independent advisory group (IAG). They have helped to organise joint community ventures and social functions. They have also played a key role in developing Trident's hard-hitting advertising campaigns. But IAG members also advise on strategy and on occasion intercede with witnesses on behalf of the Met to persuade them to give evidence. Diane Abbott MP, chair of the local Trident committee in Hackney and the all-party parliamentary group on gun crime, which will release a report on the issue next month, said Trident had already proved a valuable initiative. "Until the formation of Trident there was a sense that the police felt this was just 'bad-on-bad' crime and not something they had to be too concerned about. I think the principle of saying 'we do care about this and will take special measures' was right." However, there were still some concerns, Ms Abbott said. In her experience, for example, Trident deals well with big cases but less well with with the steady tide of shooting incidents which do not become major inquiries. During her committee's inquiry, Ms Abbott was struck by the lack of coordination between British police forces. "Other areas are not learning the lessons of Operation Trident. One of the big things we know about the gunmen is that they cooperate between London and Birmingham and Manchester. They are on the mobile phone to each other within minutes and yet many of our police in various areas operate in virtual silence." Ms Abbott said government must quickly devise a coherent national strategy for witness protection. A scheme which is likely to be expanded across the capital is run by Waltham Forest council in east London. Its officials have told the Met that the borough is willing to help any authority in the country which needs help in resettling witnesses. Over three years it has been involved in 25 resettlement cases. The police provide new identities if necessary and decide on the level of resettlement required. In some cases entire families are moved. Jim Wintour, head of housing at Waltham Forest, said the council provides as much security as necessary. "It might be a new front door or surveillance cameras. We do not have a huge housing stock but there are occasions when we have to move people and so it works both ways. We also think this is the right thing to do." Trident cases that caught culprits· Mark Lambie, described as Operation Trident's number one criminal, was convicted last May and jailed for 12 years for kidnap, torture and blackmail. · Ricky Sweeney was sentenced to life at the Old Bailey on March 28 2001 for the killing of Dean Roberts in Harlesden on July 6 1999. The victim was shot five times in the face and abdomen.  · Colin Grant, who shot a pregnant mother in the leg in front of her young children after a minor traffic accident, was jailed for nine years at Southwark Crown Court in September 2001. · Danny Williams, 24, was jailed for life at Inner London Crown Court for the murder of Norman Francis, 29, outside a block of flats on the Woolwich Dockyard estate in October 2001. · Daniel Cummings, 23, was convicted at the Old Bailey last month for the murder of Adrian Crawford, 25, in Tottenham last December. The two men were in separate cars on West Green Road and had an argument. Cummings shot Crawford and drove off.