Police investigating the murders of a woman and her two children in West Yorkshire have discovered the body of their suspected killer in north Wales.A murder investigation was launched after Geraldine Newman, 51 was found dead with her son and daughter by a concerned friend. Police investigating the murders said on Tuesday that they had discovered the body of the suspected killer on cliffs in South Stack in Anglesey.DCI Warren Stevenson, of West Yorkshire police’s homicide and major enquiry team, said: “The man’s identity is yet to be confirmed, but we are liaising closely with our colleagues in North Wales police as we believe this may be linked to our investigation in Leeds.”Murder inquiry launched as bodies of woman and two children found The bodies were found at Newman’s house in Beeston Way, Allerton Bywater, near Leeds. Dozens of police officers and a forensic team surrounded the home just before noon on Tuesday.Supermarket store manager Newman, known as Gerry locally, lived in the house with her daughter Shannon, 12, and her son, believed to be about six years old.It is understood Newman’s body was found by a friend who was concerned after she had not been in contact for a few days.At the scene, police vehicles surrounded a cordon which stretched across a row of modern, red brick terraced houses.Chloe Firth, who knew Shannon, said: “I used to play out with her and her brother. Her dad also used to play out with us and we would play hide and seek. She was a very happy and bubbly girl. Even though she went to a different school to me she was a really good friend of mine.“I didn’t really know her mum. She just spent most of her time inside. I think she was just making the house nice and tidy.”Chloe’s father, Sean, said: “The police knocked on the door this morning but didn’t tell me what had happened. You don’t expect to see this on your doorstep; it is devastating. I’m lost for words. I don’t know what to say about it.”Wesley Rice, 38, who lives on the estate with his partner and two children said he met the family at Halloween when they called at the house while trick or treating.He said: “We knocked on the door and the lady came out and gave the kids sweets. She seemed very nice.”Meanwhile, a spokesperson from the budget store Wilko confirmed that Newman had worked for the company for 23 years as a “loyal and enormously respected member of the team”.The spokesperson said: “This is tragic news and has devastated everyone who worked with Geraldine as well as impacting team members across the company.”