Clarence Mitchell, 46Mitchell is on his second tour of McCann support as their official spokesperson. Two weeks after Madeleine disappeared he was sent by the Foreign Office to provide "consular support in exceptional circumstances". He spent weeks with the family, organising their trips across Europe, and, according to Gerry McCann, the couple's visit to Rome to meet the Pope. In June, he returned to his job as director of the Central Office of Information's Media Monitoring Unit, but quit this week in order to devote himself to the McCann cause full time. Before he became a civil servant, Mitchell was a BBC journalist who reported from Bosnia, Kosovo and Iraq - and on the royal family, a role which coincided with the death of Diana, Princess of Wales.Richard Branson, 57The Virgin entrepreneur - worth, according to the Sunday Times Rich List, an estimated £3.1bn - has apparently been following the McCanns' story with great interest from the beginning. He has been in regular contact with them and had already provided a £100,000 reward for information leading to Madeleine's return before he heard that the McCanns might have to sell their home to pay for their legal defence. (They feared a public backlash if they dipped into the Find Madeleine Fund, which has so far received more than £1m.) Determined that the McCanns should receive a fair hearing, he began a second fund by donating £100,000.Michael Caplan QC, 54One of two British lawyers the McCanns have hired to defend them against suggestions that they might have had a hand in their daughter's disappearance. A part-time judge in the crown court and a chairman of the police disciplinary appeal tribunal, Caplan has a reputation in the profession for unflashy reliability and tenacity; in Chambers UK 2007, A Client's Guide to the Legal Profession, he is described as "the weapon of choice for battleship cases". He certainly has experience in dealing with cases in which there is huge media interest, having successfully defended Pinochet against extradition to Spain when he was arrested in the UK in 1998. He also defended the captain of the dredger Bowbelle, whose collision with the Marchioness on the Thames in 1989 resulted in the deaths of 51 people.Angus McBride, 42McBride is, like Caplan, a partner in the legal firm Kingsley Napley. He is particularly experienced in defending the reputations of celebrities, or accidental celebrities, such as the McCanns. He represented the actor Chris Langham, who has just been jailed for downloading child porn, and defended various professional footballers, including John Terry, charged with and acquitted of affray in 2002, and two Premiership players accused of rape in 2003. He is currently acting in Sir John Stevens's inquiry into past collusion between soldiers, police officers and paramilitary gunmen in Northern Ireland.Carlos Pinto de Abreu, 40De Abreu, a Lisbon lawyer, has offered his services to the McCanns for free, and began his job by filing a libel suit against a Portuguese tabloid, Tal & Qual, which claimed that police believed the McCanns administered their daughter a fatal drug overdose. He has also applied to the district attorney for a change in the couple's formal status, from "witness" to "assistant" in the investigation. This would mean they would be allowed to know more about it. A specialist in human rights, De Abreu is the president of the human rights committee for the Portuguese bar association.John McCann, 48One of seven directors of the Find Madeleine Fund, Gerry McCann's brother has taken indefinite leave of absence from his job as a medical rep for the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca in order to administrate the £1m fund from his Glasgow sitting room. Worried that focus on allegations about her parents has overshadowed the search for the four-year-old, he has just announced a new campaign of billboards, television commercials and advertisements in newspapers across Portugal and Spain. Retired teacher Brian Kennedy, Kate McCann's uncle, is a fellow director.Esther McVey, 39McVey has been friends with Kate McCann since they went to school together and is a board member and spokesperson for the Find Madeleine Fund. A former television personality - she appeared on GMTV and in programmes such as 5's Company, The Heaven and Earth Show, Shopping City and Channel 4's Nothing But The Truth with Ann Widdecombe - McVey now runs a PR firm in Liverpool, and hopes to become a Tory MP at the next general election. A former girlfriend of shadow culture minister Ed Vaizey, she narrowly failed to win Wirral West in 2005, losing by about 1,000 votes to Labour's Stephen Hesford.Philomena McCann, 43A high school teacher from Glasgow, Gerry McCann's sister often speaks to the press on the family's behalf. She is popular among reporters for her fierceness and colourful Glaswegian vocabulary, but occasionally strays off-message - such as when she told Sky that Portuguese police (of whom she is not fond) had offered Kate a two-year sentence in return for admitting accidental manslaughter. Gerry was still being interviewed by police, and Philomena had got the story somewhat garbled (they did not offer a plea bargain, but were exploring the possibility of accidental death). But, as reported in this paper, British journalists treated her statement as tacit permission to start reporting allegations against the McCanns.