Specially-trained police are interviewing six children about allegations that one of them - a five-year-old boy - was abducted by the others and taken to a busy park where he was left hanging from a tree in a litter-strewn patch of woodland called Devil's Ditch.Three boys and two girls, aged 11 and 12, spent last night at a police station, being questioned on suspicion of attempted murder because of the scale of the younger child's injuries. Severe bruising round his neck may have been made by a rope noose, said police in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, potentially corroborating early accounts when the boy was found close to his nearby home dazed and in tears. A friend of his family called police who later found more bruising on his body, although he was discharged yesterday after overnight treatment at Dewsbury district hospital. The incident sent shudders through the pleasant hilltop area of Earlsheaton, where forensic officers were searching the small copse off the main road to Wakefield, behind a smart new development of bungalows and the local health centre. Detective Superintendent Andy Brennan, who has been assigned from West Yorkshire police's homicide and major inquiry team, told a press conference outside Dewsbury police station that detectives are looking for "two or three" more people, although he did not specify their age. Gentle interviewing of the victim was being carried out in a room equipped with video and would be "a long and painstaking process", he said. The boy is from the neighbouring Chickenley suburb of Dewsbury. Officers started interviewing the victim yesterday, and hope to piece together how he came to leave his family's garden where he was last seen playing. He was found wearing his blue T-shirt and jeans but with a livid red mark on his neck. A priority is to discover how he untied himself, if suggestions that he was left alone attached to the tree are correct, and whether the incident was, as several walkers in the park said yesterday, "like a James Bulger attack", or more of an unwittingly dangerous prank. Mr Brennan said: "Those that we've arrested are being interviewed this afternoon and this evening, so I wouldn't like to speculate what they were doing. We want to understand their state of mind and what was going through their heads while this incident was taking place." Initial reports suggest that one of the arrested girls, 12, took the child from his garden and wandered over to the park, where they met the others now in custody. The grove where the incident took place is criss-crossed by narrow paths of trampled grass, some leading into bushes and makeshift children's dens. The boy's mother, who is thought to have been washing up at the time, under the impression that her children were playing together in the garden, was described as hysterical at first and still extremely upset and shocked. Her son was normally happy and bubbly, said a friend of the family, who described him as "a good lad, always full of beans". All the arrested children are from the Earlsheaton and Chickenley area. The incident happened between 5.30pm and 6pm on Tuesday and police appealed for witnesses or others using the park and playing fields on the sunny school half-term evening. One of the children was arrested that night, three yesterday morning and the fifth at lunchtime yesterday. The father of one of them came to the door of his home in Dewsbury and confirmed that his son had been arrested, but did not want to say more.