 Sharon Corzon, 26 Sentence: five years Crime: GBH   This was my first sentence and I got the maximum you could get for GBH because I'm black and the girl I attacked was white. That's what I think. The three prisons I've been in have all been prejudiced against black people. White girls can be so rude to the officers - they can swear at them, they can be really insulting and give the officer no respect, and they can get away with it. But if you just say "no" and you're black, you're in trouble. As a black person you have to hold back. You have to pretend. You have to creep. You have to keep quiet. You have to be so humble and stupid to survive as a black person in prison, and that's just not me. That's not my personality. I wasn't going to pretend to be something I wasn't. It's the officers rather than the inmates who are racist. Black officers are few and far between. In Holloway there are more because it's in London, but the sad thing is that because they're in the minority they don't speak out against the racism. In fact, I've found they are more prejudiced against the black people. Racism is institutionalised. Who can you complain to? You can't complain to the officer that's being horrible to someone. She'll just make your life hell. You can't complain to the governor because it's his job to back up the officer. You can't complain to the board because it's their job to back up the governor. You're fucked. I took my prison to court because they were trying to take my baby away from me. After about five months being pregnant in the mother and baby unit, I was told I wasn't allowed to keep my baby because they thought I would endanger other mothers because of my temper. It was insulting and they were proved wrong because I won my court case and was allowed to keep my baby. I was sure that was racist as well because the board saw three pregnant black girls in the same week as me and they all got refused permission to keep their babies. The threat of having my baby taken away was always hanging over me from then on. It was always: "If you do that again, you have to hand your child over." Meanwhile, white girls were fighting left, right and centre, and it was ignored. A lot of the black girls just let it go because they want to get their parole and go home early. It shouldn't be like that.  Andrew Evans, 45 Sentence: life (overturned) Crime: murder (wrongly convicted)   A part of me had to die to survive in prison. When you first come in you see somebody being beaten up and the instinct is to help. In prison you realise you can't. Your normal social awareness has to be disposed of. You have to let the horrors of prison wash over you, or you go insane. It's a psychological and emotional bludgeoning that goes on every day. You hear the screams at night when you first go into prison and it terrifies you because you think: "What the hell's going on?" After a while you realise that it's people cracking up because they can't take it any more. Occasionally the guards will be fed up with someone or will have had a bad day with the wife and want to take it out on someone. That's the way they are. Whatever crime somebody commits isn't the problem. That's the symptom. Until society gets to grip with that there will never be a reduction in crime. The problem is why they commit the crime in the first place. People say, "Oh, it's because they're short of money." That's one reason. But the reason they are short of money is because they can't fit into what everyone considers normal society. So the only way for them to cope is to opt out of the system - into this other system called crime. What society needs to start thinking about is how to stop all these people opting out. They come into prison after going to the boys' home, the girls' home, the foster home; they've been abused and maltreated from the day they were born. It's like a cycle - they have kids and their kids start coming in. And for the people there now there is no rehabilitation. The only thing prison does is remove the problem from society for a while - and then place it back in society worse than it was before. There is some education in prison and it does benefit some people. But what the hell are people supposed to do when they get out? They can't get a job. It's hard enough getting a decent job without a record, let alone with.