A surge in the number of prosecutions for sexual offences is causing severe delays in the courts, the lord chief justice has warned.In his annual report to parliament, Lord Thomas also flags up concerns that initial government plans to restrict access to judicial review would have had a “materially adverse impact on the right of the citizen to challenge decisions of the government” not taken in a lawful manner.His comments are made in a detailed assessment of the problems facing the judiciary in delivering justice during the past year.Recent figures from the Ministry of Justice show there were 34,161 sex offence prosecutions in the year ending June 2014, compared with 28,809 a year earlier. The increase has been associated with the large number of historic cases of alleged sex abuse that have emerged in the aftermath of the Jimmy Savile scandal.Thomas’s report says: “The workload has increased overall but the biggest impact has been from the very substantial increase in the number of trials involving sexual offences and violence against the person, which tend to occupy more court time and have fewer guilty pleas. Despite an increase in court-sitting days over the past two years, a backlog of cases had already built up due to the unexpected increase in work and so resources have not in fact kept pace.”The lord chief justice notes that there has been “an ever-decreasing provision of financial resources to the criminal courts”. He adds: “If the increase in cases involving sexual offending continues it will not be possible, without the commitment of more resources, to reverse the trend of longer waiting times for such cases, particularly where the defendant is on bail. This is a matter of significant concern as the effect of delay in such cases has a particularly serious effect on both the complainant and the defendant.”Thomas says the problem of too many judicial review challenges in immigration and asylum cases, that “swamped the court”, has been resolved by transferring the claims to a separate tribunal.The government’s response of clamping down on everyone’s ability to bring judicial review claims, he implies, was an overreaction. “Further proposals for the reform of judicial review were made by the government in September 2013,” Thomas says, “the judiciary responded to these.“Several would have had a materially adverse impact on the right of the citizen to challenge decisions of the government which had not been taken in a lawful manner. The proposals were materially modified and are currently being considered by parliament.” The House of Lords threw out the revised proposals for a second time last week.Thomas also worries that the cost of legal services are not coming down despite reforms aimed at opening up the legal market. “Competition should have reduced cost significantly, but this is not happening,” he observes. “While court fees often represent a fraction of litigation costs, they do have an effect, particularly on litigants in person.”The rise in the number of “litigants in person” is not a problem but means that cases now take longer, the lord chief justice says. “Cases which may never have been brought or would have been compromised at an early stage are often fully contested.”The government’s promise to invest £713m in IT improvements should bolster the courts’ resources. “The courts and tribunals of England and Wales receive national and international acclaim for the manner in which they deliver justice,” Thomas comments. “Without this investment their continued ability to do so would have been gravely imperilled.”