A teenager shot 11-year-old Rhys Jones by mistake while aiming at rival gang members across a pub car park, Liverpool crown court head today at the start of the trial into the schoolboy's murder.Sean Mercer, 18, allegedly a member of the Croxteth Crew gang, denies murdering Rhys, who the court heard was shot in the back with a Smith and Wesson .455 revolver.At one stage during the trial, Rhys's mother, Melanie Jones, left the court in tears as the prosecution began to describe her son's last moments. The jury was shown a CCTV clip of Rhys crossing the car park of the Fir Tree pub and reacting to the sound of a bullet striking a container nearby. He turned to look at the container before being hit by another bullet. The 11-year-old fell to the ground where he later died in his mother's arms.The prosecutor, Neil Flewitt, QC, told the jury that Rhys had ended up "walking into the line of fire" on his way home from football practice on August 22."At almost exactly the same time as Rhys Jones walked into the car park, a hooded gunman on a bicycle approached the scene from the rear of the Fir Tree and took up a position on the grass in front of the fence running alongside the path on the far side of the car park," he said.The gunman fired three shots across the car park, one of which hit Rhys, killing him. The gunman was Mercer, from Croxteth, Liverpool, said Flewitt.According to Home Office pathologist, Dr Paul Johnson, Rhys was shot in the back, slightly above the left shoulder blade and the bullet exited from the front right side of his neck. When paramedics arrived, Rhys was already in cardiac arrest and was rushed to Alder Hey children's hospital but all attempts to resuscitate Rhys failed. Immediately after killing Rhys, Mercer "set about distancing himself from the tragic events at the pub."He moved quickly to dispose of his clothing, his pedal cycle and the gun that he had used to such devastating effect," he said.Rhys was not Mercer's intended victim, the prosecutor added. "On the contrary, it is the prosecution case that he was the innocent victim of a long-running feud between rival gangs operating in and around the area of the Fir Tree public house."Six co-defendants - Boy M, 16, James Yates, 20, Boy Q, 17, Melvin Coy, 25, Gary Kays, 25, from Liverpool, and Boy K, 17 - are charged with assisting an offender. For legal reasons, some are not named. Yates is also accused of possessing a firearm, and Boy K faces charges of possessing two firearms and ammunition.When Mercer was arrested, he claimed he was at Boy K's house but the prosecution said they had evidence which contradicts this.Boy K's mother said when Mercer called at the house, she was sure they left while Emmerdale was showing, and her son returned about 30 minutes later. "So if [her] recollection is correct, Sean Mercer had left her house before Rhys Jones was killed and she does not support his alibi for the time of the murder," Flewitt said.Police also installed a hidden listening device inside the home address of James Yates, which the prosecution alleges recorded various "significant conversations" that took place in the days that followed.All defendants deny all the charges. Flewitt said all were members or associates of the Croxteth Crew, which has a rival gang in Norris Green known as either the Strand Gang or Nogga Dogs. Since 2004, there had been at least 70 cases of criminal damage and assault including the use of firearms associated with both gangs, he said.Flewitt said that until Rhys's killing the best-known manifestation of this feud had been the murder of Liam Smith, a member of the Strand Gang, who was shot dead outside Altcourse prison on August 23 2006. Four members of the Croxteth Crew were convicted in connection with this – three of murder and one of manslaughter.On the day that Rhys was killed, three young men - Wayne Brady and two others - who were Strand Gang members or associates "left the relative safety of Norris Green and entered what, for them, was the hostile environment of Croxteth". They were in the area because Brady wanted to borrow a bicycle from a friend who lived nearby.Flewitt said their presence brought Mercer to the Fir Tree pub and he was shooting at them when he killed Rhys."Sean Mercer's interest in Wayne Brady was not limited to general gang rivalry," Flewitt said. "Rather evidence suggests there was some more personal animosity between them."A witness told police she knew Mercer and had said to her: "Brady's gonna get it."He described the murder of Rhys Jones as "yet another, and perhaps more tragic, example of the mindless and indiscriminate violence that is a feature of the rivalry between the Croxteth Crew and the Strand Gang".The activities of the Croxteth Crew not only provided the setting for the murder of Rhys Jones but also led to the involvement of the other defendants, Flewitt said."It is the prosecution's case that the strength of the loyalty that existed among gang members and their associates explains the speed and enthusiasm with which [the six defendants] did all that they could to help Sean Mercer avoid responsibility for the dreadful events," he said.Flewitt said everyone who heard or read about the circumstances of Rhys Jones's death was both shocked and saddened at the loss of such a young life. "You will, no doubt, share the dismay of all decent people that such an appalling event could take place at a busy public house and in broad daylight."Flewitt said Rhys Jones was born on September 27 1995 and was 11 years old when he died. He lived with his parents and older brother near the pub. Rhys had just completed his final year at Broad Square junior school in Croxteth and was looking forward to going to secondary school."Like many boys of his age, Rhys Jones loved football. He supported Everton and played for the under 12 team at the Fir Tree pub."The trial continues. It is expected to take six to eight weeks.