'What's normal to me?' asks Terry, a perpetrator of multiple armed robberies and terrifying violent assaults, staring into my eyes. 'Normal to me is the jungle. They talk about callousness and lack of empathy, but, please, what the fuck is empathy? Where I come from, if I knock you down, you stay down. It's not normal to come up and kill you stone dead because I want your money, but that is normality for me. At the end of the day, all of us sitting here are monsters, whether we're armed robbers, child molesters, or killers - we're monsters.'It's the end of a misty autumn afternoon at the Frankland high-security prison near Durham, and I'm chatting to a group of prisoners with what the government calls Dangerous Severe Personality Disorders, DSPD. Most are psychopaths, and all have been convicted of serious violent or sexual offences, most of them several times. We're sitting in a circle: nine offenders, two prison officers, and me. It's my fourth day on the unit, and the prisoners seem relaxed, happy to talk of their predicament.'You know when things are getting bad when you're released from a stretch and you go back to your own estate and the hard men you used to know there seem scared, when they treat you like a psycho,' says Terry.'On my previous sentences, I didn't care about myself, and I didn't care about others,' says Bob, a prisoner in his early forties. 'This time, I realised that if I didn't sort myself out, I was going to die in prison.' Fourteen years ago, he was found guilty of raping a woman in front of her child, two months after being released at the end of a seven-year sentence imposed for an earlier rape. He knows it will be many years before he can expect to be free again. 'Suddenly I'm back inside, serving a life sentence, and the fucking POs [prison officers] are younger than me,' he recalls. 'And it's like... [he shakes his head in his hands] Oh My God.'We're talking in a prison within a prison, Frankland's Westgate Unit, a new, purpose-built block of 80 cells for DSPD inmates. Around two-thirds are high-end psychopaths, the others have other - equally intractable - conditions, including borderline personality disorder (being prone to sudden, violent mood shifts) and paranoia. The Observer Magazine is the only media outlet to have been granted access to the unit since it opened last year.Most of Frankland's other 650 prisoners are Category A - men whose escape, say Home Office criteria, 'would be highly dangerous to the public or national security'. Deep within the ordinary jail's perimeter walls and razor wire, the unit lies in its own segregated compound, patrolled by guards with dogs. Unless a prisoner needs in-patient hospital treatment, he will never leave it throughout the time he's held there - typically, about five years.One of four DSPD units - the others are at Whitemoor prison near Cambridge, and at Rampton and Broadmoor high-security mental hospitals - the Westgate's mission represents a radical shift in both forensic psychology and penal policy. For the first time in the world, a large-scale, sustained attempt is being made to develop and evaluate treatments for men usually regarded as untreatable: recidivist, violent psychopaths.This is uncharted water. Some studies suggest that earlier attempts to put psychopaths through therapeutic programmes may actually have made them more dangerous, and, by definition, everything being done at the Westgate is untried and experimental. The staff and inmates do not seem to be deterred. 'The research that says that treatments make psychopaths worse isn't methodologically sound,' says Julie Luther, the unit's clinical director. 'But frankly, given the high risk associated with psychopathic offenders, how can they get much worse? We're very enthusiastic, very motivated - although our optimism has to be realistic.' Bob echoes her determination: 'We've all been in and out of prison all our lives. I'm the only person who can take responsibility for my life. I'm here because I want help.''Spotting a prisoner with a DSPD isn't that easy,' says Dave Matthews, the Westgate's governor, who started as an officer patrolling wings and landings 20 years ago, 'they look like us.' For all the horror of some of their crimes - senseless murders, brutal maimings, sadistic sexual torture - there are no Hannibal Lecters in leather masks in the Westgate Unit, and its atmosphere of calm and openness is an integral part of the therapy it attempts to provide. In the rest of Frankland, officers like to claim that DSPD stands for 'Darts, Snooker, Pool and Dominoes' - because on a normal wing, as in most British prisons, it is rare for officers to join inmates in such activities. In the Westgate, it happens every day. Matthews, his staff and the Home Office psychologists in charge of the DSPD programme believe that to stand a chance of changing some of their most difficult prisoners, they need to transform inmate-officer relationships.Psychopaths, according to the definition developed by the Canadian psychologist Robert D Hare, are not only driven solely by their own needs and welfare, they are callous, manipulative and indifferent to the suffering they inflict on others; they also appear not to care whether they are punished, so the threat of penal sanctions has no effect on their behaviour. One scheme in Germany had to be stopped when a unit became uncontrollable, and staff dropout rates became unsustainably high; another, in Canada, was cancelled because the government considered the risks too great.However, psychopaths do respond to incentives. In the unit's four mini-wings, each a two-storey rectangle with 20 cells around a spacious atrium, the white noise of the ordinary jailhouse - an echoing cacophony of clangs, distorted music and barely human ululations - has been replaced by the hush of a library or common room. Men wander in and out of each other's cells, some with pet budgies perched on their shoulders. Sex offenders are usually prison pariahs. Here they mix freely with murderers and other criminals.I ask Charlie, now serving life for ordering the execution of a rival heroin dealer after a history of escalating convictions dating back to his childhood, if he'll join me at a table for an interview. 'Just give me a second,' he says, 'while I turn down my sausages.' He disappears briefly into one of the unit's fully equipped kitchens, to which inmates have unrestricted access. 'Since I've been up here, I've had no nickings, no fights, nothing, which for me is amazing,' Charlie says. 'The progress I've made is down to the staff and the atmosphere. It's a stress-free environment.'Staff and inmates address each other by their first names, and as well as playing games together, they often sit and talk. Seasoned prison officers - all those assigned to the Westgate have at least three years' experience, and some much more - say they welcome this breaking down of barriers. 'It's a lot more interesting than working in the main jail,' says one officer with 10 years' service, who asks not to be named. 'It's about building up trust so they can relate to treatment.'Another unique feature is the working relationship between prison officers and psychologists.'You might think, "This guy's being a total tosser,"' says Dave Owens, an officer for 19 years. 'But when he describes the abuse he had as a child from his father, the jigsaw fits. I came here because I recognise that we haven't done anything with these people. Many of them are problem prisoners: self-harmers, disruptive. They'd normally do their time in the seg blocks. You've got people here who are nice and polite, others who, given a chance, might like to cut your head off and eat your brain, and everything in between. I'm not under any illusions. But if we can make a difference, it's worth it.'Increasingly, the officers are coming to play an active role in treatment. According to Julie Luther, 'I've got some brilliant psychologists and brilliant nurses, but a prison officer can be just as skilled as someone with four or five degrees. Someone like Dave may well have more success in delivering a substance-misuse programme than I will.' Many psychopaths are also substance abusers. Several prisoners say that one of the unit's most surprising aspects is that it is virtually drug-free.The first prisoners did not arrive until May 2004, and it is possible that the novelty will eventually wear off. For the time being, however, it seems to be working. 'If you've got to do jail time,' says Derek, serving life for murder, 'this is the place to do it.' Dave Matthews says the unit has seen only one suicide attempt since it opened, and not one case of serious violence. Inmates speak of the unit as somehow separate from the rest of the prison system - the place where they all came from, and where almost all of them will one day go back.However, it comes at a high price. While it costs £47,000 a year to hold a prisoner in the rest of Frankland, the Westgate's official figure is £80,000 (it has a high staff-inmate ratio), on top of the £24m cost of construction. (In the special hospitals, the annual price of a DSPD bed is more than £200,000.) In addition to the pool and table-tennis tables inside each atrium, an art studio, classrooms and a library, the compound includes a football pitch, two tennis courts, gardens with floral borders, allotments where prisoners may grow their own food, and a large greenhouse. Over the past two decades, I have visited more than 30 prisons. I have never seen facilities of such high quality - let alone for inmates jailed for the worst crimes imaginable.'In a prison, the staff can be brutal,' says Tiny, serving 14 years for drug-related robberies - one of the minority of inmates who is not classed as a psychopath. 'If you're down, they'll leave you to your own devices: providing you're behind your door, they're happy. Here, if a depression kicks in, they try to dig you out. I can see the improvement in myself over the 18 months I've been here, and I can see it in the others. For the first time, I don't have to worry about my own safety, about the threat from other cons. There's nowhere else like it.''I fucking hated screws,' says Terry. 'Life for me in prison was a siege. Here you talk to them, not just about prison stuff, but other things - you might notice one's got a tan, ask him, "Hey, where you been on holiday?" I've seen cons come up here with no self-esteem, and after six months the difference in them is vast. And if you build a man's self-esteem, he's not going to go out robbing.'In the past, personality-disordered prisoners who got no treatment have been released, and then committed further, terrible crimes. One high-profile case which played a part in the government's decision to develop a DSPD programme was that of Michael Stone, who murdered Lin and Megan Russell with a hammer in 1996. He had been convicted previously of attacking others with a similar weapon, and although he had asked for treatment in jail, there was none available. Another was Paul Beart, who brutally slaughtered a Newquay waitress, Deborah O'Sullivan, five months after his release in 2000 from a five-year term for sexual assault. Having pounced on her in the street, he dragged her behind a wall, bit her face until it was unrecognisable, ripped open the skin of her stomach with his bare hands, burned her with a lighter, battered her with a litter bin, sexually assaulted her, broke her arm and strangled her. Finally, he gave himself up to police, his hands caked in her blood.As well as classifying psychopathy, Robert Hare devised a way to diagnose it - the PCLR, or Psychopathy Checklist Revised. This combines a lengthy interview with a review of all the information held on the offender. It tries to measure both 'interpersonal/affective' aspects of the disorder, such as pathological lying, a grandiose sense of self-worth, and a lack of empathy and remorse, and also individuals' history of social deviance, including early behavioural problems, a parasitic lifestyle, impulsiveness and poor self-control.In the Westgate, assessing a prisoner with the PCLR can take weeks. The process ends with the award of a PCLR 'score', with a possible maximum of 40. Over 25 means you're dealing with someone with serious psychopathic tendencies; 30 or more is a full-blown case of the disorder. The unit holds inmates with scores in the high 30s, and one with 40. The PCLR tells you risk is present, but not what type, or what to do about it. The staff therefore use a variety of other tools too, including VRS, the Violent Risk Scale. This looks both at 'static', historical factors, such as an offender's family background, and his age of first conviction, but also charts 'dynamic' factors: his attitudes and beliefs. It is these which the unit hopes to change.'The association between psychopathy and violence should not be surprising,' writes Hare. 'Many of the characteristics important for inhibiting antisocial and violent behaviour... are lacking or deficient in psychopaths.' Thus, while psychopaths make up one per cent of the general population, they account for as many as a quarter of those in prison. They are also much more likely to re-offend. Studies suggest that psychopaths are between four and 12 times more likely to be reconvicted of a violent crime within two years of release from prison than others, while more than 80 per cent will have re-offended within four years. One study found the violent, sexual recidivism rate is more than 90 per cent.'There is little convincing scientific evidence that psychopaths respond favourably to treatment and intervention,' Hare adds. That doesn't mean that they can't or never will, only that 'there have been no methodologically sound treatment programmes that have been shown to work.' Psychopathic offenders create a stark choice, he concludes: 'Do we simply keep them in prison until they are old enough to pose little risk?' Or do we find ways to teach them 'more pro-social ways... to satisfy their needs and wants'? For the psychologists behind the DSPD units, Hare's words threw down a gauntlet.Most prison psychological treatment programmes are known by acronyms. But the therapy for psychopaths now beginning at Frankland and Rampton is named after a fish: Chromis. Gill Attrill, a senior Home Office psychologist who began to lead the work on its development in 1999, chose something she knew from her hobby, open-water diving.Chromis aims to reduce offenders' risk to the public, and if the prisoner is unable to do this, 'externally manage that risk so they are not a danger to others'. It also aims to enable participants to find a new way of fulfilling their lives which doesn't involve damaging the lives of others. This presents a challenge: psychopaths often see little problem with their lifestyle, and have little motivation to change.One principle is the need to integrate the regime and the therapy, which both have to be sustained for a very long time: 'If treatment exists in isolation from the rest of the offender's life, it's unlikely to make a difference.' Another principle concerns motivation - and prisoners' indifference to punishment: 'If they think there's nothing in it for them if they reduce their risk, they're not going to do it. They have to see clear benefits from living their lives in a way that doesn't harm others.'In the Westgate, each prisoner's tailor-made 'treatment-needs assessment' is an intense and draining process that can last six months. It involves digging deeply into a prisoner's past: while some had 'normal, loving family backgrounds', says Julie Luther, others were in care from infancy. Many suffered 'prolific sexual abuse'.'They rip everything out of you so you get to the point where you wonder, "What the fuck have I got left?"' says Derek. 'I had to talk about my childhood, about my dad kicking my head in, about never being at school. It's not very nice seeing your life down on paper, because you've lived your life one way and now you're being told, "We think you're the biggest arsehole going."'From the time he enters the Westgate, a prisoner works towards his own 'good life model' - a set of achievable goals. Prisoners who achieve their goals get more privileges. 'Living a good life means doing things that normal people take for granted,' says Luther. 'Our hope is that if they find they've found a better way of living in prison, in time they'll think, "Now why can't I do that outside?"'An early goal might be simply to say, 'Good morning' - for an aggressive psychopath that can be 'a very big deal'. Other - more ambitious - aims include playing Scrabble in a mixed group of prisoners and staff, attending cookery class, and writing regularly to family members.In essence, much of what the Westgate is offering is a long course of cognitive-behavioural therapy: an attempt to change a person's future actions by altering their underlying perceptions and beliefs. In people with a DSPD, that goes back to what psychologists call 'schema': aspects of a person's world view which have become distorted. A psychopath might divide the world into predators and prey; or, if he were to see someone looking at him, his assumption might be: 'They're plotting against me.' Violence might follow. Cognitive-behavioural therapy tries to make an offender aware of the way he processes data, in order to change it: 'The person looking at him might just be staring into a void, or trying to be friendly,' Luther says. 'So why not ask - maybe go and start a conversation?'A typical Westgate prisoner has a lot to get through: modules include anxiety and anger management, relationship and intimacy skills, problem solving, handling conflict, and emotional regulation. There is also 'parallel therapy' - living peacefully inside the unit and taking part in regular exercises in the gym, where prisoners are asked, for example, to lead a group, blindfolded, through an obstacle course. The psychologists use this to see if the inmates are getting better at handling stress and relationships. Some of the prisoners are more sceptical. 'Jumping over poles and ducking under them,' says Derek, 'I don't get it. How the fuck is that supposed to help me sort my head out?'It will be a long time before we know whether the treatments pursued at the Westgate and the other three DSPD units 'work'. Professor Tom Burns, an Oxford University psychiatrist, is leading a research project which will spend the next three years evaluating the programmes. But given that treatment is expected to last five years, Burns's research will not tell us whether the units' alumni are likely to be less dangerous on release.That will leave some big unanswered questions. One problem with trying out new treatments for psychopaths is finding out whether they have really changed, or are just complying with their therapy. It is not hard to imagine the public furore if a prisoner freed after DSPD treatment were to commit another terrible crime. On the other hand, if no one is sure that prisoners who have gone through the course are safe, some of them may not see freedom until they reach old age. As Attrill recognises, 'We have a huge responsibility: to the public, so we don't expose them to risk, and to the offenders, so we don't just lock them up and throw away the key.'Four Westgate prisoners who were coming to the end of fixed prison terms have already been sectioned under the Mental Health Act and are being transferred indefinitely, to the DSPD unit at Rampton, because their sentences weren't long enough to see them through their treatment at Frankland. Another four are waiting for Rampton beds.Meanwhile, in October this year, the 2003 Criminal Justice Act came into force. This stipulates that in addition to the normal fixed term, judges must impose a new 'indefinite public-protection sentence' on anyone convicted of a serious violent or sexual crime whenever they think there is 'a significant risk to members of the public' that the prisoner might re-offend. Large numbers of people found guilty of crimes such as arson, sexual assault or wounding - the Home Office estimates this number will be at least 600 a year - will spend much longer inside than they would have done prior to this legislation. The more dangerous you are thought to be, the longer you will serve, in effect being punished for crimes you're deemed likely to commit in the future, as well as those in the past. This represents a historic transfer of power: away from the judges and evidence tested in open court, towards the state and its forensic psychologists.Looming over this enormous policy shift is the question of resources. According to Savas Hadjipavlou, head of the national DSPD programme at the Home Office, 'We think there might be 2,000- 2,500 people in prison at the moment who meet the DSPD criteria.' With just 300 DSPD places across the country, many may never get treatment. Even if it does become clear that DSPD treatment works, it is far from certain whether future governments will make the investment needed to expand the programme. And if government support should falter, we may one day create a group of very angry and very dangerous prisoners who might feel that they had been treated unjustly.Sitting with the unit's inmates, I catch a sense of this when someone raises the subject of the new indefinite sentences. Terry loses his cool: 'But how can they keep you inside when you've already done your time? They can't do that! Surely it's against the law?' I explain that the law has changed, and Terry responds with wounded disbelief: 'Frankly, I'd prefer it if they brought back hanging. That might sound radical, but so does banging people up for crimes they haven't done.''What if I get out and get in a pub fight?' asks another inmate. 'I might slash someone, then think, "Fuck, they already know I've got a DSPD. I'll never get out anyway. I might as well kill the bastard!"'· The names of the prisoners have been changed