Police officers simultaneously raided 75 addresses and arrested dozens of people this morning in the UK's largest ever crackdown on online child pornography.The operation, codenamed Magenta, took six months and ranged across 34 police forces, ultimately allowing police to conduct today's coordinated dawn raids and seize a large number of computers. Operation Magenta - led jointly by officers from the Hertfordshire and Greater Manchester police forces - focused on paedophiles who used internet chatrooms to advertise and exchange images of children being abused. Police said that among those arrested were medical staff, teachers and care workers, and ages ranged from 15 to 50.A spokeswoman for Greater Manchester police said the operation proved that the internet was not "unpoliceable". "The scale of the operation underlines the determination of police services throughout the UK to target people who possess and distribute images of children," she said. She added: "Special equipment is now available making it impossible for those who use the rooms to remain anonymous."Detective Inspector Keith Tilley, of Hertfordshire police, said that officers today were looking for computers at the homes they raided, but were also looking for signs of child abuse. "We will not be leaving those premises until we are satisfied those children are safe," he said, adding that risk assessments were being carried out in conjunction with social workers.Chris Atkinson, policy adviser with the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, stressed that behind every image traded online was a child being abused. She sited a US study that found between 36% and 37% of those downloading child pornography had also been directly involved in the abuse of children. The NSPCC and police admitted that they did not know the extent of the abuse, and that tracing individuals behind the images was often difficult as some of the images were quite old. This morning details began to filter in from regional police forces. Police in London searched eight premises and arrested six men. Merseyside police arrested a man in his twenties, and Humberside police arrested another two men. Police in West Yorkshire arrested three men - aged 18, 26, and 37 - at their homes and seized computer equipment. West Mercia police said a teenager was arrested in Telford. In Northern Ireland, police took away two computers and a number of disks from a house in Antrim town, but made no arrests. Inspector Terry Jones, from Greater Manchester police's abusive images unit, said instances of internet child porn found on people's computers had risen from "a dozen" in 1995 to 41,000 in 1999 in the Greater Manchester police area alone.He added that Operation Magenta was "a clear demonstration that forces can work together to tackle new challenges posed by the internet".