A couple who used eBay to illegally trade in dead endangered species were given suspended prison terms and fined today. Graham Pitchforth, a retired expert in animal care, and his wife Norah imported and sold exotic carcasses from the UK and overseas, including a lion cub, flying foxes, monkeys and a sea otter.They were given suspended jail terms of five months each and a total of 400 hours unpaid community service by a judge who condemned their business as involving "serious crime which helps the illegal market that feeds the extinction of species". Both admitted 24 charges of illegally importing, possessing, exporting and selling on eBay and other websites for a profit of £2,329.Leeds crown court heard that Graham Pitchforth, 61, was an amateur taxidermist who started mounting small animals as a retirement hobby. His wife, 65, suggested selling them online, and from this small and legal sideline the trade turned criminal. Inconsistencies in documents for very rare species acquired by the couple alerted wildlife agencies, and police raided their home in Wakefield, West Yorkshire, in December 2006. The court heard that incriminating emails from Pitchforth and his wife were found on a seized computer.One from Norah Pitchforth told a Norwegian potential buyer of a stuffed snowy owl: "Hi, sorry this has only been mounted three months ago. I have no paperwork for it so it would have to be a private sale saying it's a gift from me to you."Judge Christopher Batty said that the trade was "a deliberate flouting of the regulations for commercial gain". He told the couple: "You imported species from Indonesia and South Africa, likely to have been hunted from the wild perhaps for the unlawful trade in their carcasses."Suggested uses for the stuffed animals advertised on eBay included table decorations and clothes. Other carcasses and animal parts listed included four sparrowhawks, eight owls, a crocodile monitor and a collection of more than 60 skulls. A confiscation hearing will take place later this year.