Deputy prime minister Nick Clegg has told Theresa May, the home secretary, that she needs to "go back to the drawing board" on the "snooper's charter".It's particularly blunt language between coalition partners. Clegg is upset about the government's communications data bill, which May wants to get through parliament before the next election in 2015. The new law would extend the police and security service's ability to see private communication over the internet in order to combat serious crime, including terrorism and sexual offences. While the parliamentary committee set up to scrutinise the draft bill stated that it would "trample over privacy", a separate committee warned yesterday that "the decline of available communications data will begin shortly to have a serious impact on the intelligence and security agencies".Labour's former chief whip and a member of the scrutiny committee, Nick Brown said:"The central area of public concern is one of privacy. People are worried that if all this information is kept and is available to public officials then some of those officials will either lose it somehow or will be tempted to sell it on for profit, probably to a tabloid newspaper journalist. Of all the written submissions we received from individuals not one was in support of the bill."Theresa May, on the other hand, has been unequivocal in her defence of the plans:"People who say they are against this bill need to look victims of serious crime, terrorism and child sex offences in the eye and tell them why they're not prepared to give the police the powers they need to protect the public.Anybody who is against this bill is putting politics before people's lives. We would certainly see criminals going free as a result of this."For its part, the Association of Chief Police Officers said: "Communications data is vital to some of the successes we've had."When she assumed the role of home secretary in 2010, Theresa May instituted a review of counter-terrorism legislation brought in by the previous government, pledging to "restore ancient civil liberties" and right the balance of a system that had become too weighted towards security, at the expense of freedom. Her critics see the data communications bill as a betrayal of this promise. Others point out that it merely extends to the internet powers that already exist in relation to mobile phones.With an ever-increasing proportion of serious crime mediated by the internet, is the data communications bill simply an update to the law that reflects changes in technology, or something more sinister?Both sides in the debate tend to accept the need for the police and security services to be able to use communications to investigate wrongdoing. What should the balance between security and liberty be online?