Two firearms officers who shot dead an unarmed man can return to work, the Metropolitan police announced last night in a decision criticised as "outrageous" by the lawyer for the victim's family.Chief Inspector Neil Sharman and PC Kevin Fagan were suspended from duty in October after a coroner's court ruled they had unlawfully killed Harry Stanley, 46, in 1999 when they mistook the table leg he was carrying for a shotgun outside a pub in east London. The suspension sparked an unofficial strike by more than a quarter of the 400 officers in the Met's elite SO19 firearms unit. After a review of the suspensions policy, Sir Ian Blair, the deputy commissioner, said that both officers would return to "non-operational" duties. The crown prosecution service is still considering whether any charges will be brought against the officers after the inquest jury rejected the pair's claims that they believed their lives were in imminent danger. It also emerged yesterday that Mr Sharman had continued to give shooting lessons to "hundreds" of officers for two years after the incident while he was suspended from active firearms duty. Mr Sharman told the Police Review he thought it strange that this "anomaly" had been allowed. The two officers will return to work as constables but will not undertake any firearms duties or training. They will also have no contact with the public while at work or be involved in "the evidential chain of a criminal case". Sir Ian, who promoted Mr Sharman to chief inspector earlier this year despite the case, said: "I have accepted the recommendation that the conduct of both officers now comes within the category of removal from operational duty rather than legal suspension. Allowing these officers to return to work on non-operational duties means they can make a useful and valued contribution to the Metropolitan police and the service is in a better position to support and supervise them." Daniel Machover, lawyer for Mr Stanley's widow Irene, said she was "very distressed and angry at this unwarranted decision. "We are outraged that an officer who is facing a potential murder charge has been judged worthy of having his suspension lifted and returning to policing. His account of the shooting was disbelieved by the inquest jury. If these officers were disbelieved by a jury on something as serious as opening fire on a member of the public, when will they ever suspend anyone?" Peter Herbert, a member of the Metropolitan Police Authority who was not involved in the decision, said the decision by Sir Ian, who takes over as commissioner in February, was a capitulation to the striking officers that would damage his authority. "If you are looking to officers to maintain the highest level of discipline and responsibility carrying firearms, any concession that is made under threat of a walkout will undermine the credibility of the force's leadership," he said. Mr Herbert said the Met had shut out community groups from discussions despite promises to consult them, and the new policy on suspensions was too lax. "You can't have a policy that has any credibility if the test is so high that it means no officer is going to be suspended unless they admit a deliberate act or negligence," he said. "The test is a virtual ban on any officer being suspended from duty as a result of a shooting." A spokeswoman for the campaign group Inquest, which has supported the Stanley family, said it was appalling that the Met was pre-empting the crown prosecution service. "Yet again the message being sent out is that the rule of law does not apply to police officers," she said. "This is a decision that has caused deep anguish and distress to the family." The Met will now review the cases of 37 other officers who are suspended from duty.