The government's senior law officer made an extraordinary plea to the media yesterday to drop a "campaign of vilification" against the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf.Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, said newspapers which attacked Lord Woolf over his proposals that murderers who pleaded guilty could get up to one-third off their prison time were damaging public confidence in the administration of justice.The proposals came in September in draft guidelines from the independent sentencing council, chaired by Lord Woolf. These set out guidance to judges for a formal system of discounts for guilty pleas, which would apply to all offences, including murder. In murder cases, there is a mandatory sentence of life, but the guidelines tell the judge how to decide what minimum term to recommend before the prisoner can apply for parole. The council, which was set up by the Criminal Justice Act 2003, was producing its first draft guidelines, but some tabloid newspapers, and the home secretary, David Blunkett, insist that murder is unique and should not be treated like other crimes. Lord Goldsmith used an address to the Criminal Solicitors Association annual conference to defend the lord chief justice. He did not name any papers but the Sun launched a campaign in September, just after Lord Woolf unveiled the draft guidelines. Readers were invited to sign a petition calling on him to stand down. It published a list of murderers, telling readers: "Each of them took someone's life in the foulest way and was jailed for life. If Woolf had his way, life for them could mean just 10 years. "Lord Woolf is mightily out of step with mainstream public opinion, putting at risk respect for the law. He is also arro gantly overturning the policies of a government which was elected on the specific promise it would get tough on crime. "Home secretary David Blunkett has done his best to meet that commitment. His latest law says a life sentence must be at least 15 years. But at every turn he is thwarted by judges who believe they have the God-given right to ignore the will of parliament and the people." In his response to the guidelines, Mr Blunkett disagreed with discounts for guilty pleas in murder cases, apart from exceptional cases, such as where the authorities had not been aware of the crime before the killer confessed. Lord Goldsmith pointed out that the relevant legislation required judges to take into account the timing and circumstances of a guilty plea in setting the minimum term. He said the draft sentencing guidelines did not suggest an automatic discount, let alone discounts of one-third. It was not his job as attorney general to defend one particular judge, "let alone one as eminent as the lord chief justice". However, some comment had gone "well beyond legitimate and robust comment on a matter of public interest". The press must be free to criticise judges' decisions, he said. A free, robust and independent press was one of the bedrocks of society and must be maintained. "But we must also maintain judicial independence; and we must maintain public confidence in the judiciary. Without public confidence in the judiciary, public confidence in the whole criminal justice system is damaged. "And when press campaigns against individuals in the justice system go too far, especially if it involves inaccurate reporting of the facts, they run the risk of causing unfair damage to public confidence in our essentially effective and fair system of justice."