Gary Glitter was today released from prison in Vietnam after serving most of his three-year sentence for child sex offences.The former glam rock singer, whose real name is Paul Gadd, was driven from Thu Duc prison to Ho Chi Minh City airport, from where he will be deported back to Britain. Vietnamese authorities have forced Glitter to travel economy class after blocking his preferred choice of first or business class.The executive class ban for Glitter, traveling on passport number 761028553 issued to him while he was in prison, came after lawyers attempted to book a ticket back to Britain on Qatar Airways, via Dohar.Qatar Airways refused to take him. He will instead take a Thai airlines flight via Bangkok, where authorities said they would ensure he boarded the second leg of the journey. Sudarat Sereewat, a member of the Thai National Human Rights Committee, said she would be at the airport when it landed together with Thai immigration police."We are aware of his passport number and will happily assist Mr Gadd to the intended destination in case he has second thoughts about stopping off here," she said.Glitter is due to leave Ho Chi Minh City at 8.50pm (2.50pm BST). He is booked on a flight to London Heathrow, arriving at 7.15am tomorrow.He is expected to be met at Heathrow by police and required to sign the register of sex offenders. He will then be subject to monitoring and will have to tell the police where he plans to live and if he plans to go abroad. He could also face an order prohibiting him from going near children or using the internet.Glitter, 64, was jailed in March 2006, after he was convicted of molesting two girls aged 10 and 11 in the southern coastal city of Vung Tau. His sentence was later reduced for good behaviour.His lawyer, Le Thanh Kinh, said Glitter was looking forward to returning to Britain: "He is OK but he is worried about his health. He has problems with his hearing and his heart."In a recent interview with the Vietnamese newspaper Cong An Nhan Dan (People's Police), Glitter said he was thinking about resuming his singing career and that he might move to Hong Kong or Singapore. However, last week he said he wanted to come back to the UK to take advantage of the health service.Kinh said Glitter left prison at 11.30am (5.30am BST) and that he was being driven the 90 miles to the airport.Thu Duc is the biggest prison in Vietnam, with more than 10,000 prisoners - including about 100 foreigners. It is in Binh Thuan province, 87 miles north of Ho Chi Minh City.In his 1970s glam rock heyday, Glitter performed in glittery jumpsuits, silver platform shoes and bouffant wigs. He sold 18m records and recorded a string of top 10 hits.His most successful song, the crowd-pleasing anthem Rock and Roll (Part 2) cracked the top 10 in the US, where it continues to bring sports fans to their feet with its rousing one-word chorus: "Hey!"During the 1990s, Glitter's career faltered, although he appeared on occasional quiz shows and made variety show performances.Glitter's fall from grace began in 1997, when he took his laptop computer to a repair shop and an employee discovered thousands of hardcore images of children.Two years later, British authorities convicted him of possessing child pornography, and Glitter served half of his four-month jail term.He later went to Cambodia but was expelled in 2002 after children's rights advocates protested about his presence in the country.Glitter subsequently moved to Vietnam, where he took up residence in a seaside villa in Vung Tau, a resort town popular as a weekend getaway for residents of Ho Chi Minh City.Neighbours said they often heard the bald and burly Glitter singing loudly by his swimming pool and entertaining teenage girls.In November 2005, police launched a week-long manhunt for Glitter after allegations arose that he had been molesting girls at his villa.He was arrested at Ho Chi Minh City airport, where he was trying to board a flight to Bangkok. He was convicted in March last year, when the trial judge denounced him for "disgusting and sick" behaviour.The court said Glitter had molested the girls repeatedly at his villa and in nearby hotels. His sentence was reduced by three months last year for good behaviour during Vietnam's annual lunar new year prison amnesty.