Police officers today said they were treating a reported sighting of the missing schoolgirl Shannon Matthews in the Dewsbury area yesterday as "significant".Speaking at a press conference as the search for the nine-year-old was stepped up, Detective Superintendent Andy Brennan said an adult claimed to have seen her a few streets away from her home in Moorside Road, Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, between 9.15am and 9.30am yesterday."We've spoken to a witness who believes he saw Shannon at that time," he said. "It was an adult who was convinced that it was Shannon, so we are treating it as a significant finding." The last confirmed sighting of the schoolgirl was at 3.10pm on Tuesday afternoon as she got off a bus outside her school following a swimming trip. West Yorkshire police said they "remained worried" about her safety, 48 hours after she went missing."I couldn't be more concerned," Brennan said. "This is a very young girl and we have had limited possible sightings. Shannon is nine years old - I wouldn't describe her as streetwise."He confirmed claims that Shannon had told friends she wanted to run away. "My teams have spoken with a number of her friends, and certainly on Monday or Tuesday this week she had suggested she may not want to come home," he added. "We have spoken to her friends and are satisfied she has made that comment. There has been no contact with family or friends we are aware of."Shannon has never run away before, but it is understood her older brother, Tony, 11, had gone missing from home before.However, friends and family dismissed suggestions that the girl could have run away. Locals searched for her until 4am this morning, when temperatures dipped to -6C. "It's just not like her," Shannon's aunt, Amanda Hyett said. "There's not been anything wrong at home."More than 60 detectives, along with other officers and hundreds of volunteers, are searching garages, buildings and scrubland in the Dewsbury area for Shannon. Police are also making door-to-door inquiries. Brennan urged anyone with further information to come forward, and also told Shannon not to worry about returning home."Shannon - quite simply, you are not in trouble," he said. "We are genuinely concerned for you - please contact us or your family or friends."Shannon, who has blue eyes and freckles, was wearing school uniform - a white cotton T-shirt, black trousers, a black jumper and a black waist-length puffer coat with a fur-lined hood. She also wore pink and grey Bratz furry boots. She is 4ft 1in tall and of slim build, with shoulder-length brown hair tied up in a ponytail.Anyone with any information should contact West Yorkshire police by phone or text on 07786 200 806.