The case of a man convicted of a murder in London nearly 35 years ago is to be sent back to the court of appeal. Campaigners claim that the case is one of Britain's longest-running miscarriages of justice.John Heibner, then 30, was jailed for life in 1976 for the contract killing of Beatrice "Biddy" Gold, who was shot dead the previous year in the basement office of the clothing business she ran with her husband in Clerkenwell, east London. Heibner, now 64, served more than a quarter of a century in prison, protesting his innocence throughout.A spokesman for the Criminal Cases Review Commission confirmed that the case was to be referred back. "Having considered a rage of issues, including the admissibility and treatment of confession evidence at trial, and new evidence relating to a witness at trial, the commission is referring the conviction to the court of appeal because it considers that there is a real possibility that the court may not uphold the conviction," said a spokesperson.Heibner said today: "It has been a very long road. I have fought very hard for this but, from day one, I have always believed that it would be referred back eventually. I am obviously very happy that it has finally happened."His lawyer, Rhona Friedman, said the case represented one of the last cases of alleged miscarriage of justice left unexamined by the courts from the 1970s. She described it as "an extraordinarily murky episode in our criminal justice system" and added: "We hope that the court of appeal will shine a light on what has gone on and that finally this miscarriage of justice will be put right."Heibner served more than 25 years before he was considered for release. He now lives in east London and has continued a campaign to clear his name after his release from jail. His case, which was reported in the Guardian in 2006, was first sent to the CCRC, set up to examine alleged wrongful convictions, in 2002.On the day of the murder in September 1975, Gold had been at the office with her husband, Eric, and their colleague, Sheila Brown. Mr Gold and Brown went shopping at the end of the day – by the time they returned Beatrice Gold was dead, having been shot three times with a .32 revolver.Heibner was known to police as an armed robber who operated in the area. Born in Cape Town, he had come to London as a boy with his father after his mother died. After service in the merchant navy, he became involved in crime and was sent to borstal for a street robbery in London in 1963. At the time of the murder he was facing a 15-year sentence for an armed robbery to which he had admitted.The police interviewed Heibner and other known criminals in the area before he and another man were charged. At the heart of his conviction was a disputed confession which Heibner contested at the trial. There were also arguments about the nature of his police interviews. An appeal against the conviction in 1978 was unsuccessful. However, Lord Justice Shaw suggested at the hearing that the then home secretary should undertake an investigation. The Metropolitan police conducted an inquiry and a report was submitted to the then home secretary but no action was taken.Heibner has had support from a number of prominent figures in his bid to have his case reopened. Lord Ramsbotham, the former chief inspector of prisons, has made a number of calls for his case to be referred back. The Rev Nick Stacey, former director of social services for Kent, who met Heibner when he was in Maidstone prison, became convinced of his innocence and has written to successive home secretaries on his behalf. Rhona Friedman paid tribute yesterday to their "steadfast" support.A total of 12,451 cases have been submitted to the CCRC since it was set up in 1997. Of these, 447 have been referred back to the court of appeal, of which 290 have resulted in a quashed conviction.