A senior police spokesman said last night that the total haul in yesterday's mail train robbery was "clearly well over £1 million" - more than £500,000 of it belonging to the National Provincial Bank.This news came shortly after the Postmaster-General, Mr Reginald Bevins, had said that the possibility that the raid was an "inside job" could not be ruled out.The post office train, which is now known to have been carrying far more money than usual, was ambushed in Buckinghamshire by a gang of between eight and 15 men. In executing the biggest and most daring robbery in the history of the railways, they altered signals and split the train in two before disappearing.As Scotland Yard detectives joined with Post Office investigators and railway police in their inquiries, Mr Bevins cut short his holiday in Liverpool and returned to London.He said: "I feel as uncomfortable as anyone in my position would, to the extent that when a successful robbery like this is perpetrated, then clearly our security arrangements have not been satisfactory." He had been concerned that things should be tightened up.Mr Bevins said his most immediate task was to find out why the precautions taken had not been adequate. He had authorised a reward of £10,000 "and I think that because of the large number of persons involved in the robbery, there is a substantial chance of the reward bringing in information."Asked if any compensation would be offered for losses, Mr Bevins said people would be compensated only to a limited extent, because £20 was the maximum compensation paid for the loss of a registered package.Not recordedMr Bevins then spent about 80 minutes with senior Post Office officials. Afterwards he said he did not propose to make a detailed statement, but he might do so today after he had considered some of the suggestions made to tighten up security.He added that the numbers of new notes carried by the GPO and railways from bank head offices to provincial branches were known, but in the case of the train robbery these would not be known: they were old notes and a fair proportion were on their way to be destroyed.Meanwhile, the hunt for the men who ambushed the Glasgow-London mail train at 3 a.m. near Cheddington, Buckinghamshire, intensified last night under the direction of Detective-Superintendent G. E. McArthur, of department CI, that section of the CID which deals with the bigger crimes.A few hours earlier, the National Provincial Bank announced that its loss in the raid was "in excess of £500,000 - almost all in notes." The British Linen Bank in Scotland put its loss at about £55,000, and a spokesman for Hart and Co., loss adjustors, said the company was offering a reward of £25,000 on the instructions of the two banks.This, coupled with the earlier announcement by Mr Bevins, brings the total reward money being offered to £35,000.Over in 15 minutesThe raid itself was efficient, violent, and over in 15 minutes. Police believe the gang was armed with sticks and iron bars, and dressed in boiler suits with various kinds of mask ranging from nylon stockings to balaclava helmets.Detective Superintendent Malcolm Fewtrell, of Buckinghamshire CID, said: "It was obviously a very professional job. They seemed to know their railway signalling." The gang knew both its signalling and its mail train to the last detail. It fixed a signal to stop the train, having changed the signal a mile earlier to amber so that the train would slow down. The men swarmed aboard, attacking and handcuffing the crew of the engine and forcing them to drive the front two coaches three-quarters of a mile south to a lonely bridge over the road where a lorry was waiting.Other members of the gang had uncoupled the rear 10 coaches in which some 75 postal sorters were hard at work, oblivious of what was going on. A PO spokesman said later that there was no reason why they should have known what was happening as they work against the clock and there are occasional unscheduled stops.The first coach contained empty bags. The registered mail and five Post Office workers were in the second. Members of the gang herded the staff into a corner and ordered them to be quiet while they tossed the mailbags through the windows.The locomotive driver, Mr Jack Mills, of Crewe, was detained in hospital with concussion after being hit over the head. He had been handcuffed to his co-driver, Mr David Whitby, also of Crewe.Mr Whitby said that one of the attackers had grabbed him, put a hand over his mouth, and said: "If you shout, I will kill you."