Operation Trident, Scotland Yard's specialist squad to deal with violence in the black community, has been told it must recruit more minority officers to solve murders.There are just 12 black officers in a squad of 267. Trident's civilian advisers have told the Metropolitan police the squad would be better able to forge links with the black community in London and clear up more cases if it was more diverse. The demand reflects deep anxiety about the Met's performance in recruiting more black officers. The Guardian has learned that the recruitment task force launched in a blaze of publicity 15 months ago is to be wound up amid claims that its effect on recruitment has been marginal. One major initiative - to pay black officers £350 if they recruit a colleague - collapsed under fierce opposition from black staff and the Met's advisers. Another scheme to have an all black intake of trainees also foundered. About 8% of the force's officers are from ethnic minority communities and officials working for Ken Livingstone, London's mayor, are so concerned about the failure to recruit and retain more black officers that they are thinking about making parts of the police budget "performance related". The force would be obliged to show it has achieved diversity targets before receiving certain parts of its funding. The Met's difficulties have been exacerbated by last week's decision of the National Black Police Association to deter black recruits from joining amid accusations that current staff face racial discrimination. Lee Jasper, the mayor's policing adviser and chairman of the Trident independent advisory group, said: "I addressed every single Trident officer at a meeting a little while ago and was struck by the lack of black officers. I told them that at the time and the independent advisory group has raised the issue collectively on at least three occasions." He added: "I think they would catch more crooks if the squad was more diverse. The partnership work we have done so far shows that where we engender community confidence you get a higher grade of community intelligence. "I think Trident should have 50 to 60 black officers. But first we have got to get more black recruits through the door." Mr Jasper said of the task force: "It is seen to have failed. A number of the task force members and black members of the Metropolitan police authority have been frustrated by the lack of progress and see no point in continuing. The approach we are looking at now is to tighten up the funding arrangements." Chief Inspector Leroy Logan of the Met's Black Police Association said he did not think the task force had failed because it put procedures in place that would bring benefits. But he backed the call for more black officers in Trident. "You need officers who share the common experiences of the constituency you are dealing with." Reverend David Muir, chairman of the task force, said he now wanted a different approach. "We need to look at retention as well as recruitment. There will be fewer meetings and other ways to work." He too called for more black officers on Trident. Officers volunteer to work on the squad and virtually all have at least seven years' experience. This makes the task of finding suitable recruits much harder because so few black detectives fit the criteria. There is concern about the risks of placing inappropriate officers into situations they are not able to deal with. As Scotland Yard has tried to deal with the threat posed by gunmen in London, some of whom come from the Caribbean, there have been complaints in the past that black officers without the necessary experience have been given dangerous undercover assignments. The situation is also complicated by the views of some black officers on Trident, who would be reluctant to see a racially based recruitment campaign for fear it could dilute the quality of the squad and prompt questions about their own professionalism. Trident is said to be achieving greater success. There were 11 gun murders last year compared with 16 in the previous year. The squad clears up 80% of its cases, and attempted murders, which fall within its remit, are down 40%.