The Guardian site has been full of comment claiming that the government's new move to prevent the abuse of children was somehow "the nanny state gone mad'' or an attempt wrap children in "600 million tonnes of cotton wool". I profoundly disagree with this criticism.The Children's Society welcomes the new Vetting and Barring Scheme. The requirement to ask anyone taking part in activities involving frequent or intensive contact with children or vulnerable adults to register is a rational and proportionate response to a genuine problem.It is not a knee-jerk reaction provoked by media hype and moral panic. Nor do I agree that it would produce more social evil than it is seeking to prevent. This is about preventing unsuitable people from working with children and vulnerable adults.After the horrendous Soham case, we should all see this practical and down-to-earth scheme as a positive development, as it is designed to improve significantly the flow of valuable information. We have learned over many years now that there are adults, albeit a small proportion, who deliberately seek ways of gaining access to children in order to abuse them.This is not a wild surmise. The figures back it up. For example, in January 2009, the Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA) took over responsibility for receiving referrals from employers who had been alerted to concerns about the behaviour of people working with children and vulnerable adults. There have been 500-600 referrals every month. Surely, in the light of those figures, any parent would want to know that the person who is taking their child to a football match, the Girl Guides or Cubs had been checked out?None of this is going to stop friends and families making informal arrangements involving their children. We should not get confused and think it is going to interfere with us allowing our children to, for example, play outside, have sleepovers and do all the things we want them to be able to do.This scheme is not designed to stop parents picking up their own children, or their children's friends, from school or from a choir practice. It is to check the backgrounds of volunteers or employees of organisations that have regular, unsupervised contact with children – such as the Scouts or the local football team. We believe this extra layer of protection for young people will help keep them safe.The Vetting and Barring Scheme was established as a result of the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act of 2006 – legislation that was passed unopposed by all parties (a fact that perhaps critical politicians quoted today, such as Chris Grayling and Chris Huhne, should recall to mind).Most people who work directly with children in the caring professions and voluntary organisations already submit to Criminal Records Bureau checks into their backgrounds. They do so willingly because they know it helps to reinforce the trust of the public that their children are in safe hands. The new scheme extends that cover to professionals such as dentists and doctors, and it will enable parents to check whether a private tutor they employ to teach their child extra maths or music, for example, has registered with the ISA. Parents should feel reassured by this measure, not outraged.We should all ask ourselves the question: what would I want for my child?