The mayoral campaign for London warmed up today, as Conservative candidate Steven Norris pledged to make the streets safer by introducing US-style solutions to policing.The flamboyant ex-minister - who last month confided to the Tories' annual conference in Blackpool that he wants to be London' s answer to New York's famous former mayor, Rudi Giuliani - today published his report Safer London ahead of next June's mayoral election.However, Mr Norris is remaining silent on the trickier question of transport following his early opposition to Ken Livingstone's flagship congestion charge policy, which has since received widespread acclaim. Mr Norris's crime reduction ideas include extending his powers to match those of his New York mayoral counterpart to take over the appointment of the London police commissioner from the home secretary. As part of the new role envisaged by the prospective mayor, Mr Norris will also lobby to amend the current legislation to start chairing the Metropolitan police authority, and pledged to spend three days each week on policing and crime."The fact that clear up rates in London are now so low suggests a new approach is needed," his report says. "The mayor should ensure that the 18,000 officers who work directly in the boroughs have a clear, single focus for their activity - to make London's streets safer."Under his plan, a director of crime reduction would be appointed for the first time, directly responsible to the mayor, who will navigate a US computer system imported from New York, Compstat, to help identify crime hotspots and patterns of activity. US experts may be brought in to handle the software, Mr Norris said, which will be run directly from his office.Police presence will increase, says Mr Norris, with a minimum number of beat officers for every borough, overseen by local commanders who will form the basic unit of control for London. And the number of civilians employed will be increased to release more officers for street patrols.London's policing role should be reviewed, he added, with a possible split between everyday policing and the responsibilities that come from patrolling the capital, which could be hived off to a national crime fighting force similar to the FBI.Mr Norris says he also wants to develop a partnership with local communities to eradicate "nuisance crimes", and redeploy underground staff "to play a more active role in making stations feel safer". Illegal minicab touts, meanwhile, will be driven off the streets.Accusing the incumbent mayor of staying "invisible" on tackling crime, Mr Norris said: "It is not good enough just to throw money at a problem. The report shows you need to get more police on the street deterring criminals. London needs a radical solution to policing. I am determined to deliver a safer city."