The parents of a nurse who was stabbed to death by her former partner after he had been freed on bail wept in court as details of her murder were revealed today.Jane Clough had been due to give evidence against Jonathan Vass, with whom she had an infant daughter, on nine charges of rape when he confronted her in a hospital car park and stabbed her.He walked away before returning to slit her throat as she lay on the floor.Clough, 26, was taken to the accident and emergency department at Blackpool's Royal Victoria hospital, where she had been about to start her shift. Colleagues did not recognise her because of the severity of her injuries.Judge Anthony Russell, passing a life sentence, said: "As she lay bleeding, you walked away but then returned and slowly, deliberately and cold-bloodedly slit her throat. It is difficult to imagine a more horrific crime."This was a deliberate, brutal and callous murder for which you have shown no remorse and no care for your own daughter." Vass, who wept uncontrollably, was told he would not be eligible for parole until 2040.The judge described Clough as a nurse who had devoted her life to the care of others. He told Vass: "She had the misfortune to become involved with you."She bore your child and then you murdered her, leaving your infant child without a mother and with the prospect of growing up to learn one day that her father murdered her mother."Preston crown court heard Clough had kept a diary detailing her abuse and fears of what Vass might do. She and her family had been "rocked and devastated" when he was bailed on the rape charges, leaving her "extremely concerned for her safety".She left home to live with her parents and recorded in the diary that she was worried "Johnny was going to do something stupid". Vass had been relying on her to drop the charges.Another diary entry detailed her fears that Vass would "get his revenge", adding: "What's he going to do?"The prosecution said it was clear the motive for the murder in July this year was to prevent her giving evidence in the trial, which had been scheduled for this month. Dennis Watson QC, prosecuting, said the couple, who met while both were working at the hospital, had a troubled relationship."He was a jealous man who wished to dominate and have complete control over Jane despite the fact that, unknown to her, he was carrying on a relationship with two other women at the same time," he said.In November, Clough contacted police, telling officers about months of physical and sexual abuse and repeated rape even when she was heavily pregnant.Text messages between the pair were read out. Clough sent Vass a message saying: "You have hurt, raped and reduced me to tears on countless occasions … and you want to get engaged and have more kids? Why?" He replied: "We are staying together regardless of our problems."Another said: "You physically and sexually abuse me. You threatened to kill me the other night." Vass replied: "Please can I come home … best behaviour promise."The court heard Vass told a work colleague, a former boyfriend of Clough's, that he would kill her if he was found guilty. The friend dismissed the threat as "bravado".In victim impact statements read to the court, the family said they were heartbroken and described Clough as a "loving sister, mother, daughter, someone who touched the lives of many, many people".Vass, 30, had initially been charged with nine rapes, a sexual assault and three assaults and was remanded in custody at his first court appearance.He was released on bail 12 days later at a hearing before Judge Simon Newell. Although Vass's bail conditions ordered him to keep away from Clough, he tracked her movements on Facebook.Clough's parents, Penny and John, held a protest outside the court. They believe their daughter has been failed twice by the judicial system as the rape charges will now lie on file.They held a banner which showed a photo of Vass and said: "I was freed on bail by Judge Simon Newell," above an image of Jane Clough that said: "And killed …"Another banner referred to Russell's comments at an earlier hearing in which he said the rape charge "pales into insignificance" compared with the murder. Alongside a picture of Clough it read: "Insignificant rapes? I could turn in my grave."Watson said the family felt Clough's death could have been prevented and Vass should still stand trial for the rapes.He added that the family felt the system had let them down. The judge explained that in legal terms, ordering charges to lie on file was not the same as dropping the charges. "I know that this decision has resulted in distress and anguish," he added. "But I am satisfied that it was the correct decision in the overall public interest which requires consideration of many factors, otherwise I would not have authorised it."Detective Superintendent Neil Esseen, who led the inquiry, said: "There is no doubt in my mind that he committed this brutal murder to prevent this brave young woman from having her day in court."He said Clough was a new mother who had everything to live for. "She enjoyed her job at the hospital and had many friends there, but she was cruelly taken away from those who loved her by Jonathan Vass in the most violent of circumstances," he added.Paying tribute to the family's dignity and honour during proceedings, he said they had made sure their daughter's voice had been heard loud and clear.