When it comes to punishing criminals, those of us with a duty to do our best to protect the law-abiding majority must always consider the punishment that is most effective. For many offenders - especially those at the most serious end of the criminal spectrum - there is no alternative to custody. Prison is the proper place for these people.But there are many others - especially those at the less serious end of the spectrum - for whom alternatives to custody are potentially more challenging, more likely to lead to rehabilitation and, most importantly, most effective. This isn't a question of "tough" versus "soft", the level to which the debate over how to deal with offenders is so often reduced. Even in America, home of the supermax jail and the "three strikes" rule decried by European prison reformers, there has been a realisation that prison is not only the wrong option for some, but it is the soft option for some, both jailers and jailed.This week, I have been in New York to visit the Red Hook Community Justice Center. This was the United States' first community court seeking to solve neighbourhood problems like drugs, crime and domestic violence not as separate problems, but as one. The centre has done much to increase people's confidence in criminal justice, from just 12% of residents feeling confident about their court before the centre opened in 2000, to 71% in 2001.These are impressive statistics, hard to ignore. We're lucky in the United Kingdom that we have so much in our justice system of which we should be proud. Our magistrates and judges operate to the highest standards of independence and probity. They inspire confidence at home, and envy abroad.But we should not be so proud that we are unable to learn lessons from others. In New York, they have recognised that the courts cannot do it alone. Without the cooperation of the community, many offenders simply repeat the cycle of offending and detention.In 2005, we opened our own version of Red Hook, the community justice centre in north Liverpool. We also set up a community court in Salford. There are now 11 new community justice courts across England and Wales, building on the Liverpool and Salford models.By no stretch of the imagination could New York - or Liverpool or Salford - be described as soft cities. Nor could community courts or community penalties be described as the soft option. Community justice works by making courts more responsive to the priorities of local people. By strengthening the links between the courts and the community, I believe people's confidence in the work of the court will rise and the community will feel more confident about tackling offending behaviour.In community courts, judges come out from behind the bench to hold community surgeries and attend local events. Offenders are ordered to carry out unpaid work as part of a sentence on projects nominated by residents. In this way, justice really is seen to be done.The courts aim to break the cycle of reoffending - and doing so is always the top priority of such courts - by tackling some of the underlying causes of crime such as drug and alcohol addiction, housing, education or debt problems. Sentences aim to include programmes to help solve these problems. Offenders are often young men leading chaotic lives, ill-equipped to deal with the complexities of providing for themselves.The work of community courts doesn't stop at sentencing. They are able to order people back to court at any time during a community order, to check on their progress but also to support and encourage them when they are doing well. Research with offenders suggests the problem-solving approach improves compliance with their sentence and helps them avoid reoffending in the future.In addition to the community justice courts, we have also established two drug courts in magistrates' courts, at Leeds and west London. These target people committing lower level crime to fund drug addiction. The same judge or panel of magistrates deals with an offender each time they come to court, from conviction through sentence and beyond, as part of a review of progress on a drug rehabilitation order. I now want to take this work forward to other courts across England and Wales.I want the public to see their courts as an accessible and vital part of their community. Courts that make a visible difference to the day-to-day lives of everyone who lives there, including offenders.