Police hunting the killer of two women whose dismembered remains were found in bin bags in north London made an arrest today.The man was taken for questioning in Greenwich, south London, but police say he is not Anthony John Hardy, who is wanted for questioning over the murders. Mr Hardy yesterday named as the owner of a flat where the torso belonging to one of the women was discovered.The man arrested today - who has not been named - is however still being held in custody.The murder hunt began on Monday after a homeless man found female body parts in bin bags outside a pub in Camden, north London.He took them to a hospital, which called the police. Later the torso of a young woman was found in a wheelie bin about 100 yards away.But a number of body parts are still missing, including both heads and some limbs.Detectives are fearful there may be more victims. They are particularly anxious to find a woman who was seen shopping with Hardy, 53, over Christmas and has since been reported missing. She is believed to have been living in a hostel in Camden.All the parts found so far belong to two women victims, both white, who are thought to have been killed up to a week ago. It was originally thought they may have been mother and daughter but police now believe they may have been prostitutes.Police are still trying to establish the identities of the victims, but believe they are not related. One is in her late teens or early 20s and the other is in her 30s or 40s. It is thought they died within the last week, but police found no signs of a violent struggle in the flat.Mr Hardy has a history of psychiatric problems and neighbours have described him as a loner. Inside his flat - close to where the first body parts were discovered - there were painted crosses on the walls.In January this year the body of another prostitute, 38-year-old Rose White, was discovered in the same flat but a post mortem examination found she had died of a heart attack.Anyone knowing the whereabouts of Mr Hardy is advised to dial 999 or phone the incident room on 020 8358 0600.A blue police tarpaulin was thrown up yesterday at the front and back of the three-storey block of council flats. Divers from Scotland Yard's marine support unit today began a search of the nearby Regents Canal.