Contrary to what appears to be a widely held, but ill-informed, view, human rights do not magically appear when a suspect is stopped on the street; or is arrested; or is charged; or is prosecuted; or when they appear in court.Human rights are universal, inalienable and perpetual. They are not defined by an individual's status at any given time. They are not applied or disapplied depending on the situation one finds oneself in. And they are not discriminatory.One cannot escape, particularly in recent months, the debate that has emerged around the extent to which it is appropriate – and these are my words here – to repatriate the Human Rights Act (HRA) and make it "more British".I do not think it unreasonable to conclude that those who advance such a view somehow propose to replace the HRA, or at least those articles in it that are taken from the European Convention, with other human rights that they consider to be more appropriately geared to "British" society.Pausing only to recall the fact that the UK played a major role in the design and drafting of the European Convention itself back in 1951, let me just take you through those rights that have been adopted through the Westminster legislation.Everyone's right to life shall be protected by law.No one shall be subjected to torture or degrading treatment or punishment.No one shall be held in slavery.Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person.Everyone is entitled to a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law.No one should be held guilty retrospectively of a criminal offence.Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence.Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.Everyone has the right to freedom of expression.Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and to freedom of association.Men and women have the right to marry.And Article 14: The enjoyment of these rights and freedoms shall be secured without discrimination on any ground.I am proud to be part of a society that regards these rights as part of my entitlement as a member of that society. I cannot think of any way in which such basic human rights are either so foreign to England and Wales that they do not reflect those principles that we hold dear.Every one of us, I am sure, knows of instances where these rights have been ignored by someone in authority; where they have been deliberately set aside to secure some greater goal; where they have been wilfully abused in the pursuit of prejudice and discrimination. These rights are vital shields and defences to abuse, prejudice and discrimination.If there are perceived problems with these human rights under the HRA, I suggest that they are born out of misapplication and misunderstanding rather than any perception that they lack intrinsic value.And following that theme, let me dispel some myths:A police force unable to circulate a photo of a wanted, dangerous and violent criminal because it might breach his Article 8 rights to privacy? My advice – go ahead – it is essential to protect the public.Unelected judges can now tell parliament that their laws need not be enforced? No – judges cannot strike down legislation.Human rights mean that school teachers cannot enforce discipline at school? No – it is domestic legislation – section 548 of the Education Act 1996 that banned corporal punishment in schools. Interestingly enough, it is section 93 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006 – passed eight years after the HRA– that now allows school teachers to use reasonable force to prevent a pupil from committing an offence.Those who want to debase a principle chip away at it by citing examples of its occasional misapplication. We should all take care to examine critically the so-called restrictions brought about by the HRA and consider where the misunderstanding truly lies before condemning a constitutional instrument that has provided legitimate comfort to so many.But let me return to the relevance of human rights to the public prosecutor. I understand the views of those who might say "the ends justify the means", but down that path for a civilised society operating under the rule of law lies the abandonment of the very rule itself, and the tacit acceptance of the lynch mob. If we cannot operate our system of criminal justice, other than by using the means that we deprecate in others, we have failed in our basic duty to respect that rule of law.Identical principles apply to whether a suspect should stand trial. If we forsake the fairness of the trial process, simply on the premise that "a crime was committed, so someone must be held responsible", we lose all notion of justice and surrender to the sometimes understandable but always inappropriate yearning solely for retribution. Our criminal justice system is better than that.Let me lay bare the lie that suggests that the HRA is a "criminals' charter". Many of the fundamental rights that attach to a suspect – the right to a fair trial; the right not to suffer degrading treatment – are clear and directly applicable. The rights of victims are more subtle, but no less fundamental for that.Human rights have relevance across the board: they are not the preserve of the suspect; the defendant; the victim; or the state. They are the entitlement of everyone who comes within the jurisdiction .And so I find myself in difficulty when I hear talk of the need to "re-engineer" or "re-balance" the criminal justice system. Such talk usually emerges after a questionable decision receives undue notoriety, from those who want to use the example to support their views of the ineffectiveness of the legislation. We can all picture the banner headlines in the press, each part of which lays claim to the exclusive story of how a victim's rights have been trampled on by the almost Orwellian spectre of European-inspired legislation.But such headlines obscure the truth. Most victims want to be treated with dignity and respect – and rightly so. They want to be kept informed and supported as their case progresses – and rightly so. But very few victims argue that these perfectly legitimate aims should be achieved by stripping basic fair trial rights from the accused. That would do nothing to promote the dignity and respect of victims.And it would be to this country's shame if we lost the clear and basic statement of our citizens' human rights provided by the Human Rights Act on the basis of a fundamentally flawed analysis of their origin and relevance to our society.This is an extract of a speech delivered on the "the role of the prosecutor in a modern democracy"