A former detective now working as a private investigator says that a file seized from him by police last year could hold key information about an alleged miscarriage of justice. His claim is the latest concern to be raised in the case, which involved another officer since convicted of corruption.Kevin Lane, serving life for the murder of Robert Magill in an execution-style killing in Hertfordshire in 1994, has always protested his innocence. His case is being reviewed by the Criminal Cases Review Commission.An officer in the case, Detective Inspector Chris Spackman, of Hertfordshire police, was jailed at the Old Bailey in 2003 for plotting to steal £160,000 from the force, money that had been seized from criminals. Spackman, who admitted conspiracy to steal, theft and misconduct in office, was the officer handling disclosure information in Lane's case and had contact with other suspects and informers. The Magill murder inquiry was controversial from the start. For this reason, another former Hertfordshire detective constable, Derek Webb, working as a successful private investigator following his retirement, decided to look at it three years ago. He compiled a file of contacts, including the names and numbers of key sources.In an unconnected development, Webb's offices were raided by police in an investigation into the alleged leaking of sensitive information to the media; the case led eventually to the prosecution and acquittal of journalist, Sally Murrer. During the raid on Webb's home, a file marked "Kevin Lane'' was seized. Yesterday Webb, who served for 30 years in the police, told the Guardian that he believes the file could hold important information about the case but it had never been returned to him despite frequent requests."I am still waiting for the file back, and it certainly contained what could be very useful contact information," he said.He became interested in the case after Roger Vincent and David Smith, who were initially arrested in the Magill case, were convicted of a similar hit-man murder in the area. Webb had heard on the grapevine that there were serious doubts about Lane's guilt.Another key issue in Lane's case is public interest immunity. A number of PII certificates were granted by the trial judge and Spackman allegedly attended court when such applications were made.According to the submission to the CCRC by Joel Bennathan QC on behalf of Lane, "Spackman... may have been the judge's only source of information on which he relied to grant certificates exempting the crown from disclosure... It is submitted that any wrongdoing in connection with applications for PII is a strong indication of a more general corruption and a concerted effort to mislead the court."In 2005, the court of appeal quashed the conviction of two other men, Nazeem Khan and Cameron Bashir, in another unrelated case about credit cards because of concerns about Spackman's role.The crown counsel in the appeal accepted that Spackman was an unreliable witness, saying that he "displays an ability to conduct complicated deceptions within a police environment."Lane claims that this indicates that Spackman's role in his own case should be grounds for appeal.According to someone who has known Spackman for a number of years, the officer was "on a power trip. Dishonesty didn't bother him at all. He wanted to be somebody."Spackman has always denied this suggestion. In a mitigation letter written to the judge at his trial, Spackman wrote: "I stand before you a very, very stupid man." Hertfordshire police said that Lane's case had been "extensively reviewed" after Spackman's 2003 conviction and it had been concluded that he could not have affected it.Vincent and Smith both deny involvement in the Magill murder.A spokesperson for the CCRC confirmed that it was reviewing Lane's case.