There is reason to believe that Crippen and Miss Le Neve are now on their way across the Atlantic, bound for Canada, and on Saturday Inspector Dew, who is in charge of the Camden Town murder case, sailed from Liverpool on his way to the Dominion. The Scotland Yard authorities are reticent as to the matter, but it is admitted that the wanted persons are thought to be on the Atlantic, hoping to make their escape to Canada. That Scotland Yard sees good grounds for believing that Crippen and Miss Le Neve have, in fact, been identified, is indicated by the despatch to Canada of the officer in charge of the whole investigation of the case.No official statement is made, and no authentic information is obtainable, but, according to the story most generally circulated, this sudden development is said to be the result of a wireless message received on Friday from the Allan liner Sardinian, now more than half-way on a voyage from Havre to Quebec. Other reports give the ship as the Canadian Pacific liner Montrose, which sailed from Antwerp for Quebec on July 20. In both cases the details are the same. Suspicion was aroused on board the vessel as to the identity of a pair who joined the ship and who were travelling as father and son.The theory is that Crippen and the woman made their escape from this country to the Continent, where, according to the French police, the man was seen alone. This would suggest that they separated to lessen the chances of rousing suspicion. Two second-class passages were booked - for a man and boy - on the steamer shortly before she left, and it is believed that both would be disguised, the girl travelling in boy's attire.It is not possible for Inspector Dew to reach Canada before the Sardinian. It may be taken for granted, however, that if the wanted pair are suspected to be on board the Sardinian the Canadian police will have been duly notified, and will be in readiness to act on the liner's arrival. Perhaps they may waylay the vessel at Rimouski, below Quebec, where mail boats land their mails.According to one story circulated, the presence of Crippen and Miss Le Neve were first suspected by a steward. The man and his "son" had taken a second-class cabin. The youth was wearing a suit of dark tweed, and the man had a short beard, but no moustache, and wore glasses. The steward thought that his eyebrows were false, and that the walk of the boy was peculiar, and having come to the conclusion that the latter was a woman he informed the captain.Inspector Dew left London for Liverpool about midday on Saturday very hurriedly without luggage. A New York correspondent telegraphed yesterday:-"The New York police authorities have been informed by Scotland Yard that Inspector Dew left yesterday on the Cunard liner Caronia from Liverpool, and they have been asked to expedite his journey to Canada. It is possible that the Caronia will arrive here on Friday night, and in that case the liner will be met at Quarantine Station. The inspector will be taken off in the police boat and hurried up to the city to catch the Montreal express. Every assistance and courtesy will be shown the inspector."[Crippen and his mistress were arrested when the Montrose docked in Canada. He was found guilty of his wife Cora's murder in October 1910 and hanged the following month.]