The secrets of the jury room could be revealed for the first time in England and Wales, the government announced yesterday. Ministers are to consult on whether to allow research on jury deliberations and improper behaviour by jurors.Contempt of court laws ban researchers from questioning jurors on anything that happened in the jury room, and the House of Lords ruled four to one last week that under the present law not even appeal court judges can inquire into allegations of jury bias, even if the price is a possible miscarriage of justice. The dissenting law lord, Lord Steyn, argued that human rights law demanded that in exceptional cases the appeal court could look into allegations that, for example, the jury was racially biased. But the four other law lords ruled that the confidentiality of the jury room was sacrosanct. Lord Rodger, one of the majority, acknowledged that there might be a case for the law to be changed. However, he said, "any such far-reaching reform of the law must be a matter for parliament" rather than the law lords. "Only parliament is in a position to weigh the competing policy arguments and, if so advised, to produce a new and suitably sophisticated solution," he added. Lord Rodger said evidence of what took place in the jury room could be admitted on appeal under the existing law if the jury reached its verdict not by deliberating, but by some "illegitimate or irrational process" such as drawing lots, tossing a coin or consulting a ouija board. He suggested that jurors should be told how to raise concerns about fellow jurors' behaviour while the trial was still going on. That would allow the trial judge to give the jury directions or, if necessary, discharge the jury. The courts minister, Chris Leslie, said the Department for Constitutional Affairs would publish a consultation paper in the spring to consider whether to allow research to be conducted on jury deliberations and juror impropriety. The consultation would also consider in what exceptional circumstances appeal court judges should be able to investigate what happened in the jury room. The appeal court judge Sir Robin Auld recommended in his 2001 review of the criminal courts in England and Wales that the ban on jury research should be lifted and that appeal judges should be allowed to investigate allegations of jury misconduct. Mr Leslie said: "It is extremely important that the community, and those who work in the criminal justice system, have confidence in the decisions made by jurors." He said the House of Lords judgment, in a case brought by a Pakistani chef from east London who was convicted of indecent assault, opened the door for the government to consult broadly on aspects of jury work. "This is desirable in order to ensure that the system is working properly and that jurors feel they have everything they need to do their job properly." In the chef's case, a juror had alleged after the trial that fellow jurors were racially biased and had argued that the chef relied on an interpreter as a "devious ploy" to gain more time to answer questions.