Detectives involved in Scotland Yard's biggest-ever hunt for a serial rapist today appealed directly to the suspect to give himself up.The rapist and burglar, wanted in connection with 98 crimes committed in south-east London since 1990, is thought to have a sexual fixation with elderly people."This man has committed terrible offences on extremely vulnerable men and women, leaving them shocked, frightened and, in some cases, seriously hurt," Detective Superintendent Simon Morgan, leading the investigation, said. "One woman, who was raped twice at the age of 88 in 1999, died last month never knowing who did this to her or why. During the attack, the offender perforated this woman's bowel. The emotional scars were just as bad, and for years she has lived in absolute agony. "On behalf of her and all of the other victims, I would like to appeal to this man directly and say 'give yourself up'." Det Supt Morgan added: "You know you need help. You know you have to stop."The investigation, known as Operation Minstead, was set up in 1998 following the forensic linking of rapes committed in 1992 and 1998.Using DNA analysis and forensic comparisons, police have linked 98 offences including four rapes, more than two dozen sexual attacks and break-ins. Although the rapist mainly targets elderly women, police have linked 10 incidents of assault, one sexual, on men. The victims have been aged between 68 and 93, with an average age in the 80s. The suspect is described as a black man, in his late 30s, between 5ft 10in and 6ft 2in tall, with a round face, broad nose and large lips. He has a well-spoken soft voice and is of athletic build.Detectives believe he rides a motorbike, because victims described him as wearing motorcycle-type clothing. They think he has knowledge of caring for the elderly because of the way in which he has physically handled his victims. On one occasion, he stole a set of rosary beads but declined to steal money from a church collection dish, suggesting to detectives that he has a religious awareness. They believe he probably has a job that provides a regular income, because the break-ins provided insufficient funds to support any lifestyle. The man has referred to the fact that his mother died in 2000.A team of officers is due to travel to the Windward Islands later this month after forensic tests indicated that the suspect had ancestral links to the Caribbean."The purpose of our visit is to try and narrow down our list of possible suspects by using the very latest forensic science techniques," Det Supt Morgan said. "We believe that there may be links down the generations between our suspect and the countries of the Caribbean."To date, we know that the offender has periods of non-offending that may suggest that he is not always in the UK."All the offences have taken place in south-east London, and the suspect is believed to have particular knowledge of Shirley, Orpington, Warlingham, Coulsden and Forest Hill. The rapist has mentioned Brighton to his victims, and it is believed he may also have links there.