A third British-based man today admitted using the internet to spread extremist propaganda and urge Muslims to wage international holy war.Tariq Al-Daour, of Bayswater, west London, admitted inciting people to commit terrorism against "kuffars" - non-believers - in the UK and abroad, Woolwich crown court heard.The court, in south-east London, was told that 21-year-old Al-Daour, Younes Tsouli and Waseem Mughal had close links with al-Qaida in Iraq and believed there was a "global conspiracy" to wipe out Islam. The three - described as "intelligent" and "adept" with computers - spent at least a year trying to encourage people to follow the extreme ideology of Osama bin Laden via email and radical websites. Films of hostages and beheadings were found among their belongings, including footage of Briton Ken Bigley pleading for his life and Americans Nick Berg and Daniel Pearl being killed, the jury heard. On Monday, Moroccan-born Tsouli, 23, of Shepherd's Bush, west London, and British-born Mughal, 24, of Chatham, Kent, admitted the same charge of inciting terrorism "wholly or partly" outside the UK by using Islamist websites. The trio's guilty pleas came two months into their trial, and they also admitted conspiring together and with others to defraud banks, credit card companies and charge card companies. When police raided their homes, they seized computers, notebooks and digital storage media containing material that would have stood tens of thousands of feet high if printed out and piled up. Al-Daour, who was born in the United Arab Emirates, had CDs containing instructions for making explosives and poisons including a recipe for creating a rotten meat toxin that is "the most toxic substance known to man" in its pure form, the court was told. Officers also discovered a leaflet on how to use a rocket-propelled grenade and pages from The Book of Jihad in a Sainsbury's carrier bag at his address, along with a video about the September 11 terror attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York. When Al-Daour was asked what he would do with £1m during one online conversation, he said: "Sponsor terrorist attacks, become the new Osama [Bin Laden]," the jury heard. In another conversation, he said suicide bombings were permissible but he did not like them unless they killed many people because "a Muslim life is worth more than that". Tsouli used the online tag irhabi007 - a combination of the Arabic word for terrorist and the codename of James Bond. In one exchange with Mughal, he said "AQ" (al-Qaida) had asked him to translate their official ebook into English, the court was told. Known as Thurwat al-Sanam, or The Tip of the Camel's Hump, it is said to expound jihad as the pinnacle of Islam. Police found a presentation entitled The Illustrated Booby Trapping Course on Tsouli's laptop, as well as a film showing how to make a suicide vest on a CD at Mughal's address. The judge, Mr Justice Openshaw, directed the jury of eight women and four men to return formal guilty verdicts against Al-Daour in light of his pleas. He discharged them from returning verdicts on the other charges he faced. The three men will be sentenced tomorrow.