A babysitter who served three years in prison for killing a toddler was cleared of murder yesterday after a retrial. Suzanne Holdsworth, 38, of Leeds, wept as she was acquitted of murder and manslaughter by a jury at Teesside crown court after a long campaign to clear her name.She was jailed for life in March 2005 after being found guilty of murdering two-year-old Kyle Fisher, who died from severe brain damage while in her care in 2004. But the court of appeal overturned her conviction this year after an investigation by the BBC's Newsnight raised doubts about medical evidence at the first trial.At the new trial, testimonies from two senior doctors rubbished original evidence which suggested Holdsworth had repeatedly banged Kyle's head against a wooden banister with as much force as a 60mph crash after losing her temper. The jury heard that the doctors who gave evidence "got it wrong" and "collectively failed to diagnose" that Kyle had a "highly unusual brain", with abnormalities that predisposed him to epilepsy. Professor Renzo Guerrini, a paediatric neurologist who has helped write guidelines on paediatric epilepsy for the World Health Organisation, told the court there was a reasonable possibility the toddler suffered a prolonged epileptic seizure. He also said Holdsworth's description of Kyle's symptoms when she rang 999 saying he was floppy, hitting himself and drifting in and out of consciousness matched such a fit. The court heard that the youngster had bruising and marks to his head but the defence maintained they were inflicted the previous day - blaming Kyle's mother, Clare Fisher - and, coupled with his brain abnormalities, led to the unexpected fit. Asked by the defence barrister, Andrew Thomas QC, what caused Kyle's collapse, Guerrini said: "In my opinion there is compelling evidence he had some head injury before this night which might have been trivial but sufficient enough to produce bleeding on the brain which triggered the epileptic seizure which, because of Kyle's brain condition, was possibly prolonged." Dr Waney Squier, a neuropathologist who has also spoken out against "shaken baby syndrome", told the court that the prosecution's case that Kyle had been repeatedly banged against a banister "would fly in the face of a large amount of clinical evidence".The defence maintained Kyle's mother was suffering from depression at the time and was unable to cope with the demands of bringing up a toddler. Her house was untidy, neighbours complained of loud music at night, and days before Kyle died, she "mistreated" him by leaving him home alone while out with friends.After the verdict Holdsworth's partner, Lee Spencer, read out a statement on her behalf. "This case has always been about Kyle, a loving child, a little boy who Suzanne has always loved and helped look after," he said. "We know his family deeply loved him and miss him. Sadly, we now know that he had some bad medical features that led to his sudden collapse and death. We hope that this knowledge will help his family come to terms with his death."