Half of all crime in the UK is committed by around 100,000 persistent offenders, most of whom are unemployed hard drug users, according to Home Office research released today.The home secretary, Jack Straw, said that catching, prosecuting and sentencing "hardcore" offenders could cut crime in half and restore Britain's faith in the criminal justice system. He promised tougher sentences for persistent offenders, an expansion of the national DNA database and a £45m programme to deal with young offenders.Mr Straw's comments follow the publication of the British crime survey 2000, which found that violent crime had risen by 8% although overall crime had fallen slightly over the last year. In a speech to the Social Market Foundation today, Mr Straw said: "We have made radical reforms to the criminal justice system, including reforming the probation service to improve the effectiveness of community sentences, introducing new police powers to deal with offenders and making prisons work by teaching individuals basic skills to increase their employability. "Our key aim remains to stop young people becoming persistent offenders in the first place, cutting the flow by tackling poor school behaviour, exclusion and truancy," he added. Researchers found that most persistent offenders share a common profile. Half are under 21, nearly two-thirds are hard drug users, more than a third were in care as children, half have no qualifications and three-quarters are unemployed. Within two years of starting a community sentence or finishing their prison sentence, over half of offenders are back in court to be convicted for further offences, the research shows. That number rises to nearly 80% for those with more than 10 previous convictions.Mr Straw announced that a number of measures to tackle persistent offenders are being implemented, including a £45m investment over the next three years to set up a new intensive supervision and surveillance programme to deal with 2,500 of the most persistent young offenders.He also wants to record every active offender on the national DNA database by 2004. The main bulk of the British crime survey 2000 has already been published but findings relating to public confidence in the criminal justice system and policing were released for the first time today. The statistics show that only 20% of people believe that the police do "a very good job" compared to 24% two years ago and the same number two years before. In 1982 the figure was 43%."Crime is down by 10% since 1997, but our criminal justice system has to become much more effective in dealing with crime and offenders if we are to make sustained reductions in the level of offending," Mr Straw said today. The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, said that he was confident that the system could cope with the increase in inmates which Mr Straw envisaged. Mr Narey said although the prison service has some overcrowding, two new prisons at Ashford and Peterborough have relieved pressure. He added that government investment will allow for about 3,000 additional places in current prisons.  Related articles 31.01.2001: Appalling conditions in 'failing' jail laid bare 17.01.2001: Sharp rise in violence mars figures 17.01.2001: Crime figures in full, area by area Useful links British Crime Survey 2000 statistics National association for the care and resettlement of offenders