Gordon Brown today committed himself to relentless reform of both state and the markets as he pointedly referred to his party as New Labour at the launch of its election manifesto.Brown said the party was in "the future business", offering what he described as a realistic and radical road to renewal.The prime minister immediately came under attack from the Tories for producing state solutions to the country's problems and was challenged about the fact that the manifesto contained no explicit pledge to keep VAT at existing rates.Brown said: "We have never made a pledge on the VAT rate and I can give you an absolute assurance today that we have not raised VAT since 1979."The manifesto offers new ways to reform public services, including the takeover of failing institutions.It also offers a programme on constitutional change, including referendums on changes to the voting system and moving to a wholly elected House of Lords .The manifesto sets out how every hospital can be given the autonomy of a foundation hospital and 1,000 coasting or failing schools could join federations, including state school chains or non-state providers such as Ark.In addition to spreading best practice through the police, the NHS and schools, Labour is offering broadly bankable guarantees on service performance, some triggered by citizens.Other specific pledges include:• Guaranteed specialist health treatment within 18 weeks of seeing your GP, or the NHS will fund treatment in the private sector; a guarantee that all patients will see a cancer specialist within two weeks of a GP referral; and all cancer test results to be received within a week.• The national minimum wage will rise to about £7 an hour by 2015 as Labour promised to link the wages of the lowest paid to average earnings. "The national minimum wage is one of our proudest achievements," the manifesto says. To ensure the lowest paid share fairly in rising prosperity, the Low Pay Commission's remit will have the goal of the NMW rising at least in line with average earnings over the period to 2015. First introduced in 1999, the minimum wage stands at £5.80 an hour for adults.• Guaranteed childcare and constructive activities before and after school in term time between 8am and 6pm, and a decision on universal school meals by 2012. For secondary pupils there will be an extension of one-to-one tuition for pupils in the run-up to GCSEs.• A promise that failing police forces and basic command units can be taken over by more successful forces. Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary and online crime maps will determine whether a force is failing. The police will also be expected to require neighbourhood police teams to spend 80% of their time on the beat, visible to their neighbourhood, and the great majority of antisocial behaviour orders must be completed within a month. At present police spend 36% of their time on the street, according to the inspectorate.• Paternity leave extended from two weeks to a month, but an unfulfilled pledge from the 2005 manifesto to extend maternity leave has been dropped.David Cameron accused Brown of resorting to scare tactics to frighten people into supporting him. "I can tell you: that is not going to change anything," the Conservative leader said last night."They are trying to frighten old people by saying that we will take away bus passes or winter fuel payments. But I can tell you that we are going to keep those things. Labour have got to stop telling lies about what the Conservative party will do."The Conservatives accused Brown of racking up pledges with little details on funding. The Tories highlighted a series of Labour pledges that have been dropped from the manifesto, including free hospital parking for in-patients and free school meals for every primary school pupil.The Tories also took issue with Brown's claim that the manifesto contained "no big new spending commitments" as they highlighted some expensive proposals.These included the creation of the national care service, which they said could cost £21bn a year; the creation of 70,000 advanced apprenticeships, at a possible cost of £490m a year; an expansion of free nursery places at a cost of around £300m a year; a new toddler tax credit at £180m a year; and the transformation of the Post Office at £180m a year.Cif at the pollsThe venue made Labour's point, a new hospital: proof of investment in public services. Gordon Brown even managed banter with colleagues. Peter Mandelson was right to describe the manifesto as "Blair-plus". But there's something missing. What Labour needed was a move so bold it would have changed the game. Today's document is worthy, even laudable, in parts, but it's no game-changer.Jonathan FreedlandThe manifesto is like a quadratic equation: a space whose contents you must deduce from other factors. Those factors are Labour's claim to moral purpose, multiplied by its belief that the Tories are nasty. The result of these simplistic calculations is a they-are-bad-so-we-must-be-good manifesto. It does not amount to a serious grasp of the future.Julian GloverThe document that emerged today is distinctively Milibandite. For Ed Miliband, guaranteed standards in public services with robust redress are key to a further term. He is committed to democratic reform, and it's here – plans to recall MPs, petition parliament and hold a referendum on PR – that the real radicalism lies.Jackie AshleyLabour hasn't lost the ability or the will to communicate. Brown was relaxed and even funny. The backdrop looked awful on TV, but the message was right. Of course, effective communication doesn't guarantee electoral success, but the party is not rolling over.Lance Price