During many years of letters and appeals from people claiming that they have been wrongfully convicted of serious crimes, I worked out a simple question to help me get to the root of the matter. Why were you first arrested, or, to put it another way, what was it that first made you a police suspect?Invariably, the answer to this question cut through the undergrowth of police statements and cleared the way for sensible analysis. In a surprising number of cases the answer had nothing to do with evidence or information at the scene of the crime or the deductive powers of detectives. Again and again, the answer led back to the criminal records held by the police.Police searched these records looking for a "likely suspect" among the names of those convicted of similar offences. Such suspects were then arrested and questioned, often in intimidating circumstances, about possible alibis for the time of the offence. If such alibis were not convincing, there was a presumption of guilt. The presumption did not develop into criminal charges, however, unless there was substantial supporting evidence against the accused. The chief reason for this was the rule banning any reference in court to a suspect's criminal record unless the suspect challenges the honesty of prosecution witnesses. This rule has protected a fundamental liberty of an accused person for generations and so, naturally, has come under threat from a re-elected New Labour government whose Home Office ministers have consistently believed that the civil liberties of suspects inspire crime. The government's plans to make it easier for prosecutions to introduce a suspect's criminal record in court are certain to result in a huge increase in wrongful convictions that will become more and more difficult to expose. Even if such wrongful convictions are exposed, New Labour has yet another policy to assist the prosecuting authorities. Again and again in the past decade, after wrong convictions are quashed, sulking policemen announce that they have no further plans to continue their investigations into the original crime. They imply (sometimes they even say it out loud) that they had the right suspects in the first place and that the convictions have only been quashed because of a "technicality", or because the law is an ass or because court of appeal judges are soft or because of the enormous and sinister judicial power of subversive investigative journalists. As a result, nobody knows, for instance, who killed the newspaper boy Carl Bridgewater in 1978, or how the antique dealer Jonathan Lewis drowned in the river Arun in 1980 or (the most shocking murder in all my experience) who grabbed Marie Wilks off a motorway telephone in broad daylight in 1988, stabbed her repeatedly and hurled her body over a bridge a few miles away, while her children were waiting down the motorway in a broken-down car. None of these crimes has been solved because the police arrested and charged the wrong suspects and, when their mistakes were finally rumbled, refused to re-open their investigations. In all such cases, the same police would be delighted to find, for instance, a prison grass with "evidence" incriminating any of the released offenders. At the moment, they cannot make use of such evidence because of the "double jeopardy" rule that no one can be charged twice for the same offence. This is another civil liberty that New Labour can't wait to dispense with. • The recent violence in the Ardoyne, Belfast, flared up after a row outside a Catholic school. The key issues seem to have been the nature of "Loyalist" placards outside the school and a Celtic T-shirt worn by a Catholic parent. If there were no religious schools in Ireland, of course, none of this could have happened. In his keynote speech last week, the prime minister promised "significantly more faith schools". If only we in England and Wales could replace bog standard secular comprehensives with "faith schools", we might be able to aspire to a level of mindless faith, bigotry and sectarianism so prominent in the Ardoyne. • For years and years American troops sought to suppress the armed resistance of the people of Vietnam by force of arms. When that failed, the forces of the west combined in an effort to win "the hearts and minds" of the Vietnamese people. When that failed, British and American tobacco companies came together for an assault on Vietnamese lungs. At the pinnacle of this triumphant effort squats the graceful and abstemious figure of Kenneth Clarke, who has still not given up hope of becoming British prime minister. His reasoning, no doubt, is that anything Tony Blair and New Labour can do in breach of their manifesto commitments and in slavish support of the tobacco companies and their advertising campaigns, he can do better. comment@theguardian.com