A potentially vital witness has told police hunting the killers of Damilola Taylor that he saw a young boy being held in a headlock by three youths close to the spot where the 10-year-old bled to death on Monday.The man came forward yesterday to tell police he had seen an incident as he walked down a street near the North Peckham estate in south London. He had taken no notice because he had assumed the boys were "larking around". His account chimes with the evidence of a passerby who found Damilola collapsed in a stairwell on the estate, bleeding heavily from a stab wound to his left leg. As he tended to Damilola he spotted three youths wearing hoods running from the scene. Detective Superintendent David Dillnutt, who is in charge of the inquiry, said details provided by the new witness were "significant", although the approximate timing of the sighting - 4pm - was 45 minutes before the attack. Det Supt Dillnutt insisted yesterday he did not have a list of potential suspects and that his team was still trying to piece together Damilola's last movements from fragments of information provided by his schoolfriends and hundreds of callers to the incident room. He revealed that a cctv camera had filmed Damilola leaving Peckham library at 4.30pm following an after-school computer class. He was walking with a boy and a girl, who appear to be his age. The boy was carrying a black Reebok rucksack with a white logo. Both seemed to be wearing a dark school uniform. "I appeal for that boy and that girl to come forward. Please tell us if you were with Damilola - it is vitally important." Detectives were also examining a list of names written by Damilola and left in his locker at Oliver Goldsmith primary school. One theory is that the note refers to pupils he had accused of bullying and taunting him. Two kitchen knives and a bloodstained broken bottle found within 200 metres of where the attack took place have been sent to the forensic science service for analysis. Damilola was walking home along Blakes Road, Peckham, when he was stabbed. His femoral artery was severed. He staggered 100 metres and died within five minutes walk of the flat where his mother, Gloria, was waiting for him. The home secretary, Jack Straw, yesterday went to Oliver Goldsmith school to urge parents to cooperate with the police. "We know young people and some adults and friends know exactly who killed Damilola Taylor. And what is necessary for relatives of Damilola is for these people to recognise their responsibility to this community and to Damilola's family and to provide information to the police."The Conservative leader, William Hague, said the death of Damilola, four months after leaving Nigeria to live in Britain with his mother, sister and brother, showed there was something "disturbing about our whole society. When a family can live safely in Africa, but find their youngest child brutally murdered on the streets of London, all of us feel a sense of shame and anger." Meanwhile, Scotland Yard revealed yesterday that street robbery by children as young as 10 was a new and growing phenomenon in the capital. Related stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' Leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a school boy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate