Hazel Stewart was once a glamorous regular on the well-heeled social scene of the policing community along Northern Ireland's northern coast, often pictured in the local press at charity dinners in figure-hugging ball gowns and flashing a porcelain-white smile . Yet behind that smile and her respectable public image lay a terrible secret she had been hiding for nearly two decades.The former nursery assistant was behind a double killing that could have formed the plot of a John Grisham novel or an episode of Midsomer Murders – the detective series set in an English rural idyll.It was Stewart's former lover, Colin Howell, who would break the silence on the murders that had been passed off as a double-suicide for so long. Without the former dentist's testimony, Hazel Stewart would have got away with what Detective Sergeant Geoff Ferris described as "nearly the perfect murder".In May 1991, Stewart's then-husband Trevor Buchanan, a Royal Ulster Constabulary constable, was found dead in a car with Lesley Howell, the wife of Colin Howell, her dentist and lover. Lesley was found in the back seat of the fume-filled vehicle clutching pictures of her children while Trevor was slumped in the front of the car. A pipe led from the exhaust into the interior.Following the discovery near holiday homes overlooking the Atlantic in the resort of Castlerock, the RUC assumed that it had been a suicide pact by two people who had discovered their partners were betraying them. In fact the ghoulish scene had been carefully arranged by Colin Howell – a ruse to rid him and his lover of their spouses.Hazel Stewart, now 47, was a Sunday school teacher at a Baptist church to which Howell had once belonged. And ultimately it was religious guilt that prompted Howell to come clean and put both of them in the frame.In January 2009, he walked into his local church in Coleraine and told the elders what he had done, saying God had asked him to confess. The 51-year-old revealed that he had gassed his wife and Trevor Buchanan, his lover's husband, before leaving their bodies in the cars. On the advice of the church elders, Howell walked into Coleraine police station and owned up, telling detectives that Hazel Stewart had colluded with him.In November 2010 Howell was sentenced to a minimum of 21 years for the murders and is at Maghaberry prison, near Belfast, where he has enrolled on a creative writing course. His only time outside its walls was to give evidence against his former lover.Howell told Coleraine crown court that Stewart had been a willing party in their plot. Howell revealed every secret of their affair, which began when they met at a pool in Coleraine where their children were having swimming lessons. At one stage he even described them as having a "blood pact" that led to her having a secret abortion in London after she became pregnant by him.During his own trial the court heard how Howell had drugged Stewart in an experiment to test the dosage he would later use on their murder victims. As Stewart lay unconscious in his dentist's chair, Howell had sex with her.Howell is believed to have committed crimes beyond the double murder at Castlerock. He is currently under investigation for a series of sexual assaults on female patients that were carried out on his chair while they were unconscious or under sedation.The sexual depravity that lay behind the facade of his respected professional and religious life was deployed by Stewart's legal team in her defence. In 15 taped interviews with detectives, Stewart claimed she was terrified of Howell and was another of his victims – a vulnerable woman enticed into the dentist's evil web."He was very controlling," Stewart told police during interviews. "Maybe I was easy prey and that's how I look back on it and see that. He's a very calculating person, a very clever guy. I'm not very bright, unfortunately, but he was a step ahead of the whole time. I was scared. I thought 'If I say something against this, he'll kill me.'"Throughout her trial Stewart maintained she was forced to help dispose of the pipes used to gas the victims purely out of the fear of what Howell might do to her or her children.However, the jury of nine men and three women refused to believe her, finding her guilty of what the prosecution described as an act of "gruesome extermination". She will serve a life sentence.