1993 April 1993 Stephen Lawrence, aged 18, is stabbed to death by a gang at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London. The murder is recorded as "racially motivated" but charges are dropped due to "insufficient evidence".  May 1993 Stephen Lawrence's parents meet Nelson Mandela in central London.   June 1993 Two men appear in court charged with Stephen Lawrence's murder. 700 people gather to remember him at a memorial service.   July 1993 The charges against the men are dropped. The Crown Prosecution Service says there is "insufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of a conviction".   December 1993 The inquest into the death of Stephen Lawrence is adjourned, pending further police investigation, after it is revealed that "dramatic" new evidence has been discovered.   1994  April 1994 New evidence uncovered by Stephen Lawrence's family is ruled "insufficient to support murder charges" by the Crown Prosecution Service. Neville and Doreen Lawrence, the parents of Stephen Lawrence, raise the prospect of bringing a private prosecution against three men they suspect were involved in the killing.   1995   April 1995 The parents of Stephen Lawrence start a private prosecution against David Norris, Jamie Acourt, Neil Acourt and Luke Knight for the murder of Stephen Lawrence. The men, all white, appear at Greenwich Magistrates Court.   September 1995 David Norris and Jamie Acourt are discharged by Belmarsh magistrates court, in south-east London, during committal proceedings in the Lawrence family's private prosecution. But the Court rules that Neil Acourt and Luke Knight are to stand trial at the Old Bailey. A fifth white man, Gary Dobson, is also charged with murder.  The Crown Prosecution Service also agrees to review the case, although it insists it will not take over the private prosecution "simply because it has been committed to the crown court".  December 1995 A third man, Gary Dobson, is sent for trial at the Old Bailey charged with murdering Stephen Lawrence.   1996  April 1996 The private prosecution brought by the Lawrence family against Neil Acourt, Luke Knight and Gary Dobson, accused of the murder of Stephen Lawrence, collapses after Mr Justice Curtis rules that vital eyewitness evidence is inadmissible. The three are formally acquitted and, because not guilty verdicts are entered, no case against the men can be pursued again.   1997  February 1997 The inquest into the death of Stephen Lawrence begins. The jury soon return a verdict of unlawful killing.  The Lawrence family make a formal complaint to the Police Complaints Authority about the police's handling of the investigation into Stephen's death.  The front page of the Daily Mail carries the banner headline "Murderers" and the names and photographs of five men, David Norris, Jamie Acourt, Neil Acourt, Luke Knight and Gary Dobson, who it says killed Stephen Lawrence in 1993. The Mail challenges them to sue them for libel. Former Master of the Rolls Lord Donaldson says the Mail is in contempt of court but, several days later, the paper is cleared by Sir Nicholas Lyell, the Attorney-General.   June 1997 Home Secretary Jack Straw meets the parents of Stephen Lawrence. His Conservative predecessor, Michael Howard, had refused to do so.   August 1997 Jack Straw announces a full independent judicial inquiry into the handling by the police and Crown Prosecution Service of the murder of Stephen Lawrence. The inquiry, headed by the former High Court judge and SAS colonel Sir William Macpherson of Cluny, will have the power to call the five men acquitted in a private prosecution of Stephen Lawrence's death.   October 1997 The first preliminary hearing of the public inquiry begins.   December 1997 The Police Complaints Authority report criticises the investigation of the murder of Stephen Lawrence, but does not accuse investigating officers of racism.  1998   March 1998 The public inquiry is adjourned for a week after counsel for Stephen's parents demanded an urgent meeting with the Home Secretary. Their "concerns" stem from an Observer report that the inquiry chairman, Sir William Macpherson, had been insensitive in handling race issues.   May 1998  Detective Superintendent Brian Weeden, the senior officer in charge of the Stephen Lawrence murder case, admits a series of mistakes in the early days of the police investigation in 1993. Things "could have been done more quickly and more efficiently," he says.   June 1998 The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, makes an unprecedented apology to Stephen Lawrence's parents for failing tassistant commissioner Ian Johnston tells Neville Lawrence: "I am truly sorry that we let you down."  On the day the five suspects in the murder of Stephen Lawrence appear at the public inquiry, the hearing is adjourned for three hours after police fire CS gas on demonstrators outside the building. The five suspects insolently protest their innocence and are warned by Sir William Macpherson, the inquiry chairman, against committing perjury. Members of the black militant group Nation of Islam storm the building and tell Sir William that the inquiry is a sham.   July 1998 Police Commander Raymond Adams appears at the inquiry and denies that he had tried to hinder the murder investigation. He insists the timing of his permanent sick leave, shortly after he became involved in the investigation, was coincidental.   August 1998 The five suspects receive their first punishment. Their local football club, Charlton Athletic, bans them from going to home games.   September 1998 On the final day of the first part of the inquiry ends with Neville Lawrence warning that, unless the police change the way they dealt with the black community, "people are going to turn more to violence."   October 1998  In the second part of the inquiry into Stephen Lawrence's murder, Sir Paul Condon acknowledges that "we have not done enough to combat racist crime". But he repeatedly refuses to accept that the Metropolitan Police has been guilty of "institutional racism". Neville and Doreen Lawrence argue he is unfit to continue in his position.   November 1998  Neville and Doreen Lawrence win the People of the Year award, sponsored by disabled charity Radar.  After 69 days of public hearings, the Stephen Lawrence inquiry ends. The inquiry chairman, Sir William Macpherson, is expected to produce a report demanding the most radical shake-up in the policing of racial crime since Lord Scarman's investigation of the 1981 race riots. The report is due in February 1999.  1999   January 14 1999  A day after the Police Complaints Authority announces that Detective Inspector Ben Bullock is the only serving senior officer to face a disciplinary hearing on "neglect of duty" in the Lawrence case, DI Bullock announces his retirement. By retiring in April, he will circumvent the disciplinary panel. Doreen Lawrence says she feels as if her son has been "killed all over again".  Lawyers for the Stephen Lawrence family consider suing the Metropolitan police and individual officers for negligence.   January 19 1999 Detective Inspector Ben Bullock withdraws his resignation to contest the seven charges of neglect of duty brought against him by the Police Complaints Authority. DI Bullock will go before a tribunal on March 22 1999.  January 30, 1999 Scotland Yard replace the head of the Stephen Lawrence murder team with deputy assistant commissioner John Grieve. The outgoing officer, Detective Superintendent Albert Patrick, is being investigated by officers looking into alleged corruption within the Flying Squad - the latest in a series of damaging revelations about the competence of the Lawrence murder investigation.  February 1, 1999 The parents of the five men suspected of murdering Stephen Lawrence complain to the Press Complaints Commission about a weekly newspaper for the black community. Letters to the PCC from the group's parents and from their local MP, the former Tory schools minister Eric Forth, allege that an article in New Nation amounts to "incitement to racial hatred and violence".  February 15, 1999 Sir William Macpherson, the inquiry chairman, delivers his report to Jack Straw, the Home Secretary. Jack Straw promises to allow the family of Stephen Lawrence to view the report before its publication and takes measures to prevent the document being leaked before its publication date the following week.   February 19, 1999  The mothers of the five suspects break a six year silence to defend their sons in an unpaid Radio 4 interview. "They are not bad boys, they are good boys," the women insist. They also threaten to sue the Daily Mail for its 1997 "Murderers" headline, if they can get legal and financial support.   February 21, 1999  The Sunday Telegraph leaks details of the Macpherson report into the Lawrence investigation. Home Secretary Jack Straw places an injunction on the Telegraph's publication, but press pressure leads the Home Secretary to revoke his injunction and allow the media to publish report extracts already in the public domain.  The report accuses the Metropolitan Police of "pernicious and institutionalised racism". It criticises the Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon and makes 70 recommendations, encompassing law and race-awareness education, including changing the law so that suspects can be re-tried if new evidence emerges.