What do the new proposals mean?The Sentencing Guidelines Council (SGC) today published a "definitive guideline" for offences causing death by driving in England and Wales. It recommends that "prolonged, persistent and deliberate bad driving" or driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs puts offenders into the category of causing death by dangerous driving. This would result in a prison sentence of at least seven years. Reading or composing text messages "over a period of time" is newly categorised as a "gross" avoidable distraction and will result in an offence of causing death by dangerous driving, rather than careless driving, which could result in a prison sentence of up to seven years. A combination of these offences should attract sentences of up to the maximum of 14 years.What are the new offences?The paper introduces guidelines for two new offences - causing death by careless driving and causing death by driving: unlicensed, disqualified or uninsured drivers. These two offences were introduced by the Road Safety Act 2006. Where death follows careless driving, a custodial sentence of up to three years is recommended, with higher sentences proposed when there is a combination of aggravating factors. Do we need to create these new offences?The new guidelines will close the loophole that allowed the unlicensed hit-and-run driver Jason Diprose to escape a custodial sentence after reversing over and killing four-year-old Casey O'Callaghan last summer. O'Callaghan's death was not reflected in the charge of careless driving. The latest Ministry of Justice figures show that careless driving offences in England and Wales increased by 26% from 2005 to 2006. There was also a 35% increase in the offence between 2004 and 2005. This can be partly attributed to police getting tougher on mobile phone use, but figures show that careless driving offences excluding this factor increased 101%.All other driving offences dealt with by the police fell during this period, including driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs but the number of accident offences remained roughly the same. In 2006, 87% of sentences or orders imposed in magistrates courts were fines. In crown courts, 64% of sentences were custodial. For offences causing death or bodily harm, 92% attracted custodial sentences, up 4% from 2005; while 41% of dangerous driving offences resulted in immediate custodial sentences, down 3% from 2005.