The parents of Stephen Lawrence have divorced after 28 years, Doreen Lawrence, mother of the murdered student, disclosed yesterday.In a short statement, she stressed that the break-up was not caused by the aftermath of her son's stabbing in a south London street, or the strains of the family's admired, award-winning six-year struggle for justice. "For many years I have felt alone and unsupported," Mrs Lawrence said. "The most difficult year of my personal life since the death of my son was at the inquest which I had to face alone. "I have not sought fame or notoriety. "I would like people to understand that the divorce is not due to any pressure from the death of my son or the legal proceedings we embarked upon in the last six years." Doreen and Neville Lawrence came to Britain from Jamaica 37 years ago. They met in south London, married, and raised a family on the twin principles of religion and education.They have two surviving children - Stuart, 21, studying graphic communications, and Georgina, 16, who has just finished GCSEs. The Lawrences had just finished dinner at their Woolwich home on the night in April 1993 when a neighbour told them of seeing their son, 18, being attacked at a bus stop by white youths. This April, tributes were paid when they were declared personalities of the year at the Race in the Media Awards. "It has been the sheer force of their personalities that has shaken this country into confronting the ongoing cancer of racism that seeps through our society," Piers Morgan, editor of the Mirror, told the ceremony. Last month Mr Lawrence told a mental health conference: "I had nobody to turn to. I was bottling up my feelings. I didn't feel like I was in my right state of mind. "I actually did begin to think I was really mad for thinking my son was murdered. It is not easy to understand some of the things my family and I have been through." After the couple's private prosecution against white youths was dismissed in 1996, Mr Lawrence went to Jamaica for six months; a painter and decorator by trade, he is currently unemployed and spends much of his time working against racism. Mrs Lawrence is now a student welfare officer at a university. Yesterday she said she hoped for a peaceful future with her remaining children. "All I have ever wanted was justice for my son. I hope that as a result of what I have been through there will be a legacy for the nation. Stephen's legacy will be hope for the future."