Ninety per cent of religious hate crimes in Northern Ireland remain unsolved, according to an analysis of police figures. The data, which emerged as the latest ­victim of sectarian violence was buried today , also show that such incidents are on the rise, despite the power-sharing agreement in Stormont.At a requiem mass for Kevin McDaid, a Catholic youth worker beaten to death by a loyalist mob, a priest told mourners the killing was a "primitive and ­premeditated evil". Father Charles Keaney warned it could happen again unless people could "put aside the prejudices of the past".Dr Peter Shirlow, the leading expert on sectarian attitudes in Northern Ireland, has analysed the latest police data on attacks and intimidation where the ­victim's religion has been the key factor.The figures show that in 2007-2008, 1,584 sectarian incidents were reported to the Police Service of Northern Ireland. In 2008-2009, sectarian-motivated attacks and intimidation rose to 1,595. Only 10% of religious hate crimes reported to the PSNI were solved, Shirlow said. He said the figures showed there were at least three sectarian incidents every day.Commenting on McDaid's murder on 24 May, the Queen's University Belfast academic said: "It's all very well for politicians in the Northern Ireland assembly to condemn [such] murders . But there is no serious attempt to tackle sectarianism at its roots. No one is challenging the people as to why some of them are sectarian. And no serious effort is being made to encourage communities to confront the issue of why there is still so much sectarian division in our society."If you listen to unionist politicians during this European election campaign, all they talk about is more money for Protestant areas. They emphasise only one community instead of talking about a shared, united society. So if politicians are fighting a resource war for their rival communities then it's no wonder those communities still the other side as the enemy."Hundreds of mourners, including ­Martin McGuinness, Northern Ireland's deputy first minister, attended St John's church in Coleraine, Co Derry, for McDaid's funeral service. But no senior unionist politician attended.Fr Keaney described the father of four as a "peacemaker" and said what had happened to him had nothing to do with religion. "Retaliation of any kind would dishonour the memory of Kevin," he said.The Northern Ireland police ombudsman's office is investigating allegations made at the weekend that a police officer sent a mobile phone text to ­Coleraine loyalists saying that local Catholics had put up an Irish tricolour on the estate where McDaid lived. There were claims that the police officer's text prompted a loyalist gang to organise an "invasion" of the Heights area of Coleraine, which ended with McDaid being beaten to death and his neighbour, Damian Fleming, in hospital on a life support machine.Northern Ireland's community relations council said the McDaid murder underscored the need to tackle structural sectarianism. Duncan Morrow, the council's chief executive, said: "Fifteen years into a peace process, we still think in terms of 'us and 'them', even in politics, and some people still think that acting out this hatred is heroic. All it takes is someone in another small town to act on this logic and trust starts to weaken everywhere."