The home secretary, David Blunkett, is planning to attack the culture of delay in courts by giving magistrates and judges targeted powers to jail for three months defendants who fail to show up. He will also empower them to increase the severity of a non-custodial sentence as a punishment for failing to attend.Mr Blunkett is further planning to give powers to police to visit the homes of defendants an hour before they are due to appear in court. The home secretary is fed up with what he regards as the way in which the defendants cock a snook at the legal system. He believes repeated adjournments is a major contributor to the low confidence in the legal system and makes witnesses more reluctant to turn up in court The changes are to be implemented in this autumn's criminal justice bill. The legislation is being billed as a drive to shift the balance towards witnesses and victims. Nearly 13% of all defendants on bail fail to show at court hearings and nearly 25% of trials at crown courts do not not go ahead on the scheduled day. Research by the audit commis sion shows that 16% of delays are caused by defendant failing to appear. Comparative figures for magistrates courts are not available. As part of the bill, Mr Blunkett is planning to introduce three new sentences - custody plus, a three month prison sentence followed by a nine month community programme; custody minus, a suspended prison sentence combined with community sentence; and intermittent custody, a new approach in which a prison sentence and community sentence are served intermittently. Once the new sentences are enacted, Mr Blunkett plans to send a circular to sentencers asking them to upgrade the severity of a sentence on anyone failing to attend court without good reason. He will also send advice to police empowering them to visit the homes of defendants to ensure they attend. Police already have powers to visit defendants on bail, although there has been a challenge under the Human Rights Act. If he had his own way, the home secretary would probably put the defendant in jail for contempt of court. Magistrates have this power already but it is never used since it would flood the prisons still further. Mr Blair hinted at the changes at his Blackpool press conference when he said: "Throughout the system, there is a lack of rigour and that is what demoralises the police, and then the police feel 'What's the point? You go through the courts system and it's all weighted down with bureaucracy and difficulty, and by the time anything happens, the whole thing is forgotten about anyway'." Mr Blunkett has already said the status quo is not an option when 40% of witnesses say they would not give evidence again, only 26% of people are confident that the criminal justice system meets the needs of victims, and only 34% think it deals with cases promptly and efficiently. Mr Blair 's aides say he has been stunned by the inadequacies in the criminal justice system thrown up by the street crime initiative. The £67m six month initiative, aimed at 10 forces, ended on Monday. The government is to go ahead with plans to fine or dock benefit from the parents of persistent truants. The idea had met opposition from the department of work and pensions.