Crown prosecutors are wrongly reducing charges in more than one in four racist incidents, the independent crown prosecution service inspectorate concludes today.Charges of racially aggravated crimes are regularly downgraded to remove the race element, while in other cases prosecutors accept defendants' guilty pleas to the crime minus the racial aggravation. The findings, in a review of the CPS's handling of crimes with a race element, follow a damning annual report last week from the inspectorate which found that prosecutors had wrongly discontinued 11,000 cases overall in 2000-01. The latest report cited "a strong body of opinion within the police that their substantial effort in racist incident cases is being plea-bargained away". The report concluded: "In a significant proportion of racist incident cases, the charges selected and pursued by the CPS do not reflect the seriousness of the offending or give the courts adequate sentencing powers." The inspectorate considered charges had been reduced inappropriately in 28.1% of a sample of 146 race cases. In 18.7% of cases in which defendants were allowed to plead guilty to alternative charges, it felt the plea should not have been accepted. The report said: "Establishing the racist element in appropriate cases is particularly important. Its removal can have a significant impact on sentencing. The element of racial aggravation will normally lead to a significant addition to the penalty that would be imposed for the basic offence. "Where possible, decisions to reduce charges should only be taken after consultation with the victim. Most regard the racist element as the key aspect of the case. External consultees regularly representing victims told us that many would rather proceed with a racially aggravated charge and risk losing the case altogether than accept a guilty plea to a non-racially aggravated alternative." The inspectors said there was an added danger if the victim and perpetrator were likely to have further contact - for example, if the victim worked in a shop or restaurant. "The perpetrator may become emboldened by the watering down of the case and further offending is encouraged." The report also compared the handling of prosecutions where the accused was from an ethnic minority with those involving white defendants. It found that police overcharged non-white defendants - charged them with more serious offences than warranted - more often than whites. But the balance was redressed by the CPS, which downgraded the charges so the end result was near equality. More ethnic minority defendants were acquitted when cases got to court, however, suggesting that the CPS was not weeding out enough weak cases, the inspectorate said. The report said its findings were consistent with those of Sylvia Denham, whose independent inquiry into race discrimination in the CPS was published last year. The CPS said it was already taking forward key measures, including a review of 15,000 files to identify racial or gender bias in decision making; training for lawyers and case workers to promote consistency and good practice in handling racially and religiously aggravated offences; and appointing a trained prosecutor in each area to act as a consultant to other staff.