There is nothing new in John Reid's proposal to frame a law preventing criminals from profiting from their crimes by writing about them and having their criminal memoirs published. A succession of previous home secretaries have attempted the same, all gave up when faced with the almost insurmountable obstacles to book banning in this country. In any case there is a powerful argument for continuing to allow such books to be published, to encourage them even, as Duncan Campbell has argued.The criminal life thankfully is a mystery to most people. But it would be a dangerous development if all the law abiding had to go on to gain understanding of such lives was information from researchers or the editorials of tabloid newspapers. Writing can also be a wonderfully rehabilitative activity - reformed characters such as Jimmy Boyle and John McVicar, both one time notorious criminals have demonstrated that it is possible to turn around even the most ingrained criminal lifestyle through the energetic use of the pen. Their books: A Sense of Freedom, and McVicar by Himself enjoy serious literary merit and stand as modern classics of the True Crime genre. Finer examples of why the writing of such books should be allowed to flourish would be hard to find.Yet it seems that the reason behind the latest home secretary's move on this issue is that a book by Johnny "Mad Dog" Adair, a man convicted of offences linked to terrorism, is in the pipeline. I have no idea what the content of Adair's book will be, though since I understand he is out in the cold as far as former loyalist colleagues are concerned and has no means of earning an honest living, the primary purpose of the book is to make money. And that is the crux of John Reid's argument. He wants to ban criminals from profiting from the writing about their crimes. If I'm honest ,I have some sympathy with this view.Can it be right that someone can commit a crime and then write about it and sell it for hard cash? It may be palatable if the crime can be perceived as a "victimless" one - a big bank fraud for example, or if the perpetrators are seen as "likeable rogues" like the Great Train Robbers. But that does not make it right.The question is: where do we draw the line? In 2002 the High Court decided that Dennis Nilsen had crossed the line with his memoir in which he detailed his actions in committing the more than a dozen murders for which he is currently serving a whole life tariff. The court ruled that the Prison Service was right confiscate his manuscript and prevent its publication. (Although Nilson hadn't apparently written the book to profit, his representative stated that any proceeds had been earmarked for victims' charities.)Although I'm loathe to support the suppression of free expression however, especially after having benefited greatly in personal terms and modestly in financial terms, from writing about prison life, I was inclined to agree with the High Court in Nilsen's case. While I may have had the choice to read Nilson's book or not, had it been published, the idea of someone killing, mutilating, and sexually assaulting fellow human beings and then writing and publishing details about those acts, whether for profit or for charity, is about as grotesque as it gets.I've read and admired the writing of many former criminal types, some, like Valerio Vicci who carried out the Knightsbridge Safe Deposit robbery and Hugh Collins who killed a man called William Mooney in a fight, have described their crimes in graphic detail - Vicci in glamorous, heroic terms, Collins in a downbeat, matter of fact style. I have to say I was aware of the moral dilemma these books presented - both generated income for the writers. But I was not too perturbed. Their crimes while serious were not as repugnant as many we read about in the papers. There was no great outcry. Like the silent majority I read and said nothing. But the question again is: where do we draw the line?I think that, in moral terms, people who commit crimes that cause harm pain and grief should not be able to profit from the writing about those crimes. But I also think that John Reid's plan to consult with publishers and victims' groups is spurious. The fact is there are few serious criminals, who are able, let alone inclined, to write about their deeds solely with the aim of profiting financially. And fewer publishers of integrity prepared to entertain such a contract. While the issue is an important one, there are greater things on the scale of the world's difficulties to think about, and bigger problems to solve in the nation's prison system.