British boxer Bradley Saunders has denied any involvement in drug dealing following being questioned by police last night on suspicion of dealing cocaine.The 22-year-old, who competed for Great Britain at the Beijing Games, was held by police after a sniffer dog found what was believed to be £12,000 worth of the drug in his garden. The dog alerted officers to a tin containing more than 300g of white powder, which was sent away for analysis.Speaking from his parents' home in Sedgefield, County Durham, Saunders said he had been relaxing with his girlfriend after a training session when police arrived with a search warrant at his home in Sedgefield at 1pm yesterday."I asked them what did they want and told them to wait so that I could ring my mam, because I wanted a witness, but before I could they all burst in ... They'd finished going through my house and they were on their way out when they went through to the back garden. I'm having the house done up and the back garden is being stripped, so there is nothing out there but dirt and grass."Right next to the back gate was a sheet of white plastic, like a bin bag, and when they lifted it up underneath was a kind of metal biscuit tin just laid on the grass. They opened it up and said: 'What's this powder?' We were handcuffed and arrested and taken to Spennymoor police station, where we were each locked up and left in a cell for six hours."The boxer was taken away for questioning with his girlfriend Stephanie Elliott, also 22, and the couple were held overnight at Spennymoor police station. A Durham police spokesman said Saunders was released without charge and has been bailed to return to the police station in the new year."There was never anything in that garden," Saunders added. "I know nothing about any drugs. I have never had a criminal record. I earn a decent living and have been getting paid since I was 13 years old for boxing. There is no reason for me to be involved in drugs."Since the Olympics I've been the victim of quite a lot of crime. My house was burgled recently as my girlfriend and I slept. People get jealous. They can take against you."Saunders was tipped to win a gold medal in the light-welterweight division at this year's Games but lost to the French fighter Alexis Vastine in only his second fight. He was criticised after admitting he was relieved to be going home to his young family after the surprising defeat.