On-the-spot fines targeting yobbish behaviour are to be extended across England and Wales by the end of the year, the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced today.He said pilot schemes running in four areas since last year had shown that handing out fixed penalty notices of up to £80 had saved police officers hours of bureaucratic form-filling. But new Home Office figures showed that by the end of January - when the trials had been running for about five months - just 53% of fines had been paid. Of the rest, 44% had gone unpaid and offenders had been told they would receive an additional fine on top of the original sum, while 2% asked for the penalty to be reviewed by the courts and 1% were cancelled. "Frontline police officers have told us how much they value being able to use fixed penalty notices to tackle crimes such as being drunk and disorderly and minor public order offences without having to be tied up in the police station for hours on end filling out forms," Mr Blunkett told the Police Federation's annual conference."That is why we have decided to implement the scheme nationally by the end of the year as part of our ongoing drive to tackle anti-social behaviour." The fines have been piloted in the West Midlands and Essex since last August and in North Wales and Croydon, south London, since September. The £80 penalties can be imposed for: wasting police time; making a hoax 999 call; giving the fire brigade a false alarm; and behaving in a way likely to cause harassment, alarm or distress. Offences that carry a £40 fine include: being drunk and disorderly; trespassing on the railway; throwing stones at trains; being drunk on a highway; buying alcohol for under-18s; throwing fireworks in the street; and drinking liquor in a public place designated a no-alcohol zone. Failing to pay within 21 days results in being reported for a fine of one-and-a-half times the original penalty. The most up-to-date figures show the four pilot areas have handed out 3,040 fixed penalties so far. During his speech, Mr Blunkett made a typically withering attack on "out-of-touch judges" and senior barristers. Mr Blunkett singled out retired high court judge Sir Oliver Popplewell, who earlier today called the home secretary a "whiner", for criticism. He also accused the chairman of the bar council, Matthias Kelly QC, of "losing the plot". In a speech to 1,000 officers at the annual Police Federation conference in Blackpool, Mr Blunkett drew laughter as he said: ""I just want judges that live in the same real world as the rest of us, I just like judges who help us and help you to do the job."  Mr Blunkett's address to 1,000 delegates at Blackpool's Winter Gardens also promised a new emphasis on cutting red tape, boosting police powers and improving the number of people convicted. He said: "The government's focus is now on what I call the three Ps: paperwork, powers and prosecutions. "Paperwork must be slimlined, powers must be enhanced and prosecutions must be effective and swift." He told the audience of frontline police officers: "We are on the same side, the side of the law-abiding citizen. "You on their side and I am on your side." Mr Blunkett narrowly escaped being booed at the same conference last year as he pushed through reform to police pay and conditions. But he admitted at the time that mistakes had been made in the rapid programme. The Home Office said nearly 90% of the fines imposed by the end of January were for being drunk and disorderly behaviour or harassment. Mr Blunkett told delegates that the police reform programme had already seen more than 2,000 police forms made obsolete in a crackdown on red tape after research showed bobbies spent just 17% of their time on patrol. Hundreds more pieces of paperwork will be phased out in the coming months, he added. The home secretary also announced an extra £20m to modernise police stations and communications equipment. He said he had asked the independent body which decides police pay to look again at the controversial "special priority payments" introduced last year for officers in specialist or demanding jobs. Officers have accused the system of being divisive, unfairly imposed and damaging to morale for those who fail to get the extra money. Mr Blunkett said: "I know that there are still concerns and that we may not have got all the details right first time, which is why I have asked the Police Negotiating Board to look at how the scheme has been working, to see how we can improve it. "But there can be no going back to a pay scheme which does not recognise that some posts are more demanding than others and should be rewarded as such." The first officers are due to receive the bonuses, varying between £500 and £3,000 a year, in their December pay packets. West Midlands Police welcomed the home secretary's announcement that a penalty notice scheme, piloted in the region, will be rolled out nationally. A force spokesman said 1,854 penalty notices were issued by officers during the trial - more than 1,000 for using abusive or threatening behaviour - and many hoped it would be extended to include offences such as dropping litter. Chief Inspector James Andronov said officers widely welcomed their new powers and supported the scheme. He said: "All of the feedback we have received from officers has been positive. "They find penalty notices have cut down considerably on paperwork, allowing them to be out in the community doing their job rather than back at the station filling in forms. "This scheme has proved an effective way of dealing with the type of behaviour that blights the lives of communities throughout the West Midlands, providing a valuable deterrent to would-be offenders."