The long-running investigation into football corruption stepped up a gear last night when it emerged that Harry Redknapp, one of the favourites to take over the job of England football coach, was among five men arrested by fraud squad detectivesRedknapp, the manager of Portsmouth, was held by City of London police as part of its investigation into alleged bungs in the game. Last week, when asked how he felt about the England vacancy, he said: "I would say you'd have to almost be a traitor not to do the England job."Also arrested were the chief executive of Portsmouth, Peter Storrie, and Milan Mandaric, the Serbian businessman who owned Portsmouth until September last year and is now chairman of Leicester City. A player, the Charlton Athletic midfielder Amdy Faye, 30, and the football agent Willie McKay, 48 were also arrested.The transfer of Senegalese international Faye from Portsmouth to Newcastle was one of 17 deals the former commissioner of the Met police Lord Stevens said he had concerns about at the end of his inquiry into football transfers.Monaco-based McKay acted as agent for the transfer while Mandaric was chairman of Portsmouth when Faye went to Newcastle in January 2005. Faye moved from the French club Auxerre to Portsmouth in August 2003. He has since played for Charlton and is now on loan with Glasgow Rangers.Redknapp was arrested as he returned to Britain after watching Rangers' 3-2 defeat to Stuttgart in Germany on Tuesday night in the Champions League.He was questioned for several hours last night at a police station in Chichester before being released on police bail. Afterwards he said: "We all helped the police with their inquiries, but it doesn't directly concern me, it's other people involved."Redknapp confirmed that he had been arrested and said: "They have to arrest you to talk to you, for you to be in the police station. I think that's the end of it; it didn't directly concern me."A spokeswoman for the City of London force later said that three men, aged 69, 60 and 55, arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and false accounting, had been released on police bail. The 48-year-old had also been released on bail, while the 30-year-old remained in custody.Portsmouth Football Club had issued a statement earlier in the day confirming that Redknapp and Storrie were helping police "with their inquiries concerning a matter dating back to 2003."The club added: "This was prior to the new owner taking control of the club at the beginning of 2006. The club is fully supportive of Peter and Harry who are cooperating fully with City of London police in this ongoing inquiry."Allegations about Redknapp were made in a Panorama documentary on football transfers last year. He denied any wrongdoing and issued a writ against the BBC. The Panorama programme also made allegations about the then Bolton manager, Sam Allardyce, now with Newcastle. He firmly denies wrongdoing and has refused to speak to the BBC since.In June, after an extensive inquiry into Premier League deals, Stevens named 17 transfers and five clubs. Transfers involving Chelsea, Middlesbrough, Bolton, Portsmouth and Newcastle have been highlighted in the report.In July, officers raided Portsmouth club offices at Rodney Road in the city, confiscating computers, files and paper work. Newcastle and Rangers FC were also raided. Redknapp's luxury home in Poole, Dorset, is among the addresses believed to have been searched.A spokeswoman said: "Two searches have been completed while another 10 are ongoing."Ladbrokes had put Mr Redknapp at 9/2 to succeed Steve McClaren as England boss. By last night he had slipped to 10/1.