The Portuguese police force overseeing the hunt for Madeleine McCann last night placed one of its deputy national directors in charge of the investigation, following the dismissal of the previous chief investigator and the departure of his second in command.Paulo Rebelo, based in Lisbon, takes immediate command of the inquiry, following the dismissal on October 2 of Goncalo Amaral, formerly the chief investigator, and the request by his deputy, Tavares de Almeida, to take a leave of absence.Yesterday it emerged Mr Almeida is among three officers being investigated over allegations of torture in a seven-year old case. Mr Amaral is also under investigation, accused of concealing evidence relating to an alleged beating of the mother of another disappeared child. He was dismissed after comments criticising British police involvement in the McCann case.Mr Rebelo has previously worked in the central investigation department specialising in narcotics. He was also involved in a long investigation into a paedophile scandal at a state children's home in the capital, Lisbon, allegedly involving senior establishment figures. The case is ongoing.His appointment is an attempt to regain control of the investigation into Madeleine's disappearance on May 3. Her parents, Gerry and Kate McCann, were named as official suspects on September 7, but a magistrate ruled the police had yet to gather sufficient evidence to warrant further questioning of the couple over the disappearance of their daughter.But yesterday there were reports of new findings after fresh tests by the Forensic Science Laboratory in Birmingham on DNA samples collected by British detectives helping the Portuguese police. The results reportedly suggest DNA evidence found in the boot of a car hired weeks after Madeleine disappeared came from the missing girl and was not transferred by clothes or toys.Clarence Mitchell, the couple's official spokesman, dismissed the reports. "We had reports that DNA had proved inconclusive and even that it put them in the clear. Now there are reports that the DNA is making them look suspect. This just goes to show what a twilight zone we are operating in."A source close to the McCanns said they believed Portuguese police stopped searching for the missing girl three months ago, when they first settled on the theory her parents may have been involved in her death. "The feeling, certainly from this side, is that the search went on hold from the moment the police began to suspect Kate and Gerry," the source said.The couple believe that the only hunt for their daughter is being carried out by investigators they have privately contracted. They are working in Spain and Morocco but not Portugal, where such activities are illegal. It is thought that the investigators are paid for by anonymous benefactors, rather than from the £1m fund donated by the public.