Ian Huntley was being guarded by trainees in the days before he swallowed a potentially lethal dose of the anti-depressant tablets he hid in his teabags. Before that, a News of the World reporter got a job as minder to the man accused of the Soham murders. A prison service inquiry has categorised this giant work experience scheme as 'serious systems failures' at Woodhill jail.No individuals have been blamed. No heads have rolled. To the relief of all concerned, Mr Huntley did not die. Sarah Campbell was less fortunate. In the late afternoon of 18 January this year, the second day of her three-year sentence at Styal, in Cheshire, she told a prison officer that she had taken an overdose of pills. By 7.56pm, Sarah was dead. It was almost midnight when officials rang her mother to relay the fate of her only child.Once a tennis champion and a keen skier who hoped to go to university, Sarah Campbell had become a heroin abuser. Desperate for money for a fix, she and a friend hassled an elderly man who collapsed of a heart attack. She was subsequently found guilty of his manslaughter. However indefensible her behaviour, the question is how a girl of not quite 19 with a history of drug problems and depression was allowed to swallow up to 100 pills a few hours after being committed into the care of the state. In the absence of answers, other questions pile up. Last Easter Monday, Jolene Willis, 24, serving four months for theft, hanged herself in her cell at Styal. Hers was the fourth such death at the jail since August. In total, there have been 46 prison suicides this year, a new high in a domain where the numbers spool remorselessly upwards: 73,379 inmates; 1,200 security incidents in 14 days. More unrest, more spoiled lives, more evidence of an overloaded system that cannot cope. Move from the pits of the justice system to its apex, where Lord Falconer of Thoroton, hot in horsehair, is imprisoned on the Woolsack. Tony Blair's constitutional reforms are proving the political variant of The Monkey's Paw , the W.W. Jacobs story recounting the grim, unforeseen consequences for those who see their dearest wishes fulfilled. Observing the Government's attempts to kill off the Lord Chancellorship is like watching a squeamish vegan trying to wring a turkey's neck. The corpse is still squawking, and so are those reformers who now fear a judicial appointments commission full of political placemen. The Home Secretary, meanwhile, has long implied that judges are motivated by arrogant disregard for elected leaders. The only certain bond between the executive and the judiciary is that both sides have got it wrong. In the current constitutional and legal morass, the most persuasive voice belongs to the Lord Chief Justice, who has urged peers to vote against compulsory longer sentences for some crimes, as enshrined in Mr Blunkett's new Criminal Justice Bill. Lord Woolf says that prison numbers will soar unless punishment is left to judges. He's right. What he has not convincingly explained is why the courts are stuffing prisons full of people who should not be there. The media focus on the top echelons of the law masks the fact that the urgent, unarticulated problem for the justice system is the crown court of today, not the supreme court of tomorrow. Too many judges are punitive sentencers in awe of political bluster and desperate not to get pilloried in the Daily Mail as out-of-touch old buffers unleashing swivel-eyed granny-muggers on the nation's handbags. An independent report, compiled by Professor Mike Hough of South Bank University, to be published on 1 July by the Prison Reform Trust, will explode the myth that we are soft on crime. It will say that petty offenders are three times more likely to be sent to jail than they were in 1991. In the following decade, the prison population went up by 71 per cent. Over the same period, crime fell, and continues to do so, and fewer suspected offenders come before the courts. Judges and magistrates worry that community sentencing has been badly sold to the public and the media. That concern translates, in turn, into a culture of custodial sentencing. Hot-breath politics sway judges' decisions far more than politicians will admit. That is bad news for a Labour government, but it is bleak for the judiciary, too. The louder Lord Woolf advocates shorter and fewer jail sentences, the more assiduously his judges do precisely the opposite. This leaves Mr Blunkett in a double fix. Top judges rightly strip him of his power to set tariffs for adult murderers and quash his unlawful policies. Lesser ones dance to the drumbeat of his populism. The Home Secretary fails to see that the proper curbs of the mandarinate, bitterly resented by him, do not threaten his position a fraction as forcefully as the obedience of the lower ranks. The rise in prison numbers, up by 150 every week, is not sustainable. The conditions in many jails look simply cruel and trouble is stirring. Martin Narey, now in charge of custody and probation, told me some time ago of his alarm at rising suicides. Mr Blunkett, as he has long suspected, risks being crucified. He is right in identifying the judges as a nemesis. The paradox is that they are driving the prison system to meltdown not through subversiveness but out of deference. They undermine the Home Secretary by heeding his message too faithfully. True, Mr Blunkett argues for fewer custodial sentences, but that plea will not register for as long as the subtext is the key-jangling rhetoric of the master jailer. Calling off the judges would be easy. The last time the prison population fell drastically was in 1991, after a hardline Tory Home Secretary, David Waddington, produced an emollient White Paper and said prison was 'an expensive way of making bad people worse'. Far from following that example, Mr Blunkett has devised the very Criminal Justice Bill guaranteed to ensure that more people end up expensively unredeemed or, if unlucky, expensively dead. Sarah Campbell was only one in a litany of those, often young women, who choose oblivion because they can find no other outlet for despair. Jennifer Clifford, 19, hanged in February at Bulwood Hall. Leanne Gidney, 18, hanged a few weeks earlier at Brockhill. Inquest, the organisation that campaigns on behalf of people like them, wonders where hope resides. If the prison service could not protect Ian Huntley, the most watched-over prisoner in the land, what safeguard is there for girls unhinged by bitter pasts and empty futures? The bodies of anonymous teenagers are not a scandal. Dead prisoners stir little sympathy, however pitiful their stories or small their crime. They have no votes, no constitutional significance and no sway in the tug of justice between judges and politicians who have ended up ordaining the same outcome. Only the battle-cries are different. Democracy is Mr Blunkett's watchword. So notice them, the 18-year-olds overdosing on pills, or hanged, or choking themselves on hoarded Kleenex tissues. They are dying in our name.