Four men who murdered a couple in a bungled attempt at an "honour" killing were jailed for life today. Their intended victim was a Muslim man who was having an affair with a married woman, but they firebombed a different house.Abdullah Mohammed, 41, and his wife, Aysha, 39, were overcome by smoke and fumes at their home in Blackburn, Lancashire, and later died in hospital.Hisamuddin Ibrahim, 21, described as the ringleader who ordered the arson attack, was jailed for a minimum of 28 years at Preston crown court. Habib Iqbal, 25, Sadek Miah, 23, and Mohammed Miah, 19, were respectively jailed for minimum terms of 25, 21 and 19 years.All four were convicted of the double murders yesterday.Sentencing the men today, Mr Justice Henriques said: "These were shocking and terrible murders. Two persons died; but for the speedy response of the emergency services it may well have been four or more. It is a most cruel irony that two such devout members of the community, both deeply religious, should have lost their lives to such a perverted and wicked act."Ibrahim was enraged when he discovered his sister, Hafija Gorji, 22, was committing adultery with Mo Ibrahim (no relation), whom she met at a wedding in Manchester. He ordered his best friend Iqbal to arrange a fire in the early hours of 21 October last year to kill Mo Ibrahim while he was asleep.The intended victim lived at house number 135 on the same road as the Mohammed family from number 175.The court heard Gorji's marriage entered a difficult phase after she and her husband, who she married in India, set up home in the east Lancashire town in 2009. The nursery nurse has since started divorce proceedings.A month before the fire, Mo Ibrahim swore on the Koran in front of Gorji's relatives that the pair were just good friends. Hisamuddin Ibrahim discovered subsequently that the affair was continuing.A week before the killings, he viewed a report on the BBC Crimewatch website about an unsolved fatal blaze in Eastbourne, East Sussex. The story concerned a night-time arson attack on a private dwelling in which two occupants had been killed.Prosecutors said Hisamuddin Ibrahim, a London Underground systems operator, on behalf of his family, asked Iqbal to drive up from London and carry out the attack. Iqbal recruited two friends, Sadek Miah and Mohammed Miah, to assist.There were no witnesses to the start of the fire but CCTV footage captured a vehicle circling the surrounding streets three times shortly before the attack.Three figures were shown leaving the car in the direction of the road, one appearing to carry a container. They returned to the vehicle and drove away with the lights off as the flames took hold.Their movements on the motorway were tracked using automatic number plate recognition. Without the CCTV and ANPR records the defendants may never have been brought to justice, the judge said.Hisamuddin Ibrahim, of Manor Park, east London; Mohammed Miah, of Plaistow, east London; Sadek Miah, of Tower Hamlets, east London; and Iqbal, of Manor Park, had all denied murder. Miah had pleaded guilty to an alternative charge of manslaughter before the trial.