 A teenager stabbed to death as she walked home along a river footpath in Reading was named last night by police as Asha Muneer.The body of the 18-year-old woman was found on Monday night by a jogger. She had been stabbed several times shortly after leaving the Reading Gate shopping centre, Thames Valley police said. Last night police arrested a 19-year-old man on suspicion of murder.Muneer, from the Whitley area of Reading, was found on the unlit path next to the river Kennet, close to the Madejski stadium, at 8.30pm. Her handbag was also found on the path, but police said there was no evidence to suggest she had been robbed. No ambulance was called as it was already too late to save the teenager.Superintendent Jim Weems, area commander for Reading, said the investigating officers were "keeping an open mind" on the motive for her murder. He told a press conference at Reading police station: "We believe the victim may have been walking home from work at the time. A postmortem is taking place this afternoon; we can therefore not speculate on the cause of her death or the nature of her injuries."The area is popular with dog walkers, who described the stretch of footpath, under the A33 dual carriageway, as dangerous to walk along at night. Weems urged any potential witnesses to come forward. "I'm confident someone out there knows how and why this happened," he said.The teenager worked at a branch of Laura Ashley at Reading Gate shopping centre. The firm said her death was "shocking" and friends at the local store were devastated. Staff at the retail park said it was not generally used by people returning home from work at night.Dog walkers spoke of their shock at the death, but said the stretch of footpath was considered dangerous to walk on at night. Kathryn Hilliard, 28, of nearby Kennet Island, said: "That part of the footpath is a bit scary and there's a lot of graffiti down there. I would never go down there in the dark on my own."A Facebook group has been set up to allow people to pay tribute to the teenager. Jonathan Freeman wrote: "a talented clever & beautiful girl who made economics lessons a great laugh... R.I.P Asha xxx"Shahdab Jahangir wrote: "u were a star and u shined when we needed u too... R.I.P"The page includes a poem dedicated to Muneer: "For Asha a beautiful girl, Asha will always be in our hearts, Those times we spent with her we will not forget, With no doubt Asha will go to Jannah, Asha was definitely a star to those she knew, Asha you will be sadly missed. Asha Muneer – like a sister to everyone."