Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman fell into Ian Huntley's hands after wandering away from a family barbecue, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Within minutes or, at the most, hours they had been murdered by Mr Huntley and their bodies hidden in a place where he anticipated they would never be found, the prosecution claimed. "In that objective he was almost successful," said Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution. During a four-hour opening speech, Mr Latham claimed that "for some reason known only to Mr Huntley he chose to murder them both". He described Mr Huntley, who denies murder, as a "calculating and manipulative individual". He said that Mr Huntley's ex-girlfriend, Maxine Carr, a former classroom assistant at the girls' primary school, was not directly involved in the murder but backed Mr Huntley's false account of his actions in a "cold-blooded" way. She denies conspiracy to pervert the course of justice and two counts of assisting an offender. Mr Latham told how Mr Huntley's story had changed and developed in the hours after the girls' disappearance, documenting the defendant's varying accounts of how he had spent the day and whether he had seen Holly and Jessica. The jury heard that the 10-year-olds had probably intended to go out for only an hour when they left Holly's home in Soham, Cambridgeshire. They probably felt secure and confident in an area they knew well, Mr Latham said. But shortly after 6.30pm on Sunday August 4 last year, "they simply vanished". Mr Latham began his opening speech, which continues today, shortly after 11am in the Old Bailey's historic Court One. Warning the jurors that they had to remain objective, he gave details of what he compared to a "large jigsaw puzzle". He said Jessica went to Holly's home at around 11.45am to give her friend a present - a necklace featuring the letter H and two dolphins - which she had brought back from her holiday in Menorca. Jessica's older sister, Rebecca, 16, had checked she had her mobile phone with her. Holly and Jessica were classmates at St Andrew's primary school in Soham, where Ms Carr, 26, had worked. The girls were "good friends" though "not inseparable", and at school were considered reliable and sensible, helpful to their teachers. At Holly's house, the court heard, they spent half an hour playing on a computer with another girlfriend, who was then collected by her mother. They lunched on sandwiches and may have popped out for 20 minutes; possibly to buy sweets at the nearby Ross Peers sports centre. They were certainly back in the house when friends of the Wells' family arrived for a barbecue at 3.15pm. The weather was poor and the men had to cook in the shelter of the garage doorway. By this time, Jessica had changed into a Manchester United football shirt borrowed from Holly's brother Oliver, 12, to match the one her friend was wearing. In the late afternoon Holly asked her mother, Nicola, to take a photograph of the pair and quite by chance they posed in front of a clock: the time was 5.04pm. The image was to be used in many reports of the girls' disappearance and in missing posters. Mr Latham said that at 5.30pm the girls sat down to eat with the adults. The time of the meal would be relevant, he said, because it would help determine the time of their deaths. They left the table at about 6.15pm and went upstairs; Holly's father Kevin Wells recalls hearing them in her bedroom. That was the "last they heard or saw of the girls", said Mr Latham. During the evening the men watched television and someone did the washing up. It was only when the Wells' friends came to leave, between 8pm and 8.30pm, that the girls' absence was noticed. Kevin and Oliver Wells set off on their bicycles to search for the children, while Holly's mother Nicola rang the Chapman house. Concerned, the Chapmans rang Jessica's mobile. It was switched off. The police were contacted just before 10pm, sparking what was to be one of the biggest missing persons inquiries ever. The jury heard the reason for the girls going out was unclear. There was no evidence they were going to meet anyone or go anywhere in particular, and Mr Latham characterised their route - pieced together by a series of sightings - as "meandering". They appear to have left the street where the Wells live via an alley and walked towards the town's war memorial, before turning around and heading towards the Ross Peers sports centre. Mr Latham said it was a quiet time on a quiet day of the week and they stuck out because of their matching football strips. One man recalled telling his wife: "Look - two little Beckhams". The jury was shown CCTV footage from two cameras at the sports centre. The girls are seen walking across the centre's car park, which was covered in puddles, at 6.28pm. "The time is very, very important," said Mr Latham. "They were there on their own. They were walking perfectly normally." Mobile phone A receptionist recalls two girls entering the centre at around 6.30pm, though she cannot be sure it was Holly and Jessica. Karen Greenwood, who was using the centre's gym, also remembers seeing two girls there. When she drove away shortly afterwards she saw the same girls walking with linked arms in College Road. Mr Latham said this must have been at 6.32pm or 6.33pm. The jury heard the girls' route would have taken them "right past" 5 College Close, the home of Mr Huntley, 29, who was caretaker at Soham village college. Mr Latham said two other people arrived at the sports centre at 6.40pm, meaning they must have been in College Road at about 6.39pm. "They didn't see the girls," he said. He also gave details of Jessica's mobile phone. Records show it was turned off at 6.46pm. The mast which picked up the signal that it was leaving the network, however, was not the one which covers most of Soham. It was a mast a few miles away which, because of a "quirk", covered a few areas of the village, including the area around 5 College Close. Mr Latham said that detail was "highly significant". He told of Ms Carr's movements around the time of the girls' disappearance. On August 3 - the day before the pair vanished - she went to Grimsby with Mr Huntley's parents to visit her mother. There were several phone calls between the defendants over the weekend and at 6.24pm on Sunday, at around the time of the girls' disappearance, someone using Ms Carr's mobile rang Mr Huntley's mobile. The call lasted two minutes and 13 seconds. After her arrest Ms Carr claimed Mr Huntley had told her that "some girls had asked about her". But she said he appeared "more bothered" about her saying she was going out to see a band and she sent him a text message at 6.31pm saying: "Don't make me feel bad that I'm with my family." The prosecution allege that Mr Huntley had not seen the girls at that point so could not have mentioned them to her. Mr Latham turned to Mr Huntley's movements on August 4. The sports centre receptionist spotted Mr Huntley near his home at 4.50pm and again at 6.15pm near the sports centre's reception, on the same footpath taken by the girls 15 minutes later. He was next seen at 10.35pm. "It follows that Huntley's whereabouts for approximately four hours are unknown," Mr Latham said, pointing out that the journey time between Soham and the place where the bodies were found was between 30 and 40 minutes. "To drive there and back and leave the bodies, would take a maximum of an hour and a half," he added. Mr Latham then gave the jury a "very significant piece of information". He said: "We understand from those representing Huntley that it is unlikely to be disputed by Huntley that the two girls went into his house shortly after 6.30pm that evening; that Huntley was the only person there at the time; and that they died within a short time of going inside his home; that it was Huntley who took their bodies to the place where they were found." Mr Latham emphasised that Mr Huntley still pleaded not guilty to two charges of murder. It was up to the prosecution to prove the facts which established that what happened in the house amounted to murder. "How and why these deaths happened will be for you to consider," he said. The verdicts would depend on the answers to these two questions. Bodies Mr Latham said: "We can't call anyone who can tell us what happened in that house. There's only one person alive who was there on that evening." But he said evidence would be called so that inference could be drawn about what happened,and what could not have happened. "I'm talking about things like an accident." The court was told that three members of the public found the girls' bodies almost a fortnight later, on Saturday August 17. By coincidence, it was the same day that police arrested the defendants. Mr Latham said the prosecution's case was that Mr Huntley knew what he was doing after the girls' deaths."He could remember, he could understand." Mr Huntley acted as rationally as anyone could who had killed two girls, he told the court. Mr Latham said the prosecution believed Mr Huntley was a "calculating and manipulative individual who knew precisely what he was up to. He was trying to get away with murder." The barrister said the jury would have to ask themselves if Mr Huntley was "a man acting sensibly, a man in control of himself" and if he was a man "capable of telling convincing lies". "Remember: he had the presence of mind to remove the bodies from Soham and hide them where he no doubt hoped they would not be found. Is this a man who is thinking sensibly? Is this a man in control of himself?" he asked. He explained how the caretaker's story had changed during that evening. At 10.35pm four villagers helping the search met Mr Huntley near the sports centre and asked if he had seen the two girls, describing them. He said he had not, adding he had been out for the day and that was why he was walking his dog. "'I hadn't seen the girls' - that was the first lie," said Mr Latham."Given what had happened, he still had to work out a strategy to avoid being detected. That was the first part of his strategy: blank denial." Mr Huntley was briefly sighted by another resident at 11pm, but then there was an "important gap" of two hours during which no one saw him. Witnesses said his car appeared to be missing from its usual spot and noted the house was in darkness. At 1am, a police officer saw Mr Huntley on College Close and explained she was looking for two 10-year-old girls. He said he did not mind helping and asked if he should fetch his keys to open up the college, reassuring her that he would not disturb anyone in his house. The officer spent about an hour on the college grounds with Mr Huntley, but said that while he talked about all sorts of subjects, he never asked for a description of the girls nor mentioned that he might have seen them. Nor did he say anything to suggest that he knew Holly and Jessica. "Given the concession I have told you about, as to what had happened in the house in relation to those girls, you may think ... he is a person who is still very 'together'," Mr Latham said. "He has just removed two bodies from his home and dumped them miles away. He is working with a police officer who is looking for the very people he has just dumped." But when two more searchers met Mr Huntley, shortly after left the officer, he suddenly mentioned seeing the girls. Checking they had been wearing red tops and one was blonde and the other brunette, he said they had passed his house at about 6.30pm, heading towards the bridge. "The information, you may think, would have been useful at 10.35pm, and something that anyone who was innocent, and who had an iota of real concern, would be only too anxious to pass on at the first opportunity," Mr Latham said. "You will be able to infer the beginnings of a defence developing in his mind. If anyone came forward to say whether he had been seen with the girls for even a moment, it was far safer to have acknowledged this before he was confronted with it." Mr Huntley joined the search, but the two men said he seemed relaxed; "almost as if he was just walking his dog", Mr Latham said. A police officer noticed the caretaker "loitering" among searchers at the rendezvous point, near the senior officer, Sergeant Pauline Nelson, where he could hear incoming messages on her radio and what she was saying to people."This is an ongoing feature of his behaviour - he wants to know what's going on and who knows what," Mr Latham added. But Mr Huntley did not speak directly to Sgt Nelson until another searcher, who had met him before, asked whether he had seen Holly and Jessica. The woman said Mr Huntley replied that he had and that they had asked him how Ms Carr was. He had told them: "She's not very good or happy at the moment because she didn't get the job [a permanent post at the school]." The time he had seen them was "definitely 10 to six", he said. But when Sgt Nelson came over and asked for details, he told her: "I can't remember, my head's a real muddle. I'm tired." Mr Huntley said he had seen the girls at the Ross Peers sports centre near his house at 5.45pm. Asked how he knew the time, he said he "just knew". Asked why he had not told police earlier, he said he had not thought it important. Sgt Nelson noticed his hair was wet and he smelt of soap or aftershave, and concluded he had just been in the shower. Sgt Nelson observed that he must know the girls quite well for them to stop and talk to him. "Yes, my partner is a classroom assistant," he replied, but did not elaborate. "At that moment he could not rely upon Carr providing him with an alibi - he hadn't been able to confirm that with her in the middle of the night," said Mr Latham. "If the police went [to the couple's home] they would find she wasn't there, so he had to be careful about what he said." The case continues today.