So Britain is in danger of becoming Baltimore, according to the Conservative shadow home secretary Chris Grayling, as if one country's challenges were equivalent to another's. A real-life version of The Wire, he suggests, is what lies ahead.Which makes you wonder whether Mr Grayling has watched the Baltimore-based TV series; or, more worryingly, if he has, whether he has spent much time in the troubled parts of British cities. Because they aren't much like Baltimore's 'hoods.Over the years I've lived in Baltimore, we've had a steady trickle of British visitors — family, friends, students and occasional journalists, most of whom couldn't place the city on the US map and knew nothing of its place in civil war history until my (American) husband introduced them to the "patriotic gore that flecked the streets of Baltimore" (as it says in Maryland's state anthem).Last year, the pace of visitors picked up. Inspired by The Wire, our recent British arrivals have a new mission, one that Grayling might do well to consider: the exercise in socioeconomic comparison that has come to be known as ghetto tourism.Our daughter – who used to work at a school housed in the building used for the school in the Wire's fourth season – has developed a Wire Tour for them. She takes them to Lexington Market where detective Jimmy McNulty asks his boys to tail a dealer; they climb Federal Hill where Mayor Tommy Carcetti stares out over his blighted city; and she drives them along block after block of boarded-up rowhouses where body after body is dumped in the series.Our visitors, who have lived in Manchester, Leeds, Sheffield and south London, talk about the cycles of despair they've seen at home, the rootlessness felt by some second-generation immigrants, the apparent failures of Britain's policy of multiculturalism. They speak more about drunkenness than drugs; they worry about knives, and rarely about guns.And they stop short of easy comparisons.None has witnessed anything like Baltimore's toxic combination of historic segregation, drugs and guns, or lived in a city of some 600,000 which has earned the harrowing moniker "Bodymore, Murderland", and where 2008 was considered a good year because there were only 234 murders. To some extent, of course, The Wire is a parable of modern America. You can find drug corners 100 miles to the north in Philadelphia; but that city is also home to Germantown and Mount Airy, among the East Coast's most celebrated integrated neighborhoods. And 40 miles to the south of Baltimore, Washington DC's Anacostia neighbourhood could have been the set for many a Wire scene. But that city is also home to the first black president and where a multi-coloured elite meets together at embassy parties.And to some extent, of course, The Wire is a parable about human nature. That's what good writing is all about. But that doesn't make the Baltimore's challenges similar to Britain's.Earlier this summer, my daughter called me from her mobile while she was giving a British visitor one of her Wire Tours. We were interrupted by sirens and shouting, and she dropped her phone. For a moment, I panicked: Had she driven somewhere she shouldn't have gone? Got unlucky this time around? I breathed again when I learned what was going on. The shouting was somebody asking her to move her car out of the way of emergency vehicles. Sirens and flashing lights are the routine backdrop to life and death in Baltimore.Perhaps Chris Grayling would like to join her next tour. She'll show the shadow home secretary that The Wire is more than a metaphor for dysfunction, that Baltimore's problems reflect its history and culture. And with any luck she'll impress upon him that he needs to gain a better understanding of his own country if he's to deal one day with the specific cultural challenges it faces.