For much of last week, Britain's radio phone-in shows were dominated by a single, tragic subject: the short and brutalised life of the child who will forever be known as Baby P.Amid the cacophony of anger, one comment stood out. The husband of a social worker spoke of how his wife often arrived home from work angry and in despair. In her case files were children who went hungry and unwashed, were sadistically treated by their parents and in many cases, she believed, sexually assaulted. When she was at her lowest, she raged that some men and women should be sterilised.'We both know that this would be wrong, but what is the answer?' the husband asked. Indeed. Baby P's legacy is a national debate over how we protect our children and why, in a modern educated society, do we still have mothers, fathers and carers who gratuitously inflict pain on those they have brought into the world?Sue Berelowitz, a former social worker and the new deputy children's commissioner, is better placed than many to answer. During the Seventies, Berelowitz was at the frontline of Britain's battle against child abuse, visiting families that were straight out of nightmares. 'What I have come across is one sorry saga after another, where people have had really terrible lives and that does get played through generation upon generation,' Berelowitz said. 'I can think of families where I feel furious with the parents because of the awful things they have done to their children, but what I also know is that they have gone through stuff that I would not have wanted to go through.'Inevitably, the immediate focus has been on the professionals who came into contact with the blue-eyed, blond, 17-month-old boy in the months leading up to his death. In the last weeks of P's life there were countless missed opportunities to save him. Haringey council's serious case review stated P's mother 'presented her son to health professionals eight times, and in his last week, he was seen by a social worker and a paediatrician. None of those professionals identified major concerns about the child's health and well-being.'There were earlier clues. In April 2007, four months before his death, P was examined in hospital for bruises and scratches to his face, head and body. The following June, he underwent a medical examination which concluded that some bruising was due to abuse. The trial heard how the mother deceived social services into thinking the baby was not at risk. On one occasion, she smeared chocolate on his face to hide his bruises. It was a sophisticated web of deception, made all the more convincing by her apparent willingness to allow social services through the door. Nevertheless, the warning signs were there.Last week, the mother and her boyfriend, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were found guilty, with lodger Jason Owens, of causing or allowing the death of Baby P. They have been told to expect 'significant' jail sentences.Following the verdict, Sharon Shoesmith, Haringey's director of children's social services, denied the council was to blame. 'The child was killed by members of his own family,' she said. 'The very fact is, you cannot stop people who are determined to kill children.'Ian Willmore, former Lib Dem deputy leader of Haringey council, said this argument was 'the reverse of the truth'. Willmore said: 'It is because these sort of people are so despicable and irresponsible that the public pay officials and elect politicians to take responsibility for the well-being of vulnerable children. The burden we put on them is that they accept this responsibility.'Ever since the tragic death of Maria Colwell, a seven-year-old killed in Brighton by her stepfather in 1973, there have been grand promises to protect children more rigorously. Like Baby P, Maria had her own social worker. Her distress and bruises had been reported to police and to social services. In phrases that are now all too familiar, an official inquiry reported: 'What has clearly emerged is a failure of the system compounded of several factors of which the greatest and most obvious must be that of the lack of ... communication and liaison.'After the inquiry, there were strenuous efforts to streamline the myriad agencies, the idea being to simplify child protection and build lasting relationships with those who needed them. But children still died in a series of similar, haunting tragedies, most notably Victoria Climbié in 2000, and now Baby P, both in Haringey. A gloomy conclusion from the serious case reviews conducted each time a child dies is that abuse and neglect are strongly linked to wider, societal problems. As with Baby P, the child often comes from a broken family where the father is largely absent. Often, the family is on benefits and lives in an area of socio-economic deprivation. Maria Colwell lived on the Whitehawk estate in Brighton, 15 minutes from the pier of this now thriving seaside city. Thirty-five years on the housing is modern and well maintained, there are far more well-kept gardens than those full of dog excrement and rubbish, there are government-funded community centres and a library, a good bus service and the council clears the area of abandoned cars regularly. But even today, many children there have never seen the sea. 'That is not an urban myth, it's perfectly true; we had quite a lot of children who were scared to go off the estate and certainly plenty had never stood on the beach,' said Gill Clough, the former headteacher of Whitehawk's only secondary school, which was closed in 2003. 'The case of estates like these is that the clean front doors hide very deprived interiors. There are entire generations of families who have never had a job. There is a lot of drug-taking, drinking, incest. It's one of these estates where a lot of grown men leave and you get middle-aged women hooking up with much younger men, which brings its own issues for families. Children would come to school on Monday mornings and weep - they were exposed to violence and abuse. I would say about 70 per cent of the children in my class would have quite serious issues and, of course, that was among those who came to school at all.'In Whitehawk today, a child has eight years less life expectancy than the average, is five times more likely to suffer accidental death, and is more prone to cancer, heart disease and mental illness than children living a few miles away in the Regency rows of middle-class Brighton. The doctors' surgery had to redesign its appointment cards to take account of the numbers who could not read and more than half of pregnant women smoke during their pregnancy. More than one in 10 girls will get pregnant between 15 and 17, double the national average. The picture in Whitehawk is far from unique but it is replicated in pockets of social deprivation across the country, where an underclass is untouched by the affluence of modern Britain and distrustful of those trying to help them. Many social workers in these areas are reluctant to place children in care, influenced by a legal system that favours trying to keep children with their families. Rather than risk parents' fury, social workers will often act only if they believe beyond reasonable doubt that the child is being abused.'The big question this case (Baby P) raises is, where do we set the threshold for intervention?' said Dr Peter Sidebotham, an academic and government adviser conducting an official review into children's deaths. 'If you set it too high, children die or are abused,' he said. 'Too low and you can hurt families. But the question we now need to ask is should we lower the threshold? There are no easy answers.'But Sidebotham's analysis shows answers need to be found. His research suggests around 100 children die each year in England and Wales as a result of abuse or neglect. And these are just the most 'serious' cases. A report last year by the NCB children's charity found that, each week, hospitals in England treat an average of 471 children who have sustained deliberate injuries, many of which can be presumed to have been inflicted by parents or carers. There were 24,497 such cases in 2005-06 involving injuries such as a black eye or a broken arm - 21,334 children were treated, some more than once. Not everyone is convinced that lowering the threshold at which social workers decide to place children into care will yield results. 'If you look at the Danish system, where they pour money in and take twice as many children into care as we do, they still have the same mortality rate for child murders,' said Barry Sheerman, chair of the Commons education select committee. Sheerman admitted, however, that he has heard disturbing cases from colleagues. One fellow Labour MP told him that he had been approached by constituents, the grandparents of two children at risk. 'The parents are crack addicts and dealers: the house has been raided successfully three or four times,' Sheerman said. 'They still can't get the children out of that family. The mind boggles. But you go to a local authority and they say, "Our belief is that the best outcomes for children are achieved when the children stay with their birth family and the worst outcomes are when they are taken into care." It's an incredibly complex area.'Taking a decision to place a child in care is an expensive option. It costs around £50,000 to put a child in a residential home for a year. A chronic shortage of foster parents is also a limiting factor.And if, as with Baby P, the mother is being co-operative and allowing social services through the door, this can compound their reluctance to act. 'There is a paradox here,' said Chris Hanvey, director of operations at Barnardo's. 'You've got to build trust with the families. You develop a relationship with them, support and mentor them and then sometimes you've got to take action that destroys the trust you have built.'Low pay, long hours and its lowly status make attracting skilled social workers difficult. In London, 15 per cent of social work posts are vacant. Around 40 per cent of social workers come from overseas, which has led to concerns that they lack the necessary cultural awareness to detect signs of child abuse.And many social workers are stuck in their offices. A new report by the Economic and Social Research Council found that they were spending 60 to 80 per cent of their time in front of computer screens, typing up reports to meet targets generated by the Integrated Children's System, a database that tracks performance management.The system, a major government IT initiative, allows for comparisons. Haringey, for example, had 155 children on the Child Protection Register last year - 32 per 10,000 people, lower than many other London boroughs.But, according to experts, a focus on performance targets can detract from the 'real work'. 'Workers report being more worried about missed deadlines than missed visits,' the ESRC report noted. It concluded: 'At every stage of the process, workers lamented the tensions between the performance elements of the system and the imperative to safeguard children and support families.'The catalogue of errors that led to Baby P's death make for disturbing reading, given how government departments and quangos have spent hundreds of millions of pounds attempting to improve the lives of children. 'This has led to an increase in what the public expects,' Hanvey said. 'But we are spending an awful lot and still these things happen.'From the 1989 Children's Act to the creation of a children's commissioner, there has been a steady flow of legislation and personnel in the last two decades. But experts are not convinced the changes have helped. 'The government has been constantly reorganising but they still can't make things join up,' Hanvey said.Indeed, new pressures are creating further tensions in the child protection system which were largely absent when Maria Colwell died.'My first job was in 1975 in London, working with some very, very disturbed children,' Berelowitz said. 'But what is probably different now is the use of drugs; for too many families that causes neglect of the children and then mental health problems. I think drug misuse is a very, very serious issue and if it was easy we would have tackled it successfully by now. Having worked with many parents who are alcohol and drug abusers, what is so difficult to cope with is that they can be very effective at hiding what they are doing: it takes vigilance and determination to predict where the risks are.'The government has promised more supervision and support for affected families. This summer, it unveiled its £100m youth crime action plan which outlined early intervention programmes aimed at 20,000 families whose children were considered to be at greatest risk.Problem parents will be compelled to attend parent classes and take greater responsibility for their children. But experts suggest that despite the welcome cash injection, it will do little more than provide each family with a few extra hours of counselling each week, not nearly enough to transform those segments of society that have remained stubbornly lost for decades. Given the sclerotic nature of these problems, an unpalatable conclusion is that there will be more Baby Ps. Hanvey said: 'There are some destructive families out there. You're never going to be able to completely control this.'Those working in the field and seeking guidance on how they can do their jobs better could spend £50 and attend a conference in January that will focus on improving child protection. Sharon Shoesmith will be a key speaker. Her topic: 'Breaking Down Silos: Inspiring Ownership and Sharing Responsibility For Measuring Impacts and Outcomes Across Partnerships.' Tragically, she has plenty of material to draw on.