Police say they are "increasingly concerned" for the safety of a five-year-old girl from mid-Wales who they believe was abducted on Monday evening after going out to play, prompting a mass search overnight by officers and local residents.April Jones was last seen at around 7pm playing with a friend on her bike in the town of Machynlleth in the Dyfi valley, Dyfed-Powys police said. She was then seen getting into a van that drove off, apparently with her inside."Her abduction took place around 7pm in the Bryn Y Gog estate in Machynlleth," said a police spokeswoman. "It was witnessed by another young child when April was seen getting into a grey or light-coloured van, or van-sized vehicle."While the details of what happened are vague at the current time, it appears the suspect left the scene and drove off with April."Police say April was wearing a purple knee-length coat with a hood trimmed with grey fur, her school white polo top and black trousers when she went missing.  Wales map Photograph: GuardianThe spokeswoman added: "Many police officers and specialist teams have worked through the night, with extensive searches taking place, and many lines of inquiry are being pursued."April's parents were said to be devastated and the community "shocked and stunned" by the disappearance. Police, who have set up road blocks on the routes in and out of the town and are carrying out searches of cars coming and going, ask anyone with any information to call them on 0300 2000 333.The Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (Ceop) has been called in to help police in their hunt for April. Charlie Hedges, the Ceop manager for missing, abducted and kidnapped children, is liaising with Dyfed-Powys police as they mount a nationwide appeal for information that might lead to the child.Hundreds of locals in the small market town on the southern outskirts of the Snowdonia national park are believed to have taken part in the hunt for April, with volunteers coming in from towns throughout Wales including Caernarfon in north-west Wales, Rhayader and Aberaeron. Maps of the area and pictures of brown-haired April were handed out to those who turned up to help.But community leaders have said they are in urgent need of more assistance. "Basically we need bodies down here … so, please, anyone who's in the area please go down to the Bro Ddyfi leisure centre where we need all the help we can," a search volunteer, Anwen Morris, told Sky News. She said locals had searched an area with a 30-mile radius overnight using quad bikes and off-road vehicles.Another volunteer, John Rogers, said many locals had worked through the night until 5am, and urged them to come back to search for April in daylight. "It's important to get as many people back as possible," he said. "We need to really cover all the areas we've covered overnight – nooks and crannies, even places like children's playgrounds … Hopefully we'll get her home."A county councillor, Michael Williams, also joined in the search efforts. He told BBC Radio 5 Live: "People were co-ordinated by the police and as well as searching the town they went out into forested areas of the valley and wooded areas and out into hamlets and byroads."He said of April's family: "They are such a lovely, caring family and they are devastated. The community is shocked and stunned over what's happened."Police have cordoned off the area around the family home on Garth Road in the town. Detective Superintendent Reg Bevan told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that trained family liaison officers were working with her relatives at a time he described as "any family's worst nightmare".Brian Vaughn, whose daughter goes to school with April, told the BBC that April was a "lovely little girl". He said: "Everybody just wants her back, really. Whatever we've got to do, we'll do it. We're just hoping for the best, that she's closer rather than further away."