A man who carried out a 10-day campaign of sexual attacks has been jailed for eight years.Mehdi Midani, 28, an Algerian who was in the UK illegally, preyed on eight lone women aged between 20 and 30 in south London, including four who he attacked in the space of four hours in October.Midani followed the women from busy areas near tube stations to quiet residential areas and then attacked them on their own doorsteps. One was attacked in her hallway, the inner London crown court heard.His campaign in October last year forced police to increase patrols in Brixton and Clapham.Midani, of no fixed abode, was jailed on Thursday, having been convicted of six counts of sexual assault and one of common assault. He also admitted a seventh charge of sexual assault.Judge Nicholas Madge also ordered that he serve an extended period of two years on licence after being released, saying that he posed a danger to the public.The court heard that the UK Border Agency had no record of Midani entering Britain, and he would be deported after serving his sentence.Midani refused to talk to police and did not give evidence at his trial. He was picked out of an identity parade and also by DNA evidence, the court heard. He claimed in a pre-sentence report he had been high on a cocktail of whisky, vodka and cocaine when he carried out the assaults. He stood cross-armed with an emotionless expression on his face, listening via an Arabic interpreter, as Madge told him he had brought terror to his victims.“I have no doubt, having viewed extensive CCTV footage of you and your victims, that you hung around in the Brixton and Clapham north area with the sole purpose of picking out young women, stalking them until they reached their homes and then sexually assaulting them,” the judge said. “At times, you waited while the young woman went into a shop and then continued your pursuit when she emerged. You followed women, for up to 20 minutes, from crowded areas with many people to quiet and secluded residential streets.” He added: “The experience of this court is that sexual attacks on women by strangers in the street are rare. In that sense, London is a relatively safe city. “However, courts will do all they can to keep it that way and to protect women by imposing long sentences upon anyone who attacks women, especially at night.” He said the pre-sentence report had shown “a sense of entitlement over women and a desire to seek sexual gratification”, adding: “You are more concerned about your own future than the women you attacked.” Six of the women submitted victim impact statements to the court saying how the crime had affected them. Many told how they were now scared to go out alone after dark and had changed their social lives and work routines as a result of Midani’s attacks. The prosecutor Sally-Ann Hales QC said all the women had been vulnerable. “They were followed from areas that were busy into quiet residential areas. All apart from one were assaulted late at night and all after darkness. “CCTV shows that each of these women was targeted by the defendant as they emerged from tube stations in the area. And they were followed for some considerable distance as they made their way home, but not attacked until they got to their doorstep.” The judge said: “Considering all the evidence, the predatory nature of these offences, the number of women attacked, your use of alcohol and cocaine, your own statement that you were out of control, the psychological harm caused to these women, your total lack of remorse in respect of those offences for which there was a trial, and, despite your absence of previous convictions, I have no hesitation in concluding that you are dangerous. “I am satisfied that you present a significant risk of causing serious harm by committing further similar offences.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The CCTV image released by police. Photograph: Metropolitan police/PAThe senior investigating officer, Det Insp Keith Braithwaite, said Midani was arrested in Brixton on 2 November after a member of the public recognised him from CCTV released to the media, called 999 and followed him until officers arrived. Asked outside court if police believed Midani could have been on his way to commit another attack, Braithwaite said: “He could well have been.” Police linked Midani with two more sexual assaults and two more incidents of indecent exposure, meaning four additional potential victims, but did not have enough evidence to prosecute him, he said. “Clearly this man is a danger to the public and today’s sentence reflects how seriously the Metropolitan police and the judiciary take such matters. “During a period of 10 days Midani caused fear within the local community by his horrific and callous crimes.” 