David Blunkett is facing a backlash from senior police officers over plans to publish the first ever National Policing Plan to set targets for reducing burglaries, street crime and reoffending rates.The Home Secretary will tell forces across the country they must prove they can use extra government money they have been given to produce better results, only a week after the Prime Minister admitted people did not 'feel secure' because of a failure to tackle crime. Many police will say, however, that the plan involves yet another layer of red tape and that national targets do not take account of local policing differences. 'It appears to many of us that this is about central Whitehall control rather than giving the police the tools to get on with the job,' said one police authority member who has seen the report. But government officials say the public must be reassured that the extra money is properly spent. Forces were given a 6 per cent increase last year following a 10 per cent rise the year before. 'The police receive £9 billion of taxpayers' money and it is only right we make it clear what we want them to do with it,' said a Home Office official.' Blunkett is expected to announce the two-year plan when he addresses the Association of Police Authorities' conference on Wednesday.It will say car crime should be cut by a third, domestic burglary by a quarter and robbery in the country's 10 street crime 'hot spots' by 14 per cent. Reductions will be sought, too, in drugs use and offending by the young. Another aim is to 'significantly reduce' differences between the best- and worst-performing forces. Senior figures in the police service have told The Observer that more target setting would mire them in further bureaucracy, keeping officers in police stations when they could be out on the beat. So many reports would have to be written on progress in meeting the targets that forces would not be 'doing the job the public want, fighting crime', said one senior officer. Home Office officials were told to rewrite large parts of the document after it was pointed out it did not refer to child protection or road safety. The official said forces were widely consulted on the plan and agreed it was a necessary part of police reform.