John Reid insisted tonight that he had not rewritten sentencing guidelines after a second judge allowed a paedophile to walk free telling him that if he had appeared in court a week ago he would have been kept behind bars.With the prison overcrowding crisis continuing to spiral, the home secretary gave a flurry of media interviews claiming that he had done nothing more than "reaffirm" sentencing guidelines "to give [judges] the bigger picture"."The guidelines have not changed at all," Mr Reid told reporters. "The guidelines are clear. If an offender is a danger to the public they should be sent to prison." He added: "Of course the top judge knows the big picture, but many other judges see what is in front of them and they don't see the wider picture."In Davos, at the World Economic Forum, Tony Blair waded into the storm saying that anyone who is a danger to the public "should be behind bars".Meanwhile, Rod Morgan, who announced his resignation as chairman of the Youth Justice Board (YJB), said youth custody services, like their adult equivalents, were "on the brink of a prisons crisis".Mr Reid's comments failed to prevent two more judges from entering into the row.At Exeter crown court, Judge Graham Cottle said he had to release Keith Morris, 46, from Devon, who pleaded guilty to four charges of sexual activity involving under-16s, on bail following Mr Reid's remarks about prison overcrowding. Morris faces a 14-year maximum jail-term after the judge receives pre-sentence reports."There are difficulties remanding people in custody at the moment and the only reason I am having any discussion about this is because of those difficulties," Judge Cottle said. "If this case had been here last week it would have been over by now and he would be in Exeter Prison." Mr Reid's troubles increased when another judge publicly defied the prisons directive, jailing a man and a teenager for their role in a street brawl and complaining that maximum sentences were too lenient. "I am well aware that there is overcrowding in the prison and detention centres," Judge Richard Bray told Northampton crown court."That is not going to prevent me from passing proper sentences in each case. The reason our prisons are full to overcrowding, and have been for years, is because judges can no longer pass deterrent sentences." Today's rulings came after a judge in North Wales yesterday issued a suspended prison sentence to a man who admitted downloading child pornography, following a note from Mr Reid and the Lord Chancellor, Lord Falconer, reminding courts that jail should be reserved for the most serious, dangerous and persistent offenders.The controversy deepened as the chairman of the Youth Justice Board (YJB), Rod Morgan, resigned, saying that youth custody services, like their adult equivalents, were "on the brink of a prisons crisis".Minor offences that used to be dealt with informally or out of court were now being pushed into an overstretched criminal justice system, Professor Morgan said in an interview with BBC2's Newsnight, to be shown this evening.This meant work to improve systems in young offender institutions was being "undermined", he said. "We're standing on the brink of a prisons crisis. We have tonight lots of people in police cells because there is no space for them in custody, and that's true for children and young people also," he told the programme."I regard a 26% increase in the number of children and young people that are being drawn into the system in the past three years as swamping."A statement on the YJB website announced that Prof Morgan, who joined the organisation in April 2004 on a three-year contract, would not be applying for an extension.He said government targets for bringing offences to justice were having "perverse consequences" by swelling prisoner numbers unnecessarily.He said the YJB had had a Home Office-agreed target to reduce the number of young people in custody by around 10% by 2008. Instead, he said, "we're going backwards".He also argued that reoffending rates for those sent to youth custody were extremely high. This meant that "a custodial establishment, no matter how good we make them, is the worst conceivable environment within which to improve somebody's behaviour".