It is cold and dark in New Earswick, on the leafy side of York, and out of the mist a private security patrol emerges, triggering automatic lights above a sleeping house. Down the street, the duller red monitor bulb on a burglar alarm winks on and off, and on the village green a CCTV camera spies on the complete absence of other passers-by. This cannot be quite the idyllic scene intended by the great chocolate factory philanthropist Joseph Rowntree, who laid out New Earswick as a model community, naming the streets after trees and flowers and insisting that living rooms faced south to flood the families of his workers with sunshine and light. He would be disappointed, too, to browse through current newspapers with headlines like "Village flop for extra bobbies on the beat". This week, New Earswick elders such as Geoff Bunce, who chairs the representative Residents' Forum, are picking their way through an independent report on the collapse of their experiment in extra policing. Compiled by Leeds University's centre for criminal studies, it concludes that the Joseph Rowntree Housing Trust did not merely waste £25,000 a year on buying the illusion of extra police time; thanks to a heightened concern about security, it paid to make things worse. "I remember the days of the good old village bobby," sighs 56-year-old Bunce, whose forum has had to face increased vandalism - broken windows in the bus shelter - and nastier incidents, including the mugging of a convalescing brain surgery patient. "If we could just get back to that stage again, everything would be perfect." That was the rationale behind the apparently straightforward notion of getting an extra 24 hours a week, specifically for New Earswick, from North Yorkshire police. It was a flagship example of the new freedom given to forces by the 1994 Police and Magistrates' Courts Act to compete for this kind of trade with the mushrooming private security industry. But it went wrong, and ended a year early, because of the gulf between expectations and what a police force can actually do. Unlike the private patrols, which have now taken over around the quaint 1907 Folk Hall community centre, North Yorkshire police had statutory obligations elsewhere and made sure these were written into the contract. "This specified that all operational and deployment decisions remained with the police and that the constable 'lent' to New Earswick was to be solely accountable to the police at all times," records Adam Crawford, who headed the Leeds University team. Perhaps no public body supervised by government auditors could responsibly have done otherwise, but the result was a two-year fit of hiccups as "reactive policing" - the standard way of tackling crime today - constantly diverted the bobby to more urgent beats. More avoidably, the personnel side of the police operation was a mess. Instead of getting a PC George Dixon-like figure, beaming a cheery "Evenin', all" and munching a plum from the fruit trees that Rowntree provided for every garden, the village got three successive officers and four project managers in less than two years. "It was flawed from the start," admits the force's own spokesman, acknowledging how hindsight has revealed that, first, you cannot divorce an individual officer from general operations and, second, modern policing makes it unrealistic to expect that one officer would be the "bobby on the beat" for three years. These are the same conclusions as the Leeds academics'; but their consequent forecasts of doom for all such experiments may be premature. In East Brighton, Sergeant Tony Lumb is proudly wearing his new High Sheriff's Award for outstanding policing.The Community Policing project he leads in the area is a clear success, from a steady drop in crime to brainwaves such as an amnesty for teenagers' BB (ballbearing) guns after a nasty incident when a child was shot in the eye. Lumb and his team hauled in 60 BB guns by offering water pistols in exchange. Not only that, they got several eminent personages from Sussex police and Brighton and Hove council to engage the kids in a water fight. A key difference from the York flop is size. East Brighton has 16,000 residents to New Earswick's 2,000, and six community constables compared with one. Lumb has been in post through out - a fortunate contrast with York - but he has also had the leeway to cope with the sick leave and time off that dogged the Rowntree project. A second difference is a much more balanced contract, because another arm of government was involved, instead of a private trust. Lumb was "bought" from the police by eb4u, the New Deal for Communities in East Brighton, which has a hefty £47.2m budget over three years (from 2001). This is for extras to mainstream government funding (about £70m annually in the area) and it gave eb4u the clout to demand its own conditions from the police. These were: that the previous four community constables be increased to six and that they relocate to two multi-agency offices, keeping their own secure computer lines by working alongside neighbourhood wardens, housing officers and youth workers in a joint safety and crime reduction programme. Moving costs were paid by the quango, along with a £200,000 budget for three years of Lumb. "That's one of the most important tips I'd give to New Earswick," says Tony Mitchell, eb4u's community safety team leader. "A multi-agency approach isn't as simple to sell as a 'bobby on the beat', but in practice it's a lot more effective." The system has been so successful that the police have now taken over Lumb's funding, freeing eb4u's money for a para-legal appointment, which has dramatically increased the number of antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos). Local people really like Asbos. Dealing with nuisance crime, such as the smashing of New Earswick's bus shelte, they are often what the beat bobby lobby is really after. Finally, the East Brighton police agreed to "red line" their team exclusively for the area, apart from emergency duties, which were much more specifically detailed in the contract than the vagueness in York. Again, size mattered. The area was big enough to justify a commitment that has been seriously broken only twice - once for the policing of the Labour party conference after the World Trade Centre tragedy, and once for the infamous Fatboy Slim concert on Brighton beach. "We could hardly object," says Mitchell, who has also used the scheme to get CCTV on a troubled estate and to buy two off-road motorbikes to help Lumb and his posse catch joyriders. "The whole of Brighton was at the concert, so it didn't really matter that all the police were too." Download the New Earswick report at www.jrf.org.uk More information on eb4u at www.eb4u.co.uk Brighton and Hove council is at www.brighton-hove.gov.uk