Lay Catholics once again experience deep sorrow and shame over clerical child-abuse scandals and mounting allegations of clerical cover-ups (Pope writes open letter in attempt to quell paedophile row, 18 March). I agree with Andrew Brown that Cardinal Law, accused of complicity, should be sacked if the church is to retain any credibility (A leader who wished to end the crisis would sack Law, 18 March). I'm also deeply worried that it was the present pope who, as prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, took over control of child abuse cases in 2001 and as Ratzinger insisted that all investigations were made in secret and sent a letter out to every Catholic bishop to this effect. How can he then lament the failure of the Irish Catholic church to deal with the errant clerics because of a cover-up when he himself seems to have ordered it?Perhaps the pope might want to use his forthcoming trip to the UK to announce an end to celibate priesthood and a welcoming of female priests into the church as one method of atoning for these abuses. The male celibate clergy have for 2,000 years distorted the energy of human sexuality into some horrific force which comes back now to plague them. That sex was a dirty secret to be acknowledged by "holy priests" only in the confessional has led to many clerics accepting that sexual sin was inevitable and that, therefore, the best thing to do, commanded by the Vatican, was to cover up the whole business, ignoring the desperate human need of the abused. Of course, the worst thing here is that even such sexual sin was preferable to priests having committed love relationships as celibacy, not human love, was sacrosanct.Kathryn MarooneyAbingdon, Oxfordshire• The Guardian is read by many Catholic priests in this country. Many of us will therefore be personally hurt and insulted by the comments in Madeleine Bunting's article (An inquiry is vital, but the church's moral authority is lost for ever, 19 March). How many Catholic priests has she spoken to in order to claim outrageously that a priest without "an extraordinary inflated view of their position" is a rarity?Nowhere does Catholic theology suggest that the "ontological change" at ordination, to which I believe Bunting is referring, somehow rids a man of his sexual nature as a human being. Most priests I know are humbly aware of their sexual nature; but surely it is what one does with that nature that matters? I dislike her chosen phrase "the normal human sexual needs"; the concept of having and satisfying such "needs" is a warped view of human sexual activity surely at the root of all sexual abuse cases.If Madeleine Bunting would overcome her prejudice and not regard us all as arrogant would-be eunuchs, she could speak with us and we could help her contribute to a very necessary debate rather than just perpetuate her different form of abuse.Father John WeatherillAssistant financial secretary, Roman Catholic diocese of Southwark• One issue that hasn't been discussed, to my knowledge, is the criminal law. The abuse of children by any person is an extremely serious crime. Surely it is not legal to keep such crimes within the church and not report them to the police. The abusers and their superiors should be charged with conspiracy to commit child sexual abuse and harbouring a criminal, multiplied by the known number of abusers.Josette Coburn-MorganPotton, Bedfordshire• You report that Cardinal Sean Brady has refused to resign as he feels that "would mean he had failed as a bishop". Surely that failure was secured when he covered up the abuse of children?Dan SumnersLondon• On the same day that the courts allow the Catholic church to reject gay couples as parents (Catholic agency can turn away gay couples, 18 March), the pope apologises for years of child abuse at the hands of Catholic priests. Surely this is the point at which the church finally lost its hold on the moral high ground and was exposed, for all to see, for its institutionalised bigotry.Bernie DoeserHelston, Cornwall