Police are investigating whether a fatal crash yesterday morning was the result of the fast-growing craze for illegal road racing.One man died, another was left critically injured and two more placed under arrest following a series of collisions on a stretch of the A13 just outside Purfleet in Essex. It began at 4.45am when a Vauxhall Omega carrying three young men and a woman lost control, hit the verge and rolled over onto its roof. According to an eyewitness, the vehicle may have been involved in a race with another car at the time. The accident was witnessed by the driver of a white transit van who pulled up behind the Omega in order to offer assistance. As he stepped from his vehicle he was hit by a passing car. He is now in hospital in critical condition with massive head injuries. An 18-year-old passenger in the Omega was killed soon after the accident. Police believe that he was either attempting to cross the road or wandering around in a confused state as a result of the crash when he was struck in the fast lane. An initial investigation has shown that he was hit by up to three vehicles, all of which failed to stop. 'They may have believed they had simply hit some debris rather than a person,' said an Essex police spokeswoman. 'We need these people to come forward as they are now witnesses to the inquiry. We cannot rule out the possibility that the vehicle was involved in some kind of race.' The woman travelling in the Omega has since vanished. Police now believe she was picked up by the other vehicle that had been travelling with the Omega. One 17-year-old youth and one man have been arrested in connection with causing death by dangerous driving. Illegal road racing is fast becoming a major headache for police forces across the country. The scene experienced a massive boost follow ing the release of the action films The Fast and the Furious and 2 Fast 2 Furious, both of which led to an increase in the popularity of nitrous oxide to boost cars' performance. The crash comes just weeks after two Essex teenagers were killed when a stolen car they were travelling in collided with a lamppost at 4.45am. Paul Pasquale, 15, and Adam Palmer, 14, died following the incident in South Ockenden.