'Ben was murdered by cowards. They came with bats, knives and bottles. He had nothing.' James, 16, lowers his head as he speaks. He had been close to Ben Hitchcock since he was six years old and cannot comprehend that his friend has been killed so soon after finishing his GCSEs. 'People are dying over postcodes,' he says angrily. 'The killing will go on. It needs to stop but I don't see any solution. The police cannot do anything, there is no respect for them.'Commander Shaun Sawyer, head of Scotland Yard's Violent Crime Directorate, nods at this and explains that his officers are trying to engage with young people. He then points to his uniform and apologises: 'But I accept this can be a barrier.'Across the table, Michelle Forbes, a mother who lost her son in a shooting in Clapham three years ago, shakes her head. She leans forward and gazes directly at James: 'My Leon did not die in vain,' she says. 'I get frustrated when people say you can't stop it - you can. Look at slavery, look at apartheid; it took a few brave people to say enough. Something can be done. Otherwise I may as well roll over and lie in a grave with my son.'Every time Michelle hears of another fatal shooting or stabbing it is a painful reminder of that terrible day three years ago when she dragged her bleeding son from a car and tried in vain to save his life.This has been a bad week, a bad month, a bad year for those affected by the escalating violence among Britain's young people. Last Tuesday an 18-year-old was knifed to death in the capital. Hours before, Martin Dinnegan, 14, had been fatally stabbed in Islington for allegedly looking at someone 'the wrong way'. On Saturday 23 June, Ben's life was over within moments of being surrounded by a gang in Beckenham, Kent. He was 16. In the early hours of the same day Annaka Pinto, a 17-year-old who loved dancing, was shot dead in a bar in Tottenham, north London. Two days later another stabbing happened outside the same venue.That is just a snapshot of the violence that has affected British teenagers in the past few days. This year the roll call of the dead is far longer: Sian Simpson, 17, Croydon; Danielle Johnson, 17, north London; Mark Smith, 16, Newcastle; Paul Erhahon, 14, Leytonstone; Michael Metcalfe, 19, Liverpool; Adam Regis, 15, east London; Kodjo Yenga, 16, west London; Jason Spencer, 17, Nottingham; Odwayne Barnes, 16, Birmingham; Billy Cox, 15, south London; Michael Dosunmu, 15, south London; James Andre Smartt-Ford, 16, south London; Jevon Henry, 18, north west London.Each one was a promising life now cut short. It is this sort of tragic story that has brought Michelle and James together. They have come to The Observer with seven others who have all had their lives touched - or ruined - by gang violence. Ben's close friends, Annaka's teachers, Leon's mother, Billy Cox's charity worker, a volunteer who has watched friends attacked and killed, the father of Anton Hyman, a 17-year-old who was murdered, and the man who has been given the task of finding a solution - Commander Sawyer.They have agreed to meet each other in an attempt to find a solution that will stop the killing. After such a destructive week, it is hard for any to be fully optimistic. Yet Anisha, the 19-year-old volunteer and former gang member, tries: 'I know it can't be stopped,' she says. 'But I know it can be reduced.'As usual they gathered by the corner of Southend road and Braeside, Beckenham, yards from where their friend Ben - also known as Swipe - had been killed four days before. Among hundreds of bunches of flowers they had scrawled loving messages on the paving stones and lampposts. 'A soldier fallen, an angel risen', 'a tragic waste of life', 'Ben AKA Peacemaker,' they read. One said 'Penge Block all dai, evri dai' in honour of the gang that Ben belonged to. Most of the teenagers there wore T-shirts printed with the words 'RIP Ben' as they stared at the messages, their schoolbags and files by their side.A young boy held a mobile phone to his ear and listened to a track written about 'Swipe' that has now been put up on the social networking website MySpace. Like James, they all talked about how Ben had been unarmed when he was attacked by a large group carrying 'tools'. 'It was an unprovoked attack,' said one. 'Ben and his friends had told them they did not want trouble but the blue borough wanted to get them.'Territory is everything to these teenagers. Ben was killed in the green borough, named simply because of the colour of the road signs and wheelie bins. A few hundred yards down the hill where Southend Road turns into Beckenham Hill Road, the signs are blue. The rivalry between gangs on either side of that divide led to Ben's death.'That is what it comes down to,' says James, speaking in The Observer's offices and sounding downbeat. 'The blue borough - Lewisham, Catford, Sydenham - where the bins are blue, and the green borough that includes Penge, where Ben was from. That is the stupidness of it all.''Every human being wants to belong to something. If not they exclude themselves,' says Chris Murray, operations manager for the south London charity Fairbridge, which helps young people who have fallen in with the wrong crowd. Sawyer is listening intently; he appreciates that 'status, symbols, territory and turf' are immensely important to many young people. He talks about Northern Ireland and the Middle East. 'If what is happening in that part of London is between people who define themselves by road signs - no matter how that seems to me, the important thing is you want it to stop.''But not every young person wants it to stop,' Anisha responds. 'If you hear about a murder down the road it touches you. If it is your brother or sister, then you are involved.'James and Darren, another of Ben's closest friends, say they had never worried about knife crime until Ben was killed. Delroy Elliott, father of Anton Hyman, nods. He has organised anti-violence marches since his son's death but laments they are largely attended by those who have already suffered. Teenagers dying at the hands of people wielding guns and knives simply do not register in the minds of most people, they all argue.'If we were chanting about finances they would change things,' says the 39-year-old. 'Look at the poll tax. If I held up a fox they would come. We need to campaign to bring awareness of this to people's doorsteps.'The frustration is not stopping Delroy from trying. Every three months since Anton was killed he has gone into Feltham, a young offenders' institution, gathers prisoners in a circle and talking frankly about his lost son, who was stabbed in the heart, shot in the back and thrown in the river Brent in west London. Delroy has just come from a visit to Feltham and says he has endured the 'most disturbing day' he has ever had. He spoke to a young man who stabbed someone 24 times because he felt his and his mother's life was in danger. Like James and Darren, he did not trust the police enough to go to them.'I looked him in the face and asked if he would do the same thing again,' says Delroy, 'and he said "I would, I'm glad he is dead". He got 17 years with no parole and he has no remorse. I had just told him the deep, deep story of my son but there was nothing. To me, that is fear.'Anisha appears to be moved by Delroy's and Michelle's stories. It is people like them, she says, not teachers or police officers, who need to speak to young people and help them renounce violence.For many, she adds, the police are objects of hate and ridicule. 'They have done nothing to help me,' says James bitterly. But when pushed by Delroy, he concedes he would contact the police if he saw someone carrying a gun. 'That is a start,' says the father.Delroy believes part of the problem is a lack of activities for young people. When he was young he went to a youth club run by plain-clothes policemen. His daughter cannot learn ballet because there are no dance schools available to her. 'We had one, but it just closed down, that was that,' says James.'But boredom is not an excuse for murder,' says Michelle, adding that violence has escalated since her childhood. 'There were knuckle-dusters and people got beaten up but it was rare that a young person was killed. The level of violence wasn't there.'Sawyer agrees by saying there was far more to do when he grew up on an estate. 'It is not rose-tinted glasses,' he says. 'There was nothing like the level of violence there is now.' All are asking: why has the violence escalated?Anisha attempts to explain what she thinks is going on in many young people's minds. 'The reasons they carry weapons may be to fit in with friends, because they feel threatened, to feel safe, [because it's] a status thing or because it is fashionable. There are hundreds of reasons.'Once part of a gang, she adds, it is hard to let go. 'That is their family and they are scared to break away.' It took years for her to do so, and now she rarely goes to the north London estate where her gang involvement began. Now she volunteers for Fairbridge to persuade others to follow her example.One teenager who turned to the charity for help was Billy Cox. Chris explains how he would have been able to go on adventure holidays, learn life skills and play sports. He says the charity has turned children's lives around and got them back into school. Billy was killed days before he was due to start a course.Around the table many agree that the motive in many cases when it comes to gang murder is 'disrespect'. Michelle says she was shocked that the first time she went to a Trident meeting (part of the Met's drive to combat gun crime) meeting and was shown a pie chart about black-on-black killings. 'Disrespect' accounted for 70 per cent of murders. 'I have heard of people being killed over a parking space,' she says. 'For taking the pee out of someone's haircut or insulting their mother.'Police recently told her that Leon - a successful record producer - was killed because of envy. 'Someone else's son decided to play judge, jury, and executioner and put a gun to my child's head and sever his spinal cord,' says Michelle, her voice straining with emotion.No matter how hard it is, Michelle and Delroy came to the table because they believe solutions can be found by parents, teachers, friends and the police. Goldwater Okojor and Richard Brown, deputy headteachers at Gladesmore community school in Tottenham, where Annaka went, have been tackling this problem for years with their 'Value Life' campaign, which has seen children march across the borough.'I am here because I taught Annaka English and Goldwater taught her maths,' says Richard. 'She was a highly successful student who had just finished a course in business studies. We have done Value Life for years and now one of our own has been lost.'But Goldwater says they have to stay positive. 'I could say in the past few days more people have died in London than soldiers in Iraq but we have 1,200 pupils and I cannot say that to them.'The school has had significant successes in turning around attitudes and making it more fashionable to study. In the past four years they have not had one exclusion, an impressive statistic for an inner-city comprehensive.'There are traditional policing solutions,' says Sawyer, '[such as] stop-and-search, and they do have their place, particularly from a parent's perspective, in stopping knives being carried. But I think that is a very small percentage of problem-solving.' Such tools he calls 'blunt policing' and admits they will 'not prevent the deaths or the harm'.He promises that in the summer holidays he will be finding out what there is for teenagers to do, and see whether it is funded and free. 'I think the style of policing in London has to continue to change,' he admits, with a more respectful approach to stop-and-search and more time spent looking for long-term solutions.'In the end he knows it is his job to make a difference. 'What I hear is that young people are carrying weapons because they are frightened - if you are frightened then my job as a cop is to stop you feeling frightened.'Sawyer looks to the teenagers who have continued to dismiss their relationship with the police. 'Cops are not here to be popular, but we are also not here to be hated, reviled or feared,' he says. 'There is a perception that the young people we bring into this world are killing each other and somehow we can't stop it.'But, he adds, people want the violence to stop now and this makes it a critical time. 'That is what I am trying to get to,' says Sawyer. 'How does it stop?'The meeting breaks up after an hour and a half, and all the guests start on their way home - to their different lives all scarred by gang violence. No solutions, maybe, but certainly a little more understanding of an issue that is blighting Britain's cities.The victimsAnton Hyman, 17  Died on 21 March 2004 after being beaten up, stabbed and shot, then thrown in the river.Leon Forbes, 21  Shot outside his home in south London in December 2003. He left two daughters.Annaka Pinto, 17 Shot dead last Saturday after a petty row in the Swan pub in Tottenham.Billy Cox, 15  Murdered in February by crack cocaine dealers who stormed his bedroom and shot him in the chest at close range.Ben Hitchcock, 16  Knifed to death last Saturday as 20 teenage thugs battered him and stamped on his head during a street battle.Martin Dinnegan, 14 Martin was stabbed last week when he got into an argument with a group of 20 youths in Islington, north London.