Crime and anti-social behaviour will be the "biggest issue" in next month's Queen's speech, Tony Blair said today.Mr Blair's comment indicated the importance he now places on beating crime, which is displacing issues such as education and health as the government's top priority for action over the next year. Mr Blair described anti-social behaviour such as vandalism, graffiti and fly-tipping as "probably the biggest immediate issue for people in the country". He said: "We are trying to look at all the things we need to do to tackle what I think is probably the biggest immediate issue for people in the country, which is all the things connected with what I call anti-social behaviour." He was speaking during a visit to an East London Royal British Legion club where the local council, police and community workers have combined in an innovative project to crack down on anti-social behaviour and low-level crime. He said: "There are lots of big crimes we need to tackle and lots of things to do with public services, but when people go out of their door or go down to their local British Legion club or whatever, the problems they face are these problems to do with fly-tipping, abandoned cars, graffiti, petty vandalism. "We are looking at all the things we need to do in terms of legislation, in terms of police powers and in how we take the right course of action on a local level in order to deal with these things." Members of the Manor Park British Legion club told Mr Blair how it had been plagued by vandalism and threatening behaviour from local youths. "It was intimidating," said vice chairman Stan Shiels. "They'd come down here in cars and smoked drugs. They started fires, set up camp on our roof and shouted abuse at members. "We had travellers camped here and people dumped stolen cars. Our members are elderly and they were afraid to come down here in the evening. "We put barbed wire everywhere. It looked like Colditz, but they just brought wire-cutters and chopped it away." Over the past six months Newham Council's Respect Project has targeted the club, installing new fences and gates, painting out graffiti, removing hedges which shielded the area from the road and setting up a club to provide activities for local young people. As a result, Legion members said that the problems had declined dramatically and attendance at social evenings was going back up. Mr Blair said: "In a sense, respect is what it is all about. We all have to live together in our local communities and we should show some respect to each other. "People are entitled - not just elderly people, but young people in the community as well - to be able to walk the streets, to be able to go and see their friends, have a decent time, be law-abiding people and play by the rules and they should find that everybody else does the same." The prime minister observed an abandoned car being removed from the street outside the club by contractors working for the local council. And he identified the fixed penalty fines of £40 for offences such as drunkenness in the street, currently being piloted in some areas of the country, as a key part of his strategy to defeat anti-social behaviour. Mr Blair took time out during his visit to play pool with the Legion's branch president Bill Duncan. And despite saying "this is not my game" he showed himself to be a skilled player, potting with his first stroke and swiftly clearing the striped balls and the black to claim victory. Mr Duncan joked: "So this is what you all get up to in the House of Commons."