Details of the fresh evidence uncovered in the unsolved racist murder of Stephen Lawrence emerged yesterday, as police sources said fibres have been found that could connect two of the five main suspects to the killing 14 years ago.Although arrests are not imminent, it is understood that fresh evidence could lead to a breakthrough in one of the most controversial cases of the last two decades.As further details of the development emerged yesterday, the Lawrence family expressed disappointment that the news had been leaked, and called for an inquiry into how it had happened. Supporters of the family suggested the leak could have been aimed at deflecting attention from the current troubles faced by the Met.Detectives on the team are understood to be "bitterly disappointed" that their findings have become public.Techniques which have become available for examining minute particles on clothing mean that the police have an opportunity to see if fibres found on Stephen Lawrence's clothes match those of suspects in the case. Tests have been carried out to eliminate others, such as ambulance workers and Lawrence's family, who would have had legitimate reasons to have had contact with the murdered teenager, a Scotland Yard spokesperson said yesterday.Using a technique called low copy number DNA, detectives have found fibres that connect Stephen with two of the five prime suspects in the 1993 fatal stabbing in Eltham, south London. Police have had the clothing since the murder 14 years ago, but only in the last few months decided to test samples with the DNA technique.The new tests could establish physical contact between some of the suspects and Stephen. This could shatter their alibis that they were not near the bus stop where he was stabbed.Members of the investigative team did not want details of their findings to emerge in case it compromised their investigation. It is understood that they were not expecting to be able to make arrests until next year. "The team are bitterly disappointed that it has come out," said a source close to the team.Stephen Lawrence's father, Neville, said yesterday that he remained optimistic that a prosecution would be possible and hoped that the revelations at this stage would not damage the inquiry."I have been aware for some time that the police are investigating further leads in the case," said Mr Lawrence from his home in Jamaica. "I have been kept updated along the way."However, I do not intend to comment about forensic evidence as my main goal is, and always has been, to get a conviction for my son's murder. I am disappointed that this has been leaked to the press at this time. I hope that the police will investigate where this leak came from." Mr Lawrence added: "It has been 14 years now since Stephen's death and I am used to experiencing all emotions from hope to despair. I am positive about where things are now and am hopeful that the zeal with which this case is now being investigated will continue." His solicitor, Jocelyn Cockburn, of Hodge Jones & Allen, said: "It is a credit to Neville that he stuck to his guns - that evidence must exist to convict someone for Stephen's murder - when others doubted it."Stephen's mother, Doreen Lawrence, was said by close friends to believe the police had leaked the news and she is not expecting an imminent breakthrough.Richard Stone, a friend of the family and an adviser to Sir William Macpherson's inquiry into the police failings in the case, was highly suspicious of the leak.Mr Stone said: "I think it's disgraceful if this was a wheeze to protect Sir Ian Blair. If the result of this is the five [suspects] make off and go abroad, that is such a manipulation of the Lawrence family and the public, it is disgusting."The "double jeopardy" rule, whereby no one could be charged for a second time for an offence of which they had been acquitted, was abolished two years ago. This means that though three of the main suspects have stood trial and been cleared already, they could face a second trial.The suspectsNeil Acourt, 32 Changed surname to Stuart and lives with mother in Greenwich, south-east London. Jailed in 2002 for race attack on off-duty black detectiveJamie Acourt, 31 Lives in Sidcup, south-east London. Convicted in 1999 for warehouse theftLuke Knight, 31 Lives in Chislehurst, south-east London. Asked to be rehoused, claiming he was harassed by anti-racist groupsDavid Norris, 31 Lives in Plumstead, south-east London. Jailed for attack, with Neil Acourt, on detective. Jailed in 2004 for burglary and handling stolen Range RoverGary Dobson, 32 Lives in Woolwich, south-east London. Fined £200 in 2000 for stealing beerTimelineApril 22 1993 Stephen Lawrence stabbed to death at bus shelter in Eltham, south-east LondonMay-June 1993 Neil Acourt, Jamie Acourt, Gary Dobson, Luke Knight and David Norris arrested in connection with his murderMay 13 1993 Neil Acourt charged with murderJune 23 1993 Luke Knight charged with murderJuly 29 1993 Crown Prosecution Service drops charges due to lack of evidenceApril 1995 Private prosecution launched by Lawrence familyApril 1996 Trial against Neil Acourt, Luke Knight and Gary Dobson collapsesFebruary 24 1999 Macpherson report says Metropolitan police affected by "institutional racism"July 2006 BBC broadcasts The Boys: Who Killed Stephen Lawrence?November 8 2007 New forensic evidence confirmed