A woman was jailed for 20 years yesterday for plotting the torture and murder of her lover, a pagan who practised black magic. The 58-year-old organised the killing of Peter Solheim because she had discovered that he was going to desert her for another woman and leave her "penniless".Mr Solheim's body was found in the sea five miles off Black Head on the Lizard peninsula, Cornwall. He had been drugged and the joints of his limbs had been hacked at with an axe or machete.Detectives believe Margaret James, of Porthoustock, Cornwall, hired thugs to abduct and kill Mr Solheim, 56. It is thought she might have been present when he was being tortured.At Truro crown court, Judge Graham Cottle told James: "It was you who wanted him dead and you who masterminded and orchestrated the events which culminated in his death. What you orchestrated was a horrific and slow death." He said she was "obsessed" with money and had stolen cash from Mr Solheim before and after his death.Mr Solheim, her partner of nine years, was last seen on June 16 2004. The next day his dinghy, Izzwizz, was found adrift near Falmouth. On June 18 fishermen came across his body in the sea.A postmortem examination revealed that he had drowned. The police said he had suffered hacking to limb joints. One of his kneecaps had been smashed and one of his big toes was almost severed. There was also bruising around his fingers as though rings had been forced off or on. More detailed examinations showed that he had been sedated with the drug lorazepam. Detectives came to the conclusion that over 36 hours he had been tortured, drugged and then dropped, still just about alive, into the sea.Mr Solheim, a retired printer and parish councillor, was also, police discovered, a pagan who dabbled in love potions and "destructive" magic. His warlock name was Orme (from the Old Norse word for dragon) and he had an impressive collection of potions, poisons and books at his home, which was named Valhalla (the hall of the slain presided over by Odin, god of war and death) in the village of Carnkie, near Helston. He had two copies of a notorious book called The Mastery of Witchcraft and had boasted that he had nails from coffins and dust taken from Egyptian tombs.He met James through a lonely hearts column but the relationship was fraught. Detectives believe James had found out Mr Solheim was going to leave her for Jean Knowles, whom he had known for 20 years. He had been wearing a ring given by Ms Knowles, which police believed was forced off as he was tortured.A year before Mr Solheim's death James had asked a friend if he knew anyone who would kill her partner. She had also begun increasing her own home library of books on potions and poisons.When police searched her home they found £900 stuffed under her mattress with a note which read "What go [sic] around, come around". There was also more than £23,000 in tins, paper bags and envelopes at her mother's house.After her partner's disappearance, James told people that he had gone on a fishing holiday with friends.She used the dead man's mobile phone to send text messages purporting to be from him to Ms Knowles. One of the messages had him experiencing engine trouble, but crucially it was sent after his body was found. Experts pinpointed the place where the text was sent from, which was James's house.