Ian Huntley questioned police officers about DNA evidence three days after allegedly murdering the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman and dumping their bodies in a ditch, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.One officer told him that DNA could be extracted from a single hair while another said a sample could last for many years, the court heard. The prosecution has suggested the three conversations may have prompted Mr Huntley to return to the remote ditch, near Lakenheath airbase in Suffolk, where the girls' bodies were found, and attempt to burn them. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering Holly and Jessica. Maxine Carr, 26, denies two counts of assisting an offender and conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Mr Huntley's defence yesterday conceded for the first time that he was in Lakenheath village hours after he allegedly tried to find out about DNA. The court also heard yesterday from a witness who claimed Mr Huntley told him he was convinced the girls were dead, and another who alleged he spoke about them in the past tense. Evidence from a dozen police officers who spoke to Mr Huntley soon after the disappearance of the 10-year-old friends dominated proceedings yesterday. Special constable Sharon Gilbert described how she was sitting in a police van at Soham Village College on Wednesday August 7 last year. Mr Huntley approached and began chatting. He raised the topic of DNA. She told him it could last for years and that a sample had been taken from a "woolly mammoth" and DNA evidence had been used to prove that a person was a descendant of a Russian tsar. The court heard from two other special constables, to whom Mr Huntley allegedly spoke about DNA that night. Michael Kerr said he told Mr Huntley that DNA could be extracted from a single hair. Nichola Peacock said he asked her where they could get DNA from. Ms Gilbert gave further details of her 20-minute conversation with Mr Huntley, who denies murdering Holly and Jessica. She said he mentioned one of the girls' fathers and said he hoped the father would not be questioned by police "because his daughter loved him a lot". Ms Gilbert said "warning bells" began to ring because Mr Huntley had used the past tense to describe the girl's devotion. Mr Huntley went on to speak to Ms Gilbert about his predecessor at the college, who was dismissed following a relationship with a girl pupil. He mentioned that the police had searched the college and even removed floorboards. When the officer asked him why, he replied: "If I tell you I'll have to kill you." But he then told her that the previous caretaker may have kept a set of keys to the college. He added that the alarm access codes to the college had not been changed. The prosecution claims Mr Huntley deliberately tried to divert attention from himself as police hunted for the girls. Another witness, salesman Martin Mahoney, described to the court an exchange he had with Mr Huntley at Soham Village College earlier on the Wednesday. He claimed he said to Mr Huntley he thought the girls would be found. "He said to me, 'No, they are dead'." Mr Mahoney said he would not give up after a couple of days if one of his three daughters was missing. But Mr Huntley repeated: "No, they are dead." The caretaker invited Mr Mahoney back to his house for a cup of coffee. Mr Huntley's former girlfriend, Maxine Carr, handed him a card which Holly had given her at the end of term because Ms Carr was leaving the girls' school. A hitchhiker picked up by Mr Huntley and Ms Carr two days after Holly and Jessica vanished also gave evidence. Robert Jeynes said Ms Carr appeared "very cold" and showed "no emotion" as they discussed the girls. The court also heard details of how Mr Huntley allegedly tried to elicit information about the police inquiry from journalists as well as officers. A senior producer for the BBC, Tom Fredericks, described being "pestered" by Mr Huntley on August 6 last year. The caretaker had wanted to know why the police had been called away from Soham. In a statement, the producer said Mr Huntley became a "nuisance". The trial continues.