An accounts clerk who murdered his friend, dismembered the body and scattered it across a housing estate before fleeing to New York, was yesterday sentenced to life in prison.Richard Markham, 28, killed his friend, Tristian Lovelock, 25, by repeatedly hitting him over the head with a hammer after drinking with friends on May 30 last year. During a trial at Winchester crown court, a jury heard that Markham dismembered Mr Lovelock's body with a saw and hacksaw. He then baked Mr Lovelock's arm in an oven and scattered other body parts in nearby gardens and a park. Markham, of Basingstoke, Hampshire, had admitted killing Mr Lovelock but claimed he was acting in self defence. Following a two-and-a-half week trial, however, a jury yesterday found him guilty of murdering the father of two. The trial judge, Mr Justice Michael Morland, said he would be recommending to the home secretary that Markham's life sentence should mean life. He told him: "The killing of Tristian Lovelock was carried out in circumstances of the utmost barbarity. I am entirely satisfied that you, Richard Markham are a very dangerous individual." Markham showed no emotion as the judge passed sentence; Mr Lovelock's family rose to their feet in unison and shouted: 'Yes'. Markham's barrister, Michael Bowes QC, told the judge Markham was likely to be sectioned under the Mental Health Act and transferred to hospital from prison. The court heard that Markham had returned to his home in Basingstoke with Mr Lovelock on May 30 last year after the pair had been drinking at a friend's house. At Markham's home the pair became embroiled in an argument over a woman. In the heat of the dispute, Markham claimed Lovelock, who had a history of violent offences, threatened him with a first world war bayonet. Giving evidence, Markham said he had reached for a hammer on a sofa, fearing he was about to be attacked, and struck Mr Lovelock with it. "I didn't know what to do, I totally flipped, lost it. I picked up the hammer again, I hit him with it, I don't know how many times, on the head and face, about 15 times, I do not know how many, I really don't," he added. Markham then cut up Mr Lovelock's body and went to a local park, where he hid some of the pieces. On his return, he baked Mr Lovelock's arm in the oven, before phoning friends to boast about what he had done. Answering machine transcripts were read out in court. After he had attempted to dispose of the body, Markham took a cab to Heathrow in the early hours of the morning. The cab driver said he appeared calm and sober. When the British Airways ticket desk opened, Markham asked staff for a "ticket to anywhere". The attendant suggested JFK and Markham fled to New York. Everything was captured on CCTV. Back in Basingstoke, one of Markham's neighbours, Victor Mansi, 67, was out walking his dog. When the dog started barking at a hedge, Mr Mansi investigated and found the severed head of Mr Lovelock. When police came to the scene a trail of blood led them from the hedge to Markham's home, where officers made more gruesome discoveries. Fearing he would kill again, Hampshire police took the unusual step of naming Markham as US police officers hunted him amid a glare of publicity on both sides of the Atlantic. Police across the US were asked to look out for Markham amid fears that he would lie low or attempt to change his appearance. However, he checked into a hotel close to Times Square, using his own name and spent the next few days taking leisurely trips to New York's tourist attractions. Markham was eventually caught by police in Central Park, where he was reading articles about himself. "You got me," he told police officers who confronted him, before lifting his shirt to display the "Made in England" tattoo which encircles his navel. Speaking outside the court, Mr Lovelock's mother, Ruth Halliday, told the Press Association nothing would ever be the same again for her, her family or her son's two children, Charlie, eight, and Ella, six. She said: "His children, Charlie and Ella, can't understand where their daddy is and keep asking for him. They keep asking what's happened to him and it breaks our hearts." Detective Chief Inspector Shirley Dinnell said the murder of Mr Lovelock was a "traumatic event" for both his family and the officers who dealt with the horrific crime scene. "I am extremely pleased that the jury found Richard Markham guilty of the murder of Tristian Lovelock - particularly for Tristian's family who might now be able to start rebuilding their lives," she said.