The King is dead, long live the King. So it is with the quiet shelving of the "respect" agenda and the unfurling of a policy initiative the Home Office news release calls "We're not having it" (Police should harass young thugs - Smith, May 8).While there is a genuine shift in recognising that asbos are not the be-all and end-all of tackling antisocial behaviour, the government otherwise appears unable to argue coherently that engagement more than enforcement is the answer to youth crime. While ministers meddle with Serious Fraud Office investigations into alleged crimes of such seriousness that they span continents and involve billions of pounds, they urge yet more crackdowns on young people with the temerity to hang around in public spaces and behave like, well, young people.No fewer than four cabinet secretaries are quoted in the latest news release. The notable absence is Jack Straw, whose department will have to find the prison cells as the net of criminalisation is cast ever wider, taking young lives with it.Andrew NeilsonAssistant director, Howard League for Penal Reform So the home secretary wants the police to hound young offenders. My experience working with young people who get into trouble with the law leaves me with serious questions when reading this proposal. Is the harassment not like that which alienated many black communities? There is a clear potential to marginalise young people who have already disengaged from wider society.How rigorous was the research to show that the actions "dramatically reduced offending"? I suspect crime may have reduced where there was a fear of police harassment, but the perpetrators may have moved to other areas, where the offending may have increased.Positive role models are an important aspect of social learning for the young; police officers behaving like playground bullies are not going to provide acceptable alternative behaviours.Roy GrimwoodMarket Drayton, Shropshire A relatively small number of predisposed people with heavy cannabis use (Scientists warn Smith over cannabis reclassification, May 8) may develop paranoid delusions - dysfunctional and irrational beliefs of persecution. However, similar beliefs develop in the absence of cannabis use; beliefs that may be an all-too-rational response to a hostile environment. This may be the condition of extreme social exclusion as experienced, for example, by Jacqui Smith's "young thugs", whose behavioural problems and sense of rejection are exacerbated by exclusionary policies in the school and community. We can choose to either engage constructively with "problem youth" via comprehensive social inclusion policies that include reintegrative punishment; or we can engage destructively by harassing, stigmatising and imprisoning. The former is rational, evidence-based and progressive; the latter is the opposite. Those who think that deserted and deserting voters can be recaptured through hounding young people are perhaps the truly deluded.Jon ShuteUniversity of Manchester James Purnell's renewed commitment to the elimination of child poverty by 2020 (Report, May 7) is welcome, although this will require far more aggressive income redistribution than New Labour envisages. Purnell acknowledges the need to confront the new-found Tory commitment to social justice, but his critique of Tory policy is weak. The Tories' recent publication Making British Poverty History is stuffed with statistics on Labour's failure to reduce poverty, but has no mention of the social devastation wrought by the 18 years of Tory rule prior to 1997 that led to a threefold increase in child poverty. Unless this is acknowledged, the Tory commitment to social justice must remain suspect. The publication presents poverty as a symptom, rather than the cause, of problems such as educational failure, family breakdown, drug abuse, debt and crime. The evidence supports the opposite view. The policy initiatives flowing from this approach shift the focus from lack of money to the behaviour of the poor - the same old "blame the victim" refrain.Professor emeritus Nick SpencerUniversity of Warwick