Responsibility for the medical examination of rape victims may be taken away from police and handed over to the NHS, amid concerns that services in some parts of the country are short-changing victims and contributing to the low conviction rate for rape.A working party of police, civil servants, doctors and nurses, set up by the Department of Health, is expected to recommend the creation of regional centres of excellence run by the health service. Highly-qualified doctors and nurses would provide forensic examinations, the morning-after pill, testing for sexually transmitted diseases, and psychological support and aftercare. Around the regional centres, there would be a network of local referral centres. Most sexual assault services are funded and provided by police forces, although often contracted out to private companies. Under the proposed new model, police would purchase the services of specially-trained doctors and nurses from the NHS to carry out forensic examinations. The working party, chaired by forensic physician Guy Norfolk, is expected to report in the summer. Norfolk, president of the faculty of forensic and legal medicine of the Royal College of Physicians, said sexual assault was "a health issue, not a criminal justice issue, first and foremost". Doctors working in the field back the move, but warn that there is a shortage of doctors trained and willing to do the work. Recognition is growing that what happens in the hours after a victim comes forward is crucial for the victim's welfare and the outcome of a case. The proposal to transfer rape services to the NHS, which is supported by police, follows growing concerns about the disparity of services provided to rape victims around the country."It's a completely inconsistent service from one area to the next," said Mary Pillai, a consultant gynaecologist in Gloucestershire who has researched the provision of rape services around the UK. In some places, sexual assault referral centres (Sarcs) - such as St Mary's in Manchester, and the Haven, at three sites in London - offer 24/7 holistic victim care services as well as a high standard of forensic examination. In other areas, services have been outsourced to private companies and forensic examinations are carried out in victim examination suites on police premises. Companies are given contracts for only three to five years, giving doctors no job security or career progression, and little incentive to acquire specialist training.Many rape examinations are carried out as a sideline by doctors contracted to spend most of their time treating suspects held in police cells. Some doctors are recruited abroad, often in eastern Europe, and may have returned home by the time the case comes to court.Cases may be lost because doctors without specialist training have their evidence demolished by defence barristers, said Norfolk, who is awaiting the green light from the Department of Health to set up a training programme leading to specialist recognition for forensic physicians.Only 5.7% of rape cases reported to police result in a conviction, but studies estimate that between 75 and 95% are never even reported, and most of those that are reported fall by the wayside before they get near a court.The focus is shifting from the trial process to the early investigation following a report last year from the inspectorates for the police and crown prosecution service. It noted that of those victims who did come forward, between a half and two-thirds of cases went no further than the investigative stage. Sarcs can help increase the reporting rate because, unlike other services, they allow women to bypass police and refer themselves. Maureen Dalton, a gynaecologist who set up a Sarc in Northumbria and is now helping to create one in Exeter, recalled a case where a woman who said she had been raped by a taxi driver would not go to police. Dalton had examined another woman from the same town who gave the same description of her assailant. The reluctant victim agreed to report her case and a serial rapist was convicted.