"I just had no words." One rape victim tells today's Guardian of her stunned reaction to an official letter telling her that she had contributed to her own plight by drinking. The slight was eventually reversed, but it was especially painful as it came from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA), a body charged with supporting victims financially. But in this rape case - as in a total of 14 over the last year - a point was made of cutting the funds because the victim had been drinking.The battle to put responsibility for rape where it belongs - squarely with the perpetrator - has been hard fought over the decades. There have been successes. For instance, there are now safeguards against trials descending into a farcical inquiry about why a victim wore a short skirt. And in connection with alcohol, the law was changed to respect the reality that if a woman was in no condition to give consent then she did not give it. But reduced payouts for intoxicated victims could be seen as turning back the clock to the days when misogynistic moralising clouded views about where responsibility for rape belongs.The argument here is not about whether excessive alcohol consumption is a major social problem, which it indisputably is. Nor is there any need to dismiss the fact that drinking raises the risk of suffering rape, just as it increases the dangers of suffering from other violent crimes. No, the argument is that with rape there can be no divvying up of the blame. When a fight ends in injury or death, the question of who threw the first punch can be relevant - and alcohol can make that question harder to settle. With rape, however, there is no equivalent of the first punch: notions of provocation have no place when it comes to sexual violence.When the CICA cuts awards on grounds of drink - as in 1% of rape payouts last year - it clumsily applies broadbrush rules covering a range of crimes. Cuts may be justified when a victim's drinking precipitates certain violent attacks - but rape is not one of them. Reassuringly, the CICA says its general policy is not to cut rape payouts due to alcohol. But even if cuts are only made exceptionally, they still imply that some victims are coauthors of their misfortune.The low conviction rate makes compensation for rape especially important. For the 17 in 18 victims who never see their attacker brought to justice, compensation offers the prospect of formal recognition through another means. That recognition should give the money more than financial value. But the rules on alcohol can leave it providing the opposite of recognition. These rules must change - or at least be applied more sensitively - so that compensation never again compounds injury with insult.