A week after MPs threw out the 90-day detention powers for which he lobbied, and with argument still raging over politicisation of the police, Sir Ian Blair would prefer to lie low. Since last week's vote his office has been bombarded with media requests for interviews. But the response to each one from Scotland Yard has been the same. The Metropolitan police commissioner has nothing to say.All that changes today, when Britain's top police officer gets the chance to address the largest audience of his life for 40 minutes on TV, the first officer since Sir Robert Mark in 1973 to deliver the high profile Richard Dimbleby lecture. Sir Ian is determined to seize this chance to shape the public debate in the same way that Sir Robert did a generation ago. As a result, he has offered the Guardian his first exclusive interview since last week's furore.Sir Ian is playing a dead bat on the terror bill debate. Asked where last week's lobbying left the relationship between government and the police, he simply says it was his job to give "professional advice". Pressed to say if he is satisfied with the 28-day detention approved by MPs, he says: "That's a question I can't answer, except to say the will of parliament is sovereign. That is the law they have produced - I am satisfied. Did I start from a different position? Of course I did."Tonight's lecture, Sir Ian insists, is "not designed in any way to be a response to last week". But his theme - What kind of police service do we want? - goes straight to the heart of the debate at Westminster. What powers should police have in a world shaped by new forms of terrorism? How do we adapt the traditional model, unarmed and based on consent? And how, and by whom, should these subjects be debated and decided? "My central argument is that policing has become central to a citizen's experience of living in a modern democracy. Yet the police service is a very silent and separate organisation that doesn't have the kind of institutions that other services, like health and education, have. As a result, it has moved from silence to political controversy, but without an intervening phase of public debate."In his lecture, Sir Ian will contrast what he calls a "July 6 police service" - the unarmed, light-touch, community-based police that was part of London's successful Olympic bid - and the armed counter-terrorist "July 7 police service" mobilised to deal with the bomb attacks on London. "I have an assumption," he will say. "We want a July 6 police service not a July 7 police service. However, it is now clear that we cannot have that to which July 6 aspired without understanding July 7." That means, he says, that "national security is dependent on neighbourhood security".Balancing those two is difficult but "we have to do it".It is, indeed, central to his whole reform project. Sir Ian says earlier chiefs failed to check the "gradual drift" towards the "complex and glamorous" end of policing. Since the 1960s,"we have withdrawn patrol and lost sight of the significance of patrol and reassurance". But the answer does not lie in a British FBI or in the mantra of more "bobbies on the beat". He dismisses that as a soundbite: "Number of officers should not be the currency in which we debate and discuss policing."LocalismThe best way to change is through localism. His models are Chicago, home of north America's most ambitious community policing, and the Netherlands, whose ability to balance the national and the neighbourhood he envies. "Neighbourhood teams are our opportunity to change policing. If you can have half a dozen people who do nothing but local long-term problem-solving in partnership with local communities, that can change the whole environment." London can learn more from Chicago than New York's more widely touted "zero tolerance" - both of which assisted in achieving large and sustained falls in crime. "The comparison between London and New York is almost entirely false," he says."The situations are entirely different. I prefer the idea of targeted intolerance. I don't think some methods used by New York's finest would be acceptable here." That brings him to armed policing. "Ours is the only force except New Zealand which is basically unarmed. That's a powerful thought, and a powerful asset. We have nine out of 10 of our officers still unarmed. I'm desperate to hang on to that."Irresistibly we have arrived at the subject of the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes at Stockwell on July 22. Here Sir Ian picks his words carefully. "I have to be very constrained about what I say because of the investigation. But I have said before that it is a watershed, it really is; and I will address it in my lecture. We have to have a place in which a discussion takes place about the use of lethal force by the police. Because until now that hasn't happened."Sir Ian may not want to talk in detail about the case, but it exemplifies concerns at the centre of what he intends to say tonight. The crisis that generated the shooting and the crisis generated by it are prime examples of what Sir Ian has in mind when he calls for "a place where we can discuss issues in reasonable compassionate debate". In medicine - a comparison he often makes - there are well-established forums for discussing and achieving consensus on difficult issues, including difficult resource issues. Not so for policing. But Sir Ian is adamant. "These discussions have been totally private and they can't go on being private."ReformThere must be reform at all levels. "I haven't got time for royal commissions. I want to get on with it." This is, he says, "a service restless for reform". He wants fewer police forces in England and Wales, halving the number to "12, 15 or 20". As an example, he thinks the Met should take over many functions of the City of London force, leaving it to concentrate on finance. He also wants the Met to absorb the British Transport police. "Whoever is in this chair in 2012 must have one unified police force dealing with the Olympics," he says.Asked to sum up his lecture, he pauses, then says: "My central thesis is that the British people need to decide what mechanisms they need to work out what kind of police force this should be, otherwise it will drift into doing it on its own and that's not right. Other institutions don't do that. We really need to decide."· The Richard Dimbleby lecture 2005 will be broadcast on BBC1 tonight at 10.40pmIan Blair's ideas: Dialogue on modernisationForums for debate· Select committee of MPs· Citizens' panels· Openness on operational issues· More informed media debateReorganisation · Fewer forces· Merge City of London with Met· Merge transport forces in LondonRecruitment · Intensify ethnic mix· Recruit middle-rank outsiders· Allow more career flexibility· Offer courses at FE collegesMethods· Boost neighbourhood teams· Encourage community patrols· No British FBI or Gendarmerie· No general arming