The £4bn merger between the prison and probation service is so large and complex that it faces a high risk of failure, according to leaked internal Home Office documents.An internal paper presented to the second board meeting of the newly merged organisation on Monday and seen by the Guardian also warns that the confidence of ministers, unions and staff is in danger of being lost. It adds there is a serious risk that the 74,900 prison population will start to rise again if officials are unable to persuade the courts to use new community punishments instead. The confidential paper also warns that there is a risk of a high-profile incident or industrial action causing disruption or overload within the overcrowded prison system. The "summary of risks" presented to this week's national offender management service [Noms] board meeting uses a colour-coded system to highlight the different levels of risk faced by the project. This is known in Whitehall as a "traffic lights" paper. The prisons and probation merger is unusual in that four of the 15 identified dangers facing the programme are rated black, indicating a "high" probability of their happening and carrying a "high" or "very high" impact. A further 10 factors are rated as "red", carrying the next highest level of risk. The dangers facing the launch of Noms have also been underlined by confidential advice from the office of government commerce in the Treasury, which has told the Home Office that it rates the merger as "very complex" and carry ing "substantial risks". The merger is designed to ensure that the prison and probation services cut reoffending levels, partly by capping the prison population at 80,000 and developing the use of community punishments instead. At the same time a "contestability" programme is being put in place under which initially juvenile jails and probation services will be market-tested with alternative private and not-for-profit providers to ensure value for money and that they are effective in turning offenders away from crime. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has called it a "once in a generation opportunity to get it right". A correctional services bill will be brought forward in the Queen's speech next month to implement the proposed changes. But the leaked document spelling out the risks faced by the project says that its "complexity and scale and the scope of the overall change programme" raises a high risk of "failure to deliver the high expectations and expected benefits". It adds that it is likely to be difficult to "move forward cohesively" with the danger of facing a "loss of confidence by ministers, unions and staff". The Prison Officers' Association voted last week not to participate in any of the new "contestability"schemes. Ministers are confident of getting their legislation through parliament intact. The risk of the corrections bill not being accepted or changed during its the parliamentary process is rated only as "low". The prison population has stabilised for several months at around the 75,000 mark, about 5,000 below the latest official projections.