Seven men who were arrested on suspicion of murder after a man's body was found in a well in Surrey have been released on bail.The men, aged between 21 and 27, were bailed until a date in late December pending further investigation, a Scotland Yard spokesman said.An initial postmortem examination on Sunday did not prove conclusive in providing a cause of death and further tests would be carried out, Scotland Yard said. But the examination did reveal injuries consistent with an assault, a spokesman said.Specialist police officers, including divers, recovered the body on Saturday, a day after it was found by workmen clearing the garden of a property in Audley Drive, Warlingham. It is believed to have been there for a number of weeks.The postmortem examination, carried out at East Surrey Hospital mortuary, confirmed that the body was male. The Yard spokesman said inquiries were continuing to try to establish the victim's identity.Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons, who is leading the investigation, said: "The postmortem examination has revealed this person, who we now know is a white male, suffered injuries before being placed into the well. We are treating the incident as a murder."Lyons said: "It is a murder investigation. As far as I am concerned, when a body is found in a well it either fell in there or was placed in there, and the evidence is apparent that the body was placed in there."He said the person was white and most likely to be an adult judging by the size of the body. He could not confirm that the body was intact. The property in Warlingham stands in an acre of grounds in an affluent area. Lyons said he was aware of claims by neighbours that there had been trouble in the past couple of years with the people who lived in the house and that the police had been called many times."The residents have expressed concern, there is intelligence to support that notion, yes," he said. He was not prepared to discuss who lived in the house, or a suggestion that the body was wrapped in carpet.Retrieving the body presented a number of logistical challenges, requiring a police marine diving team with breathing apparatus to recover it and preserve forensic evidence. "The well is 2ft in diameter, it is 7ft deep to the water line, and the water is approximately 4ft deep," Lyons said.He said the body had "not been there for an extended period of time; it will be a matter of weeks at the most".Lyons appealed for anyone who has concerns about a person who has gone missing, especially if they had connections to that area, to come forward.