Intelligence agencies led by GCHQ, the government's electronic spy centre, are to step up operations against a growing threat of cyber-attacks, Gordon Brown announced today as part of the government's updated national security strategy.A new Cyber-Security Operations Centre will be attached to GCHQ's headquarters in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire. A separate Office of Cyber-Security will coordinate policy in Whitehall under senior official Neil Thompson, with staff recruited from MI5, MI6 and other government agencies.Brown said: "Just as in the 19th century we had to secure the seas for our national safety and prosperity, and in the 20th century we had to secure the air, in the 21st century we also have to secure our position in cyberspace in order to give people and businesses the confidence they need to operate safely there."Cyberspace was a new area where "hostile states, terrorists and criminals can all threaten UK security interests", the Cabinet Office said. The Association of Chief Police Officers is already drawing up a new strategy on law enforcement and cyber-crime.However, Lord West, the Home Office security minister, was unwilling to reveal the number and scale of cyber-attacks against British government agencies or private companies."We know various state actors are very interested in cyber-warfare," he said at a press briefing. But he declined to comment on which countries had tried to attack British government computer systems.Instead, he referred to remarks by Jonathan Evans, the head of MI5, who has accused China of carrying out state-sponsored espionage against key parts of Britain's economy, including the computer systems of big banks and financial services firms. Evans had also expressed concern about Russian activities here, West said.The Guardian reported in 2007 that Chinese hackers, some believed to be from the People's Liberation Army, had been attacking the computer networks of British government departments, including the Foreign Office.Chinese hackers were believed to be responsible for shutting down the Commons computer system in 2006. In 2005, the government issued a warning of "concerted Trojan email attacks from the far east against UK government and business interests".West and his officials declined to identify the source of cyber-attacks saying only that they know of "a large number". But West added: "I'm not aware of any key piece of information [lost]."Whitehall officials said £52bn a year was lost to world trade through "e-fraud". They put the cost to the UK at more than £1bn a year. Officials said it was not possible to know the total figure, although it was estimated that serious crime was costing the country £20bn a year.BT reported 1,000 attacks on its networks every day, West said. But he acknowledged most of those were what he called low grade. Today's initiative had not been prompted by any particular attack, he said.He said terrorists were not the biggest threat, although they were learning quickly. Whitehall officials said terrorists had "the intent but not the capability".The more sophisticated an individual's personal electronic system, the more vulnerable it was to attack, officials said. Few senior government officials have personal electronic systems – those who do have their systems protected by GCHQ. "The lack of BlackBerrys in Whitehall illustrates the point," an official said.Downing Street did not respond when asked whether Brown, like US president Barack Obama, had a BlackBerry. Obama's device is strictly monitored and he is told how he can and cannot use it.West said GCHQ and its American equivalent, the National Security Agency, the world's largest electronic intelligence-gathering agency, were working closely together on cyber-security. He said the UK was better protected and less vulnerable than US government networks that were set up earlier and were far more numerous.Robert Gates, the US defence secretary, set up a new body on Tuesday to defend military networks against computer attacks and develop offensive cyber-weapons. He said the new body should also be available to help safeguard civilian systems.In a memo to senior military leaders, Gates said he would recommend to Obama that the new body should be run by the NSA.In an unstated reference to GCHQ, West admitted British agencies had the capacity to counterattack hostile computer systems or those suspected of being hostile. The government said it would set up an ethics advisory group to "make sure government activity on cyber-security is consistent with personal freedoms to use cyberspace".Asked what this group would do, officials said it would monitor government activities to ensure they were "proportionate".The government declines to say how much money today's measures will cost, saying only that it will run into "hundreds of millions".Ian Kearns, of the Institute for Public Policy Research thinktank, said the government's proposals had "not gone far enough".