“I think my flatmate’s got a gun,” said the student on the phone at 1am. What made him think that? “I can hear hissing through the wall, like gas, and then clicking. I think it’s an air-powered bolt gun. Have you seen No Country for Old Men? You can buy them online. They can kill people.”A quick YouTube search of the film revealed a spooky bloke with bad hair blowing people’s locks out. We tiptoed to the room, and sure enough there was a hissing, then the sound of metal on metal. It definitely wasn’t deodorant. We followed protocol and knocked on the door, which opened to reveal a kid with a balloon between his fingers, and 21 empty tubes of nitrous oxide on his carpet. He must have bought them all before the Psychoactive Substances Act kicked in. Campus security: 'We heard a scream and saw him running up the road naked' The law states that an offensive weapon is anything made, intended or adapted to cause injury. On campus, we get to explore every end of the definition, and more and more incidents involving weaponry are being recorded.The first I encountered was a month into the job, when an alumni student bumped into an old adversary at a reunion and hit him with a beer bottle, knocking him unconscious. We called for an ambulance and the police: the attacker and three of his mates were arrested, while the victim was taken to A&E, all for a years-old row over football. Over time, I’ve learned that it’s not always the hall’s weed dealer with a rented 9mm who attracts an armed police response: sometimes it’s the quiet kids. We once received a message from a girl that the shy boy in her flat had been running around with a gun. We assumed it was a water pistol. The two night guards couldn’t find him, but when we checked CCTV the next morning, there he was jumping out from behind a skip chasing blokes with a pistol, and passing it to girls to wave around. We couldn’t see anyone near him with a tripod, so we knew this wasn’t part of a media studies assignment.The security manager took charge of the situation. He phoned the accommodation officer then traced the lad, pulled him out of lectures and took him to his room. “Have you got anything you shouldn’t have?” The boy took a rifle from behind his wardrobe. “It’s not real,” he mumbled.When he was told he’d been recorded waving a pistol, he pulled out a replica, a box of pneumatic bullets, and an automatic paintball gun. They were all legal, but as it’s against campus policy to keep air guns in halls, it was decided the matter should be handled internally. The student argued that he paid £9,000 a year in tuition fees, and we agreed to keep his guns in our safe.I wouldn’t mind if the only weapons we encountered were slingshots and stink bombs, but some students go around with enough firepower to blow a hole in the walls of Alcatraz.  To date, our biggest gun raid was at a house full of second-years who were sneaking into the gym changing rooms and stealing wallets. People would report the theft to us and we’d tell them to phone 101 to get a crime reference number. I don’t know how many of them did. Meanwhile, the thieves would use the cards to order dart guns online, then post adverts on eBay offering a Porsche for £1,000. When a prospective buyer turned up they’d be tranquillised, and wake up to find an empty wallet and an arrow in their leg. As none of the targets were students, the university never got wind of what was happening. It was a delivery driver who finally foiled the scam: he wondered why one house kept receiving parcels covered in warning labels. He did phone 101 and the perpetrators were sentenced to four years in a young offenders’ institution.Us and them: life at the bottom of the campus heap The reason this incident sticks out is because most of the kids we find with weapons are never going to use them maliciously. The solution’s a tough one. I’d go for the carrot: more theme parties, speed-dating, movie nights in the lecture theatres. Get people mingling before we start rolling in the metal detectors. It’d be great if campus security had the power to start parties, not just shut them down. So far, the only response from management has been to offer guards stab vests. I’m not sure if this would make the tense kids less jumpy. After all, would you go on a cruise where all the crew are dressed in life jackets?Some details have been changed.Join the higher education network for more comment, analysis and job opportunities, direct to your inbox. Follow us on Twitter @GdnHigherEd. And if you have an idea for a story, please read our guidelines and email your pitch to us at highereducationnetwork@theguardian.com