The England and Newcastle United footballer Kieron Dyer yesterday denied any involvement in the alleged gang rape of a 17-year-old girl in a London hotel room.Dyer issued a statement through his lawyers after intense speculation on the internet that he was one of the Premiership players who allegedly raped a schoolgirl in the Grosvenor House hotel. Dyer, 24, who is in Turkey for England's Euro 2004 qualifier match, said he felt he had to "set the record straight and put an end to the massive speculation". The footballer said his family had been hounded and his "reputation had been damaged in the worst way possible". In the statement, he said: "I had no involvement in this matter let alone being 'at the centre of it' as suggested in emails, websites and elsewhere." "Until now I have felt trapped and it has been very frustrating that I have been unable to clarify publicly the facts which clearly exonerate me, whilst the police conduct their inquiries," he added. His statement came as two other Premiership footballers were arrested in connection with the rape allegation. Scotland Yard confirmed that two men, aged 19 and 22, were arrested after attending separate police stations in London. Both were released on police bail to return later this month. Dyer said he believed he had been linked to the allegations because he checked into the hotel with several other people and the hotel entered their rooms under his name. After checking in at 11pm on September 26, Mr Dyer said he went to the Sketch nightclub until it closed. He then went back to his room with a friend and stayed there all night. Mr Dyer said he was "appalled by a supposedly 'blurred' photograph of me that appeared during a storm of publicity which had suggested that I was at the centre of the criminal investigation." On Thursday a 27-year-old man was arrested by police and later bailed. On the the previous day Nicholas Meikle, 29, who describes himself as a party organiser, was arrested and bailed over the allegations after voluntarily attending a police station. The teenage girl admits she agreed to have sex with one man, but says she was then gang-raped and sexually assaulted by a group of up to seven others, including several professional footballers.