Mary Simms and her four children, aged 18, 16, 14 and 12, sound like a stereotypical case of serious antisocial behaviour. The kids started running wild, abusing neighbours and throwing stones. They stopped going to school and got mixed up with a gang. Mary's council house became a centre for trouble - abusive youths, motorbikes, rows. Inevitably, the family was eventually evicted.But listen to Simms' (not her real name) experience: "I couldn't see forward at all. I was a zombie, just wanting to get in bed and not come out. I wasn't in control. I couldn't think of a way out because I didn't want to be living."She was so afraid to ask for or accept help that even when the crisis hit and she and the children were on the street with their possessions in bin bags she could not take in what was being offered.In fact, the offer was intensive help from a pioneering scheme run by Sheffield city council. The modestly titled high support unit houses families whose behaviour would lead most agencies to give up hope that they might ever change.Up to three families at a time live for up to two years in the unit, where all aspects of their lives are controlled. "I was dreading the rules," Simms admits. "I really wanted this chance, but I was scared. It was make or break."The support workers negotiate a monthly contract with each family member, whereby goals are set and they have a chance to make changes they want in their lives. Staff explain what the service can do, and set out the changes needed from the family. Parenting courses and other help are all part of the equation.Ann Ellis, Sheffield council's housing solutions specialist services manager, says she has been struck by a recurring feature of the clients' lives: many have been badly affected by bereavement. "When you pull back the layers, there is tragedy in the families," she says. "Their behaviour is pretty awful, but there is also domestic abuse, mental health problems, drug and alcohol abuse, depression and self-harm. All these issues must be tackled together." The unit, which started in 2003, is one of six family rehabilitation projects in the north-west of England being evaluated by researchers led by the Centre for Social Inclusion at Sheffield Hallam University. Interim results from the research - commissioned by government, which has called for similar projects to operate across the country in its fight to tackle nuisance neighbours - have found that building up trust is the biggest hurdle. Afraid and defensive, and often with bad experiences of other agencies, families may reject help, it warns. To break down the barriers of mistrust, the research recommends that agencies setting up specialist services need to take a fresh approach so that they are not seen as being out to punish families.Based on data collected from 99 families, it has identified that what they want most from a rehabilitation project is being listened to; not being judged; workers' accessibility and responsiveness to families' needs, and workers being honest with them.The six projects are all modelled on the successful Dundee Families Project, which was set up by the charity NCH in 1997. Five of these newer versions - most are around three years old - were developed by NCH in partnership with local authorities. Sheffield's is the only one to date run wholly by a council.Ellis challenges the assumption that the voluntary sector is better placed to run services than a local authority because charities are seen as different from housing and social services. "I don't think service users care about that," she says. "It is about team capacity and the way you empower people to resolve their problems." Each support worker deals with only three or four families at a time, compared with 15 to 20 for a tenancy support worker, while a social worker may have 30 or more serious child protection cases. This high investment is beginning to reap rewards. The service deals only with the 2% of families for whom all other interventions have failed, but it has an 80% success rate, and improvements are being sustained.On a human level, the turnaround can be remarkable. Two years on, Simms and her family are getting ready to move to a new tenancy with support. The children are all back in school, one is looking forward to college and a career, and Simms has held down a job. She says: "You wouldn't believe the respect the kids give me now. We are a family now, and I never thought we would get this far. I'm so proud of my kids."· The interim evaluation report by Sheffield Hallam University is available at www.odpm.gov.uk/index.asp?id=1163014. The final report will be published in the summer.