Short-term prisoners such as burglars, car thieves and muggers should get priority for housing on their release, a crime prevention group will urge today.The National Association for the Care and Rehabilitation of Offenders (Nacro) said that if such prisoners are given better chances of getting housing and jobs, they will be deterred from re-offending. Many lose their home, job and family ties as a result of going to jail. They are more likely to reoffend on release than long-term inmates, who get support with resettlement. Nacro's report, the Forgotten Majority - short-term prisoners are the bulk of those jailed each year - will be unveiled at a conference in London today in front of the home secretary, Jack Straw. Mr Straw is expected to announce a £21m investment to provide short-term prisoners with training and the chance to start educational qualifications in prison. Nacro's proposals were attacked by the Victims of Crime trust, whose director, Norman Brennan, said: "The rehabilitation of offenders has to be supported for obvious reasons."But when you compare the situation with victims, you sometimes have to have an all-out war with the housing authority to try to get the relative of a homicide victim a house. "One such family had their daughter shot dead at the front door. Every time her sisters walk into the house they are walking past the murder scene," said Mr Brennan, describing a case in Kent where a family are still waiting to be re-housed two years on. Nacro's director of policy, Paul Cavadino, said: "Short-term prisoners include some very persistent offenders who commit much of the crime which causes great distress in local communities. Providing more resettlement help for this group could do a great deal to cut crime rates. "Prisoners released homeless are two-and-a-half-times more likely to reoffend than those with homes to go to." A Home Office source said the government had no intention of allowing ex-convicts to jump to the front of housing queues. "There will be no question of former prisoners receiving preferential treatment, although they will receive equal treatment and will not be disadvantaged." Nacro said that all prisons should establish housing advice centres, while local authorities and housing associations should offer new tenancies on release to prisoners who were ex-tenants. It recommended a new resettlement service for short-term prisoners, job training and the inclusion of ex-offenders in employers' equal opportunities policies. The periods after which ex-offenders do not legally have to declare their convictions in job applications should be shortened, the report said. The discharge grant for prisoners should be increased to the equivalent of at least two weeks' social security benefits, it added. Last year two thirds of the 90,000 people jailed in England and Wales were short-term prisoners. More than 60% of male and half of female short-term prisoners are reconvicted within two years of their release.