A man appeared in court today charged with attacking the grandfather of a baby who was mauled to death by two rottweiler dogs, and with killing his partner.Scott Walker, 26, appeared before magistrates in Leicester charged with murdering 47-year-old Debra Larn and unlawfully and maliciously wounding John Brightwell, 50, with intent to cause him grievous bodily harm.Mr Brightwell suffered serious stab wounds at the couple's home in the Beaumont Leys area of the city in the early hours of Sunday.Hours previously his granddaughter, five-month-old Cadey-Lee Deacon, had been savaged at a pub in the New Parks area, two miles away.Leicestershire police said the two incidents were connected only by family links, and that investigations were "entirely separate".Mr Walker, reportedly a neighbour of his alleged victims, was remanded in custody until November 14.Last night more details of the terrible events of the weekend emerged in a statement from Cadey-Lee's mother, Amy Deacon, and her partner, Lee Burchell, who owned the two dogs."Words cannot express our devastation at what has happened," they said. "We just cannot believe that Cadey-Lee is gone. She was such a beautiful little girl. We loved her so much and we just can't accept that something like this could have happened. How do you come to terms with such a tragedy?"The couple said they had been overwhelmed by the outpouring of grief and support from the local community, who had placed flowers and teddy bears outside the Rocket pub, which they were looking after for the landlords. "People have been incredible. We would just like to say thank you to all those people. Your love and support is a comfort to us during this time."Leicestershire police said Ms Deacon and Mr Burchell had been moving furniture in the living quarters when a fire escape door was accidentally left open which allowed the rottweilers, named Bruno and Bess, into the rooms from an adjoining flat roof.Chief Superintendent Steve Pitts said: "The dogs then made their way to the bedroom in which baby Cadey-Lee was sleeping. By the time Amy, Lee and the relatives who were helping them move realised what had happened, the dogs had attacked. It is a terrible tragedy that has affected everyone who lives locally."He added that the two investigations were entirely separate. "There is, however, a familial link in that Cadey-Lee's natural father is the son of the 50-year-old man injured in that attack, in which a 47-year-old woman died."Mr Brightwell was said to be in a stable condition in hospital. His son Ryan, the estranged father of Cadey-Lee, was said to be devastated by the deaths of his relatives. One local said: "It's Ryan everyone feels sorry for - he has lost two members of his family in a day."The landlady of the Rocket, Lesley Glaze, and her husband, Wayne, had left Ms Deacon and Mr Burchell in charge while they were on holiday. Locals said the baby had been in the living quarters when at least one dog pounced on her and dragged her outside on to the terrace.Friends of the baby's father said he had been inconsolable even before his father and his partner were stabbed. Michael Hubble, 17, said: "My mum spoke to him on Saturday. He was crying and really upset. I know he went to the hospital to see the baby."