Detectives investigating the disappearance of two young boys almost a decade ago have been to prison to interview the convicted child murderer they suspect may have killed them.David Spencer, 13, and his best friend Patrick Warren, 11, went missing on December 26 1996. The last definite sighting of the pair was at a petrol station shop near their homes in Chelmsley Wood, Birmingham, at 0.45am the next morning. They were due to spend the night at a relative's house but never turned up.A number of people claimed to have spotted the boys over the years but none of these reports has been verified. Police and the boys' families have always feared something terrible happened to them, especially as Patrick's new bike, his Christmas present, was found abandoned outside the shop where they were last seen.Now, 10 years on, senior officers have visited Full Sutton prison in York, to question Brian Lunn Field, a violent paedophile serving life for the kidnap and murder of 14-year-old Roy Tutill in Surrey in 1968.He only confessed to killing the schoolboy 31 years later when he was stopped for drink driving in 1999 and his DNA matched a sample taken from the murder scene. He admitting sexually assaulting and strangling Roy before hiding his body in the boot of his car and driving home to his wife and newborn baby.Twice-divorced Field, whose three grown-up children disowned him, has carried out a string of sex offences against young boys from the 1950s onwards, and served three jail terms, including four years for attempting to abduct two youths aged 13 and 16 in 1984.But police believe he could be responsible for numerous other serious crimes, including the murders of David Spencer and Patrick Warren. Field has denied any involvement in the disappearances.Detectives think he may have lured the two friends from outside the shop in Chelmsley Wood, killed them and buried their bodies. He lived nearby, worked as a self-employed gardener for a number of local families, had access to open ground in the area, and was a regular drinker in several pubs close to the boys' homes.Officers are also reinvestigating the suspicious death of a 15-year-old boy, found hanged in his home in north Solihull in 1997, three months after the two boys disappeared.At first it was thought he committed suicide, but his family always maintained it was foul play and the coroner recorded an open verdict.It has now emerged that Field worked for them as a gardener and police may exhume the boy's body to carry out new forensic tests.Superintendent Mick Treble, of West Midlands police, who is heading the investigation, said it was vital to try to find out if Field could tell police what happened to David and Patrick."He is now 70 years old," said Supt Treble. "If he killed and buried those boys, there's only one person who is going to tell us." The officer described both boys as "streetwise" but stressed they were young and vulnerable."They were last seen at an Esso service station shop where they begged a packet of biscuits at a quarter to one on the morning of December 27," he said. "Patrick's bicycle, which police still have, was later discovered outside the shop."Patrick had been given the bicycle for Christmas. It was his pride and joy and it seems highly unlikely he would have run away of his own accord, leaving it behind."Supt Treble said Field was only one line of inquiry, but suggested he was a "strong contender" for murder in terms of psyche and personality profile. He described Field as a Jekyll and Hyde character, who seemed on the surface to be charming and engaging, but turned into a different and violent person when drunk."There is nothing overt to show he is a dangerous individual. Indeed, it is difficult to find anyone who has a bad word to say about him. But when he got drunk it was a different story altogether. He was also physically fit, and worked from morning till night, gardening and digging holes right up to his arrest, so we think he would have been able to bury bodies so that they wouldn't have been discovered."Supt Treble said Field's past pattern of offending was unusual in that he had been prepared to take on two victims at once when he tried to snatch the two teenage boys in 1984.Behavioural analysts who accompanied the police team to see Field cautioned that Field had to be approached with respect to get the most from him. Surrey police who investigated the Tutill murder are also involved in the inquiry."Field has spoken fully and frankly about the Tutill murder when confronted with the hard facts of the DNA evidence," said Supt Treble."We aimed to get normal conversation going, get him feeling comfortable talking about his time in the West Midlands, where he drank, and so on."If we can find those boys' bodies we can get more forensic evidence and we can bring closure for two families who have suffered heartache through the years."