Her professional life was going from strength to strength. She played for queens and princes in palaces and for music enthusiasts in concert halls.Away from the glitter and the glamour, however, it was a very different picture. Royal harpist Jemima Phillips was a drug user, addicted to crack cocaine and heroin.During her trial at Gloucester crown court Phillips, 28, made the startling admission that throughout her royal appointment, during which she played at the wedding of the Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall, she used class A drugs."I took over as royal harpist. Even then my drug problem had started," she told the jury. "Sometimes I would just play background music at private functions, when I would be sat a few feet away from the prince."Phillips's climb to this musical top table started when she was just three. Her parents recognised that she had talent and encouraged her to play the piano.The family moved from London to the Forest of Dean in Gloucestershire when Phillips was seven. A year later her mother, Jennifer, saw an advert for a Welsh harp in Exchange & Mart.She took to the instrument immediately. Soon she was playing in concerts and competitions around the world. She took a master's degree at the Royal College of Music and was spotted by the Prince of Wales."While doing my master's I was fortunate enough to be asked to play for Prince Charles for a small function of about 20 people at Clarence House," she said. "I was presented to him afterwards. He had reinstated the tradition of having a royal harpist. I had a phone call in April 2004 asking if I would accept the position and in July 2004 I took over as royal harpist. I played for his wedding to Camilla Parker-Bowles, for the Queen at the Olympic bid and also for Peter Phillips's wedding."Prince Charles and the Queen would have been shocked had they known the double life the young woman playing for them led.In her late teens and early 20s, Phillips had a series of "disastrous" relationships with men and twice had abortions. Two days after the second abortion in 2004 she was introduced to drugs by a neighbour she got talking to in the lift of the building where she was living in London."I ended up smoking quite a fair amount of crack that night. That was in 2004, when I was 23. My career was up there but my personal life was way down there. It's been on and off for five and a half years."Shortly afterwards a boyfriend introduced her to heroin. He was violent towards her and she fled back to her native Gloucestershire to live with her parents on their 70-acre farm, but her heroin habit "increased".Her mother, a homeopathist, had known about her drug problem from an early stage but Phillips said she was not keen for her to go through official medical channels because it might jeopardise her chances of a career in America if it became known she was an addict.Phillips's story is eye-catching because of her royal connections but the pattern of her decline and fall is all too common.Last week, a report from the National Treatment Agency for Substance Misuse highlighted the problem of young women taking class A drugs. The report focused on the fact that cocaine addiction is now the fastest growing problem among women under 35 who use drugs.It said the number of young women seeking treatment for cocaine addiction had gone up by nearly two-thirds. The number taking heroin had declined by 8% since 2005-06 but was still high, with 15,440 entering treatment for heroin and crack dependence in 2008-09.Phillips's appointment as royal harpist ceased in 2007 but she continued earning a good living of up to £2,750 a month playing at weddings and concerts as well as teaching. Her drug taking also carried on.She met her co-accused, Davies, in January on a street corner in Gloucester. "I went up to him and asked him if he knew anyone who could sort me out. He had a bag of gear on him which he gave to me. While I was smoking it he got chatting to my mum." In March they began a relationship.Phillips said he was a "Jekyll and Hyde" character, sometimes kind to her, while at other times he frightened her.As well as taking drugs, she would self-harm, using a scalpel to cut her arms or punch her face or bang her head against wall.Phillips and Davies were arrested in Gloucester on 28 May when she was driving her Ford Galaxy laden with property allegedly stolen in four burglaries. Police accused Phillips of being the look-out and driver for Davies, 41, who has three convictions for burglary.Phillips denied having anything to do with the burglaries but admitted attempting to defraud the Nationwide Building Society in Monmouth of £500 with a stolen passbook.Initially she lied to police that she had done this because she was afraid friends of Davies would go to the press because of her royal connections and reveal her drug problem.But in court she said: "He begged and begged and begged me. He said he had got the book the previous evening from a guy he knew and he said it was kosher and it was completely safe to do, and I wouldn't get into any trouble for it."When she gave evidence, Phillips made much of her unhappy upbringing.She was terribly shy as a girl and was bullied at school. She was deeply disturbed as a teenager by the death of her younger brother Jerome, who suffered brain damage as a small child and died aged 14.Phillips said in court she had never had a normal relationship with her father because Jerome had always been the apple of his eye."From the age of four I knew he felt he would much rather have had the reverse and that what happened to Jerome had happened to me and that I had died. He is not affectionate towards me. As far as I can remember he has never given me a kiss or cuddle in my life. He only saw me play the harp once just after my brother died and he drove me to London because my mother couldn't."She described her family as "dysfunctional".After she and Davies were arrested, Phillips said she tried to kill herself by taking an overdose of methadone, but she suggested there was hope for her now.She went into detox in June and told the jury she had now been clean for two and a half months and was in therapy.It was perhaps a sign that her life may be getting back on the rails.