Colin Pritchard's office in the mental health unit of Southampton hospital is accessed through doors protected by a touch-code lock. As we arrive at his department, there is an angry explosion of swearing from behind the closed doors of the consulting rooms along the corridor, and the noise of furniture being banged against the wall. He hurries to key in the code, and retreats to the safety of his own room.Professor Pritchard, a researcher in social psychiatry at the University of Bournemouth, spends much of his professional life weighing up risk – the risk of being murdered, the risk of a child being violently killed, the risk of being run over. Having eliminated the immediate risk of being attacked by a colleague's patient, he is free to set out his belief that modern fears of violent death are exaggerated and misplaced.Research conducted by Pritchard and his colleague Richard Williams, to be published later this spring, suggests that fewer children in this country are dying violent deaths than at any point since records began. The study shows the number of children dying violent deaths in England and Wales has fallen by almost 40% since the mid-1970s with the annual number of such deaths of children aged 14 and under falling from 136 to 84. Thirty years ago, England and Wales had the fourth-highest figures for child killings in the western world; now we have the third lowest. He attributes the reduction to improved monitoring by social workers and police.The findings are surprising, because they are so at odds with the popular mood of disquiet; the level of public fear about violence against children is running at a very high level. This year, recriminations continue over who was responsible for allowing the death of baby Peter Connolly to happen; further alarm was provoked by the prosecution of the young brothers who violently attacked two children in Edlington and, last week, seven-year-old Khyra Ishaq's mother and stepfather for starving her to death. The news that Jon Venables, one of the killers of James Bulger, is back in prison will only add to the public's concerns.These violent incidents have acquired a political significance, and have been cited by the Conservatives as examples of how Britain has become a broken society. David Cameron said the Edlington case was not "just some isolated incident of evil" and suggested it was part of a "social recession", adding: "We should ask about what has gone wrong with our society and what we are going to do about it."Child protection departments face constant criticism both from the public and from government for their failures in preventing these attacks, yet Pritchard argues that the popular alarm is simply unfounded. "These cases are very, very rare," he says. "But because they are so rare, when these terrible tragedies occur, they become big news." And this is where the public misconception begins."We love The Bill, Silent Witness, Wallander," he observes. "We get a diet of violence, weekly if not daily, and we begin to believe it. The general public has an image of a paedophile behind every public toilet, in the swimming bath, in the park. But the fear is not in step with reality. Most policemen go through their whole career and only see one or two murders."For comparison, Pritchard focuses on the more prosaic dangers posed by cars. Every year, 135 children under 15 die in road accidents, a much higher number than the 84 who are murdered. It is much more likely that a child will die in a road accident than in a violent attack, yet according to Pritchard, the public remains remarkably sanguine about the dangers of the road. It is a familiar argument, but his analysis of the double-standards in media reporting of these deaths is persuasive."The media does not treat deaths on the road in the same way as child killings. They see it as the price we pay for the convenience of modern life. In terms of public perception, the car industry, with its clever advertising, manages to make the car appear a benign, laudable, wantable object. We don't think about the hidden toll," he says.Pritchard is dismissive of the News of the World's "Sarah's Law" campaign, designed to give parents the right to know the identity of paedophiles living in their area. The law is scheduled to be introduced nationwide over the next year, following a pilot scheme in four counties. "If papers like News of the World were serious about wanting to protect children, they would ignore the Sarah's Law campaign and go for enforcement of 20mph speed limits in residential areas – that would save more lives of children in one year."However, despite the public vilification child social services departments have faced in recent years, Pritchard suggests it may not always be in their interest to publicise the news that the rate of violence against children is declining. "One director of social services said, upon hearing about these encouraging outcomes, 'I am pleased about the results but don't shout about it too loud, because if the elected members think we're doing well they will cut the budget,'" Pritchard notes in his research.He continues the road-death analogy to argue that we should think twice before blaming social workers when children like Peter Connolly and Khyra Ishaq slip through the safety net and die. "When there are no road accidents because there are no mistakes," he says wryly, making it clear he does not regard this as likely, "then there will be no mistakes with child protection, and no child deaths."This research is not uncontested, though. Enver Solomon, Barnardo's assistant director for policy and research, argues that "the figures do not take into account more recent and accurate data from Ofsted and the Department for Children, Schools and Families, which show worryingly high numbers of children still dying as a result of abuse or neglect."The number of child deaths in the UK due to abuse or neglect remains far too high – at least two a week," Solomon continues. "Every day, social workers intervene to protect many children from harm, but evidence suggests that [historically] there has been a reluctance to take decisive action, and a tendency to give parents the benefit of the doubt. The rise in care applications since the death of Peter Connolly constitutes an important step change in awareness, which suggests the long-established tendency to give parents the benefit of the doubt may have temporarily stopped. It must not return."Pritchard stands by his figures, but also has strong views about how non-vehicle-related child deaths can be prevented. He recently undertook an analysis of all the child murders that occurred over a decade in two counties (equivalent to 4% of the population of England and Wales), to attempt to establish what kind of person tended to be the most frequent child killer. He isolates two distinct groups: the most frequent killer is the mentally ill mother (who often kills herself at the same time), but the most dangerous potential killer is identified as a non-family member; someone who is likely to have a number of previous convictions, is known to be violent and to have been previously involved in sex crimes against children. Pritchard's research suggests that the mentally-ill mother kills at a rate of 100 per million, while the second category of violent male child sex-offender (of whom there are many fewer) kills at a rate of 80,000 per million."These men almost invariably come from terribly damaged and damaging backgrounds. That is the tragedy," he says. "The paradox is that the most dangerous is the least frequent killer."A career spent as a psychiatric social worker and an academic studying trends in child abuse and murder has hardened his views on punishment. The process of going through police files, analysing their reports about these deaths and the photographs that accompanied them, was a scarring one, and Pritchard, who describes himself as a "genuine liberal", has developed some unexpectedly reactionary views about what should be done with the small number of men who fall into this category (a number he estimates to be around 1,100)."If I found a man, with multi- criminality, previous convictions for violence and a sex crime against a child, I would give him an unlimited sentence, and make him stay in prison until they could prove that they were safe to move on," he says. "I am amazed to find myself saying this."As for preventing more deaths at the hands of mentally unstable mothers, Pritchard recommends that child protection officers need to be more aware of the risks, and that doctors be quicker to recommend treatment. Sitting among the dismal grey filing cabinets and brown institutional carpet of the hospital office, he is at pains to remain cheerful, but does not always find it easy. No sooner has the risk of child death been rationalised with cool analysis about the relative dangers of the car, than new fears arise – concerns about the environment, about pollution, about population growth and dwindling world resources."Parents today are being bombarded with a set of anxieties that my generation of parents never had," Pritchard says. "As a parent, as a grandparent, I have never been more scared; I worry about what will happen. I should know better."