The home secretary, David Blunkett, today told the Commons the government's five-year plan to tackle crime would include a focus on greater community policing andcracking down on anti-social behaviour.He was speaking after the prime minister, Tony Blair, promised a "personal crusade" to cut crime by 15% in four years and end the "1960s social-liberal consensus on law and order".Responding to the plans, Chris Fox, president of the Association for Chief Police Officers (Acpo), said: "From a police perspective, we are pleased to see a focus on the things that matter to real people. "For years we have focused on volume crime - thefts, vehicle crime, burglaries - and we have been very successful. But people do not feel any safer, even though their chances of being a victim are much lower than they were, because of what they see outside their door. However, while we are pleased to see a focus on street behaviour, we need to be able to do both the neighbourhood crime and the volume crime - it is no good if people feel safer on the street but they are being burgled while they are out. "With anti-social behaviour, we need to break the cycle and make sure that the next generation does not end up the same. Parenting, education and helping offenders when they are released from prison are very important." Commenting on plans to quadruple the numbers of civilian police wardens to 20,000 and maintain record 138,000 police, Mr Fox said: "The increase in civilian police wardens is useful to us, but they can't be seen as the answer in themselves. They can provide a highly visible presence, and because they have limited powers are not pulled away to court, but they need to be used as part of a mix with police officers. "The home secretary's pledge to get crime reduced by 15% by 2008 is achievable if everybody plays their part, but not if it is just a matter for the police. It is also about parents, teachers and people in industry." Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, condemned the government's aim to widen the use of electronic and satellite tagging. (There are plans to tag 5,000 of the most prolific reoffenders.) "Tagging does not work," Ms Crook said. "The satellite technology is not good enough yet. You might be able to tell where they have been, unless they go into a building or something, but it's very dodgy."It is one of the ways the government is trying to deal with public fear, but I think the public get cross when they find out they have not been told the truth."She said technology could not be used to deal with the "human problem" of people being dangerous: tagging might help lead to the detection of a crime by a tagged person but would do nothing to tackle an offender's drug addiction or alcoholism, and this would be of little comfort to a person they mugged. Ms Crook also criticised the government's approach to targeting anti-social behaviour, which includes measures to identify the "top 50" most anti-social individuals in 50 different areas judged to have problems. She said: "The Howard League for Penal Reform condemns populist rhetoric that demonises children just for being out in public because it creates an intemperate atmosphere in which sentences for children spiral out of control." She noted that many government policies would help to create a safer society, particularly the help to be given to children through the new children's centres, but warned: "The obsession with low-level anti-social behaviour ignores more serious problems, such as domestic violence. "Policy should be designed following rational discourse and tempered deliberation, not in gimmicky headlines responding to a handful of people in marginal constituencies who harangue their local MP about teenagers." Andrew Buckingham, spokesman for Victim Support, welcomed new measures to improve the treatment of victims and witnesses, including the appointment of a dedicated witness officer in every court to keep them informed of proceedings. He said: "Victim Support already runs the Witness Service, funded by the Home Office, in every criminal court in England and Wales to provide support to witnesses. It's certainly a step in the right direction to introduce another service to complement what we already provide."Witnesses are vital. If there is no witness, you are not going to get a successful conviction and help the victim to get some degree of closure after what has happened to them. There are real issues with keeping them informed and in some cases letting them know the outcome of a particular trial."We also welcome moves to focus on anti-social behaviour, which comes in many forms, including graffiti, intimidation, racial harassment and criminal damage. Our staff and volunteers around the country hear the most terrible stories about this. "We welcome moves to better tackle it, although of course we will have to wait to see how the new initiatives pan out. It must be remembered that, with around 13 million crimes committed in England and Wales every year, there are a lot of victims out there, many of whom don't report them."Mr Blair has talked today about rebalancing the system in favour of victims of crime. What we want to see, as an organisation that helps victims and witnesses, is a criminal justice system where there is an equal balance between offenders, victims and criminal justice professionals. "After all, they all have an interest in there being a fair trial. The key thing to remember is that offenders' rights and victims' rights do not need to be traded with each other."