A second body found at the former home of the man charged with murdering schoolgirl Vicky Hamilton is believed to be that of missing teenager Dinah McNicol, police said tonight.The 18-year-old Essex student went missing in 1991, the same year as Scottish schoolgirl Hamilton - whose remains were found buried at the house in Kent earlier this week.Peter Lowton, assistant chief constable of Essex Police, said the height of the new body, clothing and jewellery was consistent with it being that of McNicol.He said police were awaiting "urgent analysis" of the remains. There was "more work to be done" at the house, he added.The second body was found in the back garden close to the patio. "The hole that was dug would encompass part of the patio," he said.The force was now focusing on an investigation into the murder of McNicol, he added. "The remaining areas to be searched will take some time."When asked if the force was close to making any arrests over McNicol's murder, he said: "It is too early to tell." He said McNicol's father, Ian, 68, of Tillingham, Essex, had been "informed" of tonight's developments.He would not be drawn on whether there could be any more bodies at the address or say what led detectives to 50 Irvine Drive. "It was a line of inquiry being pursued," he said.Tonight the area surrounding the house was sealed off by police tape. Three bouquets of flowers had been left close to the property. Searches are due to continue tomorrow as the investigation continues.Peter Tobin was formally charged yesterday with Hamilton's murder, 16 years after she disappeared close to her home in Bathgate, West Lothian.The 61-year-old former handyman had been charged in July with involvement in her disappearance. He is known to have lived in the Margate house.McNicol disappeared while hitchhiking home from a music festival in August 1991. She decided to stay at the festival in Liphook with a man she met there, and the pair hitchhiked home.Her companion was dropped off at junction 8 of the M25, near Reigate, and McNicol stayed in the car with the driver. She was never seen again.Officers from Essex police began searching the house on Monday morning after receiving information that her body might be buried there.Ian McNicol earlier said: "I have had a call from the police and they seem to think they might have found Dinah."I will be absolutely elated if they have. It will mean we will be able to grieve as a family. It has been a long wait. I always said I wanted to know what happened to my daughter before I died and hopefully I will now."I don't know how the police ended up going to that house in the first place. It's a fantastic bit of police work if they have found her."