August 25: Christopher Foster, his wife, Jill, and their 15-year-old daughter, Kirstie, leave a barbecue at a friend's house and return to their home, Osbaston House, in Maesbrook, Shropshire. August 26: A huge fire breaks out at the mansion at around 4am. Police say the blaze was started deliberately and appeal for help to trace the family. Firefighters are unable to enter the property amid fears that the wrecked structure is unstable.August 27: Police reveal that three horses were found dead - two in stables next to the house and one in another outbuilding - after the fire. It emerges that Foster, 50, was the director of Ulva Limited, which went into compulsory liquidation in 2007. His 49-year-old wife was the company secretary at the Telford-based thermal insulation manufacturing company.The businessman, who became a millionaire through developing technology for oil rigs, was described as ''bereft of the basic instincts of commercial morality'' by a high court judge earlier this year. Two men who were accused of blackmailing him were cleared by a jury in November 2006.August 28: Search teams are prevented from getting into the house because of the heat and falling debris. Firefighters continue to damp down the building. Ports and airports are put on alert by police.August 29: Investigators enter the house for the first time but find no trace of the family. Police say the search may take several weeks, with 100 officers and support staff working around the clock. August 30: Police say two bodies have been found in the main part of the house. The bodies of three dogs are also found in outbuildings.August 31: Officers reveal that one of the bodies has been identified by dental records as that of Jill Foster. A murder investigation is launched after a postmortem examination shows she died as a result of a gunshot wound to the head. Detectives say more tests are needed to establish whether the second body, believed to be an adult man, is Christopher Foster and to determine the cause of death. A rifle recovered near the two bodies is identified as a .22 rimfire weapon that Foster owned legitimately.The three horses and four dogs found dead at the property were all shot, police reveal. Spent and unspent cartridges were also found around the site.September 1: Detectives confirm that a third body has been found in the main part of the mansion. September 2: The body is removed in a delicate operation, and a postmortem is due to be conducted later today.