An army may march on its stomach, as the saying goes, but the police force appears to thrive on acronyms. Some, such as CID, Soco, PCSO have become part of our everyday language, but others, such as S016 (diplomatic protection squad), Holmes (Home Office large major enquiry system) and CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear) are more arcane. A recent one, which sounds innocuous enough, A19 – or to give its full title, regulation A19 of the pension regulations – is, in the view of many police officers I have talked to, having the most widespread and potentially highly detrimental impact on the present and future of policing in our nation for many decades. This Thursday, the Sussex police authority is meeting to decide how A19 will affect their future.Along with cutbacks in so many areas, each police force in England and Wales has to reduce its budget by around 20% by 2015. For Sussex police, for instance, that means a reduction of £50m. As Martin Richards, chief constable of Sussex explains: "Eighty five per cent of the Sussex police budget is people. The only possible way to make this drastic saving is by reducing staff." Across the forces, the adoption of A19 by police authorities will save £2bn. But at what true cost?Contractually, police officers cannot be made redundant. However, under A19, they can be forced to retire after 30 years' service. Many police officers join in their late teens, which means they hit this 30-year compulsory retirement point in their late 40s – some 20 years short of the government's new male retirement age, and at a time when many people today would consider themselves only halfway through their careers.What makes it worse is that there is no discretion possible where A19 is invoked – every officer below assistant chief constable rank is subject to it. There is no opportunity for chief constables to choose between those they would be happy to see go and those they feel would be a significant loss to their service.It is my view that the police are the glue that holds the fabric of any democratic civilisation together – and this was never put to a truer test than during the riots last summer. No nation is safe from mass criminal activity without a strong police force. In 2008, the chief of police of Moscow, Alexander Khavkin, confided to me over dinner in his city that in the year 2000 Moscow police had lost control of the city to the mafia. They finally got it back in 2007. He told me with a shrug, explaining that the danger in having a demoralised force is that it becomes open to corruption.Civilisation hangs on a slender thread, and we are lucky in the UK to have a police force that is, in my wide experience, made up of mostly dedicated officers, good human beings, almost all of whom will at some point in their career have their lives in danger, yet even if they reach the rank of a chief superintendent will earn less than a secondary-school headteacher. Further, all police officers walk on eggshells. Unlike we "civilians", police can get into trouble for accepting a drink, a meal, or even for telling the kind of jokes the rest of us tell and laugh at.The clear-up rate for murder in this country is an impressive 93%, year on year. Yet for rape, a crime that can destroy victims' lives, it has been a staggeringly low 2% historically, now risen to 6% in some counties thanks to improved police resources. Clearly there is a long way to go in many areas of policing in this country. Is this really the time to decimate our police forces? Eight forces have implemented A19 already, another five are preparing to do so, and it is hard to see it not being brought into every police force before 2014.Of course, it is not all bad news. Many young, talented and aspiring staff will see opportunities open up for them in other sectors. One former top Sussex senior investigating officer, compelled to retire by A19, now has a job in the United States paying £125,000, and several others I have talked to are eagerly embracing the challenge of a new career. Their gain, but what a terrible loss to the police force – and ultimately the public it serves. Particularly when two former senior investigating officers from Sussex major crime branch, with over 65 years of homicide investigation experience between them, are reduced in today's thin job market to working as chauffeurs.I believe A19 puts us at risk of having a demoralised police force, stripped of its most experienced officers, and with a dangerous lack of incentive for new recruits to sign up. The government has hired former New York police commissioner Bill Bratton, who allegedly cleaned up the streets of New York with the introduction of his zero-tolerance policy. But it wasn't the policy alone that had such a positive impact. It was accompanied by trebling the number of police officers on the streets. Not by lopping 20% from their budget. Take note, home secretary.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree