Abu Hamza, the radical Muslim cleric, refused to appear on a video link to the Old Bailey today, complaining that he could not walk because his toenails were too long.Mr Hamza, 47, had been due to sit in a special room at Belmarsh prison in south London, to enter pleas to 16 charges, including soliciting murder, via a camera link to the court. However, as the recorder of London, Judge Peter Beaumont, barristers and police waited, a prison officer told the court that Mr Hamza was refusing to leave his cell. The officer said: "He is refusing to come over here. He is being checked over by medical staff. He is saying he is unable to walk." Mr Hamza's defence counsel, Paul Hynes, said: "He has been perambulating around the prison barefoot for the last couple of days. It is a long-standing problem." Mr Hynes said the defence was not ready, in any case, to enter pleas. Adina Ezekiel, prosecuting, said: "The Crown do have some concerns. He is complaining his toenails are too long." She asked that Mr Hamza be produced in person at the court for future appearances. Judge Beaumont remanded Mr Hamza back in custody for 14 days and ordered that, should any trial proceed, it would take place on July 4. The judge also asked for a report on Mr Hamza's medical condition and said future proceedings might have to be held at Woolwich crown court, which is nearer the prison. Mr Hamza has tried but failed to get bail on grounds of deteriorating health. He wears a hook on one arm, has one eye and suffers from diabetes and a skin complaint.The cleric is accused of ten charges under the Offences Against the Person Act of 1861 alleging he solicited others at public meetings to murder non-believers, including Jews. He also faces four charges under the Public Order Act 1986 of "using threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour with the intention of stirring up racial hatred". A further charge alleges Hamza was in possession of eight video and audio recordings, which he intended to distribute to stir up racial hatred. The final charge under section 58 of the Terrorism Act accuses him of possession of a document which contained information "of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism".Extradition proceedings to the United States, where Mr Hamza is wanted in relation to other matters, have been suspended pending the outcome of the criminal hearing. British officials have explained to their US counterparts that the UK government has no power to interfere with the legal process.