They call it the Market Square merry-go-round. From Thursday until Sunday night thousands of revellers pour into Nottingham's historic centre and crawl from pub to bar to club.Those turned away because they are not old enough might visit an off-licence that is prepared to turn a blind eye or persuade an older friend to buy them a bottle, then find a dark corner in which to drink it. By the time the Market Square clock begins to strike the early hours, most are staggering home or consummating new relationships in doorways. Others are getting into trouble: fighting or smashing windows or hatching drink-fuelled plans to do mischief. Of course, such behaviour has gone on across the country since the days of Robin Hood, but clever, aggressive marketing by powerful companies may be encouraging youngsters to drink - and get drunk - from a much earlier age. On offer are colourful, potent drinks with fruity flavours that disguise the taste of alcohol. Many are staggeringly cheap. Some are supplied in a new generation of brightly lit bars often providing live sport or music.  Marketing  Others that researchers believe are intended to tempt even younger drinkers are marketed through local shops and off-licences. Most are designed to be swigged from the bottle, making them easier to carry around - and hide if necessary. A study released to coincide with a World Health Organisation conference in Sweden last month must have made sobering reading for parents. Three in 10 Britons aged 14 to 16 said they had been drunk at least 20 times. Nearly one in 10 said their families did not know where they were on a Saturday night. Many researchers believe initiation to drink begins around the age of 11 but can come as early as eight. The average amount of alcohol consumed by 11- to 15-year-olds in 1990 was 0.8 units a week, according to the Office of National Statistics. By 1998 it was 1.6 units. About 1,000 children aged under 15 are admitted to hospital every year with alcohol poisoning. Why are young people drinking more and earlier? Strathclyde University researchers, in a study published in the magazine Addiction, examined in detail how drinks are marketed. They found that in Britain consumers, especially young people, appeared more willing to experiment than their counterparts in other countries. This was encouraging global producers to use British drinkers as guinea pigs. The study traced back drinking preferences among the young to the late 1980s, when strong, clear ciders and fortified wines with exciting names and bright packaging came on the market. The mid-1990s were the heydey of these alcopops, and by 1998 Britain's market in so-called flavoured alcoholic beverages was estimated at £750m. Today a new range of products includes pre-mixed cocktails and strong bottled beers. They share bright labelling and often outlandish names that appeal to the young. Quite how young remains a matter for debate. The Strathclyde team suggests that products such as Bacardi Breezers appeal to "established drinkers" - the 16- to 24-year-olds. But they believe that another range of stronger drinks is designed to attract "starter drinkers" aged 11 to 15. One product examined was MD 20/20, or "Mad Dog", a fortified wine with an alcohol concentration of 13.1% imported from America which comes in a range of fruit flavours. The drinks come in clear bottles which show off their bright contents. They have a screw top, so are easy to carry around. The researchers claim that Mad Dog meets the "needs and taste preferences of experimental drinkers". The taste of alcohol is disguised by the fruity flavours. The high alcohol content satisfies the need for "rapid intoxication". They also claim that the drink tends to be sold through smaller outlets which are less easy to regulate and less likely to enforce age limits. The Drinks Company, which imports MD 20/20, refused to say how many bottles it sold. Its joint managing director, Mike Gilmer, said there was no research on who drank the product but most drinkers would be over 25. It was "nonsense" to suggest it was aimed at children. The Portman Group, which was set up by Britain's leading drinks manufacturers and has a panel to examine naming, packaging and merchandising issues, has upheld complaints about some products which it thinks are trying to appeal to a younger crowd. But critics argue that the sanctions it can take are limited, and they are uneasy that the group was set up by manufacturers. The Strathclyde researchers believe that manufacturers "no longer think of themselves as in the alcohol business but in the mood-altering substance business". In recent years the Portman Group's panel has upheld complaints against a beer called Cannabis and a lager called Greenleaf Hemp. That importers and manufacturers even thought about trying to get such products into bars and off-licences seems to back up the point. The trend is particularly worrying because often young people with addiction problems take drugs and drink alcohol. Back in the centre of Nottingham, the tactics that bars and pubs use to draw youngsters in are obvious. Almost every venue has special offers, happy hours, theme nights. Libertys, for example, encourages drinkers to its "Frisky" Friday night. Admission is free and patrons can drink until 1am. Metz, a schnapps-based drink, is on offer at two for the price of one. At Weatherspoons pub on the square, its "Famous Five" of beers and ready-mixed cocktails are £1 each "all day, every day". The Palais nightclub has a range of offers to ensure that the venue is as full as possible all week. Thursday is billed as VFM (value for money) night, when all drinks are £1 before midnight. "Beat the clock," its jazzy website urges.  Violence  The drinks would probably be even cheaper were it not for a "gentleman's agreement" brokered by the police that bars will not sell for less than £1 each. But it does not stop the violence. In 1999 police responded to 1,704 calls to licensed premises in the city centre and made 529 arrests. The pattern is similar nationwide. A prison report found that a quarter of young inmates had been drinking before they committed their crime. The under-age know where they will be served. Indeed one city guide, itchy nottingham (sic), jokes that one bar accepts "bum fluff moustaches" as a form of ID. Dave, 18, is a regular of this establishment. "I've been drinking around the pubs and bars in Nottingham since I was 15," he said. "Before that I would get booze from off-licences. "Of course, there are fights and kids getting into trouble. That's the same the country over. It's what Britain is all about at the weekend, isn't it - getting pissed, causing a bit of trouble, having a laugh."