From the outside Carole Waugh had an enviable life. Living in a luxury £650,000 flat in central London, the 47-year-old was fond of her Cartier jewellery and liked to tell people about her close links to the Gaddafi family, whom she claimed to have met while working as an accounts clerk in Libya.Her family described her as loving, proud and fun-loving. Partial to luxury goods, somewhat preoccupied with money, she was single, independent and had lived on her own since moving from her home in a village in County Durham in her early 20s.But when her body was found in August last year, zipped in a holdall in the boot of a car in New Malden, south London, the police investigating her death discovered a life she had kept secret from her family. She worked as a part-time escort calling herself PoshTottyFun, and her loneliness led her into ill-advised friendships with the seasoned conman who stabbed her and hid her body before systematically emptying her bank accounts.At the Old Bailey the gambling-addicted conman Rakesh Bhayani, 41, was found guilty of murdering Waugh to fund his out-of-control gambling habit. She was killed in the bedroom of her Marylebone flat by a single stab wound to the neck on the night of 16-17 April, probably after asking Bhayani for the more than £40,000 he owed her.After paying a homeless man to buy the "biggest holdall you can find", Bhayani stuffed Waugh's body into the oversized bag, putting it in the boot of a car. Plans to burn Waugh's body in the Cotswolds were abandoned, and she was found in a lock-up garage on 2 August last year.Waugh, the Old Bailey heard, was something of a Walter Mitty character with "slightly fanciful" ideas about herself. As the prosecutor Patrick Gibbs put it, "she wanted to be thought of as successful, for others to think of her life as more interesting than perhaps it was". He described Waugh as someone who disguised some of her disappointments in life, and although she was good company she was "lonely and looking for love", which perhaps led her to look for work as a part-time escort.On AdultWork.com, under the pseudonym PoshTottyFun, Waugh described herself as "not a professional, but an enthusiastic amateur" who could give "the genuine girlfriend experience" and was interested in "good clean adult fun". When police contacted some of the men who had met Waugh through the site, several said she appeared to be less interested in the money than the company, sometimes telling clients they did not have to pay.It was through one such site that she met Bhayani, a married father of two with a dangerously out-of-control gambling addiction. She lent him £40,000 in February 2011 and paid him £12,000 to receive treatment for his gambling addiction. When he was arrested for fraud she wrote in a reference that he was "one of the good guys", and visited him in prison. Clearly she thought they were friends but, said Gibbs, "Mr Bhayani doesn't really do friends."Bhayani, who gave evidence during the trial, insisted they were. He said Waugh had agreed to be knowingly defrauded by him – planning to leave the country while he stole from her and claim the money back on insurance – in return for a share of the profits.But he was exposed as a consummate conman and fantasist, who had illegally remortgaged his brother's and parents' house without them knowing and recruited a series of lookalike women to pose as Waugh after her death. It was, at times, as though Bhayani was the star of his own drama. Bhayani was a "practised and extremely competent liar" with a love of luxury and flash cars, the court heard, and on the day that Waugh was murdered he posed in a Bond Street jewellery shop as a heart surgeon called Ricky Patel who had a sideline in property development. Accompanied by a woman, he attempted to buy a diamond ring worth £45,000 with counterfeit cash.Told that neither cash nor his Amex card would be accepted, he left, "tipping" the security guard who had guarded his car with a fake Rolex.On another occasion he convinced a homeless man and other friends to recreate a mock-up of a rehabilitation centre, telling them to pose as gambling addicts to make his wife believe when she came to meet him that he was receiving treatment for his addiction.After Waugh's death her bank accounts were steadily and systematically drained of funds and her credit cards maxed out, buying, among other items, gold bullion. Expensive jewellery she owned disappeared. All that remained were the two Cartier bracelets that she proudly wore on each wrist. They were found by officers on her corpse, the only remnant of the life she had so carefully constructed, and that the man who was convicted of her murder so quickly destroyed.