A 21-year-old man was arrested today in connection with the brutal murder of two French students at a bedsit in south London. Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez, both 23, were found at Bonomo's flat in New Cross, south London, on Sunday night. They had been stabbed more than 200 times, bound, gagged, and tortured over several hours.The Metropolitan Police said the man was arrested at 3.40am and is in custody at a police station in south-east London.Police, who said yesterday they were following several lines of inquiry, say the flat had been burgled a week earlier when a laptop was taken. Yesterday detectives said two games consoles appeared to have been stolen during the attack on Sunday night. They were also looking into the possibility that the students' bank cards were missing."The search of the address is not yet completed, but we have established that two Sony PSPs are missing and believe they were taken during the incident on Sunday when the two men were killed," said Detective Chief Inspector Mick Duthie, who is leading the investigation.Police believe the earlier burglary could be linked to the double murder as forensic experts have found no evidence of forced entry, suggesting a stolen set of keys may have been used.Detectives say they are unsure whether the attack was carried out by more than one person. They are also investigating the possibility that when the men arrived at the bedsit on Sunday the killer or killers were already inside.Yesterday Duthie said: "We are keen to hear from anyone who has recently been offered a laptop and two personal game consoles, or knows someone who has unexpectedly come to have them."Police say Bonomo and Ferez were "entirely innocent", with no criminal background in France or the UK. They were biochemistry students in the second year of a master's degree in France and had been selected to take part in a three-month research project at Imperial College London.Neighbours dialled 999 after an explosion blew the windows out and ignited a blaze shortly after 10pm on Sunday. One described hearing several loud bangs before seeing flames coming from the windows of the ground floor flat."I went outside to see what was going on and there were other residents banging on the door and shouting to see if anyone was in," said a 32-year-old man who lived above the bedsit."People were throwing water through the windows to try to put the fire out. Because there was no answer we thought there was no one in."Police said yesterday they were trying to trace a white man who was seen running from the flat moments after it exploded.Investigators believe a petrol-like accelerant was poured on or near the bodies, possibly in a bid to destroy evidence. A pathologist found 243 separate injuries to the badly-burned bodies, with Bonomo suffering 80 stab wounds after he died.Yesterday Ferez's grandmother, Réjane Ferez, said her grandson had been struggling to get to grips with life in London."Gabriel was emailing me right up until Sunday and made it clear that he was finding life in London tough," she said."It was not an easy place for him and Laurent to live. It was a harsh place. Laurent had to organise his life while spending up to 11 hours a day at college. Combined with all the other pressures of life in such a city, it was not easy."Detectives said yesterday they were following up on about 25 calls which have been received in relation to the murders.