A teenage chess star who died earlier this year after falling from a hotel window said in a videotaped police interview played to a court yesterday that she had been repeatedly raped by her bullying and possessive father.In the tape played at Guildford crown court, Jessie Gilbert, 19, who represented England at both the European and world chess championships, haltingly described how her father, Ian Gilbert, a successful city banker, first raped her when she was eight years old just before a holiday to Cornwall."I was asleep and he came in and sat down on the bed and I woke up. He put his hand over my mouth and then he took off my pyjama trousers and he raped me. I did not scream or anything. He put his hand over my mouth and I was really scared and he went away."During the 40-minute tape, recorded in 2004, Jessie said Mr Gilbert had come into her room at the family's home in Surrey and raped her on about nine occasions.She said: "It just happened occasionally over the next five years, not very often. He just came in at night and I just closed my eyes and pretended it was not happening."Mr Gilbert, 48, a director at the Royal Bank of Scotland from north London, pleads not guilty to five counts of raping his daughter between 1995 and 2000.The allegations came to light after Jessie, who got eight A-stars and an A in her GCSEs at Croydon high school, told friends her father had assaulted her. She said she had not mentioned it earlier as she did not want anyone to know. "I would still rather turn the clock back and not know," she said during the video. Jessie tried to commit suicide in May 2004, swallowing around 200 tablets from the kitchen cupboard. She fell to her death from a hotel window in July in the town of Pardubice, east of Prague in the Czech Republic. She had been in the country for an international chess tournament.Prosecuting, Dorian Lovell-Pank QC told the court: "It rather looks as though it was a real suicide attempt because she had hidden the packet [of drugs] so no one would find it and would not tell the hospital staff what she had taken."In a written statement the teenager, who was planning to study medicine at Oxford after leaving school, said that at the time she took the tablets she fully intended to take her own life.Yesterday the court heard that Mr Gilbert had told police during interviews that he loved his daughter and that as an accomplished chess player she was able to concoct "all sorts of scenarios in her mind".In her video interview Jessie described how her father had threatened to kill her if she told anyone about the attacks. She said the first attack lasted a few minutes and left her bleeding."I put my knickers and stuff back on but I got rid of them the next day. I chucked them away."She said the next incident happened at home shortly after her ninth birthday. "I just closed my eyes and pretended it wasn't happening. He didn't put his hand over my mouth, but he said don't say anything."One of the rapes took place during the Euro 96 football tournament, she said.Recalling another alleged attack, she said Mr Gilbert came upstairs and entered her bedroom unannounced. Earlier the court heard that Mr Gilbert had assaulted Jessie in 2003. He allegedly grabbed her by the throat after an argument about a computer. The police launched an investigation but no charges were brought.In a video interview recorded at the time Jessie said that her father made her life miserable by regularly belittling her and threatening her with violence.She said he used to come to her chess tournaments but would undermine her."He would stand over the board staring. If I won he would be boastful and show off and that was embarrassing; if I lost he just got really cross. It was not nice so I asked him not to come anymore."She added: "He is belittling and puts you down. If I do well at something he says it was easy. He says I'm not good at things and I'm stupid."He never says anything nice, just horrible, so I just avoid him ... I think he sees me as competition and as I have got older I have become more competition so he has been worse towards me."Jessie also said Mr Gilbert used to parade around the house naked and come into the bathroom while she was showering.The court heard how Mr Gilbert had subsequently left the family home.In the tape, Jessie said life had improved although she suffered recurring nightmares."I just want him out of my life. I am scared of him and I don't want to see him. I just wish he would go away."As well as her chess Jessie had enjoyed snowboarding and football, and had been doing the gold Duke of Edinburgh outward bound scheme, the court heard.The case continues today.