The building where the children's hearing panel convenes is more like a council building or modern medical centre than a court. There are no security procedures to negotiate, the room is light and airy and a jumbled pile of toys sprawled in one corner is a reminder that the futures of very young children are decided in this place.The panel, two women and a man who are all lay people and volunteers, sit behind a long table opposite a semi-circle of chairs, where the children, their parents, social, education and youth workers sit. The child is in the centre. The setup gives the feeling of a round-table affair, with all participants on the same level. The children's reporter, who monitors all panel hearings on behalf of the child, decides if a child or young person needs to go to a children's hearing, sits alone, recording proceedings and outcomes, but playing no part.The three hearings this morning are all, unusually, "offence referrals" as opposed to the average mix that includes children in need of care and protection. Without knowing that beforehand, it would be difficult to assess the reason for the children's appearance.Under Scottish law, it is an offence to publish anything that would identify the children and that embargo stretches to details of their actual offences. It is clear though that, in England and Wales, the behaviour that brought all three to these hearings, would have been a matter for the youth court system.The first to enter is a lad of 15, currently in a secure children's home. He is before the panel to decide if he is ready to move to less secure accommodation. A worker from the home, run by the local authority, tells the hearing that the boy is making excellent progress and that such a move would be beneficial. Paradoxically, it is the boy, himself, who seems to have the most doubts. He tells the panel that he is coping well within the home's clear boundaries; without them, he fears he may go back to his "old ways".We do not hear what these old ways were, other than being told that the boy's mother, sitting next to him, could not keep him under control. Whatever happened in the past, it is clear that mother and son are keen to eventually get back together again. The move to a less secure unit is ordered in the express hope that the next hearing will sanction a return home.The next hearing involves a 15-year-old girl. Until a few weeks ago, she had been living with her mother and mixing with the wrong crowd. A social worker had agreed a temporary placement with the father and this hearing is to decide on making the move permanent.Both parents are present and both agree that the girl is better off with her dad. He is in full-time work and inclined to "lay down the law" with his erstwhile errant daughter. A teacher, from her new school, is also present and tells the panel that, after a hesitant start, the girl is settling down well to her studies. A social worker reports that the family home is stable and that the move has been a change for the better.A telling moment comes from the father who, unprompted, tells the panel that he, himself, had been referred to the children's hearing system some 20 years earlier and that the experience had sorted him "right out".Then another 15-year-old girl follows. She had originally been referred for behaviour brought on, it was agreed, by drinking too much alcohol. Yet again, the actual offence is never referred to, with the panel seemingly only concerned with what is happening now. The girl's mother is present and the panel hears that the pair have moved home, away from a problem area, and that the drinking has stopped. There appear to be two other problems, though: the girl is not attending school and social workers have not been able to make contact.The girl tells the panel that the longer she had stayed away from school, the harder it was for her to go back and that, as she would be leaving school soon anyway, "what is the point?"A teacher, specialising in non-attendance, tells the panel that, having spoken at length with the child, she does not think mainstream education is the answer. It was agreed that the girl would receive education at home. A social worker admits that the lack of contact is partly due to technical difficulties in his department. An appointment is made to set up future contact and monitoring.The panel decides that the hearing will reconvene again for an update on progress.At the end of the hearings, the striking impression is the readiness of the children to engage, not only with the panel but with the other professionals. All three had been to hearings before and all three were clearly confident that their views were wanted and valued.Later I raised this point with the children's reporter present, and also commented on the lack of reference to the past behaviour that had brought the children to the hearing in the first place. She said that the panel's emphasis was on "needs, not deeds". And that "the children's views must be listened to".For this observer, it was a poignant experience. I left recalling my three appearances before juvenile courts many years ago, when I doubt that my total word count amounted to a modest sentence.