Detectives seeking the man who raped an Essex primary-school girl as she slept in her bed issued an artist's impression yesterday.Essex police released the image after the girl, who is between five and 10, managed to describe the suspect to the officers who have been liaising with the family since the attack last week at her home on the Craylands estate in Basildon. The picture shows a black man with unkempt hair, long on top and cut short above the ears. He is described as aged 18 to 20, skinny, and having "dirty teeth". On the night of the attack, the girl told police, he was wearing loose striped trousers with a metal loop or chain hanging from the belt, and a grey top with dark grey letter ing. He also wore a ring with the word Boyz or Boys on it. The police said that in cases of child rape it was accepted as good practice to have an artist work with the victim rather than try to assemble an E-Fit (Electronic facial identification technology). The detectives urged anyone who recognised the individual, even if not completely certain, to contact them. They are particularly interested to hear from witnesses who recognise someone of similar description with connections in the area. The girl, who has not been named, was attacked between 9.30pm on Wednesday and 8am on Thursday last week, while her mother, three siblings and two other children, who were sleeping over, were in the maisonette. Yesterday officers visited her school in Basildon to reassure anxious parents and speak to the pupils. They are also going to other local schools, to reassure pupils but also in hope of gaining additional information. Superintendent Glenn Caton said the girl, who is staying with relatives away from the estate, was "as well as can be expected", but there were no immediate plans for her to return to school. He said that he expected the results of forensic DNA samples taken from the house to be ready by the end of this week. "If DNA is found we will consider mass voluntary testing of people fitting the description from the area," he added. The police said they were dealing with the case as an incident of "stranger rape", because the girl did not seem to recognise her attacker. There were no signs of forced entry to the house. But they still believe the man may be local or know the area, which they say is "not necessarily a location someone outside Basildon would choose without prior knowledge". They said "a large number" of positive calls had been received from the public.