A mental health patient was detained indefinitely today for wounding his sister and stabbing to death his younger brother, with whom he had a close and loving relationship.A court in Bradford, West Yorkshire, was told that Daniel Taylor, 21, was suffering an abnormality of the mind when he turned on nine-year-old Jack – described by his family as "a lovely lad full of joy" – and stabbed him to death in February 2010. Taylor admitted manslaughter due to diminished responsibility at a hearing later that month.He was sent to Rampton special hospital by Judge James Goss QC, who was given a letter by a Taylor family friend saying: "It wasn't Daniel that took Jack's life, it was his illness."A serious case review is under way by Bradford safeguarding board into the care and support given to Taylor and his family by a community mental health team.Bradford crown court heard that his key worker was away at the time of the killing, and the delivery of a message from his increasingly concerned mother had been delayed because of staff training. Team members called at the family home later in the day but left after 20 minutes, concluding that there was no immediate problem or crisis.Simon Bourne-Arton QC, prosecuting, said that five hours afterwards, Taylor arrived at the home of his 19-year-old sister Rachel with a kitchen knife. She suffered serious injuries in tackling and disarming him, but he found another knife and repeatedly stabbed Jack. The boys' father arrived to see Taylor waiting outside and pointing to an alleyway, where he found his younger son's body.Taylor sat in court with several guards and carers, showing no emotion but occasionally looking across at his family. The court heard that he had often failed to take medication after being diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, and also had problems with alcohol and cannabis use.Giving evidence on a videolink from London, consultant psychiatrist Professor Nigel Eastman was asked whether heavy cannabis use, starting at the age of 14, might have contributed to the offences. He replied: "In my opinion they [the offences] were driven by his psychotic mental disorder."Bourne-Arton said Taylor had been monitored by care workers after discharge from hospital in 2009 but his condition deteriorated. He claimed to be hearing voices and his mother contacted the mental health team after finding that he had burned a picture of himself and was due a benefits payment which she feared he would spend entirely on cannabis.Goss said he was satisfied that Taylor presented a continuing danger to himself and others. He offered the court's condolences to the family who "had provided loving support to their son throughout his illness and had suffered a terrible tragedy".In a statement after the attack, the family said: "Jack loved his family and his family loved him. He particularly looked up to his older brother Daniel."They were identical as kids – so alike – both of them were bright and quick. Jack learned a lot from his brother and he loved him and his brother loved Jack. He was a kind, caring and funny little lad. He lightened everybody's hearts."Detective Superintendent Sukhbir Singh, who led the inquiry by West Yorkshire police, said after the hearing that Taylor had not given any explanation for his attack on the brother he loved.