Raoul Moat's 49-page handwritten note, given to a friend to hand to the police, is headed "Raoul Moat murder statement 4/7/10", and reveals in vivid detail his confusion, anger and murderous intent.Its length indicates his desire to be comprehensive. Page one sets out how he "will make all the facts clear so there is no missunderstanding [sic]". But in fact, the letter reveals a confused mind.Moat's explanation of how he fell for Samantha Stobbart is touching at first but quickly turns dark, revealing his violent past that, according to acquaintances, includes moving in criminal circles in the north-east."The first six months was fantastic, and we filled both our needs and it was very clear to me that Sam was 'the one'," he writes. "Never ever had anyone devoted themselves to me like this, and this was my turning point. All my life I wanted death, hence the reason I took risks, made the worst kind of enemies and behaved the way I did. Shot at three times during my life yet didn't care, but now I had different thoughts. I wanted life with my Sam. Someone who understood me."Yet, pages later, he explains the way he justified shooting the same woman in cold blood at about 2.30am on Saturday, having eavesdropped on her conversation with her new boyfriend for 90 minutes.He writes: "I reloaded two customised rounds. One for Sam, one for him [Chris Brown, whom he had already shot twice]. Sam's was half the powder, with small-gauge pellets. With a superficial injury she would get massive compensation payout for her and Chanel's [their daughter's ]future … there would be small scarring, reminding her not to ever do this to anyone again. How could she have done this to me?"I put the third round into his head and went to the window and fired at Sam. It hit but she seemed OK, but I paused to be sure. She crawled to the kitchen quickly and hid behind the door. I looked around for anyone else to shoot, there was no one, looked back at Sam, went to shoot myself, then changed my mind."The letter was written on sheets of lined paper, mostly in capital letters, which a handwriting expert said indicated anger, aggression and arrogance. Simone Tennant-Smith, a graphologist, said the occasional lower-case letters hinted at childishness and insecurity.Moat repeatedly explains his motivation, appearing to allude to his recent prison sentence for hitting a child, to allegations that he hit his girlfriend and to his fury at the police. A sense of injustice courses through the document."Last night I called 999 and declared war on Northumbria police before shooting an officer on the West End A69 roundabout in his T5," he said. "Sitting there waiting to bully someone. Probably a single mum who couldn't afford her car tax. Rang again and told them they're gonna pay for what they've done to me and Sam. I went straight but they couldn't let it go."The public need not fear me but the police should as I won't stop till I'm dead … They took it all from me, kids, freedom, house, then Sam and Chanel. Where could I go from there? … Obviously I have issues, but I was pushed. I never beat my kids. I could simply admit to anything now cos it doesn't matter. I'm a killer and a maniac but I ain't no coward … I guess I've finally lost it. I'm not on the run, I will keep killing police until I am dead. They've hunted me for years, now it's my turn."He talks of exhaustion: "I've slept 1 hour per night for three weeks now and am chomping my jaw like I'm on extacy [sic]. I thought it was the medication, but I've been off since I came out. It feels like I'm watching a film, not real at all."He signs off by returning to his anger over his treatment by Stobbart: "I never cheated on her, I wish she hadn't cheated on me. She pulled the trigger by doing so just as much as me."