In a week of amplifying discord – of cacophonous shrieks and political posturing – one voice stood out. On a Birmingham street, through the pain of intolerable loss, Tariq Jahan resolutely called for calm and, for a second, almost all of us were silenced. His soft-spoken dignity struck with incredible force. Apparently, when we see moral integrity, we still recognise what we're looking at.But there was precious little agreement about what moved us in the voice of this extraordinary ordinary man, whose son was killed during riots in Birmingham. Lady Warsi, who – along with Peter Hitchens and the youth worker Shaun Bailey – led the hectoring chorus demanding the return of morality, confessed her admiration. As is usual in such moments, cultural conservatism appointed itself sole guardian of our moral compass. And equally predictably, confronted with palpable public anger and anxious about being seen as soft, liberal values gave the ground.If Warsi and co are to be believed, the story is simple. There are the upstanding, law-abiding forces of right thinking. And then there is the feral mob so marinated in entitlement that they either have no idea it's not OK to burn down people's houses, or are too insatiable to care. The choice is clear – either morality or its absence, a society held in check by rules and responsibility or a society consumed by chaos.According to Hitchens, Melanie Phillips and Bailey, echoed by the prime minister, David Cameron, the sudden shocking outbreak of virulent acquisitiveness was largely down to fatherlessness – a situation that is not, it should be noted, the responsibility of men, but of feminism, and a feminised state which makes the mistake of trying to look after people and, in particular, doles out both contraception to young women and cash to single mothers. Authoritarianism is nothing if not gendered. Basically amoral animals, human beings are nine parts unbridled desire, as dangerous to social fabric as a licentious woman left unchecked. All that womanly caring only serves to encourage their depravity. For, make no mistake – salvation can only be delivered by the law, and the law, underwritten by blood, can only be delivered by men.Thus Phillips and Hitchens laid the responsibility for violence perpetrated mostly by young men at the door of women. Women who go around sleeping with whoever they please. Women who refuse to submit to their fathers and husbands. Women who have chased their men away and then expect the bloated nanny state to support them. Women who are, by their very nature, incapable of imposing on their children the law of the father which alone would make them moral.At stake in this narrative are crucial notions about what morality is, what human beings are like at base and how it is they come to be decent. But this is not a conflict between morality and a free-for-all. It is a dispute between two alternative moral visions – and now, when fear inclines many to clamour for more discipline and punishment, it is especially important to make the case for a non-punitive account of ethical responsibility, which is grounded in relation and compassion and care. Human beings need clear boundaries, but the law alone – and the fear of its violence – never made anyone who wasn't moral. Rather, internalised morality resides in the complex interplay between self-respect and the recognition that other people matter.Authoritarianism rests on the belief that we're basically a bunch of wanton egoists who will just take-take-take unless we are – more or less metaphorically – beaten into shape. An ethic of care would counter that, if their basic needs are met, humans will come to understand their lives as necessarily enmeshed with other beings who – just like them – have needs that also demand respect and responsiveness. Compassion – the feeling with and for another – is a fundamental human capacity, but, as we were reminded this week, it is fragile. It succumbs easily to anxieties about our security, to the tendency to project our terror and rage outside ourselves. And what is true of adults is doubly so of children and young people. Very few have ever learned to respect the needs of others by having many of their needs denied, nor to resist brutality by being brutalised themselves.It is a profound mistake to cede the sphere of moral discourse to those who think our future can only be secured with rubber bullets. Our children need guidance and training, to be taught by strong, stable adults, who tell – and show – them, that decency means not trampling over other people's needs. But to suggest that mothers – who dedicate themselves to the daily work of care – are congenitally incapable of imparting morality to their children, speaks volumes about the punitive morality being advocated by Bailey and the like. Surely, by now, we understand something about the recursivity of violence, about the difference between engaging the world in fear, and in compassion. When Jahan stood in that Birmingham street, he stilled the conflict by speaking both from and to love. If, after coming together to pick the debris off our streets, we are to pick up the pieces of our future, we would do well to heed him for more than just a moment.