Is it a crackdown on "yob culture" or a climbdown? Government sources insisted yesterday no decisions had yet been made on whether to introduce night courts into the criminal justice system. The announcement followed a leak to the Guardian, Times and Independent of an evaluation report on two pilot night-court schemes in Manchester and London. The unpublished report points to three serious shortcomings: much higher costs; a shortage of cells to hold offenders; and low numbers being brought before them.The idea of night courts was first floated by the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, after visiting similar courts in New York. He had long protested over the delays in the British criminal justice system. He believed the New York practice of immediate custody or fines would be a more effective deterrent to crime. Tony Blair seized on the idea in the run-up to last year's general election in a speech promising a crackdown on "yob culture". Both the Home Office and the Lord Chancellor's Department expressed reservations, which the leaked report appears to uphold. Many cases had to be adjourned as paperwork and evidence were not available. Seriously intoxicated people - from drink or drugs - clearly need time to sober up before being brought before a court. Further complications were created by already overcrowded prisons refusing to accept late admissions and an inadequate number of police cells. Undoubtedly, there would have been some resistance from probation officers, lawyers and court staff too to having to work until midnight.Even before the trials were launched at Downing Street's insistence, the proposals had been scaled down. Few persistent offenders were brought before the court. Most cases involved begging, which usually gets a caution, or shoplifting. There is nothing wrong in abandoning an idea tested in a pilot scheme. Indeed, that is the whole purpose of a trial scheme. Too many policies have been pursued by this government before pilots have had sufficient time to report. But Downing Street made two serious mistakes. First, not taking the departmental reservations seriously. Second, its failure to recognise that what works in the US will not necessarily work here. The US has more cells and promotes faster justice through plea-bargaining. Differences in culture cannot be ignored.