On New Year's Day 2003, I witnessed the murder of two men at a party in London. One of them was my friend's brother. A week later, another friend's cousin, 25-year-old Keiron Bernard, a local DJ and record producer, died after being shot in the chest during a gun battle in which four shots were fired from two handguns in a Nando's restaurant in Shepherd's Bush, west London. Two years later, 24-year-old Jermaine Abbot, the man who was accused and acquitted of Bernard's murder, and whom I had grown up with, was himself shot. He died a few months later from his injuries. Sadly, these were not my first encounters with death. In 1998, my friend's cousin, Rudy King, was shot repeatedly as he sat in his car in Willesden, north London. The following summer, Dean Roberts, the boyfriend of my best friend's heavily pregnant sister, was gunned down on Furness Road, in nearby Harlesden.In those years, I did not reveal one bit of emotion or stress. Beneath the surface, I was deeply troubled by this continuous carnage. I began having nightmares about my brothers being shot dead. I became incessantly overprotective, wanting to know their whereabouts and cautioning them as they were about to go out.On a sunny evening on July 23 2002, my fears were realised. I remember everything - the sterile smell of the hospital, the awkward silence in the waiting room, the solemn faces that spilled into the corridor, and the waiting. I didn't believe my aunt's hopeful singalong prayers because I already knew that Junior was gone. I knew it the moment I took the call."They shot him ..." daddy howled. I collapsed and threw my mobile as far away from me as possible. I remember screaming repeatedly, "No, why?" as my friend Tania took my mobile. Ediri, another close friend who had been talking outside, rushed into the room to find me screaming in a foetal position on the floor; she cradled me in her arms. Paralysed, in complete shock, I continued to bellow. Looking back, I realise how difficult that must have been for the girls, but I'm thankful for having them there. They were incredibly strong and supportive. A friend of ours had stopped by earlier, and he drove us to the hospital. Ediri and Tania had to pack me into the car like a box marked fragile. I sat in the back with my head pressed against the window. A million things were racing through my mind as I repeated to myself, "Please don't die, please don't die, please don't die ..." We saw my younger sister June walking along the road. I searched her face for some indication that she already knew, but she didn't. I asked my friend to stop the car - I desperately wanted to tell her what had happened. But he told me not to. "She's too young, don't tell her on the street," he said. June, who was only 14, greeted us excitedly. I told her to go home right away. I don't know how I managed not to burst into tears and blurt out the truth right there and then. I suppose my big sister instincts took over. She still sensed something was wrong, though. She kept asking, "What's going on? Are you OK?" I felt terrible sending her home and driving away. My stepmum's and sister's roaring cries engulfed the hallway of the hospital. We raced towards them to find them slumped on the cold floor. My legs gave way. My stepmum and sister both fainted. Nurses came to their aid. My girlfriends shrouded me as the chorus of cries clapped like thunder around us. Junior looked so peaceful lying on the hospital bed, even with all those wires attached to his body. His almond-shaped eyes were slightly open so that he looked as if he was drifting to sleep. I held his hand. Still rough, still you, I thought. I know these hands perfectly. Stroking his face, I took in every detail, desperate to remember it; all the while I was speaking to him, hoping that he would wake up. "I love you so much, Junior," I whispered repeatedly as I kissed him softly, clutching his hand. I needed him to hear me say it. I was in agony knowing that I had never told him I loved him until then. The doctors hesitantly told us that they were going to switch off the respirator. We defiantly resisted. "Do something. Can't you do something? Come on, you must be able to save him - you're doctors. He's my brother. My brother can't die. Please don't let him die," my brothers protested through shocked tears.On July 24 2002 at 3.10am, they switched off the respirator and Junior was declared dead. Junior was 18 when he was gunned down outside our flat in White City, west London, while my stepmum and father sat in the living room and my elder brother was in his bedroom. He had left the flat minutes earlier, and had noticed two young men hanging around who, according to my cousin, both he and Junior had seen acting suspiciously earlier. Junior approached them, an argument ensued and one of the men, whom we later learned was Mustafa Egal, took out a gun and aimed it at Junior. Junior turned and ran. Egal shot Junior in the back and then in the head. My cousin, who was sitting in a car nearby, recalls hearing the shots and getting out of the car and starting to run, believing Junior was running behind him. My stepmum, dad and brother all heard the shots from inside. My dad was the first one out of the door; he recalls looking over the balcony and seeing Junior lying face down on the ground and the young men nearby. He raced down the stairs and pursued the young men, shouting, "You killed my son! You killed my son!"Egal aimed his gun at my dad and pulled the trigger, but it jammed. Daddy leaped towards him, but he was beyond his reach and ran off. By this time my stepmum and older brother were by Junior's side and daddy joined them. Shortly after Junior's murder, his childhood friend revealed to my family that Egal had confessed, saying: "Man didn't mean to kill your brethren, but he was running his mouth." He also told the police of Egal's confession and agreed to give evidence in court. My brothers felt humiliated and wanted revenge, and I did too. I understood the pressure they were facing; the expectation that they would avenge Junior's death, and the inevitable ridicule their failure to do so would bring. However, the fear of losing another brother to death or prison made me determined to dissuade my brothers, much to their irritation. Eventually I closed ranks with my parents and sisters to assist Trident - the Metropolitan Police unit that investigates gun crime in the black community - with their investigation. It was my father and the women in my family that pleaded with witnesses to come forward. We worked alongside Trident to ensure justice for Junior, even when it threatened to tear us apart. On March 2004, at Croydon Crown Court, I came face to face with Mustafa Egal for the first time. It was hard to believe that this scrawny man with beady eyes, who seemed barely out of his teens, had taken Junior from us.Egal's conviction rested on our witnesses' testimony. In court, daddy proved unflappable. He looked Egal dead in the eye and declared: "That is the man that killed my son." A man who lived in a neighbouring flat also testified, stating that he and his wife had seen Egal wearing gloves and running with a young man from the direction Junior had been shot. Devastatingly, our key witness - Junior's childhood friend - became a hostile witness and denied that Egal had confessed killing Junior to him. Nevertheless, the jury convicted Egal of the murder of Junior and the attempted shooting of my father. He was sentenced to 17 years, three months and 28 days' imprisonment, which seems lenient beside the now mandatory 30-year life sentence for murder. Since then, many others have followed Egal to prison. In August 2006, Joel Smith was jailed for life, with a recommendation that he serve a minimum of 40 years for the killing of seven-year-old Toni-Ann Byfield, and 33 years for the murder of Bertram Byfield, the man she knew as her father. In 2006, Rohun Chung was given three life sentences at the Old Bailey, of which he has to serve at least 40 years for the murders of Connie Morrison, 27, her sister Lorna, 34, and their mother's partner, Noel Patterson, a 62-year-old cleaner, in Harlesden - a revenge killing after their brother allegedly double-crossed Chung in a drug deal. Lorna's eight-month-old baby son Christanio was found crawling among their bodies on the bedroom floor 16 hours later. "No one takes me for a pussy," Chung told a female witness as he vowed to kill the family.These convictions are testimony to the fortitude and diligence of Trident, and the tremendous courage of the witnesses who testified in court. One such person is Sophie Lewis who, on the prompting of her father, testified against her ex-boyfriend, Ricky Sweeney, for the murder of Dean Roberts. Sophie survived two separate assassination attempts ordered by Sweeney to prevent her giving evidence. Since the shootings of teenagers Charlene Ellis and Letisha Shakespeare in Birmingham in 2003, special measures were implemented to protect witnesses' identities. Unfortunately, the fear of such reprisals and a deeply embedded culture of not snitching make witnesses reluctant to testify, which has meant that many families are living with the unsolved murders of their loved ones. The startlingly high number of teenagers killed in Britain last year, most of them in London, is a clear indication that gun crime is a serious problem. Homegrown British black boys have replaced the gun-blazing Jamaicans of the 90s. And yet, most of the time, no one seems to take much notice. The shooting of 11-year-old Rhys Jones in Merseyside shocked the public out of their complacency. So did the spate of killings in February last year: three boys, 16-year-old James Andre Smartt-Ford, 15-year-old Michael Dosunma and 15-year-old Billy Cox, were all shot dead in south London in the space of 11 days. It is no coincidence that all three lived, and were murdered, in impoverished areas that are Trident "hotspot boroughs", where the social ills of absent positive male role models, poverty, social alienation, school exclusion, low educational attainment and crime are endemic. Many working-class black children, particularly boys, are socialised to accept patriarchal violence as the norm, and it becomes a necessary means of survival. Their emasculation from early childhood in mainstream society manifests into rage that over time diminishes their self-esteem. In its place comes macho posturing. You only have to talk to young black men to see how it works. Sixteen-year-old Robert describes growing up in Brixton as, "Hard. We can't go nowhere without police following behind us or just stopping us on the road." He explains that from the age of nine or 10 he was regularly accosted by the police. At one time or another, most black males have experienced such institutional humiliation, irrespective of their social class and age. This, coupled with British society's promotion of material wealth as the single most important indicator of success, has produced a generation of discontented, violent teenagers. Kane, a young black man who had been convicted and imprisoned for possession of a firearm, tells me of his experience growing up in south London: "I grew up on the estate. Everyone is living in poverty. So, you look to who's ever looking good, who ever is making life look interesting. You either want girls or money, or both. I saw the guys and they were doing their thing and that's who were my role models." He went on to say: "I suppose you want the fast money now. You don't want to go the long way. I suppose it's much more of a struggle for someone who hasn't got a rich father to go through uni. And then you're going back and forth to uni every day, you come home and see this guy down the road who seems to have everything that you want and you're trying to strive for. It depends what you want. I'm talking more material things, but then I suppose I'm more materialistic because I've seen what material things can do." Kane is currently in prison for possession of cocaine. Gun culture is a cycle in which victims and perpetrators are interchangeable. Take, for instance, Ricky Sweeney, who was in his early teens when his older brother Rudy King was murdered. I knew Ricky, and introduced him to my best friend, the sister of Dean Roberts' girlfriend. Neither of us knew then that Ricky had killed Dean. Then there's Marcus Ellis, convicted and imprisoned for his part in the drive-by shooting of partygoers that killed his half-sister Charlene Ellis, along with Letisha Shakespeare; and Adrian Wanogho, suspected and acquitted of the murder of Damian Cope in 2002 only to be gunned down himself four years later. Regrettably, I could go on.To their friends and family, most gun perpetrators are not evil killers but victims of circumstance. Kane told me: "I never really felt love, in a sense of - I don't know, how can I explain it - inside, deep down, nothing really bothered me. I can't really explain it. It's just a feeling within ... I feel, when you hold it deep inside it just makes you want to give out pain. You don't really care about other people because you feel no one cares about you." I think I understand Mustafa Egal: only 22 years old when he murdered my brother, he is simply one of a disproportionate number of young black males who find themselves embroiled in a genocidal street culture. The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, acknowledges that gun crime represents the biggest problem in Britain after terrorism. But millions of pounds and hours of police time are put into countering terrorism, and the government is unwavering in its committment to see off this threat. Why aren't the same resources, the same commitment, given to countering gun and knife crime? Given that so many perpetrators are also victims, the government's knee-jerk reaction of stauncher law enforcement is never going to be enough. It is disgraceful that in 2008 there is not a centralised, government-funded programme that is focused on working with young people identified as being at risk of engaging in criminality. The plethora of existing initiatives, many of which are community led, are doing good work, and yet are grossly underfunded. And it is disgraceful, too, that so few people are seriously addressing the social inequalities that leave the most disadvantaged within the black community so bereft. In our wealthy, materialistic society, young people are not going to stop wanting material things. The government must make a serious commitment to challenging structural inequality, and make sure that all young people have the skills and opportunities needed to make money, so that they no longer feel crime is their only option. Finally, though Trident is now focusing on how guns are imported and distributed, much more needs to be done to stop firearms from getting into the hands of our young people. As for me, I am now an independent adviser to Trident, and am proactively challenging gun crime at both government and grassroots level. This activism - and the transcendence from pain that it has brought - has become Junior's legacy.