Because my father beat my mother, sometimes into bloody unconsciousness, I have reflected every day of my life since then on the violence men do to women. What causes it? What moves them? In my father's case, I suspect it was jealousy (not even drink, that common trigger), but why beat my mother half to death because, for instance, she fell into a close friendship with another woman - not even a man? He was not mad. He was a man of some standing, a pillar of the community, quite jolly even. But I have seen him sitting at the dinner table, with we three, frozen-faced children, shouting at our mother to get up and serve him while she lay unconscious on the floor.Somebody did actually say to me once that it was the norm then (before the war) for men to beat their wives. I only know that none of our friends' mothers was ever seen with black eyes and mountainous bruises, as our mother was. I have heard since that some men batter their wives more carefully so that the bruises do not show. Whatever the case, domestic violence goes on, as we know. Indeed, a police survey published recently revealed that in the UK someone is beaten, stabbed or raped in their own home every 20 seconds, and that 80% of these victims are women. Fortunately, some of them can escape now into women's refuges, boltholes that did not exist in our mother's day, to which they can take their wounded selves and their wounded children for some respite.Our mother had no such choices. She did not escape until, in the turmoil of war, she was able to meet someone else willing to rescue her and take us all on, albeit into poverty. She took with her a dreadful burden of guilt. The stigma attached to illegitimacy was awesome then and, as my father had an abandoned legal wife and children somewhere, we three were illegitimate and it preyed heavily on our mother that we might one day find out. We did, of course, because my father, as a final punishment to her, told us when we were in our early teens. It upset her unbearably and I could never convince her that I did not care. I did not. My two brothers did. So he hurt them in hurting her, which is what such men do. Of course, he hurt us all in a thousand ways. Some years later, my mother, burdened by guilt, despair and physical ill health, killed herself.I hated him. I hated him then and I hate him now, though he has been long dead. I hate not only what he did to our mother, but what he did to us. If he did not beat us, we were wounded just the same, as the children whom battered women take into refuges with them, even if not physically injured, are wounded for ever.It is difficult to plumb the minds of children who are victims of, or witness to, gross violence. They do not talk about it, certainly. Even my brothers and I never mentioned it between ourselves. I think we were always simply afraid, believing that life was like this and you had no choice but to live it, just as child victims of even gross sexual abuse in the family can come to believe it is normal. The thought of asking for help was impossible. Who would you ask, and why should they help? If your father did such terrifying things, other people might. Or they might do it to you. So you shut up. The only person I ever mentioned it to in my childhood was my own father when I once got him alone and begged him to stop hitting our mother. He had the grace to look embarrassed, and promise. The following day he broke her nose.Other, more subtle, damage that he caused his children did not become clear to me until many years later. We were a fairly bright bunch and we did well enough at school, warily conforming and obeying, too frightened to be naughty, smart enough to know that this was the safest way. For myself, I recall doing exactly what was expected of me, never questioning anything, believing everything I was told and never using my brain at all except as a storehouse for facts. That went on for decades. Only perhaps 40 years later did I begin to question things I heard, read, had previously believed. Now I question everything.That is something fear does to children: it paralyses their intellects. I often ponder what I might have done if my brain had not been deadened so long by that childhood trauma. I have managed minor things, got minor qualifications, written half-a-dozen mediocre children's books, but I know quite well I could have done lots more, great big things, if only my mind had opened up long ago.I saw such mind-closure in quite a lot of traumatised children when I was teaching eight-year-olds for a year in an inner-city school. These children were all from poor tenement, often rat-infested, homes and many came dirty and breakfastless to school. But despite the poverty, some - the few from loving homes - were happy learners. Those who were not were the ones from violent homes. They were easy to spot, the ones who sat dull-eyed, quiet, expressionless, obedient, trying to do what they were told - as I used to - or, at the other extreme, rampaged around the classroom doing violence themselves. Some came injured on their own account, with cigarette burns, sliced ears, bruises, as well as their other, invisible injuries."How on earth," I asked one child in horror, "did you ever get that bruise?" It was like a map of India, down the whole side of his face. "My dad done it," said Mark expressionlessly. "He was drunk."Some learned more than others, but most did not learn much. How could they? They were working too hard at surviving.Nowadays when I read of these disturbed and disturbing children, I simply wonder what violence goes on in their homes. Because some does, without a shadow of doubt. Child criminals likewise. Home is where we should look for answers, including, and perhaps even especially, in local authority homes.As for my own brothers, the bright one, the apple of my mother's eye, escaped the poverty we had landed in by joining the Boys' Service of the Royal Navy where, troubled and not very happy, he learned to fly and to drink too much. At 23, top of his year, he had earned his commission and his wings. I went to his passing-out parade. Three months later he was dead, killed in a flying accident. I see him as doomed from the beginning; the base he took off from, high-flier that he was, too fragile.My other brother found himself a safe little niche in life and stayed there, quietly surviving, never asserting himself, almost invisible, fearful from the word go.One way and another fear followed us all. I grew up suspicious of men, unable to sustain relationships with them, always looking for some reason to dump the latest, which I usually did with some measure of contempt. I found it hard even to work for a man and actually left one job because I was expected to make coffee for the boss man. What, serve one of them? The miracle is that I was able to marry one and be happy with him. A sweet-natured, patient man, he put up with my neuroses, my suspicions, my temper, without ever giving in. It was a long time before I trusted him, but I did in the end. Happiness began to take shape.I recognise his kind of goodness quite often now. I know he was not the only good man ever born. And I had him for a little while. We had three perfect babies very quickly before he died of a brain haemorrhage. None of his children remembers him. If they had been able to, perhaps my still only semi-dormant hang-ups would not have rubbed off on our two daughters. But they have. I see in them the same wary hostility towards men, the same readiness to sink their teeth in, that afflicted and still afflicts me. So you see what a legacy my violent swine of a father has left, how poison seeps down through the years. All violent, brutal fathers leave legacies like that. All I can hope is that, among the wife-beaters who read this, there will be some able to spare a thought for the damage they are doing, alongside their women's broken bones, to the children they presumably profess to love. Joanne Webster is a pseudonym