Families of 23 alleged victims of Harold Shipman, jailed for life last month for killing 15 of his patients, reacted angrily yesterday to news that the doctor will face no more murder charges."I'm outraged that the CPS is not going to proceed," said Suzanne Bennison, whose grandmother Edith Brock died in November 1995. "If they think they can appease me by shoving a letter through my door and thinking I will go away quietly, they have chosen the wrong person." John Hibbert, son of Hilda Hibbert, who died in a chair at home four years ago, said: "Shipman has literally got away with murder." David Calvert-Smith QC, the director of public prosecutions, told the families of his "reluctant" and almost unprecedented decision not to proceed with new charges in letters delivered to their homes by courier early yesterday. "I have reluctantly concluded that there are insurmountable legal difficulties to further trials taking place," he told them. After giving his reasons, Mr Calvert-Smith added: "I hope my explanation is to some degree helpful to you and that you will in time be able to come to terms with your tragic loss." Mr Calvert-Smith has overruled detectives who are convinced that Shipman killed the 23 women, all of whom were cremated. Although certain to be almost as disappointed as the families, they are unlikely to offer any public criticism of the DDP's decision. They will, however, continue to investigate 30 cases which came to light after Shipman's trial finished at Preston crown court. Mr Calvert-Smith acknowledged in a statement that there was enough evidence for a second or even a third trial and admitted that his decision was exceptional. "I have had to consider the effect of the enormous publicity upon any further trial of Harold Shipman on new charges, and that he has already been sent to prison for the rest of his natural life," he said."In reaching this decision, I have been acutely aware of the distress of relatives of the deceased and the understandable desire of some of them for a further public trial in a criminal court." He said "a considerable majority" of the relatives of the alleged victims had accepted that a new trial could not take place and added that further proceedings could delay or hamper the progress of the public inquiry due to go ahead in Manchester. "Normally a decision to prosecute would automatically follow if there is enough evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction of murder," he said. "But this has been an exceptional and, I hope, unique case." He said any decision about the deaths of Shipman's other alleged victims would now be a matter for John Pollard, coroner of Tameside, Greater Manchester. "I am now going to assess the whole Shipman situation fully," said Mr Pollard. "I will consider the inquests already opened, plus possible inquests on the other 23 alleged victims." But even if Mr Pollard goes ahead with inquests on the 23 women, the absence of forensic evidence could mean relatives would not secure the verdicts they want. Shipman, from Hyde, Greater Manchester, was convicted of murdering 15 women patients with lethal injections of diamorphine. After a four-month trial Mr Justice Forbes recommended he should spend the rest of his natural life behind bars. Mr Hibbert contacted police about his mother's death when the murder inquiry began in 1998 and was later told that the evidence was conclusive. "I was a bit disappointed that her case was not included in the original trial. But I understand that it wasn't practical to confront the jury with endless charges. "Nevertheless, he was an evil monster running amok and getting away with it." Mrs Bennison added: "I have had to wait three long weeks since the trial finished to hear something that I didn't want to hear. "I'm finding it very difficult to comprehend what the DPP's letter means by insurmountable legal difficulties. "It seems the British legal system has nothing in place for something like this. "If Shipman confessed, I would be happy. I don't want him to be given another life sentence for Edith Brock. I want him either to admit what he did or for there to be some legal method whereby the finger can be pointed at him. His guilt has to be publicly recognised."