Most turn up in trainers or tough old boots, but Debbie Stallard arrived to do her community service in shiny black leather boots with impressive four-inch heels.Officials patiently explained that the fashionable footwear was simply not appropriate for the sort of manual work she was expected to take part in, only to be told by Stallard that she had to wear high heels because of a medical condition.No compromise could be found and Stallard found herself back in court explaining why she could not wear flat footwear because of the shape of her feet.Stallard, a newsagent from Paignton, Devon, was convicted on 16 February of two counts of damaging a vehicle and one of failing to provide a breath specimen. To pay off her debt to society, she was due to do 80 hours of unpaid work such as cleaning graffiti and mending fences.A probation officer, Heidi Randle, told Torquay magistrates: "She attended on the date required but was sent away because she was wearing four-inch heels. The shoes were not in line with health and safety requirements. She stated she wore them because of a medical problem and could wear open-toed shoes."Shoes have to be flat and not open. We tried to contact the GP in this case and received a letter which was non-committal and does not say anything specific about wearing flats."Stallard claims she has had the condition since infancy and walks on the balls of her feet rather than the heel. Her solicitor, John Darby, told the court: "My client has always lived on her toes. She has always worn heels and in her last job had to sign a disclaimer so she could wear high heels to work. She can't walk in flats."On Friday, magistrates ordered a full medical report and adjourned the case. Outside court, Stallard, 47, said: "It's health and safety gone mad. I was made to feel stupid, like I had gone there wearing them deliberately ‑ but that is not the case. I'm just not able to wear flat shoes. The boots I wore are what I would consider sensible. They weren't open-toed stilettos or anything like that."I've always walked on the balls of my feet. My heels don't naturally hit the ground. It was a nightmare a couple of years ago when flat shoes were the fashion. It's impossible to go to the gym because I'm told I can only go if I have trainers. I can't even wear them. The only ones I would be able to wear are the platform ones, like the Spice Girls used to have."Even my slippers have a two-and-a-half inch heel. Apparently there are ways to correct the problem but I don't want to go through that now."A Probation Service spokesman said: "We take the health and safety legislation for offenders very seriously. Ms Stallard was offered protective footwear but refused to comply. We had no option but to return the order to court for magistrates to resentence as they see fit."