Three Britons were yesterday jailed for a total of 85 years in Cork for taking part in a bungled cocaine smuggling operation.Drugs worth €440m (£345m) were recovered from the sea off south-west Ireland last summer after an inflatable dinghy being used to bring the shipment ashore suffered engine failure and capsized.One of the gang, it emerged, had put diesel rather than petrol into the tank.Perry Wharrie, 48, from Essex, and Martin Wanden, of no fixed address, who is wanted for drug smuggling in France, were each sentenced to 30 years in prison. Joe Daly, 41, from Kent, was given 25 years. They were found guilty, by unanimous verdicts, of drug possession. Another man, Gerard Hagan, 24, also from England, had earlier admitted possessing a far smaller quanitity of cocaine.The drugs - the largest consignment ever seized in the Irish Republic - were destined for dealers in European countries beyond Ireland. Garda Superintendent John Healy told the court that the men were operating on behalf of organised crime groups, based in Britain and Spain. They were given the task of bringing 1.5 tonnes of high grade cocaine - divided into 62 bales - ashore on to the west Cork coast in July 2007. The gang had gone out to meet a catamaran, the Lucky Day, which had crossed the Atlantic from Barbados. The men had intended bringing the drugs ashore at Dunmanus bay but after the engines cut out, they ended up in nearby Dunlough bay. The court heard that "some idiot" had put in the wrong fuel. Rocked by strong winds and a three-metre swell, the heavily-laden inflatable dinghy overturned, hurling Hagan and Wanden into the sea with the drugs.Hagan managed to make it to the beach and raise the alarm. Wanden was pulled from the sea by a lifeboat crew.Wharrie and Daly were spotted on the cliffs at Dunlough bay but fled on foot when coastguard officers arrived. They were eventually arrested two days later, while wandering through a herd of cattle, following a search.The police investigation involved inquiries with forces in Britain, Spain and South Africa. Officers suspect that as many as 10 people had originally travelled from Britain to west Cork, some months in advance of the incident, to organise the pick-up.The gang rented two properties on the Sheep's Head peninsula, pretending to be English tourists on a fishing holiday. Analysis of calls from confiscated mobile phones enabled police to reconstruct their movements and show contacts with numbers in Britain. A satellite phone registered calls to Spain. The court heard a false passport had been recovered from a bag belonging to Wharrie.The cocaine is believed to have originated in Colombia and have been shipped out through Venezuela to the Caribbean before being despatched to the Co Cork coast. South-west Ireland with its thinly populated estuaries and remote beaches has frequently been used as a sea route for delivering drugs to Europe.All three men pleaded not guilty. Wharrie did not give evidence. Daly said that he had been duped into helping to bring the dinghy to Ireland and knew nothing about the drugs. Wanden said he had come to Ireland for a walking holiday and had been called by a friend who had run out of petrol while out fishing.