The government's expected plans for courts to sit during evenings and even through the night, to speed up the system, were under threat yesterday, after a union said the proposal was contrary to the interests of justice.The plans for so-called night courts, an idea pioneered in New York, are to be announced later this month. But the general secretary of a union representing magistrates court staff said the plans amounted to a "major change" in employment contracts and warned of non-cooperation if staff were compelled to work into the evening or through the night. The plans for night courts appeal to ministers as a way of dealing with an increase in street robberies and alcohol-related crimes. Britain's top police officer, Sir John Stevens, commissioner of the Metropolitan police, has thrown his weight behind the plan, saying it was a way to combat youth crime. Yesterday the home secretary, Jack Straw, signalled that longer magistrates court hours had support from the government. Mr Straw said: "In big city centres there will be extended court hours, obviously in the evening. In some cases they may literally be around the clock... it is a question of trying out ideas." A government review of the criminal justice system, involving Mr Straw, the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine of Lairg, and the attorney general, Lord Williams of Mostyn, is expected to be unveiled later this month. The idea of 24-hour court sittings originated in New York, where up to 300 cases are dealt with in a night. Sir John said he had seen the 24-hour courts system in operation in New York and believed it could work here. "You ensure people go through the system very quickly. When they are arrested they go straight to court, whatever the time, day or night. It saves time. It allows you to process them in a far, far quicker way. "Some of these persistent offenders, these youngsters - society, quite honestly, needs a rest from them." Mr Straw was "very keen" on the idea of night courts or a similar way of tackling persistent young offenders, Sir John said. The government promised to halve the average time from arrest to sentence for persistent young offenders from 142 days to 71 days. Recent figures showed that the average in October last year was 94 days. However, Rosie Eagleson, general secretary of the Association of Magisterial Officers, which represents 70% of court workers in England and Wales, said they were against the idea. "Courts aren't like manufacturing rivets or panel beating. We can't see that the interests of justice would be served by banging people through the courts at 2am. "We remain to be convinced that it's in anyone's interests - defendants', court staff's, victims' - to work courts through the night. "Pilots in the past have been dropped because of opposition, including ours. "If they try to push ahead with it, we will resist strongly. We will support members who do not wish to work night or evening shifts and we will consider what action is necessary at the appropriate time. Nothing would be ruled in or out." Ms Eagleson added that 70% of her members were women and she feared that working conditions would become more dangerous at night dealing with drunks, especially as police officers were no longer present in courts. Official figures show that courts are dealing with the same or even fewer cases than a decade ago. In 1999, the last year for which figures are available, magistrates courts dealt with 1,864,000 cases, compared with 1,892,000 in 1990. Crown courts dealt with 119,561 cases in 1999, compared with 132,550 cases in 1990. The figure for the year 2000 is expected to drop even further. Most reactions to the plan for night courts were favourable yesterday. Roger Bingham, a spokesman for Liberty, the civil rights group, said: "We are actually in favour of the idea of 24-hour courts because it should reduce the delays that people experience in the criminal justice system. "It would reduce the need for people arrested on a Saturday to wait until Monday until they get bail. "If it provides more court time and flexibility so that cases get through quicker then it is a good thing, but it should not be a means to push things through in a hurry. You can't have speed at the expense of justice." Shadow home secretary Ann Widdecombe said she believed that the 24-hour courts could be a good idea but called on the government to work closely with the police to avoid making the system too bureaucratic. "In principle, I think it is a good idea, but Labour have tried a large number of initiatives which have failed because they have been far too bureaucratic," Miss Widdecombe said. "I would like to see anything like this properly thought through and done in conjunction properly with the police who have put forward the idea. I think it is an interesting one." Lord Justice Auld is also conducting a review of the courts service for the lord chancellor and is expected to report later this year.