Fame does not grant impunity. This was not quite what judge Anthony Leonard QC said as he sent Max Clifford to prison for eight years at Southwark crown court yesterday, but it is the unmistakable implication after a jury convicted the celebrity publicist on eight charges of indecent assault at the start of the week. There is no going back from here. This, the first conviction in the long-running Operation Yewtree, launched after the Jimmy Savile scandal broke in 2012, is a big moment. It matters most of all for victims of historic abuse, but it is also a much-needed result for the police who have to gather evidence in the most difficult of circumstances, and for the Crown Prosecution Service.Its critics say Operation Yewtree, which is gathering evidence of all historic sex abuse in the Savile era, is a flawed project that depends on soliciting victims to make allegations. That criticism goes to the heart of how sex abuse is understood. These sceptics dismiss the idea that it is a very particular kind of crime in which humiliation is an integral part. They reject the idea that one of the things it does is to cause victims to lose any sense of their own credibility, which makes it all but impossible for them to imagine being heard. They portray the report on the Savile inquiry, written by the Metropolitan police and the NSPCC and called Giving Victims a Voice, which recognised that the silent victims of abuse needed to be encouraged to come forward, as an exercise in evangelism and an assault on the integrity of the justice system. The evidence that has now convicted Max Clifford gives the lie to that attack.The common factor in abuse cases is exploitation of power. It is what the broadcaster Stuart Hall did. He is now serving 30 months after being convicted of 14 charges of abuse of victims he sometimes picked at school prize-givings. It is what Max Clifford did, persuading and bullying young women to submit to him by holding out the fantasy of a glamorous future. His shameless sense of untouchability meant that over an agonising six weeks in court, victims heard their claims first denied and then trivialised by their abuser. From their evidence, though, a familiar pattern emerged. Having enticed them into his orbit with promises of film parts or modelling careers and then demanded sexual favours, he left them humiliated – and certain that if they complained, they would be dismissed. No one would believe their word against his. That is why no one dared to report him at the time of the abuse.Operation Yewtree provided the opportunity for the victims to come forward. It is still needed. It should not take 30 years for justice to be done.