The crisis that has manifested itself in the prison system this week has its origins in a grim event that was to cast a shadow over Britain more than 14 years ago. On February 12 1993, two boys in the Bootle Strand shopping centre in Liverpool took a toddler by the hand and led him away to his death. In doing so, they acted as the unwitting agents of a dramatic change in the criminal justice system that turned the country into the most punitive in Europe.Senior criminal justice figures who have spoken to the Guardian fear the UK is becoming a society that criminalises its children. In addition, the country's drug addicts and mentally ill people are locked up in overcrowded prison warehouses which have become symbols of an inexorable drift. It started with the murder on Merseyside."James Bulger is seminal," said Rod Morgan, who resigned this year as chairman of the Youth Justice Board. "It had a huge impact on the system." At the time, Tony Blair was shadow home secretary and had coined the phrase "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime"; Labour was determined never to be soft on the issue again.Stephen Rimmer, currently director of strategy for the Metropolitan police, has a unique perspective on the criminal justice system, having been governor of Wandsworth prison in south London, deputy governor at Strangeways and Glen Parva jails in Manchester and Leicester, a Home Office adviser, and now part of the hierarchy of the police service. "The Bulger case seemed to put the public into another place, into a sense of, 'If we don't put some real markers down about what is acceptable behaviour in the most unambiguous terms possible then we are going to lose our bearings as a society'."As a result, we are now in the grip of what Alison Liebling, director of the prisons research centre at Cambridge Institute of Criminology, calls an "imprisonment fetish", with around 80,000 in jail.In the 1970s the then home secretary, Roy Jenkins, warned that if the prison population reached 42,000, "conditions in the system would approach the intolerable and drastic action to relieve the position would be inescapable".In the 80s social cohesion came under enormous pressure as the number of jobless rose."In the 80s, the social glue melted with mass unemployment," said David Blunkett, who was home secretary from 2001-04 during a sudden growth in prison numbers. "People who once had status had no status any more, kids who once had apprenticeships did not have the mentoring that went with it. There was the disintegration of any kind of mutuality of respect, the drive for individuality, everyone for themselves."What happened in the 90s was the backwash in the massive increase in class A drugs from the States."In the late 80s, when Stephen Rimmer was private secretary to John Patten, then the Conservative Home Office minister, he remembered that "the phrase then was 'punishment in the community'."I remember John Patten saying the key test was - would the public be comfortable about burglars getting community [punishments], not custodial ones. That seems now a very distant debate."During the period, there was a noticeable hardening of attitudes and a growing distance from other European countries in terms of how we dealt with crime. Martin Narey, former head of the prison service, believes there must be something in Anglo-Saxon culture that helps to explain the shift."It's not just England and Wales, the Scots are not far behind us, although they are light years ahead in terms of treatment of children." Mr Narey said the Australians and Canadians had similar attitudes, "and the US, of course, is off the map."The number of times I've read 'Joe Bloggs walked free' despite being given a fairly demanding community penalty is very significant. If we can manage with a population of 40,000 in 1991, why do we need to lock up 80,000 now during a period when crime has been falling?"There are other theories from academics to explain the predicament Britain is now in. Ms Liebling quotes Hans Boutellier, author of a study called The Safety Utopia, which likened our society to a bungee jumper. "He argues that we want maximum freedom and maximum safety," she said. "And the more freedom we have, the more we need a sense of safety. Because prisons have been humanised, it doesn't satisfy the public's yearning for safety and they can't satisfy this urge."A study by academics Stephen Shute and Roger Hood showed that parole boards were more cautious than a computer would be. "People lose their jobs if mistakes are made," they said. "We have lost the capacity to take risks and part of rehabilitation requires carefully controlled risk-taking."The fear of getting it wrong affects all areas of the criminal justice system.Mr Blunkett recalls the day in 2001 when a report on sentencing was published. "I was travelling at the time and I was listening to this blasted Halliday report. A lot of it was just verbiage, but I came out determined to try and get some balance between community sentencing and tough sentencing for heinous crimes and some emphasis on reparation and rehabilitation."If I have a big regret about my three and half years as home secretary, it is that I never quite got that message across. Judges used to say to me that 'there is a contradiction here; you keep saying you want more community sentences and less short prison sentences but then in the next breath you're talking about tough sentences and life meaning life.' I said there's no contradiction. They are entirely compatible as far as I'm concerned."Because of the attention that crime and punishment now attracts, politicians particularly are wary of trying anything that involves risk. "There was a moment in the parliamentary cycle when we could be quite brave in what we would do," said Mr Blunkett. He introduced the Criminal Justice Sentencing Act, that allowed prisoners to serve half their terms in jail, and the rest under supervision."The right saw it as complete betrayal and the liberal left didn't know what I was talking about. Charlie [Falconer, the lord chancellor] said he was totally against it. He said he would get the judges to be much more consistent in the sentencing and that would solve the problem - which it clearly hasn't. I never wanted them to go soft but to be consistent."Rod Morgan argues that the most remarkable transformation from old to New Labour is in the party's attitude to youth crime, and the idea "that criminalising more young people is an achievement, that it signifies more of them being brought to book, thereby closing the 'justice gap' ".The fact that there are falling crime rates at a time of rising prison populations is not a sign that, as the then Conservative home secretary, Michael Howard, once boasted, "prison works"."It could be an enriching and transforming experience," said Martin Narey. "The reality is that, because the population has expanded so quickly, the amount of rehabilitative activity that any one individual gets is so diluted that it's not possible to make much of an impact."Stephen Rimmer, who in his governor roles had a ringside seat, agrees. "A lot of offenders live very chaotic and opportunistic lives and some of them - you see this when they walk out, the minute they've left prison, that's it, now they're on to the next thing and prison, unless something particularly awe-inspiring or horrible has happened to them, is just part of life's rich tapestry." He added: "There are some people who are not necessarily uniquely bad or evil but they are so chaotic that you know that, if they weren't in prison, they would be doing more and more damaging stuff, some of it to themselves."The prisons ombudsman, Stephen Shaw, also believes that there are good reasons why some people who might not have been in prison in the past now find themselves there. "I am quite critical of the liberal reformers - and I would identify myself as a penal liberal - because I don't think they have faced up to the way in which the structure of the prison population has changed."We have become, it seems to me, a less tolerant society. You can say tolerance is usually regarded as a good thing but you can see posters up saying 'zero tolerance on domestic violence' and many Guardian readers would say 'quite right'. We now treat sexual crimes more seriously than we used to. There are more homicides than there were. There wasn't crack cocaine like there is now, there was nothing like the extent of the addictions you have now. I am critical of some of the penal liberals because I think that, if we give the impression that the prisons are full of people who steal sweets from Woolworths, we're not doing any good. They're not."If the James Bulger case was the tipping point on punishment, it is easy to forget that there were similar moments in penal history which led to other examinations of what prison meant to society.The Strangeways riot in 1990 was, said Mr Rimmer, "hugely powerful in symbolising a failed criminal justice policy". But those involved were savagely dealt with and there is little evidence of a prison culture that would organise such a revolt today. Mr Rimmer suggests that only another Strangeways might gain the public's attention on the issue of overcrowding and indeterminate sentences but accepts that such an event could also have the opposite effect."The most authentic television programme about prison is Porridge," he said. "It portrays a community of old lags which imposed its own hierarchy on younger and more chaotic prisoners. That has all gone now. There isn't a defined prisoner culture any more. Obviously you get gangs, you get status, you get hierarchy but it's much more anarchic. It's got so many sub-sects and drugs and mental illness are so overtly part of it."Almost every old lag was once a young lag - and England and Wales seems to reserve punishment for them far beyond what happens elsewhere in Europe. The last three years has seen a 26% increase in the numbers of children and young people criminalised and seven times as much is spent on youth custody as on prevention schemes. We lock up 23 children per 100,000 population, compared with six in France, two in Spain, 0.2 in Finland.Why are England and Wales more inclined to punish children? "Other Europeans say that we love our pets and hate our children," said Rod Morgan. "The answer is that volume crime has gone down but street crime hasn't. It has probably got worse because domestic burglaries are more difficult. Incivilities in public spaces have probably got worse and this is what affects people's quality of life, which is what they represent to MPs at their surgeries every Friday." The police respond.Mentally ill people in prison remains another crisis largely untackled."For many people, care in the community has become care in custody," said Mr Narey. "About 6,000 people are locked up at any one time who are profoundly mentally ill. Twenty per cent of men in custody have previously tried to take their own lives and 40% of women." Nobody argues that there is an easy solution, or that there is likely to be a change of heart within government, despite the surge in jail numbers. "I wouldn't be surprised at all if, in 10 years, there were 100,000 people in prison," said Mr Narey. "I think there is every chance that, at the end of the decade, we will look back nostalgically at a figure of 80,000. The US experience shows there is no end to this."