20061 March: Baby P, Peter, is born.17 July: His father leaves the family home in Haringey.November/December: Unknown to professionals involved in the case, the mother's new boyfriend moves in to the home.11 December: His mother and maternal grandmother are arrested after a GP spots Peter has a head injury and other bruises.22 December: Peter is placed on the Haringey child protection register for physical abuse and neglect.200726 January: Peter is returned to his mother, though she is still on police bail.9 April: His mother takes him to North Middlesex hospital. Staff identify bruises and scratches on his face, head and body.1 June: Social worker Maria Ward informs the police of bruising on Peter's face during an unannounced visit. Staff at North Middlesex hospital find 12 areas of bruising. Social services arrange for a family friend to supervise the baby's care.29 June: Jason Owen moves into the home with a 15-year-old runaway girl.25 July: At a legal planning meeting it is decided that the case did not meet the threshold for care proceedings.30 July: Ward makes her last visit to see Peter. He has chocolate smears over his face and hands, and anti-bacterial cream on his scalp.1 August: Peter is taken to St Anne's hospital. Dr Sabah al-Zayyat notes bruises to his body and face but does not perform a full examination because he is "miserable and cranky".2 August: Police tell the mother she will not be prosecuted in relation to Peter's injuries.3 August: Following a 999 call, Peter is taken to hospital but pronounced dead on arrival.2008August: Dr al-Zayyat is banned from working unsupervised by the General Medical Council for 18 months.11 November: Owen and the 32-year-old boyfriend of Peter's mother are found guilty of causing Peter's death. The mother had pleaded guilty to the same charge.1 December: A independent review declares Haringey's child protection services to be exceptionally "inadequate". Council leader George Meehan and cabinet member for children and young people Liz Santry resign. The children's secretary, Ed Balls, orders the removal of the director of children's services, Sharon Shoesmith, from her post. She is sacked later that month.200919 February: Dr Jerome Ikwueke, a GP who saw Peter 14 times before his death, is suspended by the GMC.29 April: Haringey council dismisses a social worker and three managers for failings in Peter's case.1 May: The boyfriend of Peter's mother is convicted of raping a two-year-old girl in north London.22 May: The second serious case review into Peter's death concludes that child protection staff should have been able to stop the abuse "at the first serious incident". The boyfriend of Peter's mother is jailed for life. His mother is jailed indefinitely. Owen, the lodger, is given an indeterminate sentence for public protection.11 August: Tracey Connelly and Steven Barker are named as Baby Peter's mother and stepfather after reporting restrictions are lifted by a judge who says it is a necessary step to maintain public confidence in the judicial system. The decision by Mr Justice Coleridge follows pressure from several major media organisations that argued it was important to identify the pair to ensure those who caused the toddler's death were being properly held to account.7 October: Sharon Shoesmith launches a high court case against Ed Balls to seek compensation for dismissal201127 May Sharon Shoesmith wins an appeal against Ed Balls and Haringey council over her dismissal, which was ruled by the high court to have been "tainted by unfairness". A ruling on compensation for Shoesmith was referred back to the high court for "further consideration".