Labour is considering boycotting the first elections for police and crime commissioners now scheduled for next November.The shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, who is preparing to announce details of Labour's independent commission into the future of policing in her speech on Wednesday, is said to be interested in the idea. The new police and crime commissioners (PCCs) will have the unfettered power to hire and fire chief constables.Cooper's interest partly stems from reaction to a similar debate within Conservative circles, principally from the blogosphere. There has been support for the idea that it would be better if independent candidates such as former chief constables stood with Conservative backing, rather than putting up a less qualified politician for the sake of a party label.But the idea has set the alarm bells ringing among Labour's politicians with experience of policing matters. Lord Harris, who has much experience in holding the Metropolitan police to account, raised the issue at the Association of Police Authorities fringe meeting at Tate Liverpool.Harris said: "There is a debate on whether we should contest these elections. Not to contest them would be an enormous mistake. There is a similar debate taking place in the Conservative party. These are enormously political posts. The danger of somebody being elected who has not been tested by going through a party political selection process is incredibly serious."Harris is particularly concerned that the vital role of holding police to account does not go by the board. Vernon Coaker, the former police minister who is now part of Cooper's home affairs team, confirmed that this was up for discussion and no final decision had been taken.Other Labour party police authority members were keen to see a national Labour manifesto for PCC candidates, perhaps around a platform of protecting neighbourhood policing and partnership working.The elections next November are likely be one of the great oddities of British political history. They were postponed from next May's local elections in a political fudge in the House of Lords to get the legislation on to the statute book.Opposition politicians are worried that very low levels of turnout will let in fringe candidates. Conventional wisdom suggests that Labour would win about 12 to 15 of the 40-odd new police and crime commissioner posts.Since there is one commissioner for each police force, national opinion polls will be no guide to the outcome. There is one commissioner for the 5.5 million people of the West Midlands and also one for the tiny Warwickshire force, which covers fewer than 500,000 people.Police are reconciled to working with the new commissioners now the legislation is on the statute book. Sir Hugh Orde, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, made clear there are still loose ends to be tied up over exactly how much the commissioners can micro-manage a chief constable's budget. But Orde now says the new commissioners and chief constables will "stand or fall together".The Conservatives may be prepared to stand aside for "charismatic independent" candidates "like Nick Ross of Crimewatch", indicated Blair Gibbs of the centre-right thinktank Policy Exchange, and one of the architects of the policy to introduce elected police commissioners.Gibbs said it was possible the Tories would field candidates in most of the 41 police force areas but might stand down in favour of a like-minded independent in parts of the north."I think that somebody like Nick Ross could stand in Thames Valley. He is not just a presenter of Crimewatch but is a serious criminological expert in his own right and was involved in setting up the Jill Dando Institute. We should not oppose somebody like that," he told a Policy Exchange fringe meeting.Gibbs said he felt that outsiders might freshen up democratic life and he hoped the new commissioners would not become simply a stepping stone for party hacks to Westminster. He hoped that high-profile business people and even former chief constables would consider putting themselves forward.Coaker, who also spoke at the Policy Exchange meeting, made clear that Labour's default position was likely to be to field candidates but added that "if the Tories don't, we need to consider that carefully."Hazel Blears, also a former Home Office police minister, said she was appalled by the idea of Labour not contesting the elections and warned that "celebrity" elected sheriffs in the United States had led to one example in Arizona who insisted "his" offenders were dressed in pink underwear.Blears made clear she wasn't keen on the job herself: "I am not going to be a PCC. Rather I should say that nobody has asked. I always wanted to be a police officer but I am only 4 ft 11 ins."