The government's flagship scheme to introduce on-the-spot fines to tackle antisocial behaviour is to go nationwide despite the fact that nearly half the penalties went unpaid in pilot schemes.The home secretary, David Blunkett, told the Police Federation's annual conference in Blackpool yesterday that it had been decided to introduce the fines nationally by the end of the year so that the police could tackle minor public order offences without having to be tied up for hours in the police station filling in forms.The first phase of the introduction of the new fixed penalty tickets cover 11 separate offences including drunk and disorderly, causing harassment, sending hoax messages and wasting police time. The use of fixed penalty fines is the cornerstone of the attack on "yob culture", promised by Tony Blair at the last general election. The prime minister had to back down from his original proposal for fines which were paid on the spot after it was ridiculed as meaning that the police would have to frogmarch teenagers to cash point machines. Mr Blunkett said front line officers had told him how much they valued being able to use fixed penalty notices. "Implementing this scheme is an important part of the government's agenda to tackle antisocial behaviour and fear of crime. But it also shows we are serious about stamping out bureaucracy and enabling police officers to get on and do their job," he said. The fines range from £40 to £80 and are to be extended to a much wider range of offences as a result of the government's antisocial behaviour bill. But the detailed results from four pilot schemes show that the introduction of fixed penalty notices has not been a complete success. The figures show that 2,398 fixed penalty notices, mainly for drunk and disorderly, were issued by police officers in the four pilot areas in the West Midlands, Essex, Croydon, and North Wales, between last August and January. In total, 53% of the tickets were paid within 21 days, a further 2% opted to have a court hearing rather than pay the fine immediately, but 44% have gone unpaid. Fines which are not settled within the three week deadline automatically rise to £60 and £120. Mr Blunkett acknowledged the problem and pointed out that the non-payment rate was similar to that for fines imposed by the courts and said both must be tackled. The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, was critical of the decision to introduce the scheme across England and Wales. "The home secretary is not living in the real world if he expects a drunk teenager to give an accurate name and address and to stand and receive the equivalent of a parking ticket," he said. The antisocial behaviour bill will extend the power to issue fixed penalty notices from police constables to other forms of uniformed officials including neighbourhood wardens and community safety officers. Mr Blunkett produced his only critical response during his annual speech when he floated the idea of using community safety officers to drive police patrol cars. The CSOs, which were introduced last year, are uniformed and cost less than a police officer but do not have the power of arrest.