A bullied teenager who battered one of his tormentors to death with a pool cue was yesterday jailed for life. Tommy Kimpton, 19, the target of taunts about his appearance since he was five, finally snapped and killed Ben Williams after a night out.Kimpton admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility or provocation but was cleared by a jury at Truro crown court of murdering the 17-year-old victim.Judge Graham Cottle said Kimpton's personality had "developed in an abnormal way" because of his "very difficult childhood and adolescence." For 14 years Kimpton suffered taunts about his weight, his glasses, large ears and arched feet and his inability to get a girlfriend.Giving evidence, he said: "I didn't look the same as everyone else - I was always very different. I was overweight and had to wear thick glasses, and I had big ears and goofy teeth. Everyone found it funny and took the piss."The court was told that rather than keeping himself to himself, Kimpton tried to get along by befriending the bullies, especially Williams, whom he hero-worshipped. Kimpton said: "Everybody liked him. He was good at sport, he was funny, and I wanted to be like him. When we were on our own he was brilliant, but as soon as we were in a group he would take the piss."As he grew older, the taunts became worse. His tormentors daubed graffiti about him on a bridge in his home town of Penryn, Cornwall, and at one party he was forced to drink his friends' urine. After the party, photographs of him on the toilet were circulated around his school and posted on the internet.The court heard both Kimpton's parents had drink problems and he took refuge on the internet, developing an alter ego to impress girls.On the night of the killing in May last year, Kimpton had been out with Williams and other friends. They spent the night teasing him and at the end of the evening Kimpton invited Williams back to his home.Kimpton, who was drunk and had taken drugs, said his friend did not usually tease him when they were alone. On this occasion, Williams did laugh and he snapped. He smashed the cue over his head 12 times. Williams' blood was found splattered on the wall three metres from his body.Next day his mother found him unconscious in the living room next to an open bottle of vodka and packets of drugs. He had left two letters. One, to his mother, said: "Mum, I am not the son you think I am, so that is why it is better this way."Mrs Kimpton found Williams' body slumped against a wardrobe in her son's bedroom with a plastic bag over his head.Outside court, Williams' family expressed disappointment that Kimpton had been cleared of murder. In a statement they said: "The bullying aspect has been blown out of all proportion."