A high court judge has strongly criticised the parole board for its handling of Tony Martin, the farmer jailed for killing a teenage burglar, but backed its decision to keep him in prison.The board erred when it failed to obtain or examine crucial evidence in the case, including psychiatric reports, Mr Justice Maurice Kay said yesterday. "Its potential relevance was, or ought to have been, obvious," he told the court. But he rejected Martin's bid for a fresh parole hearing, saying that the panel would have refused to free him even if it had seen the reports because probation officers said there was a high risk he would reoffend if someone else broke into his home. The parole board's argument that burglars are entitled to protection from violent homeowners and should not be treated as "fair game" gave fresh life to the cause célèbre. Martin, 59, was sentenced to life after he was convicted of murdering 16-year-old Fred Barras and wounding his accomplice Brendon Fearon, 33, when the pair broke into his home in Emneth Hungate, Norfolk, four years ago. It sparked a national debate over crime and the justice system. In October 2001 the court of appeal substituted a conviction of manslaughter due to diminished responsibility and reduced his sentence. He will be freed on July 28, after serving two-thirds of a five-year sentence, but was said to be "extremely angry" when the parole board ruled in January that he should not be released before then. His lawyers argued that the panel should have been given the court of appeal judgment and psychiatric reports, instead of relying on documents which treated his offence as murder, and challenged the panel's subsequent decision not to review their ruling. Bitu Bhalla, appearing for Martin, had argued that there was less risk of the farmer re-offending than there was of winning the lottery. Mr Justice Kay agreed that the board should have been given the material and should have asked for it when they realised it had been omitted. "It was plain to see that what was before the board was a very different situation to that which pertained at the conclusion of the trial," he said. "The material before the board told it virtually nothing about the defence of diminished responsibility which, as the board knows or ought to have known, almost always rests on psychiatric evidence." But the judge said that error was corrected when, in February, the board members saw the missing reports and concluded there was no need to review the case. "I do not consider that what took place was a model of procedural purity, but I am not satisfied that it was unfair," said the judge. "It involved the conscientious consideration of material and the unanimous, tenable and inevitable conclusion as to its significance." Mr Bhalla had said it was "not far short of a public scandal" that the board members had discussed a possible review in an "amateurish and piecemeal fashion", without all three members of the panel meeting to properly discuss the issues. Mr Justice Kay added that there was nothing in the court of appeal judgment or the psychiatric reports which might have led to a different decision. One probation officer had said that Martin "demonstrates no remorse or victim empathy ... He clearly holds a view that an Englishman's home is his castle and he is entitled to take any steps necessary to secure that". The judge refused Martin permission to appeal, although he could still ask the appeal court to intervene. Friends and supporters expressed their anger following the judgment, with his friend and neighbour Richard Portham describing it as "truly, truly shocking". He added: "This man was in fear of his life." But Mark Leech, of the ex-offenders' charity Unlock, said: "Many, including me, have sympathy with [this man's] situation. But in reality Tony Martin is no different to any other offender who crosses the line between legal acts on one hand and criminal conduct on the other."