A man who was stabbed to death tackling two muggers had been planning to return to India to be reunited with his wife and son for the first time in 10 years, it emerged today.Sukhwinder Singh, a builder who lived in east London, was killed after chasing two men who had snatched a woman's shoulder bag near Barking train station on Friday. The 31-year-old heard the woman scream and gave chase. Police believe he managed to grab one of the men in a nearby street before being stabbed. He died in hospital.Yesterday his cousin Harwinder Singh, 27, said Sukhwinder had been saving up for a trip to India in June. "He had been so excited about it. He had not seen [his family] since he came here to earn money about 10 years ago, but … was planning to be with them in the summer," he said.Harwinder said Sukhwinder's widow, Sandeep Kaur, and the couple's 10-year-old son, Gurinder, had been distraught when they heard about the murder. The pair live in a rural farming community in Punjab. Harwinder said: "We phoned to tell them what had happened … his wife is in shock and she cannot speak. I think the doctor is coming to give her something because news of his death has made her very ill."Friends and fellow worshippers at the temple where Sukhwinder prayed paid tribute today to a brave and kind man. "I have known him for nine years and I know that he would have helped anyone, so it doesn't surprise me that he was trying to help a lady who was in trouble," said Nirmal Singh Gill, a local councillor. "He didn't deserve this – nobody deserves it. We are all terribly saddened and shocked that this has happened."He said Sukhwinder had worked hard to support his family and had been a committed Sikh. "It was a hard life for him living here without them but he wanted to give them a chance of a good future. He was a very hard worker and always cheerful but I do know that he missed them."Gill said the entire extended family had depended on the money Sukhwinder sent home each month. "We are setting up a trust in the family name at the temple to support the family in any way we can. If they want to send his body back to India for cremation we will try to pay for that."Detectives are examining CCTV footage and want to trace two men, described as black and in their twenties. Detective Inspector John Sandlin said: "This is a tragic death of a man who was killed for attempting to stop others committing a crime. Our thoughts are with Sukhwinder's family."