David Blunkett, the home secretary, today told the police he was "not looking for a fight" as he faced down dissenting officers at the Police Federation conference in Bournemouth.The home secretary, under pressure to follow through on promises to reform police practices but under attack from rank-and-file officers, offered a carrot-and-stick approach to "partnership" with the police force.He was met with a stony silence in the conference hall - an improvement on the slow handclap which predecessor Jack Straw was greeted with last year.Mr Blunkett told officers: "I want police officers on the frontline to feel the benefits of police reform. "The pay deal will mean more money for officers at the sharp end but everyone needs to feel the burden of paperwork being lifted and to feel they are performing the service they joined the force to do."He offered faster promotions, higher pay for senior officers and an increase in police numbers in return for curbs on huge disparities on sickness rates across police forces. He also pledged to improve "outdated technology" within police stations, better working environments and to halve the number of performance indicators police forces must meet.Mr Blunkett's police reform bill, which is still going through parliament, was met with a demonstration of around 2,000 officers outside Westminster in the spring. He is the first home secretary to attempt to reform so-called Spanish practices within the police force since Kenneth Clarke under Margaret Thatcher. He was overruled when the police approached Mrs Thatcher directly.The home secretary also announced a £140m modernisation programme for an alternative to the 999 emergency number in London, and rationalisation of the current 32 police telephonic centres in the capital, following on from a pilot scheme in Staffordshire.Before Mr Blunkett's address, the chairman of the Police Federation, Fred Broughton, told officers that creating "commmunity service officers", paid civilians who were given some police powers, was "asking for trouble".To a warm reception from officers, Mr Broughton said giving police powers to non-police officers was "something the Police Federation will always oppose", and he urged Mr Blunkett to drop the idea.He added that the federation agreed with 48 of the 79 clauses in the home secretary's police reform bill. But he said the proposal to monitor the ethnic status of all people stopped by the police was "offensive and bureaucratic."In his final speech before retiring after eight years as chair of the Police Federation, Mr Broughton blamed the anti-authoritarian attitude of the 1960s for the rise in crime over the past 35 years. Ahead of his speech, the home secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that problems had been caused by "piling legislation on legislation rather than cutting it back". "That is precisely why I've set up the review of the police and criminal evidence codes, which is really the meat and drink of the book that each officer has to follow," he said. Mr Blunkett also pointed to a one-third increase in spending on equipment and a new occupational health policy as evidence of helping officers.  · David Blunkett today meet his long-lost cousin - a police constable also called David Blunkett - for the first time in 40 years. The two men, whose fathers were brothers, lost touch just before they reached their teenage years. But the meeting between Mr Blunkett and traffic officer PC Blunkett at the Police Federation conference was criticised by some officers, who felt it was a publicity stunt to divert attention from the home secretary's controversial pay and reform proposals. The family reunion came about after PC Blunkett's daughter Emma, 25, spotted the home secretary waiting for a delayed train at Swindon during last year's general election campaign. PC Blunkett, 52, who is based in Boston, Lincolnshire, said: "She got off the train and saw David standing on the platform. She's obviously seen him on television and went up and introduced herself quite bravely. "She said 'I'm Emma Blunkett and I think we're related'. "He wrote to my wife and myself and suggested we get in touch again and since then we've spoken several times on the phone." PC Blunkett said they mostly talked about family matters, although they had talked about the home secretary's pay proposals for the police which were rejected by a 10-1 margin in February. "We had a discussion and I incorrectly told him I thought that the vote would be yes - I wish I hadn't told him that now," he said.