A £3 million government programme designed to prevent vulnerable inner city teenagers from becoming adult criminals is at risk just as ministers sanction an identical sum to stop similar youngsters leaving home and drifting into trouble.The youth justice board, chaired by Jack Straw's ally, Lord Warner, is fighting to protect its youth inclusion programme (YIP) in 70 urban estates from falling victim to the financial constraints on the budget of Mr Straw's successor, David Blunkett. "Preventative programmes are not very glamorous and get scant attention whoever is in power. They have a habit of slipping through the cracks," said a youth justice board source after Lord Warner last night voiced his concerns on Channel 4 News. In one case highlighted by Channel 4 the Llanrumney estate in east Cardiff where at-risk youngsters on a YIP project have helped a local charity take supplies to the Novinky orphanage at Minsk in Belarus - and been transformed by the experience. But as Lord Warner tries to save the £3m annual YIP budget - and try to expand it to £12m and take in 300 high crime estates - ministers in another government department have conceded a similar sum to tackle teenage homelessness. As MPs began their summer break, John Prescott's office announced a £3m extra funding a year under the new Homelessness Act targetted at 16 or 17-year-olds who are about to leave home, or be kicked out. The change, long promoted by campaigners, will allow councils to run mediation services which try to keep families together so that the teenager does not become homeless in the first place. Under the age of 18 youngsters do not have the same entitlements to benefits as adults and are not always picked up by either housing or social service departments. The act allows local authorities to extend priority need for housing to specific groups of homeless people, not just families, including ex-servicemen, young people leaving care and victims of abuse and requires them to draw up strategies to curb homelessness. It has been welcomed by Shelter and other agencies which have launched a "Things have Changed" campaign to publicise the reforms. Lambeth council, in one of the toughest parts of London, is planning to set up a mediation service to reconcile parents and children they want to see leave home. Hounslow is setting up an early intervention system. Lord Warner's battle to save his YIP budget as it affects teenagers in the overlapping group of people aged up to 16 - arises from Mr Blunkett's well publicised scraps with the chancellor over the Home Office share of the 2002 comprehensive spending review announced in July. Every YIP project, with two or three staff, gets £75,000 of government funds and is required to find local matching funds. It is relatively cheap and the evidence so far suggests its cuts crime and other problems sharply. But Mr Brown directed most of the extra treasury funds towards the police and asylum-related programmes. "David's approach to the negotiation with Gordon was to shout at him through a megaphone. This was Gordon's revenge," explained one Whitehall source. "The Treasury believes the only way you will get penal reform, better managed prisons and no endless rise in the prison population, is through penury." · Organisations based in some of the most notorious areas of Belfast are to get grants of almost £400,000 from the Irish government. The money is coming from Dublin's Reconciliation Fund which was established 20 years ago. Recipients from the latest round of grants include the Short Strand Community Centre, in east Belfast, which has been operating a field hospital allowing residents access to vital facilities cut off during troubles in the area. Other groups to benefit include west Belfast's Epic Youth, a loyalist ex-prisoners' group set up to encourage local youth to reject sectarianism.