David Cameron is a politician who sells poise. He may not have won the election, he may lead an increasingly unstable coalition, he may for these and other reasons have multiplying enemies in his own party – but the smooth flow of his lordly old-fashioned vowels almost never dries up, however chancy his argument.As a result, perhaps the most interesting, and inadvertently hilarious, few minutes of his career so far was a filmed interview he gave to Gay Times last March. The Conservative leader, soon to be prime minister, sat jacketless and lightly tanned in an open-necked white shirt. The interviewer asked him about an amendment that was about to be put to the House of Lords: to allow any religious organisation to hold civil partnership ceremonies in its places of worship if it so wished."I've tried to have free votes, where possible, on these sort of issues," Cameron began with his usual fluency. But then the interviewer pointed out that earlier in the interview Cameron had said his party's commitment to sexual equality was "irreversible"; wasn't allowing a free vote in direct contradiction of this stance?Cameron tried to answer, but quickly ground to a halt: "Sorry. Sorry . . . um . . ." Startling chasms of silence opened up between his half-mumbled, stumbling words. He shifted in his armchair. He broke eye contact with the camera and looked at the carpet. He pursed his lips, breathed out heavily, furrowed his brow. You could almost see the cogs working as he tried to come up with a policy U-turn, towards either stronger or weaker gay rights, that would do the least political damage. But the right words never came. Finally, still being filmed, Cameron turned to the director and asked if he could start the interview again.The most undignified footage was put up on YouTube, where it has received more than 150,000 views. The whole episode was also a one-day embarrassment for the Tories in the papers. Yet Cameron and his party's other policy confusions and awkward manoeuvres, their U-turns and semi- U-turns – their L-turns? – have until recently received less attention than they merit. The Liberal Democrats' policy contortions and retreats have attracted far more comment.This may be about to change. On Monday, contrary to the Conservative general election manifesto, and to the fury of the influential Tory website ConservativeHome, the justice secretary Ken Clarke told the BBC that not everyone convicted of a knife crime would be sent to prison. Last week, Cameron informed MPs that his government was "looking carefully" at the strong criticism of its recent decision to cut funding for school sport. "We are listening to people's concerns," a Downing Street source told Guardian reporters – the delicious Whitehall euphemism for a likely U-turn.There have been other climbdowns. Ten days ago, the coalition announced that the imposition of its draconian cap on housing benefit payments would be delayed by nine months, from April 2011 to January 2012. Also last month, Cameron reversed his much-derided decision to employ a personal photographer and film-maker at taxpayers' expense. "I can't describe it as anything other than a U-turn," said the prime minister's spokesman.In August, Cameron vetoed a controversial coalition plan to cut free school milk for the under-fives so hastily that a Conservative minister, David Willetts, who was on live television justifying the plan, had to change his position halfway through his interview. In September, the health secretary Andrew Lansley was accused of making another U-turn over the future of the popular telephone helpline NHS Direct. The previous month, it had been widely reported that the service would be scrapped by the coalition. The following month, Lansley fiercely – perhaps a little too fiercely – denied that such a plan had been announced, or that any alteration in government policy had taken place. In May, during another row, this time inside the Conservative party, no such denials about U-turns could be attempted: a Cameron plan to pack the Tories' sometimes rebellious 1922 Committee with loyal MPs lasted five days, before being abandoned.In a sense, the whole history of Cameron's Conservatives has been one long U-turn: the "modernisation" of the party, which involved dropping so many old policies and ways of doing business; the abrupt, pivotal decision in 2008 to end years of support for Labour's generous public spending; the unceremonious ditching last year of Cameron's "cast-iron" 2007 guarantee to hold a referendum on the EU's Lisbon treaty; the abandonment in May of his 2007 promise to raise the inheritance tax threshold to £1m, once absolutely central to Cameron's appeal; and finally, and perhaps most shamelessly, his sudden public enthusiasm for Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats. In the 2008 book Cameron on Cameron, a series of soft but sometimes revealing interviews with the journalist Dylan Jones, the Tory leader talked dismissively about "Calamity Clegg", and said the Lib Dems "spend every waking hour dreaming of a hung parliament and their moment of power when they can foist themselves on a grateful nation".Have all the U-turns since Cameron became Conservative leader in 2005 been shrewd or panicky – or a bit of both? Tim Bale, a historian of the party, thinks the former: "Cameron has a tendency, when faced with serious opposition, to move back and rethink, the better to move around the obstacle. As long as his main point is achieved, he's happy to compromise around the margin if he has to."  Edward Heath: it was under him that the phrase 'U-turn' first entered common political usage. Photograph: Bettmann/CORBISIn Britain, where a prime minister with a decent Commons majority has the power to act – and is expected to act – as a decisive, sometimes almost dictatorial figure, U-turns are usually seen by journalists and politicians as damaging humiliations. Yet Bale thinks many voters are less macho: "In the Westminster bubble, U-turns become very significant, but most of the public aren't paying attention." Those voters who are, he says, often know from their own lives that there are worse things than changing your mind.Bale even suggests that Cameron and the coalition could sell their sometimes chaotic switches of policy as a fresh, "listening" approach after the inflexibility of the Thatcher, Blair and Brown governments. And in recent decades, Bale points out, any back-pedalling Conservative or Conservative-dominated administration has also enjoyed a big advantage over its Labour equivalent: "The financial markets generally look more kindly on Tory administrations that alter course. Any rowing back by a Labour government would be punished."However, back in the pre-Thatcher history of the Conservative party, and in the minds of some older or more anxious Tories still, there lurks a warning about the dangers of making too many U-turns. In 1970, the Conservative prime minister Edward Heath was elected, like Cameron, with only moderate enthusiasm on the part of voters. Like Cameron, Heath started out regardless with bold plans to toughen up and transform a country that he regarded as too state-dependent. Like Cameron, Heath inherited a sluggish economy, and quickly lost his lead over Labour in the polls.In 1971, his government began to panic. Increasingly fierce opposition to his policies on the streets, and an unforeseen global economic shock (the first oil crisis), made the panic worse. For the next three years the Heath administration zig-zagged, between rightwing and more centrist policies, between conciliation and confrontation, until, with the phrase "U-turn" for the first time in common political usage, it narrowly lost power at the February 1974 general election. A contemptuous editorial in the usually Tory-supporting Spectator commented: "The squatter in No 10 Downing Street has at last departed . . . Policy after policy was reversed, and disastrous alternatives were introduced. Mr Heath has spent nine years trying to ruin the Conservative party [as leader] and three and a half trying to ruin the country."When Margaret Thatcher became the next Tory prime minister in 1979, one of her central aims was to avoid any disastrous Heath-style U-turns. "You turn if you want to," she famously told the 1980 Conservative party conference, at a time when her policies were unpopular and, to many observers, demonstrably not working. "The lady's not for turning."In fact, Thatcher did sometimes drastically change course: condemning the state subsidies given to British Leyland by the previous Labour government, and then paying the dying car conglomerate even more; defending a programme of coalmine closures in 1981, and then hastily abandoning the plan when the miners threatened industrial action in response. But Thatcher, like Cameron so far, did not let her U-turns define her. Her surrender to the miners in 1981 was only a passing embarrassment, and was quickly superseded in the national memory by her single-minded campaign against them in 1984-85.  Despite her assertion that she 'wasn't for turning', Margaret Thatcher proved to be adept at making U-turns. Photograph: Chris Capstick/Rex FeaturesTony Blair inherited this instinct to be unyielding in public from her, like so much else. "I can only go one way. I've not got a reverse gear," he told the Labour party conference in 2003, when opposition to his Iraq policy was at its strongest. The language was more matey, less haughty than hers had been in 1980 – appropriate for a Britain now less willing to be dominated by politicians – but the message was the same: U-turns were for losers.Yet while Blair, in his later years as prime minister, increasingly made a fetish of firmness, Cameron was developing a more flexible approach to politics. He had spent much of the 90s working in corporate public relations, where, even more more skilfully than in politics, retreats are routinely sold as advances and defeats as victories. As Cameron climbed deftly through the Tory ranks, he regularly reinvented himself to keep up with, or get ahead of, the trends in party thinking: from enthusiastic young Thatcherite in the late 80s to mild-sounding Guardian website columnist just over a decade later; from loyal aide to the authoritarian home secretary Michael Howard in the 90s to "hug a hoodie" law and order liberal in the noughties; from new MP of modest ambitions – asked whether he wanted to be party leader in the summer of 2005, he said: "It's not on my horizon at all" – to absolutely focused contender for the leadership a few months later. Even Cameron's attitude to bike-riding has shifted completely over the years, according to his biographers Francis Elliott and James Hanning. Until Cameron stood for parliament in 2001, they write, he "hadn't ridden a bicycle 'for years' but [he now] thought it would get him around the constituency and garner some good publicity"."Cameron seems to have no fixed principles at all sometimes," says Geoffrey Wheatcroft, the commentator and authority on the Tory party. "He loves stunts. He likes to strike attitudes. There's a terrible tendency to say different things to different audiences. It will catch up with him." Wheatcroft argues that the Conservatives' disappointing performance in the election indicates that some damage has already been done by this slipperiness.Other Tory-watchers see in Cameron's shape-shifting not the ghost of blundering Heath, but the more cunning spirit of the revered Tory pragmatists and accomplished prime ministers Harold Macmillan, Stanley Baldwin and Benjamin Disraeli. "Cameron regards Conservative ideology as being quite flexible," says Bale. His U-turns tend to be on issues that are "very symbolic and politically loaded" – but not issues worth fighting for. Even what is, arguably, Cameron's most painful policy reversal did little lasting damage. In 2007 he announced that a Tory government would not build more grammar schools; almost three weeks of uproar followed, among the many Conservative grammar school supporters. But then Cameron simply switched back to the old policy. Who, apart from political anoraks, remembers the row now?But Cameron does differ from the old Tory pragmatists in one big way. For all his U-turns since taking office in May, "He's still got his eyes on the prize, and that prize is quite an ideological one," Bale points out. He means the coalition's brutal public spending cuts and radical redefinition of the role of the state. The government probably does not feel that pragmatic if you are currently occupying a campus.Yet even the cuts plan may be less solid than it appears. In October, a little-noted but authoritative-sounding story in the Financial Times said the Treasury was working on schemes to "reprofile", or delay, some of the cuts if required. Bale, too, suspects the coalition's deficit reduction strategy involves "all kinds of forward positions [on cuts] Cameron will be prepared to sacrifice." Although that probably depends on how hard he is pushed.  Promises, promises . . . David Cameron and supporters during the May 2010 general election campaign. Photograph: WPA Pool/Getty Images'Today I give you this cast-iron guarantee . . .'The Conservative promises that fell by the waysideKnife crime"We have to send a clear message that carrying a knife on our streets is completely inexcusable and unacceptable in a civilised society. . . So we're proposing that anyone convicted of knife crime should expect to go to jail."David Cameron, July 2008"Anybody who is guilty of serious knife crime will go to prison but I'm not in favour of absolute rules. I'm in favour of actually allowing judges to see how nasty the offender is, see what the offence was, see what the best way of protecting the public from him is."Ken Clarke, December 2010 NHS Direct "The new helpline will be better and more cost effective than NHS Direct."Nick Chapman, chief executive of NHS Direct, confirming an announcement by Andrew Lansley that NHS Direct is to be axed, August 2010. "I have not announced plans to scrap NHS Direct. I have announced plans to phase out the NHS Direct number."Andrew Lansley, September 2010 Referendum on the Lisbon treaty "Today, I will give this cast-iron guarantee: if I become PM, a Conservative government will hold a referendum on any EU treaty that emerges from these negotiations."David Cameron, September 2007 "The Lisbon treaty has now been ratified by every one of the 27 member states of the European Union, and our campaign for a referendum on the Lisbon treaty is therefore over."David Cameron, November 2009 Prison population "We will redevelop the prison estate and increase capacity."Tory election manifesto, 2010 "We expect that, by the end of the spending review period, the number of prisoners will be around 3,000 lower than it is today."Ministry of Justice, October 2010• Can you think of any other Tory U-turns that we've missed? Post your suggestions in the comments below