The trend is well established and beyond dispute. The number of crimes committed in Britain is falling year by year. The prison population is expanding fast and, on average, the length of sentence is increasing. Yet casual newspaper readers and television viewers are encouraged to believe the exact opposite. As a nation, we are approaching a condition perilously close to hysteria.The media should take the major share of responsibility, but populist politicians must accept part of the blame. Yesterday morning we heard that John Reid, the home secretary, is considering the merits of introducing "Sarah's law", a newspaper stunt that involves the public identification of paedophiles after they have completed their prison sentences. He has, by implication, contradicted a judge for following the sentencing guidelines laid down by one of his Labour predecessors. Nobody doubts that he will allow the prison population to increase beyond the present record level. Ten years ago it was feared that it would rise to more than 50,000. This week it stood at 77,785.If Dr Reid bothers to read this column, he will regard my criticisms as the bleating of a bleeding-heart libertarian. But my views are shared by hard-headed experts on the criminal-justice system who insist, with much supporting evidence, that the populist approach to crime and punishment, far from resulting in a more law-abiding society, only makes things worse. Britain needs a politician with the courage to tell the country to calm down. Otherwise the ghastly competition in who can be toughest on crime and the causes of crime will continue, with profound damage to the fabric of civilised society.Last week The World at One broadcast two discussions on the success of custodial sentences in reducing crime. One contributor - something to do with Civitas, which claims to be a thinktank - argued that the prison population should double. His proposal was unrelated to deterrence or punishment. He simply wanted to keep undesirables out of circulation. That is what Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, calls using prisons "as social dustbins for petty offenders, the mentally ill and drug addicts". Forget the denial of civil rights that such a policy involves. Think only about its consequences for the prison system, described by The World at One's second contributor, a former prison governor. Indefinite sentences (with no hope of early release or parole) would, he said, make the prison system unworkable. The men and women on whom they were imposed would have no incentive to cooperate with the prison authorities or to prepare themselves for eventual rehabilitation.The larger the number in jail, the worse the overcrowding and the smaller the prospect of release, the greater the likelihood that it corrupts even further. Prison breeds more prison. Difficult though the paradox may be for the hard-liners to understand, a continual reduction in crime requires custodial sentences to be used only as a last resort.Pandering to the popular demand to "lock them up and throw away the key" requires politicians to deny truth and defy logic. Although the scheme for potential early release is essential to the stability of the prison system, some offenders - out under licence or on parole - are bound to reoffend. Oh, for a home secretary who is prepared to say so. Ministers who are prepared to take the brutal approach to penal policy contribute to the general brutalisation of society. Oh, for a home secretary who was not so obviously well equipped to occupy that role.Dr Reid will, I know, be unimpressed by these arguments. He may, however, be more interested in the political consequences of the implication that crime is out of control. During the next three years, he is unlikely to convince the voting public that he has ended the imaginary crisis, no matter how hard he tries to outbid the Tories. The "law and order" debate will continue to contribute to the government's unpopularity. It is probably too late to convince the nation that crime is nothing like as widespread as it has been encouraged to believe. So Labour will be damaged by a lie that it has helped to promote.comment@theguardian.com