Harold Shipman, the Manchester GP jailed for life for the murder of 15 of his patients, has launched an appeal against his conviction, it emerged yesterday.As families of the victims voiced their dismay at the news that their ordeal may not be over, Preston crown court confirmed that Shipman had lodged his appeal there last week. Officials are preparing papers to be sent to the court of appeal in London which has not yet received the "effective" application for the appeal. The GP, who has always denied the murders, was convicted last month after a four-month trial in Preston before Mr Justice Forbes. He was also found guilty of forging the £386,000 will of one of his victims, Kathleen Grundy, 81, a former mayoress. The jury of seven men and five women deliberated for six days before returning their unanimous verdicts for the murders, which took place between March 1995 and June 1998. Since the inquiry began, de tectives have investigated 175 deaths of patients who were registered at Shipman's Market Street surgery in Hyde, Greater Manchester. After the trial, the crown prosecution service said it had enough evidence to proceed on another 23 cases, although officials said they would not go ahead. Last night, relatives of Shipman's victims said they were devastated at the latest development. Peter Wagstaff, who speaks on behalf of a group of relatives, said: "It is prolonging the agony and grief and it is further upset." His mother was 81 when she was visited by Shipman at her home in Rock Gardens, Gee Cross, Hyde, on December 9 1997. He told her family she had died from a heart attack. Mr Wagstaff said the families feared that any appeal would interfere with their demands for a full public inquiry into Shipman's activities. "For a trial that went on for three and a half months, with 180 witnesses, I find it very difficult to believe there are grounds for an appeal." Father Denis Maher, of St Paul's Roman Catholic church in Hyde, added: "At first I didn't think he would have the audacity or the arrogance to appeal. On the other hand it is consistent with his behaviour. He has never shown any remorse. The man doesn't have any concept of the hurt and pain he has caused here." Shipman, who was convicted in the 1970s for forging prescriptions to feed his own pethidine habit, stockpiled vast quantities of morphine from terminally ill patients to murder his victims. The father-of-four altered computer records and notes to cover his tracks.