The murder of special branch officer Stephen Oake, 40, was not an isolated incident.Highlighting the dangers faced by officers in the line of duty, the home secretary, David Blunkett, said yesterday: "I commend the bravery and commitment of these police officers in defending us, not only against dangerous criminals but against those threatening the safety of our country."Statistics show that road accidents are the greatest threat to officers on the job. The national police officers roll of honour recorded 14 deaths in the line of duty last year - 13 officers died in traffic accidents and one died of natural causes.However, more than 50 officers in England and Wales have been killed by suspects since 1980. Just last week, police constable Gerald Walker, 42, was killed while trying to arrest a suspected car thief. A 25-year-old man has been charged with his murder. Mr Oake was the first officer stabbed to death in five years. The last known stabbing of a police officer was that of PC Nina Mackay, who was attacked by a paranoid schizophrenic in October 1997.More than 300 officers have been killed in Northern Ireland in the line of duty, but it has been more than a decade since an officer in England and Wales died in a terrorist incident. · In June 1992, special constable Glen Goodman, 37, was killed and his colleague PC Alexander Kelly, 32, seriously wounded by IRA terrorists stopped in a car on the A64 near Tadcaster. · In February 1984, PC Yvonne Fletcher was shot dead outside the Libyan embassy while controlling a crowd of demonstrators. · In 1983, PC Jane Arbuthnot, inspector Stephen Dodd, and sergeant Noel Lane died in the IRA bombing of Harrods department store in London. · In October 1981, Kenneth Howorth, 49, died while to defuse an IRA bomb in a Wimpy burger bar on Oxford Street, London. · In 1975, Metropolitan police constable Stephen Tibble was shot dead by an IRA suspect in west London. He had been in the force only three weeks. In the same year, explosives officer Roger Goad, died trying to diffuse an IRA bomb outside a shop in Kensington, London.Other officers killed by suspects in the line of duty include: · PC Alison Armitage was killed in 2001 by a car thief in Oldham, who drove over her repeatedly as he tried to escape. Her killer, a 19-year-old from Manchester, was jailed for eight years.· PC Malcolm Walker died in October 2001 after a vehicle he attempted to stop deliberately hit his motorcycle, sending it over the railings and causing him fatal injuries. · Trainee police constable Philip Walters, 28, died after being shot in the heart as he made an arrest over a domestic incident in Ilford, north east London, in April 1995. · PC Lewis Fulton, 28, died after being knifed as he responded to an emergency call in the Gorbals area of Glasgow in June 1994. · Sgt Derek Robertson, 39, was stabbed to death at New Addington, south London, as he investigated a robbery at a sub-post office in February 1994. · Beat constable Patrick Dunne, 44, died in a hail of bullets in October 1993, while checking out reports of a shooting incident in Clapham, south west London. · In March 1993, sergeant Bill Forth, 34, was stabbed to death on Tyneside after being set upon while answering a routine call to deal with youths who had allegedly smashed a window. · Off-duty detective constable Jim Morrison, 26, was stabbed in Aldwych, central London, after approaching a suspected thief in December 1991. · In November 1991, sergeant Alan King, a father of four, died after being stabbed in Higham Hill, east London. · In March 1991, PC Duncan Clift, 27, was killed when he was run over as he tried to prevent the theft of a high performance car in Northumberland. · In December 1990, PC Robert Gladwell, 35, was battered to death in a brawl at a west London hotel. · PC Laurence Brown, 27, was shot in Hackney, east London in August 1990. The  National Police Officers Roll of Honour maintains a full list of officers killed in the line of duty.