David Cameron was at pains to characterise last week's looting as "criminality, pure and simple". His aim was to ensure that notions of social justice are not attached to lawless behaviour in ways that seem to legitimise other recent protests that turned violent, such as the students' march and the events around G20.But the distinction between law and justice is not straightforward, especially when the lawlessness is itself a protest against what some citizens see as unjust laws. The rough policing of G20 events led Sir Denis O'Connor, Her Majesty's chief inspector of constabulary, to publish his important report on upholding British principles of policing by consent. To the consternation of some senior officers, he drew the distinction between peaceful unlawful protests and the more tightly circumscribed protests governed by laws on public order that gave police powers to clear unlawful protests with force, as they did at the G20. O'Connor called on police to use their discretion to be more tolerant of the former – so long as they were peaceful – as a necessary part of the workings of our democracy.But the events of last week, like the riots of the 1980s, involved thousands of citizens breaking the law violently with apparent impunity. Police were notably absent when they were urgently needed, and where they were present, we also saw rows of them apparently standing by while the violence took place. To the dismay of victims and viewers, this appeared to be a breakdown of the rule of law passively sanctioned by law enforcement officers.It undoubtedly encouraged others to join in the chaos. Like the 1980s riots in Brixton and Toxteth, looters uninvolved in the rioting and its causes simply took advantage of the sense that the normal threats of being caught and punished were suspended. The notion that they don't understand right from wrong is mistaken. All of them knew it was wrong. They just thought they could get away with it.But police were also bound by rules: directions from senior officers, who in turn were concerned to respect laws on health and safety which made them responsible for the safety of their officers. And many officers had internalised fears of a repeat of the Ian Tomlinson episode. But it is fair to say that in some areas for several days and nights, until police numbers increased sufficiently, there was a temporary breakdown of law and order.Although the rest of the country was not attacked, it has deeply unsettled many other citizens in ways that previous episodes – like the temporary loss of control of St Pauls, Bristol, in the 1981 riots, and the so-called "no-go area" in west Belfast – did not. This time, we could all identify with the victims – or the temptations faced by the looters, which the rest of us normally resist.In rule-based societies, law incorporates many of the rules that societal members are expected to observe. In western democracies, the public conception of law includes justice – in both natural and administrative forms. But as my uncle, a law professor in New York, explained to me when I asked before going up to university to study law, what books on justice I should read: "We don't teach justice. We teach law. And the first lesson is that they have little or nothing to do with each other."However ironic his tone, there have often come times when normally law-abiding citizens feel that injustice has been enshrined in law, and so protest – often unlawfully – against it. The poll tax riots were a famous UK example. The Arab spring is a much more vivid and violent demonstration of unlawful protests against "legalised" injustice. President Assad in Syria insists state violence against protesters is only against "armed gangs of terrorists" – thus invoking the term that empowered both the US and UK to claim the right to cross many previously respected legal boundaries about detention without trial, and torture.The fact that in Egypt the army showed more sympathy with the protesters than the police reflects the distinction between law and justice. For Egypt, Tunisia, Libya and any other former dictatorship to reform the concept of the rule of law, they will need to change their constitutions and legal codes in regard to public protests, and almost certainly, the judges and police that enforce them.Those protesters were clear that in their countries the rule of law had lost any connection with justice. That is the case in many dictatorships where police, courts and prison contain people who have not violated any other legal norms except criticising the government.In Britain, the aftermath of the heavy police presence to enforce the law, and be seen to be enforcing it, is a kind of legal spectacle – hundreds of arrests, all-night sittings, and a parade of remands and convictions with levels of punishment often wildly out of proportion to the offence, or the circumstances of the offender – a college student sentenced to six months for stealing bottles of water worth £3.50; a nine-month referral order for an 14-year-old who stole a packet of chewing gum, and so on. Rules of evidence and proportionality seem to have been put aside to reassure the public that law and order has been restored.But since the purpose of law is to keep order, I am concerned this wave of punitive behaviour by the courts will only lead to a further sense of injustice among the rioters, and their families and friends. If their looting had little or no sense of justice, their resentment against the courts, and the state, will make them feel like victims too – as is often the case with criminal sentences – and diminish such remorse as they might feel. One thing is certain: it is hardly likely to lead them to show more respect for the law.