Gary and Lesley had met each other in a rehabilitation unit in Sheffield, both determined to kick the heroin habit that had had each of them in its iron grip for seven years. But because the unit frowned on relationships being started up on the rehab course, they left and tried to go it alone.It was a disaster. They went back to heroin and onto a shoplifting spree to pay for a habit that cost each of them £100 a day. That brought them before a magistrates' court, and they looked doomed to spend time behind bars.Fortunately for them, a pioneering clinic was being set up in Sheffield to treat heroin addicts. There were places for the couple on the groundbreaking course. Solicitors and probation officers asked the court to refer Gary and Lesley to the new project. The magistrates agreed.Two years later and Gary, 28 and Lesley, 23, (not their real names) are beginning to live the lives they were deprived of when they became slaves to heroin."It's all down to the clinic," said Gary. "We've been in rehab and on methadone programmes before, but this is different. This time they've got it just right."To Gary and Lesley, what the clinic has got right is the use of methadone in a controlled environment. "Heroin is taken out of the equation because you're being given methadone," said Lesley. "The methadone is free, so you're not looking to steal to pay for the habit. At the beginning you're given the prescribed amount by a pharmacist and you have to take it there and then, so there's no chance of storing it up or selling it on."Put all together, it gives you a great chance of keeping off heroin and keeping out of crime."The Primary Care Clinic for Drug Dependence is led by GPs and already has 400 patients. In its two years of operation, the clinic has been a major success in reducing drug-linked crime. Independent research has shown a 62% decrease in criminal records, both cautions and convictions, for patients who had completed their first year.Acquisitive crime - stealing to fund a drug habit - was down by 69% and drug-related crime down by 83%.The research study, carried out by Sheffield University, followed 65 patients through their first year of treatment, 50% of whom had spent time in prison before they attended the clinicDr Jenny Keen, one of the founders of the clinic, claims it not only provides safe and successful treatment for addicts, but it is also cost effective. She said: "It costs around £750 a year to treat a patient, including the actual cost of methadone, which is low by any standards."Add that to the huge benefits of reducing crime - savings made on not prosecuting and imprisoning people - and this approach to tackling heroin addiction offers major benefits, not just to individual patients but to the rest of society."Under the scheme, GPs, solicitors, probation workers, police and drugs workers can all make referrals to the clinic, which employs four GPs on a part-time basis with a 24-hour on-call service.All new patients take their prescribed methadone one dose at a time under the supervision of a pharmacist. In the two years the clinic has been open, the number of GPs in the city prescribing methadone has doubled while the number of methadone-related deaths has fallen. Sheffield has led by example in methadone being taken on prescription under the supervision of a pharmacist. Only three people died with methadone in their blood in Sheffield in the last year and in only one of these cases was it given as the actual cause of death. "This indicates that methadone is probably being prescribed much more safely," said Dr Keen.She accepts that the prescribing of methadone is still a controversial issue. "Many have concerns about whether or not prescribing methadone is an acceptable way forward. "Methadone on prescription provides a way of managing heroin addiction by making it possible for heroin addicts to lead successful lives and by reducing the very real risk of engaging in criminal activity to fund their habit."And one of South Yorkshire's leading crime fighters agrees. Chief Inspector Peter Darling acknowledges there is concern in some quarters over the use of methadone. "But we are not in a perfect world and if it is helping young people come off heroin and reducing crime at the same time then that is something we should support."He said the results of the first pilot were very encouraging and his force believed that the project would have a big impact on crime across the county in the next few years.It has already had a big impact on Gary and Lesley. They have recently moved into a flat in a supported housing scheme with a key worker on hand and reduced their daily intake of methadone from 120mls to 50mls in two years. "We were lucky to have been in Sheffield when this was set up," said Gary. "There is a desperate need for facilities like this all round the country. It's the way forward for people like us."