On a warm, end-of-summer evening on Bowdoin Street in Dorchester, one of South Boston's most notorious neighbourhoods, Officer Rupert Leonard sits in his squad car in a vacant lot - windows wound down, takeaway food on the seat beside him - and presents an almost absurdly rosy picture of community policing. The teenagers who huddle on every street-corner wander over to exchange understated high-fives and murmured conversation in Spanish; one boy demands, and quickly receives, the policeman's help in fixing the gears on his bike.Officer Leonard would be the first to concede that this is not the whole picture: weeks ago, on the same street, an argument turned violent and a man opened fire, hitting and paralysing a three-year-old girl, Kai Leigh Harriot, who was playing on a second-floor balcony nearby. People are on edge, Officer Leonard says, "but I'm optimistic. There are days when you have your lows. But you know what? I really am optimistic." These are tough times for the "Boston miracle", the policing revolution that saw youth gun crime in the city all but vanish under the leadership of Paul Evans, Boston's police commissioner, who was appointed this week with much fanfare by the home secretary to run the UK's police standards unit. Evans, 54 and married with one adult son, was deified in some British press coverage (Cop Idol, one headline read) - but homicides have been creeping up again. Yet even Officer Leonard's tempered optimism would have been unthinkable 10 years ago, when about 60 people under 24 were murdered every year in a city riven by gang violence and tensions between African-American and Irish communities. The "miracle" that followed - a 29-month period in which not one teenager died in gun violence - proved too good to last. But after his nine years in the job, the real legacy of Boston's departing supercop, which may explain the extraordinary fondness for him in some unlikely quarters, seems to be that when things do start to go wrong, the city now has a plan for how to cope. "It was bad here. Man, the whole landscape was just devastated by guns and drugs and alcohol abuse," says Paul Alves, who works with gang members in South Boston and experienced the problems at first hand, growing up as a member of the city's sizeable and underprivileged Cape Verdean community. He remembers how, in 1992, at the Morning Star Baptist Church, a funeral for a gang member turned into pandemonium when a rival gang attacked.Law enforcement officers were both deeply racist and trigger-happy, according to Boston defence attorney Andrew Stockwell-Alpert, who specialises in police misconduct cases: they were, he says, "a bunch of shooting cowboys who'd go out there and shoot before thought". Into this chaos stepped Evans, then 44, a decorated Vietnam veteran who had served in the Marine Corps before embarking on a police career at the bottom rung in South Boston, where he had been born into the city's working-class community of Irish-Americans. Two incidents that occurred immediately after he began his tenure as commissioner, in 1994, seemed to presage more of the same deep loathing between officers and the communities they policed. An African-American minister, Acelyne Williams, died from a heart attack when police launched a drugs raid on the wrong house, wrestling the 75-year-old to the floor. Months later, Anthony Cox, a black plainclothes officer at the scene of a crime, was beaten by uniformed officers who assumed he must be the perpetrator. For Evans, it was a turning point. Something had to happen, and what happened was Operation Ceasefire. Some British officers have spent the week muttering in the press about how unsuitable "American-style policing" may prove in the UK. But Evans's approach was far from "American-style", if that means the get-tough, all-stick-and-no-carrot approach of Rudolph Giuliani in New York, where the "broken windows" theory of policing came down hard whenever even the tiniest infraction was suspected, leaving minority populations feeling harassed and resentful.Operation Ceasefire, a collaboration between the police and an alliance of Boston churches calling themselves the Ten Point Coalition, invited teenagers to a series of "forums", although "invited" is probably putting it a little too gently. At the forums, the word was put about that things had changed. A tough new deal was offered: young people who obeyed the law would get access to jobs provided by local businesses, counselling, and other support, but those who crossed the line into violent crime would find themselves severely punished, serving longer, harsher sentences in federal prisons."Not your local jail, where you meet your friends and you play basketball and you watch TV, and it's a joke," as one police detective later explained. "Now you're going to be placed in federal prison, where you're going to be serving 85% of your sentence before you're even eligible for any type of probation or parole." They meant what they said, famously giving a gang member, Freddy Cordoza, more than 19 years in jail - with no chance of parole - for possessing a single bullet. Involving churches helped ally the police and local residents against the criminals, and exploited the uniquely central role of religious institutions in US life. Even the hardest gang members, Paul Alves says, respected the logic of Evans's position."They have their own code of what they believe is cool and uncool. They're not going to respond to the Officer Friendly who walked the beat when we were in school, but what they know now is that if you're living life right, the police are there to protect you, so you're not carjacked, so someone can't break into your house, so they're not dealing drugs on your corner. And the kids, when they heard what the deal was, they would say, 'that's real, that's real'. Which meant they were cool with it." Violent crime fell by a third; homicides plummeted by two-thirds, and - cannily in a city traditionally riven by political factions - Evans made a show of distributing credit for the success widely. "I've got cops complaining that they are bored in our toughest neighbourhoods," he told the media. "I can't say enough about his ability and the vision that this man had, not just to keep policing within a department but to bring it to the people," says Reba Danastorg, executive director of the Ten Point Coalition. "He believes in shared glory, and you don't find too many people who want to do that. I don't want to keep saying it, but y'all got a great guy going over there." The most vociferous opposition to this point of view is found among Boston's police unions, who see Evans as too much of a political player, like his predecessor Bill Bratton. "Paul was a consummate insider, much like Bratton," one officer told the Boston Herald. "Both guys were quick to take advantage of every opportunity the system offered ... to go to college on the job, law school, threading their way up the ranks. The big difference with Bratton is you had this guy who knew how to massage the cult of his own personality ... because, unlike Evans, he had one."The tensions came to a head last September, when police shot at a fleeing car, killing an unarmed 25-year-old, Eveline Barros-Cepeda, who was sitting in the back seat. Within hours, Evans had personally issued a new directive: Boston officers were not to shoot at moving vehicles unless they were shot at first. "If it was running us over, or running you over, or ploughing through a crowded market - under all three of those, we were absolutely forbidden to shoot," says a police source. "We just consider that a knee-jerk reaction, an absurd policy. I'm dedicated to the job, and I'm dedicated to the city. But I want to go home at night, and he just did this to placate the citizens." Battles with the unions left Evans angered, one colleague says, and, as the Boston Globe said recently, this - along with a doubling of his $160,000 (£100,000) salary - may have contributed to his decision to cross the Atlantic. Even some of Evans's supporters feel that the shine has come off the miracle in the last couple of years, with a real effect in the streets. "At the moment, right now, it's real iffy," says Alves. "The kids that were maybe just getting into fistfights, they're picking up guns. It's teetering towards getting hot again, maybe getting back towards where it was 10 or 12 years ago." But at least there is a plan to follow, now, and a new initiative, Boston Strategy II, aims to revisit anti-gang measures with renewed intensity. Reverend Ray Hammond, who has participated in the Boston police revolution since its inception, says of Evans's of reception in Britain: "I think his temperament will travel well. This isn't the kind of guy who comes in and says, 'oh, I know it all, I'm the successful commissioner'. He's going to come in, figure out what you're doing, try to contribute. What he understands, ultimately, is that you can't have public safety without the public."Life in short Family  Married with one grown-up son  Education  Boston state college; Suffolk University Law School, Boston, MA  Career history US Marine Corps 1967-69; Boston police department: patrol officer 1970-75, lieutenant 1978-80, superintendent, chief of the bureau of field services 1986-92, superintendent, chief of the bureau of investigative services 1992-93, superintendent-in-chief 1993-94, police commissioner 1994-03  Evans on Evans: "That's why I'm being asked to go to England. It's because of the collective accomplishments of what has been accomplished. It certainly wasn't me acting alone by any stretch of the imagination."  David Blunkett, home secretary: "His track record in reducing crime in Boston is extremely impressive and he is ideally placed to lead the [police standard] unit's work in driving up performance standards in the police service."