Police hunting the killer of Midlothian teenager Jodi Jones are trying to trace the drivers of two cars seen parked near the path where her body was found.Officers say they hope the motorists may have seen Jodi, 14, or someone acting suspiciously, near the Roman Dyke track in Dalkeith. It is just over a week since Jodi was stabbed to death on the pathway as she walked to meet her boyfriend. The development follows a reconstruction of Jodi's last movements on Monday night. It took a policewoman dressed in similar clothing to the teenager just three minutes to walk the 300 metres from Jodi's home in Easthouses to the pathway entrance. Afterwards police set up roadblocks and interviewed more than 800 motorists. One woman said she had seen two cars parked in the turning area of Newbattle high school, behind the path where the body was found, at around 5pm. One of the vehicles, possibly a four-by-four, had its bonnet up and police think it may have broken down or been in a minor accident. Detective Inspector Tom Martin, leading the hunt for the killer, said the woman did not remember seeing anyone with the cars so there was a possibility the drivers had walked to a nearby garage, close to the route Jodi would have taken. "If that is the case, then these people may well have walked past Jodi or seen something suspicious," said DI Martin. "We need to trace these motorists and speak to them about what they may have seen on that afternoon." He added that, although the motorists might not think they had seen anything relevant, it was vital for police to rule them out of the investigation. Police are still waiting for results of DNA tests, which DI Martin said might prove crucial to the investigation. They are also looking at Jodi's fascination with Goth culture and music, but a spokeswoman for Lothian and Borders police said recent reports that there was a ritual element to Jodi's death were "off the wall". "We are looking into that area of Goth music and her interest in the darker side of things, but she certainly was not killed in a ritual way," she said. "It was a brutal knife attack." More than 500 people have called police since Jodi's murder but there has not yet been a confirmed sighting of her.