Will the criminal of tomorrow need to carry a pair of secateurs in his back pocket if he is to make a success of a career in identity theft? The question is prompted by the news that the new iPhone 5S will operate via a fingerprint scanner, supposedly leading us into a brave new world free of the irritating necessity to remember passwords or pins.Some news reports have suggested that passing iPhone thieves will merely grab hold of their victims, cut off their fingers, wipe away the blood and then have easy access to all their personal details. "Thieves in some regions have worked out that you can force a victim to unlock a secured device, and in some extreme cases have also mutilated victims in order to steal their fingerprint," Marc Rogers of Lookout Mobile Security in San Francisco warned the Huffington Post ominously.Is this really something to worry about? Villains have never been too squeamish about removing parts of other people's bodies, although this is usually done after a murder to hinder identification. Kidnappers have long since learned that there is no simpler way to concentrate the mind of a victim's family. When J Paul Getty III, the heir to the family fortune, was kidnapped in Italy in 1973 an envelope containing his ear was sent as part of a $3m ransom demand. But it is hardly practical as part of an opportunistic iPhone snatch.Other less bloody techniques for copying fingerprints have also been suggested. Dave Birch of Consult Hyperion, an IT security consultancy, has heard about all of these fiendish tricks to get round fingerprint security, including "the Japanese guy who did it with jelly babies".In a 2002 experiment, cryptographer Tsutomu Matsumoto transferred latent fingerprints from a glass to a fake finger made from gelatine. It fooled fingerprint detectors four times out of five.And, as Birch points out, thieves wouldn't have to look far for the prints, since the shiny glass and metal surfaces of the average smartphone tend to be covered in them.Meanwhile, he has some words of reassurance for anyone who thinks they will only be able to go out in public with their new iPhone if they are wearing a pair of thick motorcycle gauntlets. It is unlikely that thieves will lop off your digits, he says from a seminar in Zurich. "If an attacker holds a knife to my throat, I will tell them the passcode, or unlock the phone for them – there is no need for them to cut off my finger."