Today's horror headlines in the tabloid papers will explain why it has taken 50 years to review the law on murder. Indeed, even before yesterday's release of a consultative report on homicide from the Law Commission (the independent advisory body on law reform), one tabloid paper had already picked up a leak in Monday's Guardian of the report's conclusions. It ran its front-page splash under a banner headline declaring: "Getting away with murder - hundreds of killers could face lesser charges under legal shake-up." Some responses from pressure groups, which had had no time to read the report's 300 pages, were predictable. The Victims of Crime Trust declared the proposals were "a licence to murder as a long-term imprisonment seems less likely". But there was a more rational response from Lyn Costello, one of the co-founders of Mothers Against Murder and Aggression, who welcomed clearer boundaries between categories of murder.As the commission noted last year in a report looking at just one aspect of murder - the defence of provocation - current law is in a serious mess. It is hardly surprising given its origins: 500 years of judge-made case law supported by more recent episodic and selective parliamentary changes. All forms of murder - from mercy killings to the most cold-blooded serial murders - carry a single sentence: life. The commission rightly concluded in its earlier report that the mandatory sentence was indefensible. This year the recently retired lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, and the director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald, reached the same findings. And so has a prison service that is accommodating 5,500 lifers - more than the combined total of the other 14 pre-enlargement EU states.The purpose of yesterday's proposals was to reclassify the offence to reflect the different levels of seriousness. The aim is to create "a ladder of offences". There would be three tiers. The top level would comprise murderers who intended to kill. This tier would retain the life sentence, but only because ministers insisted when setting up their review, that the mandatory sentence must be retained for the most serious level. A discretionary life sentence will still be possible in the second tier, involving killings where there was no intent but "reckless indifference". This category will include cases involving the defence of provocation, diminished responsibility and duress. The commissioners produced a succinct defence for creating this second level offence: "Taking a risk, even a high risk, of killing someone is recklessness and is very serious but it is not the same as the deliberate taking of life." Indeed. this separation is in line with polling evidence, which showed the public already incorrectly believed that the offence of murder was restricted to an intention to kill. It is not. It currently also includes killings where the intention was only to cause serious harm. The third tier (manslaughter) would involve killing through gross negligence or intention to cause harm, but not serious harm.The reclassification is not, as Victims of Crime suggested, "a licence to murder". Some defendants currently charged with manslaughter would, under this plan, face the more serious charge of second-degree murder. Other defendants, who are charged with murder but found not guilty because of the seriousness of the charge, would be caught by the second-tier murder charge. The DPP has spoken of prosecutors' need for more flexibility than a single offence. For all the greater coherence of the commission's proposals, the reform process looks set to be long and drawn out. A final report is not due until autumn next year. Then it will be reviewed again by the Home Office. But at least the journey to a more rational consideration of the most serious crime on the statute book has begun with a report that is both logical and judicious.