An inquiry has been launched into the contact the authorities had with a vulnerable family after a violent alcoholic man was jailed for at least 30 years for murdering his baby daughter, his girlfriend and her mother.Carl Mills groomed Kayleigh Buckley through a social networking site when she was 15 and began a relationship with her, but set fire to her house after becoming jealous that she was spending more time with their disabled child than with him.Kayleigh, her six-month-old child, Kimberley, and the baby's grandmother, Kim Buckley, were all trapped in the blazing house and died in agony as Mills casually looked on just hours after the little girl had been brought home for the first time.A review has been launched into how agencies including the police, social and health workers cared for the family in the weeks and months before Mills struck. Concerns had been raised about Mills, who had threatened to set fire to the family home in Cwmbran, south Wales. At least once before the fire he attacked Kayleigh, leaving her with a black eye.Relatives of the victims applauded as Mills, 28, was led away after being convicted of the three murders.Sentencing him, Mr Justice Wyn Williams told Mills he may never be released. He said: "You must have known that once the fire had taken hold there would be virtually no chance of escape."The judge said it was "despicable" that Mills had tried to claim that Kayleigh, who was 17 when she died, must have started the fire by discarding a cigarette.Newport crown court heard that Mills groomed Kayleigh after they met via Facebook. Kayleigh's mother, Kim, 46, was deeply concerned about the relationship but took Mills in because she feared her daughter would run away and live rough otherwise.Kayleigh became pregnant by Mills with twins, who were born in March 2012. One of the girls, Angel, died two days later, but doctors saved Kimberley, who was born deaf and blind and with lung problems.Mills visited at first but could not accept the baby and his behaviour was so bad that the hospital stopped him going on to the ward alone. He was told to leave the family home but allowed to sleep in a tent in the garden. Mills was jealous that Kayleigh spent more time with the child than him and thought she was having affairs.In the days leading up to the fire Mills sent threatening messages, and hours before the attack texted: "I'll burn your house down."He carried out his threat just hours after Kimberley had been brought home for the first time on 18 September. The balloons and streamers were still in place when Mills used an accelerant to light a fire in the porch.Trapped upstairs, Kayleigh yelled: "I'm burning, I'm on fire," but refused to jump or throw the baby down to neighbours.Mills, who had been drinking strong, cheap cider, walked past. A neighbour, Sarah Sweeney, said he told her that the "weird" baby was inside. A second neighbour said Mills was smirking.Detectives later recovered the text messages he had sent. They also found a piece of bunting that had been put up as part of the celebrations with Mills's fingerprints on it – though he had not been invited to the party.The impact on the surviving members of the family was documented in statements read out in court.Gwyneth Swain, Kim Buckley's mother, said: "There is a hole in my life." Of Kayleigh she said: "She was a shy girl, very close to her mother. She loved her family and we all loved her." Swain said the family had rallied round to look after Kimberley. "The heart has been ripped out of our family, a heart that can never be replaced," she said.The wider family released a statement in which they said: "Our life sentence started on 18 September last year when three beautiful innocent people were torn from our lives. Our lives are never going to be the same again."