The government's hopes of a trouble-free week before Westminster's summer break were dashed last night when peers delivered a thumping defeat on already-modified plans to reduce the right to trial by jury.The 210-136 vote against David Blunkett's blueprint for restricting trial by jury in cases of complex fraud or likely jury tampering amounted to another rebuff to Labour's modernising ambitions on what peers declared is a fundamental point of principle - "this very touchstone of our liberty".The 74-vote defeat for Mr Blunkett's watered-down version of a proposal blocked three times under both Labour and Tory governments came despite clumsy hints from Whitehall that the entire bill - much of it widely welcomed - might be lost if peers defied the home secretary's will.To the surprise of reporters, Tony Blair's spokesman twice warned before the vote that Downing Street wanted the bill passed "in its entirety". The package includes tougher sentences for murder, gun crime, and violent and sexual offences, as well as for dangerous driving.After the vote the Home Office struck a tough line. "We shall reverse this decision in the Commons," it said in a statement. Lady Scotland, the minister in charge of the Lords debate, dismissed threats of losing the entire bill or of using the Parliament Act to push it through next year.Legislative traffic jams means the issue will remain unresolved until October. But with rebels showing no sign of backing down either, the defeat means a test of wills between Lords and Commons - and parliamentary ping-pong between their rival versions of the bill - at a time when tempers will be high over hunting and other controversies.Ministers had been braced for defeat a week after 62 Labour MPs joined a revolt over NHS foundation hospitals, another modernising move which is arousing backbench anger. Downing Street had been hoping for a calmer week before Lords and Commons rise for seven weeks tomorrow. Instead 12 Labour peers voted with the opposition after an impassioned debate in which the Labour peer Lady Kennedy QC - one of the 12 - joined Tory traditionalists in defending jury trial.Ministers once hoped to save £100m a year by curbing the right of defendants in theft and other cases. But Mr Blunkett scaled his ambitions down to cases of daunting complexity and those where professional criminals seek to intimidate juries.The Metropolitan police alone spend £3.5m a year countering intimidation, officials say. But Lord Hunt, a former Tory cabinet minister and himself a lawyer, who led last night's attack, stressed "the fundamental importance of jury trial to our democracy" and quoted Tony Blair, then shadow home secretary, arguing that "fundamental rights to justice cannot be driven by administrative convenience".Like other peers in last night's debate, Lord Hunt stressed the tradition of community justice and involve ment in the legal process. "Trial by one's peers prevents the justice system becoming a matter of the state judging the citizen. Trial by jury is far more popular with the public than any politician or political party," said Lord Hunt.Among the defenders of the government's position was the former master of the rolls, second in the judicial hierarchy, the crossbencher Lord Donaldson. He conceded that the public has great confidence in juries despite some wrongful acquittals. "But I am not sure that it follows from that that they would have no confidence in trial by a judge alone or a judge sitting with two magistrates."Lord Donaldson even questioned whether juries understood complex financial issues. "And I totally reject the idea that the jury is the great 'bulwark of liberty against the establishment'," he said. But the Labour historian, Lord Kenneth Morgan, said juries predated Magna Carta (1215) and decided issues that were "matters for society as a whole".The Blairite Lady Kennedy also claimed that, since there was no great pressure for the reform, the issue must be one of "control" - to limit the unpredictable performance of juries. "Although the jury is 800 years old and the government tends to not like anything of age, it is in fact one of the most modern institutions in our firmament because it speaks to all those things which should be at the heart of a contemporary society. It empowers the citizen. It requires his or her responsibility to society." Blunkett unfazed, page 8  theguardian.com/jury