Greater Manchester police failed to investigate an officer's complaints of race discrimination, an employment tribunal has found.Charles Crichlow, chairman of the force's Black and Asian Police Association, claimed he had been the victim of racial discrimination. But the tribunal rejected the racial element. However, it found that the force had discriminated against Mr Crichlow on seven occasions between December 2000 and June 2001 by not investigating his grievances and allegations of race discrimination properly - or at all. Mr Crichlow's complaints were made several years before the television documentary The Secret Policeman exposed racism among the GMP and prompted reform. He took a series of grievances to his managers, more senior officers and GMP's complaints and discipline department. One grievance related to a "slave sale" poster pinned to the wall of a police station in Salford where he was due to give a talk. After complaining about the poster he was told the owner had taken it down and had been spoken to about it. Yet Mr Crichlow felt that the fact the racially offensive poster had been permitted suggested that such material was normally condoned, and that his complaint was not taken sufficiently seriously. It was not until his grievances were brought to the attention of the then-deputy chief constable that a full investigation was launched. The report found the approach of a number of senior officers created an atmosphere "hostile to alterations to or improvements of GMP practice on racial questions or which might affect racial questions", while the "limited and narrow" attitude shown by PC Crichlow's superiors had an "equally discouraging effect on Asian and white trainers". It concluded that there was "a reluctance to see or hear a complaint of race discrimination unless forced to do so". "I'm pleased that the tribunal has found in my favour," said Mr Crichlow yesterday. "The chief constable ... needs to consider the future of the complaints department. He attempted to claim that he wasn't liable for the actions of his officers, which I think is incredible actually given the history of institutional racism in this particular force. These are issues that I raised consistently even before The Secret Policeman documentary." Deputy Chief Constable Alan Green said: "The findings relate to occurrences four years ago. We now have a race equality scheme and training which emphasise the general and specific duties of our staff under the Race Relations Amendment Act 2000." He added: "It is clear they have found no evidence of discrimination on racial grounds and we are currently seeking legal opinion as to an appropriate way forward." PC Crichlow said: "I'm not hopeful that things are going to change, judging by his response. I am considering whether I have a future in the force ." The tribunal will meet in May to consider compensation.