As the riots subside (touch wood) and the weather turns helpfully worse (about time, too – it's August), the media narrative is sorting out citizens into heroes and villains.It's particularly noticeable in the red top tabloids, of course. The broadsheets are still grappling uneasily with deeper causation: poverty and hopelessness versus feral criminality and social indiscipline.It's worth repeating that the collective anger – and, more constructive, the solidarity – of the majority is likely to prove a great deal more powerful than that of the looters, ignorant and impulsive as many are.The sad appearances in 24/7 rolling magistrates courts are already confirming that predictable observation. "I blame Twitter and Facebook," one feral oldster explained after his 11-year-old grandson was nicked.That's where the powerful appeal made on TV by the bereaved Birmingham father Tariq Jahan, widely reported and repeated on air, becomes so important: an appeal for calm and restraint which leaves the chatter of pundits and elected leaders in danger of looking shallow or self-serving."I am a Muslim. I believe in divine fate and destiny, and it was his destiny and his fate, and now he's gone. And may Allah forgive him and bless him," Jahan said of his 21-year-old son, Haroon, who was deliberately mown down by louts in a car, along with two of his friends.That sort of response isn't everyone's cup of tea – it's certainly not mine, I'm more angry at the sheer futility and waste of three young lives, much more so if a son of mine had been a victim.But Jahan's faith gives him an explanation, comfort and the strength to come out to face the cameras – probably his first such experience – and say all the right things in his grief. Amazing.There are plenty of similar, if less dramatic, stories of fortitude and minor heroism in the papers, including pictures of Pauline Pearce, the Hackney grandma (and jazz singer) who let rip to express her contempt for local rioters only interested in stealing from Foot Locker.You do not have to be a bleeding heart Guardian liberal to despair at the poverty of imagination involved in retail rioting of the kind we have seen, or a high blood pressure Tory to feel uneasy about a consumer society that allows kids to grow up and feel that their self-worth is measured in terms of trainers and labels.But many people on both sides of tribal politics have countenanced such attitudes – their own and in their kids. So has the media – newspapers, radio, TV and anti-social media, too.As for the villains, the papers are full of emerging details about the people who have been charged. Whereas the Daily Star has focused on the positive – assorted heroes and community stalwarts, law-abiding teenagers and the like – the Sun, always visceral in its instincts, highlights "the lifeguard, postman, hairdresser, teacher, millionaire's daughter, chef and schoolboy, 11" who have been up before the beak.The Mail, which yesterday splashed on Jahan's plea (well done there) found a school mentor, a charity worker, a new father, a fraudster and drug dealer and a scaffolder, whatever the significance of scaffold erecting is here.The father told the courts he wasn't a baddie but had just gone out to buy nappies. Oh dear – how many lives are ruined on the spur of the moment?I'd urge caution here. "The plural of anecdote is not data," as the old joke goes, and we don't yet know enough about the looters to form clear views about who they were. Perhaps those being processed this week and those who cooperate and are thus easy to process. It often happens that way.So the crop we have read about so far may be untypical. But the profile is certainly one to watch. Mostly unemployed teenagers? Many older? Employed and not in more than average financial need? Parents? Whole families out on the rampage, as was reported in some places? We need to know to understand more of what happened and why, and to unpick the simplistic answers being provided over the airwaves and (yesterday) in parliament.I'm interested in how much urban teenage gangs will prove to be part of the story in places like London, Brum and Manchester. That may be different from the riots 30 years ago, when race and inner-city deprivation were far more salient and Margaret Thatcher's pro-market cuts medicine was a novelty in Britain after decades of postwar social democracy and growing prosperity.Many people may not resist the temptation of simple solutions – blame the rioters or blame the authorities, government, police, social services.Both arguments have merit. The looters were not looting because they fear losing their educational maintenance allowance (EMA), but many probably feel a sense of alienation and defeat.Many do come from undisciplined homes, but it's also probably the case (we are hearing this on the streets, too) that some parents feel cowed by social services and other progressive forces which inhibit forms of discipline that would have been mere common sense to their grandparents.When adults feel afraid of children, society is getting something wrong. We have managed both to neglect and indulge them.But all is never lost entirely. Lots of reformed ex-teenage toughies have been turning up on TV to explain their peer groups or successors on the mean streets.And we should always remember that members of the notorious Bullingdon Club, which terrorised restaurants in Oxford just a generation ago, have turned into useful members of society. Just how useful Dave, George and Boris now have a chance to demonstrate.