More than 23 years after fire swept through a house in south-east London killing 13 black youngsters at a birthday party, a second inquest was yesterday formally opened into their deaths.But the campaign by relatives to establish the truth about what happened at 439 New Cross Road, Deptford, in the early hours of January 18 1981 faced fresh legal obstacles yesterday. A row over the representation of Armza Ruddock, the owner of the house, who lost two children in the fire, is threatening to force suspension of the proceedings. The refusal by the Legal Services Commission to provide Mrs Ruddock with legal aid was yesterday referred to the Department for Constitutional Affairs in an attempt to forestall a lengthy judicial review of the decision. In 1981, the first inquest returned an open verdict. Fuelled by distrust of the police and rumours of racially motivated arson, the case became a source of resentment of authority among the West Indian community. Yesterday, the mood among the relatives was transformed. There was gratitude to the police for persisting in the investigation which eventually led to the new hearing. "The police have done a very good job in bringing it so far," said Desmond Brown, who lost his brother and best friend in the blaze. "We should get a real answer this time if everyone speaks the truth." George Francis, 75, who petitioned the local MP, Joan Ruddock (no relation to Armza), to reopen the case and who lost his 17-year-old son Gerry in the tragedy, said he was "happy after waiting 23 long years to get a second inquest". He added: "I'm not confident it will get the answers to what happened on that fateful night, but I hope it will. We are hoping for a verdict at the end of unlawful killing. We know the fire was not accidental." Gerald Butler QC, a retired judge sitting as a coroner at the Inner London crown court, admitted "the passage of time makes my task no easier". Some witnesses could no longer give evidence, he said, and some exhibits had been destroyed. The fire was "a terrible tragedy," Mr Butler added. "The bald facts do not ... demonstrate the grief and despair of the families, nor do they show the remarkable persistence and dedication on behalf of many in order to achieve this inquest." He referred to a 14th victim - Anthony Berbeck - whom he described as dying "following the trauma brought on by the fire". Mr Berbeck died in a fall several years after the tragedy. At the end of his opening statement, Mr Butler asked everyone in the cramped courtroom to stand for a minute's silence. Detectives now believe the fire started in an armchair in the living room of the house, but it is not clear whether it was accidental or deliberately started. Police have reportedly discounted a racial attack as the cause. The new forensic evidence will provide a clearer understanding of where and how the fire started. "We have applied the latest forensic techniques that are available to us but were not available at the time," said Commander Steve Allen of the Metropolitan police. The victims had been celebrating a joint 16th and 18th birthday party. Those who died were: Humphrey Brown, 18, Peter Campbell, 18, Steve Collins, 17, Patrick Cummings, 16, Gerry Francis, 17, Andrew Gooding, 14, Lloyd Richard Hall, 20, Patricia Denise Johnston, 15, Rosalind Henry, 16, Glenton Powell, 15, Paul Ruddock, 22, Yvonne Ruddock, 16, Owen Thompson, 16. One of the issues will be whether an earlier police report sent to the director of public prosecutions, known as the Stockwell report, will be disclosed. Police lawyers have argued it should remain confidential. Mr Butler said yesterday he did not believe it contained relevant information and was a compendium of "rumour and speculation". This morning the families and lawyers will visit the site of the fire in Deptford. They will not enter the house, which has been substantially altered. Joan Ruddock MP, who attended the hearing, said: "It's a very emotional event for the families. They have contained within them huge anger and grief since the fire 23 years ago. This will be cathartic." A spokeswoman for the DCA said legal aid "was not normally granted for an inquest". It had exceptionally been provided to most of the families involved, but the question of separate legal representation for Armza Ruddock was now being considered. 20 years of waitingOn January 18 1981, at about 6am, a fire swept through a house at 439 New Cross Road, London SE14, where a joint 16th and 18th birthday party was taking place. The fire started on the ground floor of the house and spread rapidly through the building. There was no way for many people to escape other than to jump out of the upstairs windows. Thirteen people, aged between 15 and 20, died. 路 Twelve weeks later, on April 21 1981, an inquest into the deaths was held at County Hall. The jury returned open verdicts. 路 The New Cross Fire Parents Committee was formed to seek a new inquest. In 1997 the Metropolitan police reopened its investigations, referring the case to the racial and violent crimes taskforce. New scientific evidence was obtained that suggested that the fire had been deliberately started in an armchair in the downstairs lounge. 路 In October 2002 the Metropolitan police applied to the high court for an order quashing the first inquest verdict. It was supported by the London borough of Lewisham, which represented the parents' committee. The high court agreed to the request and ordered a new inquest. 路 An application for funding for legal representation was turned down by the Legal Services Commission but granted on appeal by the constitutional affairs minister, David Lammy.