Police forces which fail to tackle racism face the threat of government inspectors being sent in to run their community relations policies, the Home Secretary told chief constables last night.The warning came as Jack Straw launched his first robust defence of the agenda set out by Sir William Macpherson last week in his report into the racist murder of the black teenager, Stephen Lawrence. The Home Secretary also made clear that individual police officers will not be able to shelter unscathed behind the definition of 'institutional racism" as he stressed that racist behaviour and language inside the police service must be confronted. 'Discrimination cannot be laid wholly at the door of organisational practices,' Mr Straw told a seminar of senior police officers in Gloucestershire. 'It is also perpetrated and perpetuated by individuals. Every member of staff within the police service must be prepared to take responsibility in this matter. There must be clear direction from the top about what is or is not acceptable in terms of behaviour and attitudes.' Mr Straw said he was very disappointed by the report from Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary published yesterday showing that 40 per cent of police forces have no community or race relations strategy and that for many forces racism remains a peripheral issue despite a similar report a year ago recommending action. 'Some chief officers have been very good but others have not embraced the agenda and we expect them to do so,' said Mr Straw, adding that the threat of intervention by Government inspectors similar to the 'hit squads' used in education would hopefully help concentrate the minds in the more recalcitrant forces. Mr Straw said that the investigation of racist crime was an area where lack of awareness and failure to act appropriately could cause 'untold damage' as had been made clear by the Lawrence inquiry. 'The way in which the police respond to racist crime is the key test of whether they are delivering their services fairly to all sections of the community. 'I know that much is being done within the service to improve the response to racist crime but it will have been a futile gesture if forces do not take the guidance on board and put it into practice.' But the Home Secretary reserved his strongest language for those senior officers who were unable or unwilling to challenge racist behaviour on the part of their staff. 'Supervisors must be prepared to challenge inappropriate behaviour and language and to take disciplinary action where it is called for,' said Mr Straw, adding that he wanted to reach the position where the sight of a black officer on the streets was no more unusual than the sight of a black doctor or nurse in hospitals.