The Welsh primary school teacher facing a £15,000 Vodafone bill for calls rung up by thieves after his handset was stolen in Barcelona will no longer have to pay – after we highlighted his plight and a barrister intervened on his behalf.Last month the Guardian revealed how Vodafone was holding Osian Rhys Edwards liable for the bill, even though it was clear he was a victim of organised criminal gangs that routinely target tourists in the Catalan capital.The pickpocket who took his phone last August used it to make round-the-clock, multiple calls to premium-rate numbers until Vodafone staff barred the handset once the bill reached £15,000.The 29-year-old, who teaches in Barmouth, Gwynedd, had used a local payphone to call Vodafone to report its theft, but the company insisted it had no record of this. It initially offered to reduce the bill to £10,500, with a payment plan allowing him to repay the debt over many years – even though it was highly unlikely that any court would have held him liable for the whole amount.Following our story – which attracted worldwide attention – Vodafone now says it will not pursue Rhys Edwards for the money, or place a default notice on his credit file which would have scuppered his chances of obtaining a mortgage. A barrister took up his case free of charge after reading his story in the Guardian.Vodafone has also dropped its claim against one of Rhys Edwards’s travelling companions – who had been at the same reunion and had his phone pickpocketed two hours later in almost identical circumstances to Rhys Edwards. Owain Roberts, from Anglesey, was sent a bill for £4,300 by Vodafone. Roberts had logged on to his Vodafone account to report his phone as stolen, but was later told he had only managed to order a replacement phone as an upgrade.Sarah Harvey, an NHS worker from Brighton, was also told by Vodafone that she had to pay a £5,800 bill run up after she was hit on the head by a cyclist, again in Barcelona this summer. Her bill has now been cut to £500. Again, she told us she had tried to report the theft to Vodafone but couldn’t get through using payphones.The trio were all victims of the criminal gangs that steal mobiles and use them to dial revenue-generating premium-rate numbers using conference calling facilities. The three are also victims of mobile operators’ refusal to cap their customer bills and their insistence that customers are liable for all calls until their phone is reported stolen.In March 2012 the regulator Ofcom told mobile phone companies to put credit-card-style caps in place, and in December 2013 the Department for Culture, Media & Sport announced it had agreed a voluntary cap on liability to come into force in spring this year. But amid intense lobbying by the companies, nothing has happened. Vodafone, which has global revenues of £40bn a year, has consistently claimed that caps are not technically possible, although TescoMobile has them in place.A spokeswoman for Vodafone told Guardian Money it waived Rhys Edwards’s costs “following a comprehensive review of the case”. In Roberts’s case, his Welsh Assembly representative, Rhun ap Iorwerth, had already helped to have the bill removed, while in Harvey’s case, the company says it was unaware she had been mugged and has therefore cut her bill to £500.“Our advice to customers is to treat their mobile phone as they would their wallet or purse and keep it safe at all times. It’s important that they let us know as soon as they suspect their phone is either lost or stolen. Customers are responsible for all charges up to the point they let us know. They can do this 24 hours a day, 365 days year, by phone, online, or in one of our retail stores, and all we need is their mobile phone number. If the phone turns up, it’s a simple matter for us to unbar the phone. We also advise customers to ensure they have a security pin on both their phone and their sim. It might not deter a determined criminal but does provide some additional protection against unauthorised use,” the company said.Meanwhile, Rhys Edwards is hugely relieved that it is all over. “I’m extremely grateful to the Guardian and the barrister who helped me. Most people aren’t aware that it is possible to run up a £15,000 bill in just a few hours. Vodafone must have known I hadn’t run up this bill but it was quite content to try to get me to pay it. Capped bills have to be brought in, if only to prevent others going through this,” he says.Why barrister took on Vodafone for freeLike many Guardian readers, I was outraged by Vodafone’s demands for £15,000 from Osian Rhys Edwards after his stolen phone was used to call rogue premium rate numbers, writes barrister Richard Colbey. It had a resonance for me as similar demands were made of my wife after our daughter’s phone was stolen a few years ago. I was happy, therefore, to see if I could, as a lawyer rather than a journalist, resolve Osian’s problem.Vodafone’s position looked legally flawed for several reasons. Firstly, it is unlikely that Vodafone would have paid out any of the money which was run up on Osian’s phone. Mobile phone companies know how easy it is for premium-rate services to be abused in this way, and almost all contracts with premium- rate providers have clauses exempting them from paying where, as here, artificially generated calls are made to such a number. If Vodafone was not liable for the monies, the somewhat arcane doctrine of unjust enrichment would give Osian a defence to any claim Vodafone brought.Further, Vodafone’s failure to introduce a system to close down his phone after obviously fraudulent calls were made was, arguably, a breach of the statutorily implied provision of the contract that Vodafone will provide its services in a reasonable manner.All this was in addition to Osian’s claim, disputed by Vodafone, that he had notified it from a Spanish phonebox as soon as the phone was taken. Such notification would have beyond argument ended his liability.Some readers have suggested that Vodafone was guilty of a criminal fraud. I don’t think that was correct for one minute. However had there been a US element to the case the all-embracing Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) might have caused difficulties for Vodafone executives who persist in trying to get money from customers after there had been a crime.I was surprised that Vodafone did not back down when the Guardian first wrote about this. The Money section, like most newspaper finance pages, is full of stories where readers’ woes with businesses have been quickly put right once the power of the media is asserted on their behalf, sometimes where the legal basis for the reader’s argument is flimsy in the extreme. A case as clear-cut as this would not normally need the intervention of lawyers.What I thought particularly outrageous was that Vodafone was threatening to report Osian to a credit reference agency without first getting a court judgment. The power large organisations have to do this gives them an unfair advantage in any dispute with consumers, not really redressed by the sites where consumers can pass comment on businesses.I set out Osian’s case in a forcefully expressed letter to Vodafone’s “General Counsel” (a US term for chief lawyer), demanding, somewhat unrealistically, a complete capitulation and compensation for the stress within 24 hours. A sensible solicitor did respond later that day, saying he needed a bit longer but promising to take no action against Osian until attempts to reach a proper agreement were made.We huffed and puffed in emails as litigation lawyers do, and within a few days had reached agreement that Osian would pay nothing for calls after his phone was stolen, but wouldn’t actually get any compensation. I expect a judge would have reached the same conclusion.To its credit, and slightly to my surprise, Vodafone did not insist the settlement was subject to a confidentiality agreement. I hope that this will encourage others faced with similar claims by phone companies to stand their ground.The issue has trundled on for a decade and no company has yet wanted to test its position in court. This is almost certainly because the companies are getting legal advice largely in line with my own view that they could not win, and they would have no choice but to change their policies once a precedent was established.Richard Colbey is a barrister based at Lamb Chambers in central London