'Prince" Naseem Hamed, the former featherweight boxing champion of the world recently jailed for 15 months for dangerous driving, was pictured in Sunday's News of the World in the prison yard reading a copy of my book, A Life Inside. The paper described the "best-selling book" as a "prison survival guide" and the connotation was that Naz, as he is known by legions of boxing fans, was using it to help him get to grips with his new environment. I was touched.Hamed was 10 years old when I went to prison for life. While his dreams were spiralling into the clouds in Brendan Ingle's Sheffield gym, mine were well and truly extinguished. As I wallowed in the mud, blind, his journey was taking him to the stars. But by the time he had taken his first world crown I had done 11 years inside and found my way. And I was a big Naz fan.In prison, boxing is almost as popular a sport as football and I remember well how much pleasure and excitement Hamed gave to my fellow prisoners and me throughout the 1990s, his glory years. In packed TV rooms, (those were the days before in-cell televisions) we thrilled at video screenings of his arrival in the arena, marvelled at his faultless somersaults into the ring, baggy gold lamé or leopardskin shorts flapping as he sailed through the air with feline grace. Along with the ringside crowd we would roar our approval. The chime of the bell was the signal for the pocket rocket to start dancing and dazzling. We paid no mind to his giant ego, as long as he kept on winning. When he unleashed his exocets from both hands we would grunt and yell in ecstasy, each punch he landed on his hapless opponent helping to release a little of the pressure from our own pent-up emotions. Almost inevitably his victims would crash into oblivion inside the distance and we would revel in their wretchedness. Fight over and thirst for stimulation slaked, we would retire obediently to our cells, never imagining that one day our hero would be one of us.Naz faded from view about the same time that writing ignited my dreams. A taste of good fortune allowed me to see that maybe, I too could have been a contender. I wrote about the world I inhabited, the prison world, and when I finally held that book in my hands and flicked back through the two decades I had spent on wings and landings I felt gratified. Now I'm free and the tables are turned.I have no idea what Naz thinks of my book, but I hope he finds it helpful. A lifer at the beginning of his sentence wrote to me a little while ago and told me that he recommends my book to others in his position. He called the book a "valuable gospel" and yes, "a survival handbook." He's in a lot deeper than Naz of course. He's struggling, but he seems to be surviving. My book was never meant to be a survival tip for prisoners, but I'm glad if anyone at all uses it to negotiate the ups and downs of a prison sentence, however long or short.· A Life Inside, A Prisoners Notebook is published by Guardian Books.