A Manchester United player, Jonny Evans, was released on bail yesterday after being questioned by police investigating an allegation of rape at the club's Christmas party.The 19-year-old, who has played for the first team three times, was not at the club's Carrington training ground yesterday when the other players arrived shortly after 9am. He had spent the night in police cells after his arrest by arrangement the night before.A Greater Manchester police statement said: "A 19-year-old man arrested following an incident at a city centre hotel on December 18 has been bailed. Police were called to the hotel on Great John Street at about 4.15am following reports that a 26-year-old woman had been raped a short time before. A 19-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of rape on Tuesday evening after presenting himself to police. He has been bailed until February 23 2008 pending further inquiries."Evans was snapped by photographers with the better known players at the team's party on Monday. Guests described it as a "drinking, lap dancing and gambling marathon". The wives and girlfriends of the players had been told to stay away.It emerged yesterday that the initial call to police had been made by the alleged victim's boyfriend. He told police the attack had happened in one of the hotel's bedrooms.The victim was taken to the specialist sexual assault centre at St Mary's hospital, Manchester, for an examination. She has given a statement to police and was being questioned further yesterday.The £395-a-night Great John Street hotel, where the attack is alleged to have taken place, was closed until Tuesday evening, with police spending much of the day inside the building.The players' party began at 1.30pm on Monday when they gathered for lunch at the 235 Casino. They were entertained by two drag queens and five burlesque dancers.A Manchester United worker said yesterday: "Jonny is shocked at his arrest just as everyone else is at the club. It had been a great party, but the incident has cast a big shadow over it. As far as Jonny is concerned he has done nothing wrong, but he will cooperate with police the best he can. All he wants to do is clear his name of any wrongdoing."Evans was born in Belfast in January 1988 and moved to Manchester as a boy. He is a central defender who holds the number 23 shirt. His younger brother Corry, 17, is a Manchester United academy midfielder.