The recent figures showing a massive increase in the numbers of Asian Muslims stopped and searched since 9/11 is not news to young British Muslims (Report, July 3). The catalogue of abuses of police power under anti-terror legislation has been well-documented by civil liberties groups. Unfortunately, the nebulous threat of al-Qaida and alleged "sleeper cells" is used to justify these abuses - but not one of the convictions resulting from these "stop and searches" has been for terrorism charges. In the interests of wider society we believe it is imperative for an inquiry into the behaviour of our police and intelligence services and for steps to be taken to restore our confidence in their vital work.Dr Adnan Siddiqui  Stop Police TerrorThe one indisputable fact about the criminal justice system is that it has consistently failed to protect and serve minority communities. Once again the media glosses over the fact that the African British community is top of the charts with its annual increase in stops. Once again the Police Federation uses pseudo-maths to deny the relevance of disproportionality, negating to admit that not all stops are recorded, and once again the Home Office empowers racially biased police officers with new tools to legally evade detection. No doubt the CRE will issue a statement and someone will commission another report while the African British and now Muslim community continues to be failed. Toyin Agbetu  The Ligali Organisation Jackie Ashley does not discuss the implications of including human rights within the proposed new equality commission (Politically correct, July 1). If equality were better understood as a fundamental human right then perhaps there would be more outcry over the shockingly disproportionate number of Muslim, black and Asian people regularly stopped and searched by the police. Francesa Klug  Centre for the Study of Human Rights, LSE Accusing the police of stopping a disproportionate number of people of Asian and African origin is deemed to be prejudice - it is nothing of the kind. The fact is that the overwhelming number of terrorists involved in targeting western interests in the period before, during and after 9/11 were of Asian and African origin. The police need to be able to stop and search those whose profiles most nearly match those who have been proved to be responsible. Basing action on actual experience is not prejudice. M Whitehead  London