Jim Dickie leant forward and walloped his desk. Above the detective superintendent, shelves holding the files chronicling one of the most high-profile unsolved murders in British criminal history trembled. Twenty years to the day had elapsed since Suzy Lamplugh disappeared and still her killer had somehow sidestepped justice.The abduction of Suzy is a murder mystery with a difference; Dickie is sure he knows who did it. Now he fears the man who murdered her could shortly be released from prison to reoffend.John Cannan, who is serving a life sentence for the rape and murder of another young woman, is about to have his tariff - the time he must spend behind bars - reviewed by an independent judge. Police fear the serial sex offender could be released in a few years, and are convinced he will rape and murder at the earliest opportunity.It is understood that Cannan, 53, has already lodged appeals over the tariff, using human rights legislation. Amid increasing concern among officers investigating the disappearance of Suzy, Scotland Yard has taken the rare step of pre-empting these moves by announcing publicly that he must never be freed.'Cannan will reoffend,' Dickie said. 'He should never be released. If you look at his profile, I have no doubt he will strike again. He has been released from prison before and committed crimes.'He is a danger to the female population, particularly the blonde, twenty-something professionals like Suzy. Even if he wasn't released until he was 60 he would go on to abduct, rape and murder women.'Few cases can compete with Suzy's in terms of profile. Two decades on the image of the 25-year-old estate agent with a wide, almost perfect, smile remains in the national pysche; an image that has preyed on the minds of parents with ambitious working daughters ever since. An attractive woman vanished in broad daylight in a fashionable part of south-west London while just doing her job. How?Police have typed more than a million words, gathered hundreds of witness statements and pursued thousands of lines of inquiries in an attempt to find out. Yet her body has never been found. Half a dozen suspects have been investigated and eliminated by detectives. Only one remains: Cannan.Now the investigation into the chief suspect has entered a new stage. Scotland Yard has confirmed for the first time that a fresh review of the entire case has been launched by forensic scientists alongside intensive new co-operation with the Crown Prosecution Service. A previous file against Cannan led to the CPS deciding four years ago that it did not justify charges.The mood is different this time. Dickie knows that forensics technology has developed remarkably in the meantime. The jigsaw puzzle of a case - characterised by its contradictions, conundrums and controversy - could yet lead to a conviction. Prosecution and police sources believe they are 'very close' to uncovering the final piece.Dickie is convinced Cannan stalked Suzy before meeting her. He would have known where she went, worked, socialised and where she would be most vulnerable. Suzy was going to show a 'Mr Kipper' a house in July 1986. Cannan was known as 'Kipper' in prison.'Evidence suggests he was monitoring her before she was abducted,' Dickie said. 'He certainly knew the area. He would have sought out a women like Suzy and may have contacted her and her estate agents beforehand.'The detective says that Cannan's offending profile suggests a character addicted to violent sex and unable to avoid being drawn to young, pretty intelligent blonde women. As the first massive investigation to catch Suzy's killer struggled to yield a firm lead, Cannan tried to kidnap a woman at gunpoint in a Bristol car park in October 1987. The next day, Shirley Banks, 29, a sales manager in the same city, failed to return home from work.Her naked, badly decomposing body was discovered by chance in the Quantock Hills six months later. Her skull had been beaten so relentlessly with a rock or brick it had 'shattered into fragments like an eggshell'.Two years later Cannan was found guilty of her murder and sentenced to life. Shortly after, a former girlfriend, the ice dancer Gilly Paige, alleged that, while passing Norton Barracks in Worcestershire, he had confessed to raping and killing Suzy. Later she retracted the allegation. Police have, however, interviewed Cannan at least four times in connection with Suzy. He has always denied any involvement in her disappearance.Even if sufficient evidence is uncovered to charge him, it might not lead to a trial. Cannan could argue that, given the massive publicity surrounding the case, selecting a fair-minded jury would be impossible. Cannan, claiming his innocence, has already said he has been convicted by the media.Dickie, though, is confident he will get his man. 'We will prevail,' he said.