A police officer who was captured on closed-circuit television kicking a black man as he was held down on a pavement by his colleagues will not face prosecution, it emerged yesterday.The footage showed an unnamed officer kicking Delbo King as he was held down in Manchester city centre after he had been sprayed with CS gas during a struggle. One minute after he was handcuffed, an officer is seen kicking Mr King on at least three occasions. The incident happened in June 2003, after Mr King, a former Paratrooper who served with the regiment for six years until 1995, had been arrested for smashing up a bus stop. Speaking at the time, Mr King said: "I am not some scumbag drug dealer, I have served Queen and country. I admit I was drunk, but I wasn't violent towards the police and after they cuffed me that should have been the end of the matter. "What would have happened if it were the other way round? How many years would somebody have got for doing that to a police officer? They should be judged under the same laws they are paid to uphold." The CCTV footage came to light in February 2004, when Mr King appeared before magistrates and pleaded guilty to criminal damage, disorderly behaviour and resisting an officer in the execution of his duty. He was fined £100 and given one day's detention. But yesterday the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) was informed by the Crown Prosecution Service that there was insufficient evidence to bring charges against three police officers from Greater Manchester police. The force had referred Mr King's complaint to the Police Complaints Authority - the predecessor of the IPCC. The decision was condemned by Charles Crichlow, chairman of the Greater Manchester Black and Asian Police Association. He warned that clearing the officer would raise questions about the investigation. "From what I saw on the video, I would be surprised if there was a complete exoneration," he said. "It would leave a lot of questions about the process." Alan Green, the deputy chief constable of Greater Manchester police, said: "The investigation, which was conducted by West Yorkshire police at the request of the PCA, examined in detail the complaints made by Mr King and the circumstances surrounding his arrest for criminal damage. "Throughout the investigation, there has never been any suggestion that the alleged assault was racially motivated." One officer had been placed on restricted duties when the investigation began. He will remain in this role until the force receives a decision from the IPCC on disciplinary action. Mr Green said: "I would like to reassure all our communities that we are committed to offering them a professional service and any complaints regarding the conduct of police officers are fully investigated and dealt with appropriately." Mr King, a former army boxing champion, suffered bruising to his genitals and a broken tooth. The officer involved is understood to have claimed the kick was in "reasonable self-defence" because the suspect resisted arrest. Naseem Malik, IPCC commissioner for the north-west, will now discuss with Greater Manchester police what, if any, disciplinary action the officers should face. He is keeping Mr King informed of the progress of the investigation and these developments, the IPCC said. But Angela Taylor, Mr King's solicitor, said he was "disappointed but not surprised" by the decision of the CPS not to bring charges. "Mr King has legal remedies available to him and he is considering his options," she said.