No one is safe from revenge porn – as high profile cases involving Paris Hilton, Tulisa Contostavlos or, more recently, an EastEnders actor, who cannot be named for legal reasons, show. His former girlfriend was spared jail after posting a sexual video of him on Facebook when they separated. The actor had asked her to delete it after they broke up but she broke his trust. District judge Timothy King said: “The victim lives in constant fear that these images will one day resurface online.”Not all victims, however, can afford to take their case to court, and feelings of powerlessness are heightened if you don’t know how to navigate your way around the legal system. Think about it: if someone posted explicit or sexual images or videos of you online without your consent, where would you turn for help? Calling the police would probably be your first step, but would you know how to seek legal redress, or what your other options were? Free legal adviceIt’s over a year since revenge porn became a crime in the UK and it’s rarely out of the headlines. Yet despite its ubiquity, being a victim remains taboo and there is still only one place in the UK that offers free legal advice specific to revenge porn. Spite (sharing and publishing images to embarrass) is a service run by students and staff at Queen Mary, University of London. It’s part of the university’s Legal Advice Centre (LAC), which offers members of the public free legal advice from student advisers under the supervision of qualified lawyers. Spite has so far advised around 80 revenge porn victims from all over the UK.There is no “typical victim”, and Spite’s staff have been surprised at the diversity of clients who approach them: around 40% are men and most are over 25.The perpetrator could be anyone – it might be an ex partner but, equally, it could be a former friend, family member or colleague, says Frances Ridout, a criminal barrister and deputy director of the LAC. She recalls a particularly troubling a case involving a man whose life fell apart after photos were used to shame him within his cultural group. A relative sent explicit photos of the man with a woman to other family members, to blackmail and discredit him. “His whole community disowned him, his marriage fell to pieces, he lost his job, and his life crumbled around him because he was set up and then blackmailed,” says Ridout. The man approached Spite hoping to find out how to stop the distribution of the photos and for general advice on obtaining civil remedies.Personalised lettersVictims can arrange appointments with Spite via email, an online form, or over the phone. Student advisers then send them personalised legal advice in a letter. Some victims just want to talk and need help clarifying their legal position, while others have already decided to bring legal action against the perpetrator. The service estimates that, so far, it has advised most clients on obtaining civil remedies, such as damages or an injunction.Virtually everyone wants their images to be removed from the internet as soon as possible and Spite’s staff and student advisers work closely with the national Revenge Porn Helpline to do this. “Our ideal outcome is always to make the client feel empowered when they leave us,” says Julie Pinborough, director and founder of the LAC, who set up Spite in February 2015 after noticing a stark lack of legal assistance for victims. “Lots of people think that all victims want to take the perpetrators through the legal system – through the courts and into the prison system – but that’s not necessarily what the client wants.”‘Revenge porn’ threats could be made a crime in England and Wales If there is a threat of images being published, Spite will explain to the person making that threat that they risk getting themselves into a tricky legal position if they go through with their actions. “We’ve never had a situation in which we’ve contacted the perpetrator and the images have been posted,” says Pinborough.Before they start advising clients, the law-student advisers receive 20 hours of legal training from the university’s LAC and lawyers from the firms Mishcon de Reya and Coram Chambers, who work on a pro bono basis. They also receive guidance from the university’s counselling service on the best ways of dealing with vulnerable people. The aim, Pinborough says, is to offer victims a safe space devoid of the judgment they may face from wider society.Clients can benefit from sharing their experiences with the student volunteers, all of whom are young people well-versed in social media and aware of how quickly content can go viral online. This expertise enables them to empathise particularly well with clients, says Pinborough. Powerlessness of victimsRobbie Stern, 26, recently advised three clients through Spite while completing a two-year graduate law programme at Queen Mary. “Understanding the nature of social media and the extent and speed at which material can go viral is very important in comprehending the feelings of powerlessness that victims might have, and the difficulties in policing these crimes,” he says. But despite having grown up with social media, he was surprised at just how endemic revenge porn is and the demographic diversity of the people affected.An age difference between the client and student adviser can sometimes cause awkwardness, says Pinborough. “They’re having to ask things like ‘who was that touching your breast?’ and ‘of what part of your body was the photograph taken?’,” to strangers who could be their parents’ age. We’ve tried to teach them not to be too nervous because it can make the client nervous as well.”Stern found the overall experience extremely rewarding. “The opportunity to help victims navigate a pathway through some very serious and emotionally difficult situations was satisfying,” he says, as was gaining professional experience in a rapidly developing area of law.School projects Having student volunteers working on the project is also useful when it comes to outreach and raising awareness of the crime, Pinborough says. Spite conducts workshops and other educational events in local secondary schools, with children in year 11 and above, that place the focus on the perpetrators of revenge porn and the potential risks of having a criminal record. “The student volunteers are fantastic because they’re at an age where they can still stand in front of schoolchildren and say ‘we understand what’s going on’,” she says. “They’ve done lots of workshops on how to control your privacy settings on Facebook and how the internet never forgets, even on Snapchat through screenshots.”Pinborough hopes to build an international network of revenge porn legal advice centres among universities and she believes it could be possible within a year with enough funding; the LAC currently receives the vast majority of its budget from the university, but Pinborough hopes to win additional private funding.Those working on Spite also want to increase international awareness of revenge porn and to encourage more countries to accept that it exists; in many European countries it’s barely acknowledged, even among academics and legal professionals. Spite regularly receives pleas for help from people outside the UK who have nowhere else to turn. “People don’t want to talk about it,” Pinborough says, “that’s the trouble.”Keep up with the latest on Guardian Students: follow us on Twitter at @GdnStudents – and become a member to receive exclusive benefits and our weekly newsletter.