Detectives investigating the disappearance of five-year-old April Jones have until Friday afternoon to question the man suspected of her abduction.By 5pm officers must either release Mark Bridger, charge him or return to court to seek a further extension to the time allowed for detaining him.It was a miserable fourth night for the searchers as rain poured down on Machynlleth in mid-Wales, making conditions challenging. But Friday morning saw better weather as hundreds of members of the public headed back into the hills and valleys to bolster the police hunt for April, who went missing on Monday evening.Police are expected to give further details of the operation around lunchtime.Earlier in the week, detectives named the man they were holding. Photographs of 46-year-old Bridger and his left-hand-drive Land Rover were released and police appealed for help in piecing together his movements after April vanished.Forensic teams have been investigating Mount Pleasant, the farmhouse in the hamlet of Ceinws, near Machynlleth, where Bridger has lived since early September.Police have received more than 2,500 calls from members of the public who believe they may have information about the disappearance of the girl. Other forces across England and Wales were helping process the information.At a press conference on Thursday evening, Superintendent Ian John said he was heartened by the public response following the disappearance of April, who vanished while playing near her family home.John said the police search involved eight specialist teams from across the UK led by five advisers."Extensive police-led searches have taken place around Machynlleth and will continue," he said. "All these resources are focused on finding April or any other information that will assist this ongoing investigation."He added: "We all are feeling for [her family] at this terrible time. That's why we are here, to focus on the search and to do everything we can to bring this operation to a conclusion. I'm heartened by the number of calls. It shows the public cares and wants to help us."Earlier on Thursday, Detective Superintendent Reg Bevan, who is leading the investigation, emphasised that a huge amount of work was going on behind the scenes. "There is a significant team of officers working around the clock … This includes a vast amount of forensic analysis taking place, which forms a crucial part of the investigation."Pink ribbons appeared throughout Machynlleth after April's mother asked for a show of solidarity. She said on her Facebook page: "I will be putting a ribbon on my gate tomorrow in April's favourite colour, pink. Please feel free to tie a ribbon to anything to show April your support and that [you are] still looking for her. Please keep looking for April – she needs to come home."April's sister, Jasmine, 16, said: "Knowing April still isn't found is making me sick and knowing someone knows something but won't say, it makes me feel even worse. I just want our beautiful princess home now – it's been too long."Ribbons were tied to the railings around the town's clock tower, on shop doors and pinned to trees, while April's school friends carried pink paper swans.David Cameron joined the calls for help."My heart just goes out to April's family," the prime minister said. "This is every family's nightmare, having this happen and the fact that she suffers from cerebral palsy, something I know a little about from my own children, only makes this worse."My appeal would be to everyone, if you know anything, if you saw anything, heard anything, have any ideas you can bring forward, talk to the police, help this family find their lovely child."Donations from across Britain began pouring in for a fund set up to support April's family, while provisions and outdoor clothing for those involved in the search continued to arrive.