Seven men convicted of a £105m excise fraud in the biggest prosecution mounted by customs and excise had their convictions quashed yesterday because customs kept vital information from defence lawyers and the court.The case, dubbed Operation Stockade, is the latest embarrassment for customs and excise, which has seen a series of prosecutions for the evasion of more than £600m duty on alcohol end in failure amid allegations of misbehaviour by customs investigators. In the alleged scams, lorry loads of duty-free drink, kept in bonded warehouses, were supposedly driven away to foreign destinations, but were actually sold on the local market. Customs has estimated the total duty evaded could have been as much as £2bn. Of up to 90 defendants who were convicted, around 30 have had their convictions overturned and the rest are expected to follow, at huge cost to the taxpayer. Lawyers estimate that the prosecutions have cost £10m, and those who were jailed could be in line for millions of pounds in compensation. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, appointed a high court judge, Mr Justice Butterfield, to look into customs' investigation techniques after collapse of a prosecution in Liverpool in November, when 15 men accused of evading duty of £84m walked free. That case, one of a series, was abandoned after a pre-trial hearing in which it was alleged that customs investigators had acted as agent provocateurs and that defence lawyers and the court had not been told that the owner of London City Bond, a bonded warehouse, was a "participating informant" who was told to encourage the frauds. Operation Stockade concerned alleged evasion of £105m in duty on beer, wine and spirits kept at another bonded warehouse, Fort Patrick in Ipswich, some of which had come from London City Bond. Mr Justice Butterfield's inquiry will be expanded to include Operation Stockade. Lord Justice Longmore said the court had been "compelled" to quash the convictions of the seven men after the crown conceded the prosecution had wrongly failed to disclose the material from the related London City Bond cases, which could have led the trial judge to stop the case before trial. The judge, sitting with Mr Justice Sachs and Mr Justice Davis, allowed appeals by Christopher Grant, a proprietor of Fort Patrick, who was jailed for nine years in August 2001, and six others who received sentences of between six months and six and a half years. They were: Michael Boparan, Malcolm Gell, Martin Challis, David Johnston, Alan Smith and Paul Jenkins. An eighth man, Narip Bajwa, is also expected to have his conviction quashed. Crown counsel Noel Lucas said customs did not accept defence claims that officers had deliberately diverted fraudulent traders from the London City Bond to Fort Patrick as part of an illegal "sting". Grant's solicitor, Matthew Frankland, said: "We are coordinating a number of compensation claims." The Liverpool case was followed by the collapse of the trial of three men accused of a £500,000 duty fraud in Glasgow. Then a customs prosecution at Kingston crown court over a £40m fraud also failed. Mr Justice Butterfield, who has been given unrestricted access to customs staff, papers and facilities, is expected to report by June.