A paedophile who staged a Reginald Perrin-style disappearance on a beach and went on the run for eight years has been jailed for seven years.Leslie Andrews, 54, wanted people to believe he had drowned at Lytham St Annes, Lancashire, after leaving his red Ford Escort nearby. He left a suicide note and personal items on the beach.The former cafe owner absconded shortly before he was to be interviewed in connection with the sexual abuse of a young girl. He changed his name but his real identity emerged when he was arrested in West Yorkshire last year for a petty crime.In May, a jury at Preston crown court found him guilty of 14 counts of indecent assault committed between May 1997 and May 2002.His now adult victim, who gave evidence in the trial by videolink and who cannot be identified for legal reasons, told the jury: "He knows and I know he's guilty. He's not man enough to deal with his guilt just like he wasn't man enough and did a Reggie Perrin."Sentencing Andrews, Judge Norman Wright said: "When these matters came to light, you decided you were not going to face the music. You disappeared and acted out an elaborate charade around Blackpool beach to put people off the scent."Your victim was young and vulnerable. She was a little girl who did not know what was happening but knew something was not right. She was your sexual plaything for some five years or so and you have to pay the price."The judge said the "worrying features" of the case were his "controlling, manipulative and predatory behaviour". He said Andrews became "emboldened" when the victim initially raised concerns that he had inappropriately kissed her, but did not pursue the matter. "This was a shot across the bows, but you were emboldened and you thought you could get away with it," he added.For nearly a decade Andrews kept a low profile after changing his name to Christopher Trent. He refused to visit a doctor or dentist, or use his national insurance number.It is understood he moved regularly, taking cash-in-hand jobs, and lived at addresses in Yorkshire and Greater Manchester. But his true identity was revealed during background checks made when he was arrested on suspicion of theft in 2010.Andrews said he had tried to take his own life on two occasions weeks before his disappearance.During the trial, he admitted the suicide plot but told the court he wanted a new life because of his debts and marital problems. He severed contact with his wife and family and went on to have a relationship with another woman. He was living in Wythenshawe, Manchester, when he was arrested.Inspector Tony Baxter, of Lancashire police, said: "Andrews did everything possible to hide his true identity and evade capture. He never went to the doctor, dentist, obtained a driving licence or paid taxes in his real name."His victim has spent the last eight years not knowing if he is dead or alive or if she would ever get justice for what he has put her through. A young woman now, she has conducted herself with tremendous dignity throughout these proceedings."