A drink-driver who ploughed into a tree, killing two of his teenage passengers while defying his 13th ban from the roads, was yesterday jailed for nine years.Darren Williams, 32, of Stechford, Birmingham, who has never taken a driving test and previously served a 30-month prison term for killing a passenger, was high on drugs and had been drinking lager and vodka prior to the smash, Birmingham crown court heard. Judge Alistair McCreath said the sentence reflected the fact that Williams had previously been convicted of a similar offence. Williams was also banned from driving for 10 years. At a previous hearing, the defendant admitted drink-driving, driving while disqualified, and causing the death of Matthew Crew, 16, and Alan Wright, 19. Jonas Hankin, prosecuting, said the crash had taken place in Erdington, about 10.15pm last August 18, after Williams and his friends visited a pub in the Solihull area. Williams was behind the wheel of a Ford Escort, owned by Wright, when it collided with a taxi at high speed before spinning out of control. The teenagers were pronounced dead at the scene despite the efforts of police and fire crews to resuscitate them. A third passenger, a 16-year-old girl, suffered multiple fractures after being thrown clear. Williams was discharged from hospital after three days of treatment for injuries. A blood test taken almost two hours after the collision showed he was still slightly above the drink-drive limit and had taken cannabis. Mr Hankin told the court Williams had committed his first motor-related offence in 1985 at the age of 15. In May 1990 Williams was sentenced to 30 months' youth custody and given a five-year driving ban for causing the death of a 15-year-old boy by reckless driving. He was given a custodial term for aggravated vehicle taking shortly after being freed in December 1992 and went on to reoffend, according to Mr Hankin. Tim Green, defending, told the judge that Williams had developed an obsession with cars after an unhappy childhood. Passing sentence, Judge McCreath told Williams: "You were a driver who had never been qualified to drive, and a driver who had once before driven recklessly and taken a life. You had that evening taken cannabis and had drank heavily. Your driving was dreadful and at high speed. All that cries out for a very substantial sentence indeed." 