The Home Office's most senior civil servant wrote to the BBC chairman, Gavyn Davies, accusing the corporation of deceit and raising his 'profound concerns' over its police racism exposé a month before it was broadcast, The Observer can reveal.In what BBC sources describe as 'unprecedented' pressure from such a senior Whitehall figure, John Gieve, the Permanent Secretary at the Home Office, wrote to Davies last month.He questioned the methods employed by undercover reporter Mark Daly in the film The Secret Policeman, in a move viewed by senior BBC executives as an attempt to get the programme pulled. In a development which will again lead to accusations that the Government has been caught trying to bully the BBC into submission, Gieve accused the BBC of using 'a degree of deceit that might be necessary in dealing with a totalitarian regime' in the letter dated 12 September. He goes on to accuse Daly of 'misleading' his police manager and other recruits in the letter. The chief constable of Greater Manchester Police, Mike Todd, also threatened the BBC with a 'Hutton-style' inquiry if the programme were to go ahead. The Home Office confirmed last night that Gieve had written to Davies 'more than a month before the programme was broadcast and before he knew what was in it'. A Home Office spokesman told The Observer: 'He did not ask the BBC not to broadcast the programme, and we refute the suggestion that he did. Having now seen the programme, we realise the serious issues that it raised and have acted swiftly.' Such pressure from both the Government and the police reveals the huge sensitivities over allegations of police and racism. Police forces across the country are now facing a inquiry by the Commission for Racial Equality. With the number of complaints of police racism soaring, Trevor Phillips, the commission chairman, has written to all 44 chief constables demanding that they provide evidence that they comply with the Race Relations Act. The commission has also launched an inquiry into a report by HM Inspector of Constabulary, who warned Greater Manchester Police, the force at the centre of the racism allegations, earlier this year that parts of its 'culture' suffered from sexism and racism. '[There was] a lack of sensitivity in relation to respecting the dignity of others with reference to race and culture... this was demonstrated by the unnecessary reference to the racial origin of suspect offenders,' the report, which was compiled at the same time as Daly was undertaking his investigation, said. The Secret Policeman, shown last week after a seven-month undercover investigation, showed police recruit Rob Pulling donning a Ku Klux Klan-style hood and showing how he would 'kill a Paki'. Pulling also claimed that murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence had 'deserved' his death and called his parents, Neville and Doreen, 'spongers'. The Home Secretary, David Blunkett, attacked the BBC film last week as a 'covert stunt to get attention', but was later forced into an embarrassing U-turn. Senior BBC sources said that for a Permanent Secretary to write directly to the BBC chairman was 'highly unusual'. 'It was clearly interpreted as direct pressure to get the programme pulled,' said the source. 'In these circumstances the normal procedure would be to write to the director-general, not the chairman. The chairman should not - under normal circumstances - get involved in an editorial matter beyond ensuring that the director- general is across it. 'This was a frank attempt to apply pressure from a senior official of the Home Office, followed by senior policemen and topped off by the Home Secretary himself,' the source added. At a meeting with the director general, Greg Dyke, and other senior executives, chief constable Todd warned of a fresh inquiry into the BBC's journalism and threatened the withdrawal of police co-operation with the corporation. He suggested that police forces could withdraw co-operation from the BBC's Crimewatch programme. The meeting, a week before the programme's transmission, was also attended by Dyke, Stephen Whittle, director of editorial policy, and John Willis, head of factual programming. Todd told BBC executives that the programme 'could destroy the BBC's relationship with the police', according to a source, and claimed there was a 'danger that there could be an inquiry into this affair along the lines of Hutton'. Vincent Sweeney, assistant chief constable of Greater Manchester, confirmed that Todd had raised his concerns that the corporation had breached its editorial guidelines, but could not confirm whether there had been a threat of withdrawal of co-operation. Todd, who is travelling in America, was unavailable for comment. In a statement, the BBC said that its decision to air the programme showed that it had not caved in to pressure from the Government or police.  The Observer can also reveal that the CRE investigated a record number of complaints of racism last year. In comparison with 1998, when 36 applications for legal support against the police were backed, last year there were 72, the highest number since Labour came to power. At present the CRE is investigating 31 cases against different police forces across the country. Some of the complaints are from within the police, while others are from members of the public. Phillips said the police should investigate race cases in the same way they investigate corruption cases, setting up sting operations to flush out perpetrators. Whistleblowers should also be given more support. 'They have to understand that they must change their behaviour,' he said.