One in every 100 black British adults is now in prison, according to the latest Home Office figures.A recent crackdown on guns, drugs and street crime has led to an explosion in the number of prisoners from an Afro-Caribbean background, who now account for one in six of all inmates. The figures have sparked fears of an American-style penal system, where black men are 10 times more likely to go to prison than whites and one in 20 over the age of 18 is in jail. The number of black prisoners in Britain's jails has risen 54% from 7,585 to 11,710 since Labour came to power. The figures are likely to reopen the debate about violence and crime in black street culture. Prison reform organisations last night warned the police and the courts not to target young black men in the battle against street crime. At 16% of all those in jail, the number of black prisoners is hugely disproportionate to the general population, where African and Caribbean people make up just 2% of the total. Recent initiatives to tackle drugs and street crime are thought to have driven this rise. Experts believe a shift in focus in the criminal justice system from domestic burglary to street crime has combined with targeted gun and drug crime policies to alter the ethnic balance of convictions. Traditionally, white males carry out a far higher proportion of burglaries, whereas police often believe street crime to be the preserve of young black men. The policy of releasing short-term prisoners on tags, which is thought to favour white prisoners, may also partly explain the figures. The findings will raise fears of racial unrest in the prison system. The Prison Service has been sitting on a report from the Commission for Racial Equality on racism in prisons since last December and is yet to announce a date for its publication. The report is thought to uncover systematic prejudice in the system, where black prisoners from inner-city areas are often moved to parts of the country where there are no black prison officers. Parliamentary answers to Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman Simon Hughes showed that the black prison population had risen to more than 11,000 by last June, a rise of 1,800 on the previous year. Since then the rise has continued unabated and is likely to top 12,000 by the end of the year. Hughes said: "This is a hugely worrying trend which should be ringing very loud alarm bells. Down this road lies the American failure where there are significant numbers of the black community spending lengthy periods in prison. "In this country, higher numbers excluded from school and out of work are bad enough. A massively high proportion of black adults in prison and disconnected from mainstream society is both prejudicial and dangerous." Oona King, Labour MP for Bethnal Green and Bow, said: "Given that my father is African American, I am very conscious of the fact that a quarter of all black men under the age of 26 are in jail. We are nowhere near that in Britain, but I hope these figures will force people to reflect on the effect of the level of school exclusions, low academic achievement and increasing drug abuse on black communities. At the same time we need to develop a penal system that rehabilitates rather than just punishes." Last year's rise coincides with a street crime initiative launched in March by Home Secretary David Blunkett, which focused on the 10 police areas that accounted for more than 80% of street crime. The Government claimed the initiative led to a 16% drop in offences in the target areas - but it also led to a 10% rise in the number of people remanded in custody. Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: "There is a growing perception that street crime is a black people's crime, when it may simply be that they are more visible to the police and the courts. "The courts are picking up on low-level antisocial behaviour on the streets because young black men have nowhere else to go either because they are poor or because it's part of the culture to be on the streets. "Direct racism has been replaced by code. 'Young men with their hoods up' often means young black men and 'street crime' simply means 'black crime'."A Home Office spokeswoman said: "We are aware of this situation and while we have this data it doesn't tell us why this is happening and whether this is caused by prejudice or because ethnic minorities suffer from other factors which cause an increase in crime."She said a new unit had been set up to work across the criminal justice system to identify why the rise has happened and develop a programme to tackle the disparity.