California's correctional system is in a shambles. There are 175,000 inmates in the state - more than five times the number from the late 1970s. Most prisons are now operating at about 200% capacity: housing inmates in gyms, in dining areas, in double bunks - anything to squeeze more and more people into the three dozen prisons dotting the state. Large numbers of these prisoners were convicted of non-violent offences, and thousands are serving 25-years-to-life under the state's infamous Three Strikes and You're Out Law - a law more punitive than any other in the United States, and one that virtually guarantees California's taxpayers will be stuck with an enormous bill for the costs associated with warehousing thousands of aging and increasingly sick prisoners.So overcrowded are California's prisons that federal judges based out of San Francisco are mulling imposing a population cap on them, presenting the specter of thousands of inmates simply being set free early. Fearing such a move, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has been pushing to send thousands of prisoners out of state, to privately run facilities in Arizona and elsewhere. The medical and mental health services provided by the department of corrections and rehabilitation are so bad that a federal court recently intervened, appointing a special master to oversee mental healthcare services inside California's prisons. The youth authority has been wracked by a series of scandals, generally involving video footage of big, burly guards stomping on teenage inmates. The department has been unable to retain top administrative personnel for more than a few months at a time, and it also has been unable to fill thousands of guard jobs - despite the fact a powerful prison guards' union has managed to get one of the most lucrative public employee contracts in the state. The parole system is so inept at keeping parolees on the straight and narrow that up to three quarters are busted back into prison within a few years of release - the worst record of any state in the country.How much does this fiasco cost? The state currently spends not far shy of $10bn per year running its bloated correctional system.When he first came into office, Schwarzenegger appointed reformers to undercut the correctional officers' union's stranglehold on the prison system. The reformers made a lot of noise - when I was researching my book, one told me she hoped her legacy would be a smaller prison system and the creation of programs that genuinely reduced crime and violence - which lasted about six months, and then they quit in disgust.Then, about a year ago, when the proverbial poop really started to hit the fan and headlines screamed about a possible federal takeover, Schwarzenegger seemed open to the idea of creating a sentencing commission to tackle the prison overcrowding crisis. Many other states, including conservative bellwethers like Kansas, had already gone down this road.A sentencing commission is like a Quango, appointed specifically to re-examine the sentences handed down to offenders. It examines whether high-end criminals should be kept behind bars for longer, and it also explores ways to scale back the prison population through diverting many low-end, non-violent criminals - in particular drug addicts - into treatment programs, community service and other non-incarceration-based sentences. After decades of so-called "tough-on-crime" posturing by legislators and governors alike, it would have been a politically palatable way to scale back the out-of-control prisons and reinvest money in more effective anti-crime and anti-addiction institutions.The sentencing commission would have streamlined the state's criminal justice system, saved billions of dollars over several years through diverting low-risk offenders away from prison, and - given the inability of prisons and parole to effectively rehabilitate on a large scale - probably done a much better job of making the public safer than does the current widespread usage of prisons.A good idea? Right... So, of course, it ultimately went nowhere.Buffeted by tough-on-crime Republicans, Schwarzenegger stepped back from the sentencing commission idea. Fearful of appearing soft on crime, Democrats in the legislature agreed to water down their proposals for diverting people away from prison. Last week, by a nearly unanimous vote in the House - the only opposing vote came from a conservative Republican with long-standing ties to the correctional officers union - and a two-thirds vote in the Senate, legislators passed AB 900, releasing $7.4bn in bonds to build - wait for it - 52,000 additional prison beds. The bill also allows for some inmates to be transferred out of state, and, in a sop to the rehabilitation people, it throws a fair amount of cash into drug treatment and mental health programming. Schwarzenegger hailed it as an extraordinary act of bipartisanship - a Democrat-controlled legislature marching in step with a Republican governor to deal with a major policy problem - and trumpeted the vote as a sign that California was finally tackling the overcrowding crisis.Not true.First off, it will take years for the extra prison beds to become available, thus doing nothing to alleviate the immediate problem of overcrowding. One-time gubernatorial hopeful and conservative Republican Tom McClintock, one of the most cogent opponents of the bill, pointed out that AB 900's construction estimates mean that on average Californian families were each being asked to pony up $900 to incarcerate more people, and each extra bed bought online would be costing an astonishing $163,000.Perhaps more importantly, every time any state in recent US history has gone on a prison-building spree to counter overcrowding, all that has happened is that the courts have subsequently sent more people to prison, and the prisons have rapidly become just as overcrowded as they were before the prison construction boom... Except this time around a record-breaking number of people are stuffed into a record-breaking number of prisons. There's precious little evidence California will be able to resist this trend. My guess is, down the road the extra prisons will become just as nasty as the present ones, and California's total prison population will ultimately soar past the 200,000 mark.In an astonishing admission, Senate President Pro Tem Don Perata (a Democrat from Oakland), acknowledged most Democrats had "severe misgivings" about the bill and were only voting in favour to avoid the system being taken over by the feds. "This tests my articles of faith more than anything else I've ever been associated with," the senate president said, as he marshaled his team to play along.Rejecting this cynical compromise was long-time critic of the prison system Gloria Romero, a state senator from Los Angeles who voted against the bill. It was, she averred, nothing more than a "Hollywood prop".And so there you have it. The largest state prison system in the United States is about to become a whole lot larger. And the largest prison budget a whole lot flabbier.