Detectives investigating the murder of Shafilea Ahmed, the teenager whose body was found near the River Kent in Cumbria, in February, have arrested five members of her extended family on suspicion of lying to police.The relatives, one woman in her 20s, three men in their 30s and a man in his 60s, were arrested in Bradford, west Yorkshire, and brought to Cheshire for questioning on charges of perverting the course of justice. They are not being questioned over the 17-year-old's murder. Shafilea went missing on September 11 2003, after finishing work at the Manweb call centre in Warrington. She was described as vulnerable and not very "streetwise". Her disappearance followed a family holiday to Pakistan, but her parents did not report her missing to police. During the holiday, she had been introduced to a potential suitor. But in an apparent cry for help, she drank bleach and then needed regular treatment in hospital for her serious injuries. Poems in which she spoke of the conflict between her life and her family were discovered in her bedroom. Her body was found by workmen alongside the River Kent in Sedgwick, Cumbria, partly hidden by undergrowth. Shafilea's parents, Iftikhar, a 44-year-old taxi driver, and Farzana, 41, from Warrington, were arrested on suspicion of kidnap, but later released without charge. They have always denied any involvement in her death and are considering legal action against Cheshire police for wrongful arrest. In February, they stormed a police press conference to protest their innocence. Milton Firman, their solicitor, claimed the couple had been made victims of racial stereotyping by police and the media. Yesterday, they said they were "desperate and angry" that the police had still not found the killer. They have offered a £5,000 reward to catch their daughter's killer. Detective Chief Inspector Geraint Jones, who is leading the Cheshire constabulary investigation, said of those arrested: "They are close family members, but not Shafilea's parents. All they are being questioned about is the alleged lies they have said. We won't be questioning them [on] the murder. I would suggest they lied for one of two reasons. Either they know who the killer is and they are covering up, or ... they don't want us to pry and speak to people that may cause embarrassment." Mr Jones rejected suggestions that the investigation had stereotyped the Asian community by focusing on her family. He said that the police had never used the term "honour killing".