 Leah Fogg, 82, killed on June 10 1996 On June 7, Mrs Fogg's daughter, Marjorie Stafford, visited Shipman because she was concerned that her mother was depressed and not coping with the loss of her husband some years before. Mrs Stafford had noticed a sign in Shipman's waiting room that said counselling services were available at the surgery. She hoped that Shipman would arrange for her mother to receive bereavement counselling. However, she was concerned that her mother should not know that she had been to see Shipman. He promised to call on Mrs Fogg unannounced. He did so three days later and killed her.   Mavis Pickup, 79, killed on September 22 1997  Mrs Pickup's husband died of a heart attack four weeks before her own death. The couple had been happily married for nearly 50 years and she was devastated. Her son James went to see Shipman to thank him for the care he had given his father. Shipman was curiously brisk about Mr Pickup's death but showed great concern about his widow. He said he would "always be there for her" if she needed any kind of help. He killed her three weeks later, after she had telephoned the surgery because she was upset that children had been knocking on her door and running away. She left Shipman £250 in her will.   Muriel Ward, 87, killed on October 24 1995  Shipman visited Mrs Ward at her home in a sheltered housing scheme in Hyde. The warden introduced herself but Shipman was blunt and dismissive. He said that Mrs Ward was dead and then got into his car and drove off. The warden found Mrs Ward sitting in her chair in her living room. Her face was turned towards the open window as if she were looking outside. Here eyes were still open. She had a very peaceful look on her face and seemed as if deep in thought. Shipman later stated that he last saw Mrs Ward alive 15 minutes before her death. He saw the body 20 minutes after death and made an external examination. Three years later, Shipman killed Mrs Ward's daughter Maureen, 57, and was later convicted of Maureen's murder.   Fanny Nichols, 84, killed on April 26 1993  Her daughter-in-law Muriel Nichols said yesterday: "I went to her house and my mother-in-law had her coat on ready to go to the surgery because her legs were hurting and she wanted some painkillers. I rang for Dr Shipman to come out to see her. "Then I left the house for about an hour-and-a-half and when I came back I found her dead in the chair looking very comfortable. She was cremated - which was what we had planned anyway. "It was only when I was watching the Yorkshire TV programme about Shipman and I saw his face looking at one of the victims after he killed her. I thought the last face she should have seen was Brian or me - it was then that it really hit home." Her husband Brian, who was also a patient at Shipman's sole practice said it took a long time for him to become suspicious about his mother's death, which came to the attention of police in 1999 after it appeared she had been prescribed diamorphine by Shipman. He said yesterday: "I remember the night he was arrested and I went into a local pub after seeing it on the newspaper billboards. I thought never in a month of Sundays could he have murdered anyone. Right up until his trial I was still hoping that he would be found not guilty. "The police have been round to see us three times, but I was still not totally convinced that he had done it. "My mother trusted him absolutely and I found him to be okay as a doctor as well. I have nothing against him in terms of my treatment - he treated me for five years after he killed my mother."  Bertha Moss, 68, killed on June 13 1995  Her husband Sydney Walton, 57, died at his home in Rutland Street, Hyde, on May 2 1979. Dame Janet was unable to reach any decision as to whether Shipman was involved in his death. The couple's daughter Jayne Gaskell said yesterday: "We were all suspicious about my mother's death at the time, but we put it down to the grieving process. The day my mum died it was not quite right, because she walked into the surgery quite healthy and bubbly and the next thing she had passed away. "We couldn't believe it because there was nothing wrong with her, but we didn't think to challenge it because he was a doctor and we trusted him. "Then it was like a kick in the stomach to find out from a list in a local paper that my father Sydney was possibly one of the victims as well. We couldn't even remember that Shipman had been his doctor, because it was 20-odd years since he died. "I really hate Shipman, no-one could hate him as much as I do because he has killed both my mother and possibly my father. I don't think anyone can imagine how we feel. My father was ill with angina and bronchial pneumonia at the time and we just thought he died of natural causes. "The fact that both my parents have been involved has opened old wounds which were just beginning to heal. We all felt guilty because we couldn't even remember that he was the GP . During the trial I had to leave my job in a hospital because I no longer have any trust in the medical profession." Her sister Brenda Hurst said: "It has been a total nightmare for our family discovering that both our mother and father could have died at the hands of Shipman. I don't think we will ever get over it, although I hope we will be able to move on with our lives."   Ernest Rudol, 82, killed on June 29 1995  His son Christopher said: "My father held Dr Shipman in high regard and with the greatest admiration and trust. "I was devastated when I found out that his death was not because of natural causes as it was difficult to believe that such a caring GP could do such a thing. "Dr Shipman had slipped around to see my father, who wanted some incontinence pads, at home. My father was later found dead by a district nurse and he had not been dead for very long. "His death was a complete surprise - although he was 82 years old and had health problems - but we were not at all suspicious at the time. "Then after Shipman was arrested, we realised that my father had died in virtually identical circumstances to the other patients, sitting upright in his chair, and we contacted the police. "When he was convicted of murdering 15 patients, people said I should be satisfied and feel a sense of justice. But it is only today that I feel a sense of justice about my father's death. "It has been absolutely horrendous waiting for three-and-a-half years for this day. "I have no strong feelings for the man, I just think he is a madman but I finally feel a sense of closure now justice has been done." 