Police plan to scour woodland after a wealthy landowner jailed for murdering his wife led officers to the area where he says her body is buried.Adrian Prout, who is serving a life sentence for killing his estranged wife Kate Prout in 2007 but who had always denied any involvement in her disappearance, was taken from prison back to his former farm in Gloucestershire on Friday.  Kate Prout, left, who was murdered by her estranged husband, Adrian, right.He spent 25 minutes on the 276-acre Redhill Farm at Redmarley, near Tewkesbury, and pointed out the area where he claims her remains are hidden.Police, who are guarding the spot, said there was likely to be a lengthy search on Monday.It has been claimed that Prout made his confession after failing a lie detector test that had been arranged by his fiancee, Debbie Garlick. She was convinced Prout was the victim of a miscarriage of justice and had led a campaign for his release.Garlick, who moved out of the farm only a few weeks ago and has a child by Prout, said he had made a full confession to her. She told ITV's The West Country Tonight he said he was sorry. Garlick then went to the police and told them he had admitted the crime.She said she and her family were "devastated", adding: "Our hearts go out to Kate and her family. I hope this gives them the chance to grieve properly and have a proper burial and somewhere they can lay flowers."Speaking on behalf of Kate Prout's family, her brother, Richard Wakefield, said: "We have always wanted Adrian to tell us where Kate's body is. However, this news has obviously come as something of a shock. We would like to be given some time to come to terms with this news."Mrs Prout, a 55-year-old former teacher, was last seen on bonfire night four years ago. Police were certain she had been killed and carried out extensive searches of Redhill Farm but could not find her body. Prout was charged with murder and convicted in February last year. His trial was told that the couple were involved in an acrimonious divorce at the time she disappeared.Prout continued to protest his innocence and friends and family claimed he was the victim of a miscarriage of justice. A group Justice for Adrian Prout used the motto: "No body, no proof, no justice."Three months ago, Prout's supporters arranged for him to take a lie detector test in prison. Don Cargill, a polygraph expert, visited Prout in Garth prison in Lancashire. He explained how he monitored Prout's heart rate, blood pressure, the amount he was sweating and how he was breathing as he answered questions.At first, Prout said he did not want to take the test, according to Cargill. Finally, Prout agreed to the procedure, saying: "I'd better do it for Debbie."Cargill asked him three questions about the murder – whether he had killed his wife, whether he had arranged for someone else to kill her, and whether he knew where her body was.He replied "no" to each, but Cargill said his equipment indicated he was lying. Cargill said he told Prout: "I'm looking at a murderer." Prout replied: "Not really." Cargill asked Prout whether he was saying the test was wrong. Prout admitted that it was not wrong.Cargill told him he should "man up" and admit his guilt. He left the prison and rang Garlick to break the news that Prout had failed the test.On Thursday, detectives spoke to Prout and he finally admitted he had killed his wife and agreed to point out the spot where she was buried. Prout arrived at the farm in a people carrier just after 11.30am on Friday and was led out of the vehicle, handcuffed to a police officer.He was transferred into a police car at the entrance to the farm and driven into a wood. The particular area that was pointed out is believed to be within a pheasant pen.