Harold Shipman is considering an appeal against his conviction for murdering 15 women patients, his solicitor said last night.Ann Ball said any appeal was likely to be based in part on prejudicial press speculation before the trial that police planned to charge Shipman with up to 170 murders, and which could have influenced the jury. In the event, he faced only 15 murder charges. Ms Ball, from the Manchester office of the law firm Hempsons, said it was irrelevant that police now put the number of suspicious deaths at 175. "It's different once there has been a conviction for them to say that," she said. "It's for the jury to consider only the charges on the indictment." She said other grounds of appeal could be that the indictment was overloaded with charges, and that the charges should have been split into separate trials: one for charges relating to the killing of Kathleen Grundy and the forging of her will, a second for the cases where bodies had been cremated, and a third for those relating to bodies that were exhumed. Shipman, who received 15 life sentences for murdering the 15 middle-aged or elderly women with lethal injections of morphine or diamorphine, has until the end of this month to lodge papers for an appeal. Ms Ball said other grounds under consideration were the use of "similar fact" evidence at the trial. As a general rule, evidence of a defendant's misconduct on other occasions or his propensity to behaviour of a certain type cannot be put before a jury. But the judge can decide to admit it if its force in proving an issue in the case outweighs its prejudice to the defendant. A further ground might be that the summing up on the law by the judge was unfair or unbalanced. The convictions at Preston crown court were part of an investigation by Greater Manchester detectives into 136 suspicious deaths. Since the convictions on January 31, a further 39 complaints have been made to police, bringing the total to 175. In an interview with the Law Society Gazette, Ms Ball, who specialises in defending doctors and dentists accused of misconduct, reveals today that Dr Shipman is not the first alleged murderer she has represented. She has also acted for a doctor accused of murdering her own child, and her firm represented John Bodkin Adams, the Eastbourne doctor suspected of murdering a number of elderly women patients in the 1950s. He was charged with only one murder and acquitted. She reveals that as Shipman was charged with more and more murders she had no inside information on what the final tally was likely to be. "I had absolutely no more idea than the next person. I was reading the papers as avidly as anyone else." To those who ask how she could defend an alleged serial killer, she says: "No one would criticise a doctor who rendered a defendant medical treatment, or a newspaper vendor who sold a paper. It is essential for the workings of the judicial system that those charged should be represented. "I may turn a client away because their work is not the sort of work I do, but I don't turn clients away because I don't like the sound of their story." Shipman was moved on Monday to the top-security Franklands prison in Co Durham after prison governors learned that the mother of two warders at Manchester prison may have been one of his victims.