Police have launched a murder inquiry after a woman died in a house fire caused by a firework pushed through the letterbox.Mary Fox, 59, became trapped in the house in Carpenter Court, Bodmin, Cornwall, after pushing her 17-year-old son to safety from an upstairs window on Thursday.The boy, Raum, was taken to Treliske hospital where he was treated for smoke inhalation and released.Devon and Cornwall police said they were looking into whether Raum had been bullied at school. He is reported to have learning difficulties. Police said they did not have any police reports of the family as a whole being harassed.Superintendent Martin Orpe said he was confident the people responsible for would be found. "As a result of a firework that was found late yesterday behind the door within the premises, and as a result of information from the public, this is being treated as a murder investigation," he said."I am appealing to those people involved in this to do the decent thing and come forward to the police. If not, I am confident from what I have seen that we will be knocking on their doors shortly."I would ask them to come forward, and anyone who knows fact in relation to this incident, not rumour, because there is a lot of rumour going around Bodmin, to come forward and give us that information."Orpe said police were "following up leads that the family were being targeted" but said the home was not an address known to police."This was not an address that we were called to a number of times and we do not have any evidence within police systems to corroborate that the family were being bullied and that this was reported to the police, but that is something that we will be looking at," he said."We will be talking to partner agencies to tell us what they know about this family."Orpe said officers would be speaking to Raum's school over allegations that he was being bullied. "The neighbours have picked it up from somewhere, that there may have been concerns that there was bullying of the boy at the school."Officers are investigating reports that a gang of youths was seen around the area using fireworks. Detective Chief Inspector Paul Burgan, the senior investigating officer, said they were trying to identify the firework used."We are keeping an open mind at the moment, there are names being bandied around on social networking sites but this is innuendo. We need to deal with factual evidence and get the information direct," he said.A passer-by spotted the front door of the house was on fire at about 7.15pm and alerted the emergency services. Crews arrived in six minutes but the fire had already taken hold.Witnesses said Fox pushed her son to safety from the window but police said it was unclear whether Raum jumped or was pushed by his mother before she was overcome.Raum ran to a neighbour's house to call 999 and said his mother was still inside. He is being treated as a crucial witness and is being spoken to by specialist officers. He is said to be very distressed and is staying with his family.Mary Fox had nine children. Her family said in a statement: "We the sons and daughters of Mary would like to thank everyone for their kind words at this difficult time."We would also like to say a huge thank you to the fire service who tried to rescue our mother from this horrific fire that makes no sense."Our Mum devoted her life to us her nine children and went without herself to provide the best that she could for us."She was at times, shall we say, eccentric, she had a sense of humour and was loving and caring."She never did anything to hurt anyone and never would. She would give her last penny to help those in less fortunate circumstances than herself."Doreen Rowe, 59, a neighbour, told the Western Morning News: "I'm devastated about what has happened, Mary was a dear old soul and a hero."There was loads of kids on the street armed with fireworks. She was not the only one targeted because my next door neighbour had one thrown at her house too."Brett Millington, 17, said Raum had recently moved from Bodmin College to St Austell College because of bullying. "He was badly bullied. It wasn't all physical but a lot of psychological abuse he suffered," he told the Western Morning News."When he was at Bodmin his mum would walk him to school every day because the bullying was so bad. But if anything that just made it worse."Messages have been left for Raum on the social networking site Facebook. One from Aimee Cavanah said: "Sorry to hear about your mum's death. I lived near her and she was such a lovely lady."