The last steps of murdered schoolgirl Jodi Jones will be reconstructed by police officers tomorrow as attempts to find the 14-year-old's killer continue.A policewoman will act out the harrowing final moments of Jodi's life in a further bid to jog the memories of anyone who may have been in the Easthouses area of Dalkeith, near Edinburgh, last Monday night - the evening she was brutally killed. Officers want to trace two youths spotted on Monday night on a motorbike near the Roman Dyke pathway where Jodi's bloodied and partially dressed body was found in undergrowth. Police do not believe the pair are directly linked to the incident, but they want to know what - if anything - they saw. There have been no reported sightings of Jodi in the six hours between her leaving home and the discovery of the body after 11pm by a search team that included family members and her 14-year-old boyfriend, Luke Mitchell, to whose house she was walking when she was killed. Yesterday a police car remained outside the nearby house where Luke lives with his brother Shane, 22, and their mother Corrine. On Friday, officers spent eight hours searching the two-storey detached house in Newbattle Abbey Crescent and both Mitchell brothers were questioned. Luke spent the day being interviewed as forensic teams scoured the house. A man emerged from the house yesterday afternoon and drove away in a silver Audi which had been parked in the drive, only to return a short time later. Two young girls played on their bikes, oblivious to the press and TV crews outside the house, while what appeared to be new neighbours attempted to move in. A sign in the window of the glass vestibule of the house said reporters were not welcome. On Friday, the six-strong police team sifted through belongings in the house and garden and emerged with a number of bags. But a police spokesman said that the search of the home was an essential part of the inquiry, adding that too much should not be read into it. Police have described the killing as one of the most vio lent crimes committed in the area for nearly 30 years. Floral tributes are mounting around the town, mainly outside Jodi's school, St David's RC high school, and close to where her body was found. By midday yesterday locals were gathering to lay flowers and cuddly toys with messages for the murdered girl. One, signed Theresa and Robyn, read: 'My cousin, I can't begin to wonder why.' Another, attached to a Winnie the Pooh bear, told Jodi to 'sleep with the angels'. A large bouquet of red and white roses remains prominently displayed and carries a card quoting Kurt Cobain, the late lead singer of rock band Nirvana. It reads: 'The finest day I ever had was when tomorrow never came.' It is signed 'XXX Luke' and carries the message: 'I love you'. Just 500 yards away is the home where Jodi lived with her mother Judy, 38, brother Joseph, 19, and sister Janine, 17. Yesterday the curtains were drawn. The door opened sporadically as friends, family and a police liaison officer arrived. In Dalkeith town centre the Saturday market opened as usual, but in every shop window hung a poster with Jodi's picture, appealing for anyone with information to come forward. And the atmosphere remains tense as parents accompany their children everywhere. Walking towards the floral tribute, one mother said: 'We are keeping our kids in or making sure they are accompanied by adults they know. Evil has visited us and there is no peace here right now.' Despite taking nearly 400 calls from people keen to help with the investigation, police have no reported sightings of Jodi as she left home. Forensic testing has been carried out on her clothing in a bid to build a DNA profile of the killer. The results of DNA tests should be known later this week. Police believe that it is highly likely the murderer was from the Dalkeith area. A spokesman for the Loth ian and Borders force said: 'It's a possibility that it was someone who knew her or knew of her. The chances are it was someone with good local knowledge and living in the surrounding area.' Earlier on Friday, detectives issued home video footage of Jodi in the hope that it would trigger memories of witnesses. The images, recorded in the past year, show the 14-year-old fooling around in her bedroom. They are more up to date than the first picture released by police earlier last week, which was taken 18 months ago. Detective Inspector Tom Martin, one of the officers leading the murder inquiry, said he hoped the new pictures would jog the memory of anyone who may have seen Jodi between leaving her house and being confronted by her killer. He said: 'These pictures show the type of girl Jodi was - a typical, young, vibrant, happy, carefree girl with her whole life to look forward to. But that has been brutally taken away from her and has left her family and the community devastated. 'We would hope that these new images would jog someone's memory.'