The government is considering allowing evidence from telephone taps to be used in criminal trials but not in terrorism cases, senior officials have told the Guardian.The proposal is designed to break the deadlock between senior police officers, who are pressing for the use of phone-tap evidence, and the intelligence agencies who oppose it. The issue got drawn into the row over the government's anti-terrorism measures. The Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and Liberty, the civil rights group, say allowing phone-tap evidence would make it easier to bring suspects to trial. That would be better, they say, than resorting to control orders with suspects not knowing the evidence against them. Lord Carlile, the independent reviewer of anti-terrorism laws, said last week that legislation "should include allowing intercept evidence to be used in court". But intelligence agencies say it could jeopardise their methods by revealing intercept techniques. "We have in this country a technical edge over most countries," said Sir Stephen Lander, the former head of MI5 and the first chairman of the new Serious Organised Crime Agency last month."The risk is that, by opening this up to due process ... in the courts, you will expose what we can and cannot do." Anti-terrorism officials say MI5, MI6, and GCHQ use intercepts to help gather intelligence which they need to protect, and not to gather evidence which could be used in court. For example, they might discover that A, their main target, has telephoned B to arrange a meeting. That, say officials, might help build up a useful intelligence picture but may not in itself provide evidence of wrongdoing by A or B. They also argue that in terrorism cases, important evidence comes from informants and surveillance operations, not phone-taps. But they suggest that phone-tap evidence would be valuable in trials of those charged with other offences, including serious crime, which the police and Crown Prosecution Service are far more frequently involved in. Under pressure from Sir Ian Blair, London's chief of police, and Ken Macdonald, the director of public prosecutions, the government is examining a plan to allow phone-tap evidence to be used in criminal trials. It would be easier to use phone-tap evidence in all cases, anti-terrorism officials say, if Britain adopted the inquisitorial system common elsewhere in Europe. There, a judge has greater control than in Britain over what evidence should be disclosed in court or to the defence.