Crime is top of the political agenda. No less than five criminal justice bills have been introduced into parliament this session. And yet the Government's commitment to rebalancing the criminal justice system in favour of the victim makes no specific reference to prisons or prison conditions. To create a fair, humane and effective system, it is vital that the state of our prisons is brought into clear public and parliamentary view. Before asking them to receive still more offenders, a glance at soaring reconviction rates would reveal that our grossly overcrowded prisons are in no shape to prevent the next victim.Over the last ten years the prison population has risen from 46,832 to 72,897. Since January alone numbers have increased by 5,000. It is a matter for national shame that we now lock up more of our citizens than any other country in Western Europe. And yet, with record numbers behind bars in England and Wales, the public feels no safer. Small wonder when we know that over three quarters of young men leaving prison will be re-convicted within two years. The Social Exclusion Unit calculated that crime committed by ex-prisoners costs the country £11 billion a year. This makes neither social nor economic sense.Our prisons are full to bursting. In September the Prison Reform Trust and the National Advisory Council of Boards of Visitors, the independent monitors of prison conditions appointed by the Home Secretary, reported on the extent, and impact of, prison overcrowding. Evidence from 108 Chairs of Boards revealed that inside most jails overcrowding is damaging prisoners, their families and prison staff.They detailed inhumane conditions including the sharing of single cells containing unscreened toilets, time unlocked reduced in some places to just one or two hours a day, impoverished regimes and lack of purposeful activity. Concerns were raised about rising suicides and self-harm, increased unrest and the way in which prisoners were being moved from jail to jail, further from home and further from the support they need to make a go of life on release.The Prison Service is trying against the odds to increase opportunities for education and skills training, drug treatment, offending behaviour and sex offender treatment programmes. The Director General has set a demanding decency agenda for the Service. But there is no doubt that important work to respond to diverse needs, improve safety and prepare people for resettlement has been set back by this tidal wave of numbers.Building new prisons has proved no solution. Of the 19 new prisons built in the last ten years, 16 are already overcrowded. It does not have to be like this. In a rebalanced criminal justice system, substantial numbers of offenders who are now being sentenced to counter-productive short periods of custody could be more effectively punished in the community. Proportionality and fairness should be integral to a new sentencing framework. The majority of offenders should be required to pay back for the harm they have done by measures which include unit fines, tagging, community service, restorative justice, intensive supervision and support, mental health diversion, drug and alcohol treatment and penalties designed to reinforce civic responsibility. These must be subject to review and above all, should inspire public and judicial confidence.Prison would then be reserved as a punishment of last resort - never a last chance to get treatment - and only for those whose offending is so serious or violent that they cannot serve their sentence in the community. These prisoners would constitute the 40,000 or so who are, in the words of the Lord Chief Justice, an 'unavoidable minimum'. Intensive work in custody would concentrate on protecting the public and reducing re-offending. And, because the numbers would fit the resources, prison could work more effectively. In turn this would obviate the need for longer sentences.This is a critical time for justice. As these bills proceed through parliament they will be subject to intense scrutiny and open to informed debate. Each clause should be subject to the test of whether its implementation will further increase the prison population and, by so doing, create a lasting legacy of social exclusion. The rhetoric of crackdown and control must be superceded by cool voices of reason and common sense. By inquiring into the system, visiting prisons, community disposals and court diversion scemes, parliamentarians will be in a position to draw on recent experience to bring fresh insights. There is unprecedented cross party agreement on the need for reform. Challenges to the proposed legislation from the opposition benches, and from within the Labour Party itself, derive from concerns about fairness not toughness. There is tremendous scope to create a rebalanced system which is both just, and effective. It would be a crime to miss the opportunity.· Juliet Lyon is Director of the Prison Reform Trust Send us your viewsYou can write to the author of this piece at juliet.lyon@prisonreformtrust.org.uk.Email observer@guardianunlimited.co.uk with comments on articles or ideas for future pieces. About Observer Comment ExtraThe Observer website carries additional online commentary each week, responding to recent pieces to continue the debate and offering additional coverage of the major issues. See Observer Comment for this week's pieces and our Crime and Justice debate pages for more on criminal justice reform. Online commentaries are also trailed in the print pages of the newspaper.