The dreadful and very public killing of army drummer Lee Rigby last week set in train a sequence of events which could almost all have been predicted on the afternoon that the first news of the killing broke. But these events are now beginning to acquire a more contentious momentum of their own. At the start, naturally, the shocking story itself absorbed all immediate sympathies and energies. All this was right, necessary and proper after such a horrific act. However, as the initial events were absorbed, a different kind of media and political debate is now getting into its stride.This other debate is about how some future act of public murderous violence might be stopped. Recent experience, especially since 9/11, should set warning bells ringing here. The cult of theatrical violence and the belief that it can be justified in terms of some alleged injustice of politics, religion or self-esteem – all of which are often very male phenomena – is a terrible but a very ancient delusion. These are highly complex questions, which go beyond even the problem of radical Islamists or their mirror-image native racist opponents. But any complexity or careful thought is quickly being forgotten in the current simplistic climate.Politicians deserve some sympathy nevertheless. They naturally feel under pressure to act, partly because of the horror of the killing, and partly because of fear of a wider blowback, but also because the events of the last five days are being recycled into the tinderbox of the political process. After the reflex unity of the first few hours, politicians now scent dangers and opportunities. All this is likely to continue through the period of the funeral and at least until parliament resumes next week.It is also understandable why the home secretary, Theresa May, is under special pressure. The public is rightly appalled by the fact that there are people among us who can do such things and try to justify or excuse them. They feel, not without reason, that this is somehow connected to radical Islam. They rightly want to feel that something similar is not going to happen again. The only people who can give that reassurance are politicians.But politicians are nervous of saying that everything is under control, even if it is, or even if people understand the limits of the possible. Such a claim does not square with the horrific sight of the dead body in the street. Nor does it tally with the stories that have emerged linking the alleged killers with other extremists and incidents in this country and abroad. People are entitled to be anxious when it is alleged that services for which Mrs May is answerable to the public have had direct contact with people who are now suspected of a shocking killing. And all this, remember, takes place against a backcloth in which politicians are simultaneously expected to act with authority but are accorded less public respect than ever by the media and the voters.Mrs May is now responding to the Woolwich killing by proposing new controls over email records and further powers over groups and preachers who promote hatred and violence. Labour has simultaneously denounced the coalition for cuts in programmes against extremism and for not giving tougher internet intrusion powers. It is not hard to see that both the Tories and Labour are using the current mood of revulsion to attack the Liberal Democrats and regain some political kudos with the public after the Ukip poll surge.But to understand why all these things are happening is not to excuse or justify them. There is not a single piece of evidence to suggest that the Woolwich murder would not have occurred if MI5 had had the power to look into email records that Mrs May is now proposing or if this or that extremist preacher had been silenced more effectively. The chances of another random act of jihadist violence being prevented by such powers are also small. The history of the post-9/11 period has been that states take extra powers to reassure the public and the press rather than to solve problems or reduce threats. The danger is that, after Woolwich, we are about to repeat the same errors.