Everything about Greg Revell suggested he was a vulnerable, troubled young man – from the vivid marks of a previous suicide attempt that were conspicuous around his neck, to his drug use and the way he cried when a judge sent him to jail this year.Yet when he arrived at HMP Glen Parva in June, he was not listed as a suicide risk and was left alone, in distress, with his own thoughts.The night before he died, he telephoned his mother, Karen Revell and was, she says, upset, angry and helpless.  Greg Revell, who died in Glen Parva, with his mother. Photo provided by his family.There was no intervention by prison officers to support him, and at 6.05am the following day he was found hanging in his cell after only his second night in the prison. He was 18 years old.Greg's death on 11 June this year is recorded in statistics that reveal suicide rates in prisons in England and Wales to be at their highest for 10 years. There is no sign of the death toll being reduced.In the year to April, suicides in prisons rose by 69% to 88. In the first six months of this year alone, there were 43 self-inflicted deaths in prisons, up from 30 for the same period last year.Greg's mother now spends her days at his grave, where flowers mark out the word "son" and family pictures nestle among mementoes of her child's life. Karen Revell has said that her son was not a naughty child but had mental health problems and had been troubled for some time.Earlier this year, Greg was sent to prison for four months after admitting that he had threatened another teenager with a metal dumbbell handle. At Derby crown court, the recorder acknowledged his youth but said that he would be sent to prison as the public had to be protected. Revell's lawyer pointed out that the marks around the young man's neck were from a previous, "very real", suicide attempt, and Revell broke down in tears as he was being sentenced.On his release from prison he found himself in trouble again, this time when he got into an argument with another boy in a local park. He was arrested and charged after a claim that he was found with a knife. He denied the charge and was remanded in custody.He was sent to Glen Parva on 9 June, where, as Nick Hardwick, chief inspector of prisons, has revealed, a culture of violence, bullying and drug taking was barely controlled by staff, who too often resorted to violent restraint, abusive language and their own forms of unofficial punishment.Revell was put into an ordinary cell, alone, with no observation measures to protect him from himself. A few hours after his distressed call to his mother, he took his own life – the third young man to do so in the prison in 15 months.• This article was amended on 6 August 2014 to clarify details of the incident that led to Greg Revell being sent to Glen Parva.