The inquest on Rachel Whitear, who died after an apparent heroin overdose, was halted yesterday as detectives revealed they were pursuing two fresh leads that could explain how she died.The coroner, Ian Arrow, was due to begin summing up the evidence but instead told the jury: "There have been developments."Detective Chief Superintendent Paul Howlett, who has led the reinvestigation of the death, told the jury: "New information concerning the circumstances of Rachel's death has been passed to me. If it is true, it is capable of influencing ... the outcome of these proceedings."The coroner later told the jury that the police were following two new lines of inquiry. It involved the police visiting two separate addresses last night.Mr Arrow asked the jury to return this morning but also warned them that they might have to sit on Monday.Whitear, who was 21, died seven years ago at a flat in Exmouth, Devon. An open verdict was recorded at her first inquest but her family campaigned for a second hearing, believing there were many unanswered questions. Her death hit the headlines after her family allowed shocking images of her body to be used in an anti-drugs campaign.The second inquest, in Exeter this week, has heard from one witness, J, who claimed that Whitear's boyfriend, Luke Fitzgerald, gave her the fatal dose of heroin, and his brother, Simon, cleaned up the scene and replaced the syringe she had used with a new one.Whitear's family told the inquest they believed J's version of events, but both Luke and Simon Fitzgerald strongly denied having anything to do with her death. Earlier in the week, Mr Howlett told the inquest that the Fitzgerald brothers had been interviewed by police and a file passed to the Crown Prosecution Service but it had been decided there was insufficient evidence to bring a case against either of them.He said there was a difference of opinion between experts as to whether the syringe found in Whitear's hand had been placed there by someone else or whether it could have been the one she used. He described the absence of heroin in the barrel of the syringe as "very puzzling and deeply perplexing".But he added: "In trying to draw conclusions it is not possible to say one way or another whether that needle was used or whether Rachel used it herself or was injected by a third party."He added: "We have not been able to find any evidence to corroborate the allegation that Luke Fitzgerald ever visited her room. The difficulty with a drug-related death is that sadly many people die alone having injected themselves with heroin."At the same time, we do know that drug users will help each other and inject each other and that is where we enter the area of criminality. It is an unsatisfactory position and there are many things we are unable to explain."Whitear's mother, Pauline Holcroft, told the jury on Wednesday that it was highly unlikely Whitear's room would have been left as tidily as it was found.She said: "She was not particularly tidy at all. She may have only moved in 24 hours before she died but I was surprised by the photographs and particularly by the towel folded up and put over the door. Rachel would have thrown it on the floor or flung it on a rail but not fold it up. I believe it was folded like that and left in the door so nobody could hear if it was opening or closing."