The Provisional IRA responded to increasing speculation that its members carried out the UK's largest bank robbery yesterday by denying that it had any involvement in it.In a brief statement by an unnamed senior republican, the organisation said: "We are dismissing any suggestion or allegation that we were involved." But a spokesman for the police service said: "No one is taken off our list of suspects just because they say they didn't do it." The announcement from the Provisional IRA was made in response to repeated claims by the Democratic Unionist party, the largest in the province, that the Provisionals were responsible for stealing £22m from the Northern Bank in Belfast on Monday night. Speaking on BBC radio yesterday, Ian Paisley Jr, the DUP member on the Northern Ireland policing board, said he would be surprised if paramilitaries were not involved."This event bears all the hallmarks of Provisional IRA activity," he said. "There is a kidnap victim, a series of very well-controlled crime scenes, the precision of the operation. I understand the police have already uncovered a communication interception to a Provisional IRA suspect." But he added: "There is probably a lot of pressure on the police that if they call this one, and they call it as the Provisional IRA or someone associated with the Provisional IRA, obviously the pressure becomes very political." He said that the police had "woefully inadequate intelligence lines into the IRA". But he acknowledged that demonstrating that the Provisional IRA was involved would have extensive political consequences for the peace process. The detectives investigating the robbery are believed to be focusing on five gangs capable of carrying out such an operation - two criminal and three paramilitary, including the Provisional IRA. They are reviewing the methods used in recent, military-style robberies. The Provisionals were formally linked to a £1m hold-up at a Belfast superstore earlier in the year. The Independent Monitoring Commission, the body set up to study terrorist ceasefires in Northern Ireland, blamed the raid on them. Last night the police issued the serial numbers of 150,000 £10 notes and urged shops, banks and the public to be on the look out for the notes. They are: BC850001 to BC8550000; BC9100001 to BC9150000; and BC9350001 to BC9400000. Anyone having notes with these numbers was asked to take them to the police at once.