The rise in street crime will come as no surprise to parents of children, especially boys, living in urban areas. I've lost count of the time my youngest son, who is 16, has had his phone stolen under the threat of violence. It now seems to be a routine aspect of young adults lives. Why?I think there are two factors. The first is the obvious - you have got something that I haven't and I'm big enough and strong enough to take it from you. When I was young we carried nothing of value and neither did anyone else. So street crime was rare. Now kids as young as six and seven might have a mobile and an MP3 player that are worth £500. So there is value in it. But it is more than that. The type of phone or iPod you have is of huge symbolic importance. "What does your phone say about you" the advert goes. The answer is a lot. We judge each other and crucially ourselves by the quality of the consumer goods we carry and wear. And it matters much more to poorer children. Also, for those who are short on love, care and hope, the type of trainers or mobile they have in relation to those around them takes on huge significance.My kids live in a middle class area of south London. It's leafy and pleasant. But all around are estates and towns that are much less well to do. So their area becomes a honey trap for poorer children who want the best phone or music player too - because that is what society tells them matters.But with phone thefts there is more going on. Now, as soon you report the incident the phone is immobilised and is useless. The thieves know this. So why do it? For no better reason, it seems, than they can. For a moment they can take control of lives in which they mostly feel utterly helpless.We are breading a generation with no fear. They don't value their own lives, so how can they value anyone else's? Society clearly doesn't value them. It brings them up in poverty on rotting estates. Schools are run for league tables and they can't keep up. Social mobility is declining. Unlike their parents they are more likely to stay poor. They can see the levels of inequality all around them. Their inferiority in our consumer society is continuously pushed in their face. They can't keep pace, let alone ever win, by playing by the rules because the rules are not made for or, by them. So they cheat. And let's face it, they get plenty of encouragement to do that from politicians, business people, sports stars and now television shows.The response to this line of argument is often: "well not all poor kids steal or mug so why excuse those who do?" It's not to excuse, it is to understand the reasons why things seem to be getting out of hand. It can't just be that by some accident moral codes are slipping. They slip for a reason. And one of the biggest drivers is the possessive individualism that was spawned in the Thatcher years and has not been curtailed after 10 years of New Labour.Every time my son comes home following the frustration and humiliation of having his phone taken or having been chased we talk about where he goes and what he does. But I try to talk to him about the lives of others and what it might be like to feel so insecure, to have such little hope or perhaps parents that don't talk much or show their love.I can't buy his safety just as I can't keep him in doors forever more. We can only solve the crime wave on our streets by doing it together as a society. That means getting a better balance between the importance of consumption and wider notion of wellbeing and crucially a better balance between the rich and the poor.