Detectives were last night piecing together the last movements and phonecalls of a 15-year-old boy stabbed on his way home from a trip to the cinema, as his murder once again thrust teenage crime to the top of the political agenda.Adam Regis was the second teenager in three days to be killed in knife attacks. Yesterday the headteacher at his school described him as a "model pupil".Friends and family continued paying tribute to the schoolboy who was the nephew of the Olympic silver medalist sprinter John Regis.The effects of the stabbing were felt across east London among communities that knew his family, at the spot where he fell in Plaistow, two miles away at his school in Beckton, and at Westminster. Politicians reacted to the public dismay created by the stabbings on Saturday in east London and on Wednesday in west London, by suggesting new and tougher measures were needed.At the Kingsford school, in Beckton, where Adam had been a pupil, a special assembly was held for students in his year. Joan Deslandes, head teacher, paid tribute in a statement: "Adam was a delightful, bubbly young man who worked hard and was happy in school. His attendance and punctuality were excellent."He was always polite, popular with everyone and was a reading mentor for younger pupils. He loved sport, particularly rugby and football, and was studying for a GCSE in PE. He was looking forward to going to college to further his education."Adam was a pleasure to have around the school and we will always remember him with a smile on his face. Adam really was a model pupil. This is a tragic loss."Detectives were hunting two black men wearing hooded tops who were seen running away from the scene of the attack at around 9.30pm on Saturday. Scotland Yard said they believe Adam was attacked close to where he was seen falling, and not on a bus he had taken with two friends.Police said: "He got off the bus with two friends - a male and female - at approximately 9pm ... this is approximately one-and-a-half miles from where he was found. The female left to walk to her own home."We believe Adam then walked with the male friend to the friend's address before continuing towards his own home. At some point he was stabbed - we believe close to where he was found, the junction of Boundary Road and Kingsland Road, E13 - given the extent of his injuries."The cause of death was a single stab wound to the chest and abdomen. Yesterday his family were taken to see the body.Throughout yesterday a procession of school mates and friends brought floral tributes to the spot where Adam fell. One 15-year-old said: "He was a nice person, down to earth. When they say it's gang related that just hurts me. He did sport."Police said one line of inquiry was a mobile phone call he made to his girlfriend, Rachel, just before he was stabbed.The death of Adam and Wednesday's killing in west London of Kodjo Yenga were described as "horrific" by Tony Blair.Home secretary John Reid told the Commons that data on the use of knives in serious violent crime would now be collected across England and Wales.But the shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "These measures are insufficient - the growing problem of knife crime is plain for all to see."