If the government has its way, the next election will be fought over men like Alexander Muat. The 87-year-old great-grandfather and veteran of the Second World War represents everything New Labour wants a third term to combat. He was put in his place last year after a dispute with his neighbours - he said they trampled his flower beds, they said he was a rude old man. The courts served him with an anti-social behaviour order and warned that he would go to prison if he was caught swearing at or making sarcastic comments about his neighbours and their visitors again.The last time I looked it wasn't a crime to be sarcastic. But when Tony Blair's aides promise that 'we are going to ensure that law and order is debated in the Commons every day in the six months before the election', what they mean is that men like Muat can be sent down for shouting 'you're no better than you ought to be' at a neighbour. Sergeant Mark Stanton of Merseyside Police admitted the restrictions on Muat's freedom of speech were 'stringent' but said the old soldier had to learn 'what is acceptable behaviour within a community'. And so must we all as Labour forges on with its historic mission to turn the British into the Swiss.How long can it be, for instance, before the 'badgers' of the Forest of Dean are taught that society won't tolerate unacceptably behaved sheep? The badgers are members of the Commoners' Association which has had the right to let flocks roam common land in the Hundred of St Briavels since the Norman Conquest. Every now and again the sheep jump garden walls and munch their way through herbaceous borders. After they have dined long and well, they leave their droppings on paths and lanes. Tony Wisdom of the Forest of Dean District Council said that disputes between villagers and badgers had been going on for generations. Blows have been exchanged and tyres slashed. Villagers have alleged that 'rogue' badgers 'go around cutting fences, so the sheep can get to fresh grass and so on but the problem is getting enough evidence to prosecute them'. New Labour has solved the problem. The presumption that a badger is innocent until proved guilty beyond reasonable doubt of a criminal offence, which dates back to Magna Carta, if not 1066, has been dismissed as an impediment to an acceptably behaved Britain. The council is considering applying for anti-social behaviour orders to be enforced on the badgers, and if it wants them it will get them with ease. Alert readers may have noticed that whenever the government goes on about anti-social behaviour it rages against crack houses and vandalism. It's as if it wasn't a crime already to take class A drugs or smash windows and the police were powerless before the gangsters and thugs until Tony Blair intervened. In truth, anti-social behaviour doesn't have to be remotely criminal. A badger or anyone else only has to be guilty of behaving in a manner 'likely to have caused harassment, alarm, or distress to someone not of his/her household'. Once the order has been made, the suspect can be jailed for up to five years for any breach, however tiny. Thus, and I'm not making this up, a man who had an anti-social behaviour order prohibiting from being noisy had to appeal to Harringey magistrates to get him out of prison for the 'crime' of belching on a communal fire escape. Sometimes anti-social behaviour is genuinely criminal. Earlier this month we had the case of the Blind Groper of Wallington, which sounds funny until you think about it. Neil Middlehurst preyed on the kindness of strangers by grabbing the breasts of women when they tried to help him. Middlehurst was duly imprisoned for sexual assault. On release an anti-social behaviour order requires him to place his hands on the shoulders of women who take pity on his blindness and offer to guide him. That may seem fair enough but the fact remains that if Middlehurst assaults another woman he will have committed a criminal offence and could and should be tried and convicted. The wonder of the new system is that he doesn't need to have committed a criminal offence before being sent back to jail. A hand landing on a woman's head or wrist may be enough. The criminalisation of everyday incivility is the government's response to what has been a dreadful miscarriage of justice. Crime rates have fallen off a cliff in the past decade. As unemployment has collapsed so has criminality. But no one gives Blair (or, rather, Brown) a scrap of credit. The public is in a state of fear. On closer inspection, what people are frightened of isn't always real crimes but the young hanging out on street corners, tattooed boozers pouring beers into their bare bellies outside pubs, children kicking a ball against a wall long after bedtime and vaguely menacing beggars demanding money. The noise and the boorishness inspire the feeling that the world is going to pot in your averagely stupid swing voter in a key marginal.There are as many explanations of unwarranted fears of crime as there are criminologists. Maybe the insecurities of the global economy are too complicated to understand and people compensate by concentrating their anxieties on the local problems. Maybe consumerism has bored so deeply into the national consciousness that the intolerant and selfish demand the law be used to punish anyone who annoys them as they enjoy their inalienable right to get and to spend. That there is a political market for tearing up the basic presumptions of English law is, however, indisputable. Last week the Economist quoted Stuart Chapman, a chief superintendent from South Yorkshire, as saying that 'I never thought that I would live in a country where the police would have these powers'. It then said that councils in South Yorkshire had callers demanding the police act against colicky babies who cry in the night. Don't laugh, it may happen. It is equally indisputable that the political response to public demand is seedy and dishonest. Millions of words have been written about the nature of New Labour. The best way to understand it is as a machine that keeps the Conservative Party out of power by stealing Conservative policies. 'Triangulation', as it's known, involves occupying Tory ground and pushing the Conservatives out to the electoral wilderness on the far right. It's been a brilliantly unprincipled and successful strategy which has reduced the once-mighty Conservatives to a fringe group of embittered pensioners. Blair turns to it whenever he's in trouble, as now. But triangulation can't work for ever. The Tories have seen through it, and much to David Blunkett's fury occasionally oppose the government from the left when it proposes abolishing trial by jury or removing asylum seekers' rights of appeal. Blair tries to play the race card and the crime card against the Liberal Democrats. But accusations that they are soft on villains and wogs aren't stopping the Liberals taking Labour seats. Beyond the politics of positioning, the giddiness of the triangulation mania may finally be taking a practical toll after all these years. Between the 1997 and 2001 general elections 31 law-and-order bills were presented to Parliament. Between 1997 and March 2003 New Labour created 661 new criminal offences. Between the June 2001 election and June this year the government launched 154 anti-crime initiatives - about one a week. The police are pulled this way and that as one target succeeds another. Morale in the Home Office is dismal as civil servants prostitute their talents on meretricious policies designed to grab a headline in the Express or a few seconds on the evening news. Above all, triangulation has filled the jails. When Blair began triangulating the Tories on crime in 1993, the prison population stood at 41,000. Today it's 75,000 and there's no money to build new jails. All the blind groping towards ever tougher postures can't hide the reality that the Government is going to have to let people out or stop sending them in. Perhaps then even an electorate as easy to manipulate as the British electorate is going to realise that for more than a decade their fears have been exploited by anti-social elements who treat them as rank buffoons.