A second South African man has confessed to his role in the 2010 Cape Town murder of honeymooner Anni Dewani, claiming it was a contract killing set up by her British husband, Shrien Dewani.Mziwamadoda Qwabe, 27, was jailed for 25 years at the Western Cape high court for the kidnap, robbery and murder of 28-year-old Mrs Dewani. He is the second South African, after taxi driver Zola Tongo, to be jailed for the murder in Khayelitsha township on 13 November 2010.Dewani, a 32-year-old care home owner from Bristol, is being treated by psychiatrists in Britain while he fights extradition to South Africa. He denies charges of murder, conspiracy to murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances and obstructing the administration of justice.Dewani had married Swedish national Anni Hindocha in India before taking her on an extravagant honeymoon to South Africa which included a safari in the Kruger Park and a visit to Cape Town, where the couple stayed at the five-star Cape Grace hotel. During an evening out, Mrs Dewani was killed by a shot in the neck after an apparent car hijacking in Gugulethu township.A week later Tongo, 31, gave himself up to police claiming Dewani had requested the killing, and was jailed for 18 years for kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances and murder.Tongo said he first met Dewani at Cape Town airport, where the businessman asked him to find a hitman in return for a payment of 15,000 Rand (£1,170).As part of a plea bargainon Wednesday, Qwabe admitted kidnapping Mrs Dewani in Gugulethu with co-accused Xolile Mngeni, Tongo and Shrien Dewani. He also admitted assaulting her with a firearm to force her into submission and robbing her of a Giorgio Armani watch, a gold and diamond bracelet, a handbag and her mobile phone. Her possessions were worth about 90,000 Rand (£7,000).Qwabe said Tongo and Dewani were not in the car when Mrs Dewani was killed. He pleaded guilty to driving Mrs Dewani to Ilitha Park, Khayelitsha, where she was shot dead in the vehicle.Qwabe's plea bargain states: "The agreement was that Zola and the husband would be unharmed and that the deceased would be kidnapped, robbed and killed. The kidnapping and robbery were part of the plan to make it appear that this was a random criminal act, unconnected to Zola or the husband."Judge John Hlophe sentenced Qwabe to 15 years for robbery with aggravating circumstances, five years each for kidnapping and illegal possession of a firearm, and 25 years for murder. The judge ruled the sentences would run concurrently.Qwabe's co-accused, Mngeni, 24, appeared with him in court on Wednesday. After Qwabe's confession, the prosecution asked for the cases to be separated. Mngeni is receiving treatment for a brain tumour and his lawyer said this causes him to be confused. He is due to appear for a pre-trial conference next Monday, at which the judge will consider a neuropsychologist's report into his ability to understand proceedings.Dewani is being treated in the UK for depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. He has been sectioned and deemed a suicide risk. Last week, his barrister, Clare Montgomery QC, told Westminster magistrates court that keeping Dewani under medical treatment in Britain for 12 months would hasten his recovery, whereas sending him to South Africa might have the opposite effect. His extradition hearing has been adjourned to 18 September.Eric Ntbazalila, a spokesman for the South African national prosecution agency, welcomed Qwabe's confession. He said: "Qwabe has pleaded guilty because he understands we have a strong case. We are now a step closer to getting information on what happened on that day and we have confirmation that Shrien Dewani was part of a plan to rob, kidnap and kill his wife."