Today marks the bloody, first anniversary of the massacre at Virginia Tech University. One year ago, Cho Seung-hui earned the gruesome distinction of killing more people than ever before in a single school shooting, a rampage that started, in a sense, some eight years prior - almost to the day - when Cho watched along with the nation as Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold made Columbine High School forever synonymous with school shootings. What we had only guessed at in Lynville, in Moses Lake, in Pearl and in Paducah was made achingly clear by Cho: He was emulating the boys from Columbine.Through a kind of video manifesto that Cho sent in advance to NBC, the media-savvy murderer paid homage to Eric and Dylan, calling them - among other honourifics - "martyrs". Before Columbine, would Cho have erupted by chaining doors shut and gunning down his peers? Might he have simply turned a gun on himself and spared the rest? While we will never know what damage Cho might have wreaked on the world absent Columbine, it seems safe to say it would not have gone down this way. Eric and Dylan had such a profound effect on the 15-year-old Cho that at age 23 he was still obsessed with the dark duo. Eric and Dylan didn't just destroy the lives of the 17 slain in their wake. They created a sick and deadly option. As Cho knew, for the disaffected and frustrated teenager, school shootings have become an all-too-achievable answer.All of the school shootings have been eerily reminiscent of one another: black-clad gunmen, social outcasts, teens crawling away from the blasts, chaotic hallways, crying and shell-shocked students, bloodied classrooms and suburban ennui interrupted. The emulation of Eric and Dylan isn't limited to Cho. It is echoed in the YouTube videos exchanged by a Finnish high school student - who killed eight in November of last year before turning the gun on himself - and a suburban Philadelphia teen, who was arrested for planning a shooting spree just a month before his comrade's attack. Also last November, on the five-year anniversary of a shooting in Germany that left 16 dead, police shut down a secondary school after finding evidence of communication between a student there and the Finnish shooter. The Guardian quoted German criminologist, Frank Robertz, as saying: "The phenomenon of massacres by young people in schools in Germany has only existed since Columbine."Unfortunately, as Eric and Dylan's twisted cyber legacy and obvious impact on new generations becomes more prevalent, the world seems to be more desensitised than ever. Last February, the nation watched news coverage of a young graduate student, Stephen Kazmierczak, who killed six in Illinois. Kazmierczak was unusual: He had a girlfriend and a fruitful academic and social life. But, once he stopped taking his medication, he didn't simply become unhinged or retreat into suicidal illness. His outburst wasn't just an arbitrary act: first, he legally purchased a pump-action Remington shotgun and a Glock 9mm handgun. While the media puzzled over this latest incident, however, no one seemed to notice that it was the fourth in a week: In Baton Rouge, Louisiana, a woman shot two fellow students to death before turning the gun on herself at Louisiana Technical College; in Memphis, Tennessee, a 17-year-old shot and critically wounded a classmate during gym class; and, in Oxnard, California, a high school junior left his 15-year-old victim brain dead. The more students die, the less we pay attention.Every time we seem to collectively muster interest in analyzing this growing phenomenon, the discussion inevitably devolves into talk of issues like gun-control and video games. Sure, it's awful that crazed shooters can get their hands on lethal weapons, and, yes, it seems possible that some video games might hone a lonely and frustrated teen's enthusiasm for violence. But no one ever asks why these teens are so lonely and frustrated to begin with. How many young people are commiserating in a chat room while exchanging pipe-bomb recipes right now? As we censor rap lyrics and install metal detectors, why don't we first pay a whole lot of attention to our kids? After all, the vast majority of school shooters come from two-parent households in the suburbs. They aren't escapees from some asylum. Today, as we watch the disturbing legacy of the Columbine shooters multiply and remember those who lost their lives at Virginia Tech last year, let's make sure a shooting rampage doesn't become an acceptable option anymore for anybody.