What's to be done? The English show trials are as crude and ugly as the English riots themselves. They are a reaction, but not an answer. First, it is time to recognise that the great faults in the present system originate from, and are excused by, both right and left. The right "owns" the economic problems. The left "owns" the social ones. By ownership, I don't mean blame. However, the right and the left have to face up to their own messes, and clean them up. I have my ideas on what the right should do. But this piece is about what the left should do.Obviously, thanks to one well-publicised failure of neoliberalism, there is not the money around that there used to be. All on the left believe, basically, that if only the right would cough up more then everything would be rosy. Perhaps, however, the right might be less resentful of the money the state wants to have if it was spent more wisely and with better results. This can be done.It was interesting that the most fearsome riots were in London, among young people. Of course, it's awful to be poor in London. But, if you are young, reasonably culturally sophisticated and have a place to live, then there are free buses to wonderful parks, great libraries, world-renowned galleries, museums and all sorts of festivals and events that charge no admission. Young people fighting over their tiny scraps of postcode, and cleaving hard to street culture that glamorises this mindset, are in a prison and a hell that they don't have to stay in. They just don't have the tools to set themselves free.Why should this be, when they are obliged to undertake a free, universal, compulsory education for 12 years? Surely it can only be because that system is not properly accessed? Engaged pupils of all classes and backgrounds do well in our schools. And that's the thing. Remember the old saying: "You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink"? Education only works if it is valued by pupils and their families. State schools need to expect their pupils to achieve. The children who like to learn must be protected from the children who do not, whatever their level of ability.Here's what has to change. Schools must stop "excluding" children and start "referring" them. To where? Not to schools more willing to take "difficult" pupils, wonderful as so many are. Not to pupil referral units, which, in London anyway, offer fewer of the disciplines, routines and boundaries that disruptive children need.They need, instead, to go to family therapy centres based on the model provided by the child advocate Camila Batmanghelidjh, where their own problems can be addressed, intensively and carefully, within the context of their whole families.Where would the money come from? Here's the good thing. The money spent on children's social services, family courts, youth justice, contact centres, and a host of other child- and youth-oriented projects – it can be redeployed. All the services offered by these institutions, or charities, can be delivered through family therapy centres, which would mentor children closely and insist on the co-operation and involvement of their parents and guardians. The goal would to be get them back into the mainstream by giving them the confidence and self-respect they need just to want to be there.I know that schools do much of this work already. Mainstream schools need to offer pastoral care – of course they do – and always will. But they also need sensible alternatives when social or psychological problems dominate over educational priorities, alternatives that don't feel like betrayals but like the right thing to do, as an early resort rather than a late one. Schools are for education.Of course, the argument against making alternatives to school "too nice" is that everyone would want their kids to go to them. That argument says that such institutions have to be punitive – what used to be called "sin bins". Perhaps the time that would be demanded of the families and households whose children had been referred there – several sessions a week – might mean that the parents would prefer their children to stay in mainstream school, and therefore work at helping them to do so.Perhaps therapy units should be allowed to commandeer the family allowance. Perhaps a key to the home would have to be handed to the therapy centre, as Batmanghelidjh has said she would be prepared to do, for impromptu inspection by its social workers. Tough love.Yet while schools are a good place to start, because schools contain pretty much all children, attending school is not compulsory until a child is five. Therapy units, being whole family-focused, would connect also to the siblings of referred children. But before five, state care is voluntary. Sure Start does not reach the people who need help the most. Maybe, if you want to make the ambitiously reckless and highly risky commitment of having a child whom you cannot house or support without state help, there should be some strings.There was outrage when the last Labour government floated the idea of residential centres for young mothers who chose to start families without being able to provide material support to them. Maybe this should be looked at again. Certainly, there should be an obligation regularly to attend the nursery sections of family therapy units, which could take over the baby and toddler services and clinics offered by the NHS.There is too much emphasis on universality of state help, too much worry that it will create "stigma". That attitude has helped to get us here. The left has to face the fact that living off the state, when you are able-bodied, able-minded, educated and young, is something that does need some stigma attached to it. There's one more thing worth considering: in a more emotionally and culturally healthy country, even neoliberals might actually feel it incumbent on themselves to make some accommodations, most urgently on wages. At the moment, both sides are waiting for the other to blink. The left should blink right now, grit its teeth, and get busy.