Jacob Stephenson, aged 10, opens the door at the back of a block of flats on Dunfermline's Abbeyview estate and pokes his head into the hallway. "There's graffiti on the roof and walls," he says. "It wasn't there before." He pulls out a small notebook and scribbles down the details.A few yards away, Chloe McConky, 11, is pointing out two upturned supermarket trolleys and a patch of broken glass on the pathway to a drying green. "This is what we look for," she says. "Glass and litter, graffiti, fly tipping, smashed windows. We write it all down in our memory pads."The Primary 7 school pupils are members of a junior warden scheme that has been running in the Abbeyview area for two years. An offshoot of the community warden programme, set up by local authorities to support the work of other services, junior warden projects are becoming increasingly popular.Abbeyview is one of the more established schemes. It was set up in 2005 by community wardens Margaret Thomson and Ann Neil, and last year was runner-up in an award programme run by the Scottish executive for projects that counter antisocial behaviour. The Abbeyview estate, home to 9,000 people, has been blighted by problems of vandalism, neglect and antisocial behaviour."Not long after we started as community wardens, there was some graffiti in a new park, so we went over with a bucket of water and some washing up liquid and started cleaning it," Neil says. "Within two minutes, there were 12 or so children around us asking, 'Can we help?'""Now, when we go out the door we are surrounded by children," Thomson adds. "It is like the Pied Piper. To be able to take them out with us is great."Neil and Thomson drew up plans for a junior scheme, aimed at children between nine and 11, and initially went to two local primary schools with around 30 application forms. "In the end, we handed out about 100 applications," Neil says.More than 130 children have now been through the programme, which has been extended to create a Wee Warden scheme for the under-7s, and Youth Wardens for children in high school. The key is to develop active citizenship, and during the programme the children learn about environmental issues, first aid, the emergency services, and health. Patrols take place weekly. The children are given a polo shirt and a high-visibility vest and go out in groups of 10, with two adult community wardens. Any problems they identify are passed on to the relevant council department to be dealt with.An independent survey to gauge the impact of the community warden programme in general has suggested that the Abbeyview junior warden scheme has been making a difference. Between 2005 and 2006, the first year of the junior warden programme, there was a 34% reduction in Abbeyview residents' perceptions that vandalism and graffiti were commonplace, compared to 19% for all other community warden areas in Fife. There was also a 19% reduction in perceptions that drinking and drug use were commonplace, and a 31% reduction in perceptions that rubbish and litter were a problem, compared to 8% for the other areas.Fantastic impact"There has been a lot of impact in the community," Neil says. "The people know the amount of work the children are doing and they really appreciate it. As far as the environment is concerned, it has had a fantastic impact. One of our local firemen said to me recently he had not been in the area for about a year. Previously, they were in Abbeyview two or three times a week to put out little fires. Now it is a strange occurrence if there is a fire in Abbeyview."Stewart Christie, Fife council's regeneration manager in the area, says the scheme plays an integral part in efforts to regenerate the estate. "The success has been fantastic on a whole host of fronts," he says. "Across the community, fear of crime has been a massive issue - probably bigger than crime itself. That has been one of the key strengths of this scheme - building up relationships with people."Neil says the biggest change has been a subtle one: "Previously, the children and old people took for granted there might be graffiti on the walls and there might be rubbish lying on the pavement and there might be broken windows. There was an acceptance that this was the norm, but not any more."·Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"