There was a high-pitched shriek; then the fight started. For several moments, the group of girls tore into each other before bouncers pulled them apart. Outside the 24-hour off-licence across the road, a crowd of lads cheered above a sound track of breaking bottles, swearing and heavy bass lines.It was 1am in Brick Lane in the East End; Britain's embrace of continental drinking hours was never meant to be like this. When Labour introduced round-the-clock drinking, it came with the promise of delivering café society to the nation's streets. Liberalising the licensing regime would temper Britain's binge-drinking culture, inspiring a "relaxed" social culture that mirrored southern Europe's approach to alcohol.Signalling its intention to eradicate the 11pm closing time, in 2001 Labour texted potential young voters with the message: "Couldn't give a XXXX for last orders?" Four years later, round-the-clock drinking was introduced.Now it is nearly over. Labour believed an "open-all-hours" licensing regime could reduce crime. The truth appears to be the opposite. Frontline police officers quickly noted that drink-related violence did not fall. Instead it was displaced from the traditional closing time spike to a longer crime window stretching through the early hours. Plus, people were not drinking more slowly; they were drinking longer.It is understood that Theresa May, the home secretary, has faced sustained and vigorous lobbying from the Association of Chief Police Officers and the Police Federation, whose 140,000 rank-and-file officers deal with the immediate effects of binge-drinking, to tighten the screw.The evidence provided by police to civil servants reviewing drinking laws is said to be "damning". Dossiers catalogue verbal and physical assaults, while spreadsheets chronicle the drain on police resources and its knock-on effect on the criminal justice system.May is reported to have said: "I was told we would have a café culture. We think they [late licences] have produced problems on the streets." So keen is she to rectify Labour's relaxation of the licensing laws and the introduction of 24-hour drinking, sources say, that she wants to take over the lead on the issue from the licensing minister, John Penrose, of the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. Such a move would shift alcohol to the heart of the coalition government's law-and-order agenda.Penrose has already warned the drinks trade that the home secretary "may well look to go further" than the coalition agreement when it comes to overhauling existing legislation. Of Britain's 200,000 licensed premises, about 3,000 applied for round-the-clock licences, with most pubs and bars opting for longer opening hours. One survey claimed that less than 16% of drinkers drank more alcohol on a "typical night out" following the liberalisation of licensing.Critics, though, claim the scheme's real impact is reflected in crime figures. Since extended hours were introduced, there has been a 25% rise in serious violent offences committed between 3am and 6am. Separate figures from the British Crime Survey reveal there were 1,087,000 violent attacks by drunks in the first full year of the reforms – up 64,000 on the previous year. A person at a licensed premises is five times more likely to be a victim of violence. Official figures reveal a 33% increase in drink-related cases seen by accident and emergency departments in England since 2005.Tony, the Brick Lane bouncer who witnessed the fighting girls last Friday, said: "There's always trouble when people are drinking; having a police station at the end of the road is a real godsend."Senior police figures have also told May that regulating the fallout of late-night drinking is a drain on dwindling resources. Seven years ago, the 43 constabularies in England and Wales were set a target of cutting their overtime spending. Yet overtime shot up in the wake of "after-hours" drinking by almost 45%, with many officers citing the high bill as the "night-time economy".Alcohol Concern, a pressure group, adds that local councils have experienced a £93m shortfall in policing costs, partly because of the pressures of all-night licences.Don Shenker, chief executive of Alcohol Concern, said the relaxation of licensing laws might have given the impression that Britons were allowed to drink more, instead of promoting greater self-control. "It may have helped normalise heavy drinking, in the way that handing out flip-flops to women struggling in high heels after a night out might appear to sanction heavy drinking."May's keenness to act on tackling binge drinking will be bolstered by cases highlighted last week by Burton MP Andrew Griffiths. Connor Upton, 21, was murdered outside a nightclub in the Staffordshire town at the beginnning of the month. Griffiths blamed 24-hour licensing laws, referring to a "spike" in violent crimes caused by late-night drinking that had blighted the town centre."It is obvious that the increasing violence has occurred in the early hours of the morning, after people have been drinking for many hours," he said. The Tory MP might also have mentioned that, weeks before Upton's death, local hospitals revealed a dramatic rise in the the number of admissions among 15- to 24-year-olds in the area due to drinking.It is nearly 2am in Brick Lane, and another fight has erupted, this time outside the White Horse kebab shop on Bethnal Green Road. Onlookers, queueing to get cash from a hole-in-the-wall machine across the street, stare briefly at the unfolding scuffle, before turning away. Another Friday night is only just starting.