The “utterly needless and unjustified” consequences of teenagers carrying knives has been highlighted by a judge as he sentenced a boy to at least 18 years in prison for stabbing a man to death in an act of street violence sparked by a row over a cigarette.Kai Steele, 18, was detained indefinitely after being found guilty of murdering 26-year-old Alex Scott in an alleyway in south-east London on 10 August last year.The Old Bailey was told Scott was stabbed twice in the chest and collapsed on the pavement about 20 seconds after he threw the first punch.Steele was 17 at the time of the attack, which happened after an argument outside an off-licence when a boy asked for a cigarette.Setting the minimum term he will spend in a young offender institution, judge Timothy Pontius said: “This is yet another example of an utterly needless and unjustified waste of a human life resulting from a senseless decision by a teenage boy to put a knife in his pocket before leaving home.“As is so often the case, that knife was not taken out with any intention in the defendant’s mind to use it to cause anyone serious injury, still less to kill. This murder was neither planned nor premeditated but arose, as is so often the case in the context of street violence, in a matter of moments.“That fact makes it all the more tragic that a human life was lost simply because a knife was needlessly carried and so what would have begun and ended with the trading of a few punches instead led to a murder.”On Tuesday prosecutor Simon Denison QC told the court Steele had past convictions for violent crimes, including muggings, dating back to when he was 12 or 13.An impact statement from Scott’s mother, Rachel Van Dyke, said: “His death was totally unnecessary and I know nothing is ever going to bring Alex back. The only thing I can hope for now is the person responsible gets their just deserts. Nothing can ever replace Alex. He was funny, outgoing, he had a good heart and would do anything for anybody.”At the opening of the trial, Denison told the court: “Alex Scott was 26 years old when he was killed on the evening of Sunday 10 August last year. His death was as sudden as it was violent and wholly unnecessary. Another life taken away in an instant by the use of a knife that was taken on to the street for no reason.“At about 9.30pm that evening he was outside an off-licence in Eltham Road, south-east London, with a group of friends. They were all heavy drinkers and had spent the early evening drinking and gambling at the bookies nearby.”He said “words were needlessly exchanged” between Steele, his friend Dillon Beckford and the victim and his friends, which led to a fight in a nearby alleyway.Denison added: “Alex Scott played his part by being unnecessarily confrontational and he appears to have thrown the first punch, but there was absolutely no need or justification for what happened next. Kai Steele took out a knife that he had in his jacket and he lunged at Alex Scott twice. He stabbed him twice in the left side of his chest.“Either blow could have killed him. One penetrated the aorta and the other penetrated his heart. Twenty or so seconds after he threw the first punch, Alex Scott collapsed on the pavement, where he died.”Steele’s co-defendant, Beckford, also 18, was acquitted of murder last week on the direction of Pontius.Steele, of Charlton, south-east London, and Beckford, of Lee, had both denied the charge against them.Throughout the sentencing, Steele appeared impassive in the dock.