What the Soham murders say most about our society is that we have a sexist justice system (Letters, December 19). Only 7% of reported rapes end in a conviction, and bearing in mind that only a small minority are reported, this means that men in our society are allowed to rape (wives, girlfriends, "friends" and strangers) without much fear of being punished. They are almost given "the right to rape" by the legal system, which places a huge burden of proof and "character" on the victim, and acts within a context of surveillance and control of women's bodies.Why is it that because a woman is caught on camera in a nightclub with a man, she is seen as having an unsafe testimony when he goes on to rape her in a back alley? How can it be that an 11-year-old girl who is assaulted (why is rape called assault if the girl is under 16?) is not "believed" by the system? It is unsurprising within this context of institutional sexism that the police aren't particularly careful about updating databases with accusations of violent sex crime against women and girls. I fear that in the blame culture that is developing around the Soham murders, the bigger picture is being ignored. It is about time that the institutional sexism of the justice system begins to be examined with as much rightful indignation and fervour as the issue of institutional racism. Shona BettanyUniversity College of St MartinsLancasterIt is not only in the field of crime that the Data Protection Act is used as an excuse for inaction and to protect bureaucrats rather than the public and vulnerable people. The same problem affects the health service, where the regulatory bodies refuse to retain or use information about incidents which have not been "proved". This means that the health professionals concerned are allowed to continue unsafe and sometimes criminal practices. While we do not want to see people deprived of employment on the basis of inaccurate information, a history of repeated incidents, even if not proved, should be available to managers. Had this been the case, the doctors Harold Shipman and Richard Neale would almost certainly have been stopped rather earlier in their unfortunate careers.Martin RathfelderSocialist Health Association Can anyone explain by whose authority we are being given for our entertainment on radio and television the police interviews with lan Huntley and Maxine Carr?Michael HolroydLondon