The Asil Nadir who returns to Britain will not be the smiling tycoon surrounded by bodyguards who took the City by storm in the 1980s, only to see his empire collapse amid a mass of allegations of theft and false accounting.Nor will he be the man who, when he returned to northern Cyprus railing against British justice, was acclaimed as a national hero, the person who transformed the local economy by exporting its citrus fruit crop around the world.These days, the 58-year-old is a lonely figure whose profile and influence has fallen even within the tiny territory that is the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. His flight from Britain a decade ago may have been audacious, but, say friends, it has not dispelled the sense that he is marooned. Unlike any of the humble homes in the former Greek village of Lapithos, Nadir's fortified villa is festooned with a forest of satellite dishes. "We hardly see him," said George, a former policeman as he sat chain-smoking in the coffee-shop opposite. "We just see him going and coming to work in an armoured car." In years gone by, the tycoon would eat out with friends in Lapithos's tavernas. Now he spends most nights locked behind his home's huge wooden gates, glued to the BBC and other channels that are his main link to the outside world. "He really misses Britain," his assistant Sevim Alparstan told the Guardian from the tycoon's Nicosia office yesterday. "He loves England. He will go back when he thinks the time is right." Even worse, the once powerful businessman has fallen foul of the political powers in the breakaway republic. Recently he accused the mini-state of owing him $4 million (£2.5m) in outstanding loans made originally to his former friend, the veteran Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktash. Mr Denktash not only rejected the charge out of hand but responded by launching a smear campaign against Mr Nadir in the state-controlled press. Volcan, a pro-government paper, regularly proclaims that Mr Nadir "the international fugitive" should be sent back to the UK. Cudgels The ongoing feud has resulted in Mr Nadir's own paper, Kibris, taking up the cudgels on behalf of the Turkish Cypriot opposition now campaigning for a settlement on the divided island and entry with the Greek Cypriots to the European Union next May. Mr Nadir's unexpected support for a solution has played a major role in stoking suspicion in Cyprus that he has cut a deal with the British authorities. "All of us have been quite shocked by the stance he has taken," said Mehemet Ali Talat, the leader of the main opposition Republican People's party. "He has actually been very courageous in pushing for a solution that would obviously make his own extradition that much easier. That's why we believe he must have come up with a deal with the British." If that is so, the SFO is giving little away. There have clearly been talks on the bail conditions, but it seems no agreement has yet been reached. Instead, his lawyer, Peter Krivinskas, says it is a simple case of his client wanting to clear his name. "I think Asil is feeling fitter and better than he has done for a good while and feels more able to cope with the rigours of coming back," he said. "There will inevitably be a lot of unpleasantness but he now feels strong enough to deal with it." The first signs that Mr Nadir might be prepared to return came in September 2000 when he filed an application in London for charges against him to be dropped. His argument then was the same as the one he will now deploy: that he would not receive a fair trial and that the SFO had abused its powers and the law in the way it handled its inquiries. In the 2000 appeal, the SFO successfully argued that the application represented an abuse of process since Mr Nadir was remaining outside Britain yet seeking to use the machinery of the courts. The court ruled that he must return to Britain if he hopes to have the case dismissed. If he does so now, it will start a new chapter in one of the most extraordinary stories in British business history. The company was an east London hosiery business, briefly fashionable in the 1960s, until Mr Nadir set about transforming it into a multinational conglomerate. He was relentlessly acquisitive and by the end of the 1980s its major interests included part of the Del Monte fruit canning brand, Sansui electronics, Ferguson televisions and Russell Hobbs appliances. On top, Mr Nadir, who started in business making cardboard boxes, personally controlled operations accounting for a third of all commerce in northern Cyprus. On the surface, he was spectacularly successful. At the height, his personal fortune was estimated at well over £100m and anybody who invested £1,000 at the beginning of the 1980s in Polly Peck would have had shares worth £1m by the end of it. But only if they had managed to sell before the collapse. The shares fell sharply after Mr Nadir failed in his efforts to take the company private and then in September 1990 came the devastating raid by the SFO on the offices of South Audley Management, which looked after the Nadir family trusts. Within six weeks, the company was effectively bust and called in administrators. Some three years later, with his trial on charges of stealing over £30m only months away, Mr Nadir fled. He drove to Dorset and was flown on a private jet to France and then on to northern Cyprus. The Conservative party, to whom Mr Nadir had given generously, continued to be acutely embarrassed by its links to the fugitive: only days before the escape, Michael Mates had presented his old friend with a watch with the infamous description "don't let the buggers get you down". The Northern Ireland secretary was forced to resign when the gift became public knowledge. If the Tories are groaning at the return of this ghost from early 1990s, the SFO itself may have mixed feelings because Polly Peck has been a source of embarrassment down the years. Mr Nadir's former aide Elizabeth Forsyth was initially convicted in 1996 at the Old Bailey of laundering almost £400,000 stolen by Mr Nadir from Polly Peck. However, the conviction was deemed unsafe and the court of appeal was severely critical of the trial judge, Mr Justice Tucker, who had been due to hear Mr Nadir's case. Peter Dimond, the pilot who flew Mr Nadir out of the UK, was also initially sent to jail only to have his conviction quashed by the court of appeal when it emerged that Mr Nadir's bail had technically lapsed. For the same reason, the court of appeal ruled that the Turkish-Cypriot businessman Ramadan Guney, who had provided £1m of the £3.5m bail money, should not by forced to forfeit the cash. The police and the SFO were further embarrassed when Mr Guney revealed that he had warned several days in advance that Mr Nadir might try to flee the country. In a neat twist, Robert Wardle, the SFO's case officer on Polly Peck, is now its director. Mr Wardle, fresh from seeing Andrew Regan acquitted last month in the Co-op fraud trial, knows that failure in the Nadir case would be a disaster for both him and the agency.