The pen hadn't changed. It had the same cracked and weed-strewn Tarmac surface that I remembered, enclosed on one side by a red brick wall and on the other three sides and the top by the same rigid, galvanised steel meshing that I could never forget. I'd only been out for a week when I found myself back inside the big London prison where my life sentence had begun 20 years earlier. I hadn't expected to see the pen ever again, but this time I was back in for a good reason. As a result of my writing for the Guardian, I'd been invited in to sit on an advisory committee for a major arts project that the prison was hosting. The fact that it had been my first place of confinement all those years before was pure coincidence. When the meeting was over, I spoke to the prison governor who had chaired the meeting and told him about this odd turn of fate. He asked if I'd like a tour of the place.It was an offer I couldn't refuse, a unique chance to survey my beginnings on this formidable journey and get a real measure of the distance I had travelled. The governor led off, and after traipsing through vaguely familiar corridors and wings, passing groups of unlocked prisoners chatting outside cell doors along the way and being introduced to the occasional member of staff, we arrived at my old wing. My cell had been on the top landing in a section that was known as A Seg. In those days, half the landing was blocked off to create a segregated unit for high-security Category A prisoners, of whom I was one. There were 20 cells in the unit then, but no more than half were occupied at any one time. Now the segregated portion of the wing had been opened up and the partition walls removed. Prisoners hung over the railings peering down at me looking up. I searched for what would have been my old cell door, until my eyes rested upon it at the end of the landing. "Do you want to go up and have a look?" asked the governor when I pointed it out to him. "No thanks," I said, though I was tempted. The year I'd spent behind that door on 23-hour bang-up was probably the most intense period of my entire life. Nineteen years after I'd vacated it, the image of what the interior of the cell had looked like hadn't left me. I didn't need to see it again. But I wondered if the pen where we had been allowed to spend the other hour each day out in the fresh air still existed. "Oh yes," said the governor. "Come with me." I followed him down some more stairs and through another couple of steel gates, along another corridor and finally out through a heavy wooden door that led into the prison yards. While he locked the door behind us, I stared up and around at the great cliff walls of the wings, and the row after row of heavily barred cell windows, a life behind every one. "Bring back memories?" said the governor, smiling. I widened my eyes and nodded. On we walked until, after rounding another couple of corners, the pen burst into view and stopped me in my tracks. "Christ," I said. I'd never seen it from the outside. Much to my relief, it was empty. "We only use it now for the people with mental-health problems on D wing," said the governor, "and they don't come out very often." Even in my day, the pen had never been a busy place. For security reasons, only two or three of us at most from A Seg had been allowed in it at any one time. For thirty minutes of my daily hour, I used to walk round in circles. For the rest of the time I'd crouch in the far corner with my back against the brick wall and think about what might lie ahead of me, and wonder how I was going to handle it. When the governor unlocked the gate into the pen and held it open for me, I walked right in without hesitation. Moments later I was standing on the spot where, a lifetime earlier, I had spent so many half hours in uncertain contemplation. Without warning, ghosts of the men who had once shared that yard with me drifted into view, the same men who, like me, had faced spending the prime years of their lives incarcerated. We had all been so young then, not one of us over 30. I wouldn't have said it at the time, but going to prison for life turned out to be the best thing that ever happened to me. It brought to an end a life outside that had appeared to be without purpose for as long as I could remember. From an early age, I'd been constantly on the move from one unhappy place to another. A prison psychologist once described my formative years as "brutal and rootless", a perfect summing up, I thought. My adolescence and early adulthood brought no discernible improvement, only increasingly antisocial behaviour. By the time I entered the prison system for an indeterminate term, there seemed little prospect that anything good would come from it. My visit back to the pen reminded me of how hopeless my situation appeared at that time. I never imagined then that prison would end up transforming my life for the better as much as it did. "All right?" asked the governor. He had been standing watching me from the open gate. "Yes," I said. "I'm fine. Thanks for this." "You're welcome," he said. The governor escorted me back through his maze of steel and concrete, and we said our farewells at the gatehouse. It felt good to walk out of there, but I'd been surprised at how painless it had been to see the place from the inside again. The short time I'd spent in the pen was surreal, but somehow uplifting. It reminded me of how far away I was from the young man who had crouched in a state of such grave uncertainty against its red brick wall - so far that we'd never have recognised each other. I had just begun my 16th year of imprisonment when I started writing the column A Life Inside for the Guardian. The previous years had not been wasted, however. Looking back, once I had adapted to the basic hostility of the prison environment, I found, with some guidance from several well-motivated members of prison staff, that I was able to look beyond immediate survival and begin to reap some tangible benefits. The same psychologist who described my childhood so succinctly encouraged me to attend education classes. Exercising my brain in such a way was a new experience. I discovered that the more effort I put into trying to achieve something, the more likely I was to succeed. This knowledge enabled me to develop a whole new attitude. I'd always had it in the back of my mind that there had to be more to me than I'd become on the outside, but I could never see a way to find out if it was true. Education - first evening classes, then an Open University degree course - provided me with the means. For most of my life, I'd harboured profound feelings of inferiority. I'd been inarticulate and socially inhibited to the point of disablement. It took me 10 years of life in prison to develop a character that was almost the converse and which I firmly believed was authentic. By the time I got to my 16th year, though, I was flagging. For no matter how resourceful a person may be, there is only so much that can be done in a penal institution to make a life feel meaningful. The more I'd grown, the more frustrating the constraints of prison life had become. Writing A Life Inside gave me a new sense of purpose. It allowed me to engage with the outside world in a way that I'd never have thought possible without first being released. Writing for readers of a national newspaper was in itself a form of release. The column gave me all the motivation I needed to maintain a positive outlook. It was a chance to put my new abilities to real, practical use. Communicating with editors, negotiating with prison authorities to get their approval for the column to go ahead, knuckling down to produce copy that was good enough: this was a challenge like no other I'd ever encountered. It helped that I started to think of myself first not as a prisoner writing, but as a writer in prison. Suddenly, from being a powerless captive, I became an active observer; a chronicler of secret lives lived out in dark places. · The Home Stretch, Erwin James's second collection of Guardian columns, is published by Guardian Books. To order a copy for £7.99 inc p&p call 0870 836 0749 or visit www.guardianbookshop.co.uk His first collection, A Life Inside, is available at the same price