The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, has revealed that a future Conservative government would massively increase police numbers.In an interview with Guardian Unlimited at the Cambridge Union, Mr Letwin said he planned to make an announcement at the Conservatives' spring conference in mid March. Mr Letwin is basing his plans on America's success in tackling crime. He said: "My view, based on my experience of American cities, is that you won't actually control crime on the streets until you have a large number of police officers on the streets, available to be quickly at the scene of crime."New York, which Mr Letwin singled out for praise, has close to 40,000 police officers. London, a similarly sized city, has just 28,000. Mr Letwin admitted such plans would necessarily be long-term. "In order to make a significant increase, you need time." He argued that crime is "a problem that's been with us for a long time. If you actually want to solve it you've got to swallow hard and admit that you need a coherent, long-term policy, which will probably produce most dividends five to eight years later.""New York used to be a very dangerous place - 10 years on it is a much less dangerous city than London, and I think New Yorkers looking back on that time don't think 10 years was a very long time."A Conservative pledge on police numbers would be one of the party's first spending commitments of this parliament. In the interview, Mr Letwin was at pains to point out that the Conservatives might spend more on public services in the short term."The reform of public services that we're determined to engage in - handing back power in education and other services to the consumers, the professionals - we don't know how much it's going to cost on a transitional basis to achieve these changes and we can't delude ourselves that it's free. Initially it always has costs."Mr Letwin's comments will be seen as an attempt by the Conservative front bench to persuade people they are not planning to take a knife to public services. They come in the same week as the shadow health secretary, Liam Fox, said he could not envisage cutting public health expenditure. And they follow the row over the comments by the shadow chief secretary to the treasury, Howard Flight, that cuts of up to 20% could be made in some public services.