A top police officer who has been at the forefront of the fight against organised crime throughout the UK has been named the new chief constable of Police Scotland.Phil Gormley, former deputy director of the National Crime Agency, will replace Sir Stephen House, who formally stood down this week.Police Scotland, which was centralised into a single force in 2013 and has since suffered severe cuts in control room staffing levels, has been at the centre of controversy in recent months.The force came in for criticism following the deaths of a young couple who lay undiscovered in their car for three days in July after officers failed to respond to reports of a crash on the M9 at Bannockburn. John Yuill, 28, died at the scene, and his girlfriend, Lamara Bell, 25, died in hospital in Glasgow.A review of Police Scotland’s call-handling procedures following the incident identified significant weaknesses in the rollout of a national call-handling system and described its running as inadequate.Gormley is a former chief constable of Norfolk Constabulary, deputy chief constable of West Midlands police and a commander of special operations at the Metropolitan police, responsible for firearms and aviation security as well as counter-terrorism. He has more than 30 years’ experience in UK policing and law enforcement, and will take up his new post on 5 January.Gormley said: “I am delighted to have this opportunity to serve the many communities of Scotland as their chief constable. I believe I have the skills, the experience and the insight required to lead the amazing workforce we have across Police Scotland. “I have a 30-year career in policing and law enforcement, the last 13 years as a chief officer leading organisations delivering for the public in a period of profound transformation for policing. “Police Scotland is on just such a journey and it will be my job to ensure our service strikes the right balance between local community approaches and the many challenges we face from organised criminals, cybercrime and extremism. “I am very excited and passionate about this unique professional and personal challenge, and I am looking forward to getting to work with my new team.” The appointment was made on the recommendation of the Scottish Police Authority (SPA) and was approved by Scottish ministers. Andrew Flanagan, who chairs the authority, said: “From a strong field, I am confident we have found the best candidate to build on the progress that policing in Scotland has made, and to address the issues and challenges that the service faces.“He has extensive experience in leading law enforcement organisations with diverse workforces, operating across both rural and urban environments, and with local, national and international reach. That mix fits well with the needs of a single service here in Scotland. “The new chief constable has challenges he will want to quickly address: re-engaging our workforce, tackling budget challenges and bringing stability to the planning and implementation of organisational change. “That is, however, just the start. We set out to find a leader with the vision to energise officers and staff towards innovative new approaches in the prevention of crime, and someone to reach out and build a strong connection between the single service and the local communities it serves. “Those are key strengths we have identified in him and that he will bring to the wider police team.” Gormley began his policing career in Thames Valley police in 1985, working in uniform and detective roles up to the rank of superintendent. He was awarded the Queen’s police medal in 2012.