The number of violent crimes recorded by police in England and Wales jumped by 6% in the three months to the end of June, Home Office figures revealed today.The latest rise comes after annual figures in July that showed incidents of violence against the person were up 8% from the previous year. The Home Office said the latest increase - compared to the same three-month period in 2004 - reflected the improved police recording of crime and more "proactive policing" of violent disorder. According to the British Crime Survey (BCS) - believed to be a more reliable indicator of crime trends - violent crime has remained "stable" over the last year. But the level of perceived anti-social behaviour has increased slightly, and the level of worry about violent crime is also on the increase.The latest crime figures show that police recorded a provisional 11,160 firearm offences in the 12 months to the end of June - an increase of 5% on the previous year. The Home Office said the increase was mainly due to offences involving replica weapons. There were also 277,900 incidents of violence against the person between April and June, compared to 263,300 in the same period last year. But overall recorded crime fell by 2% from April to June compared to the same period last year, the figures showed. According to the BCS - which questions about 40,000 people about their experiences of crime but omits offences against children and businesses - the risk of being a victim of crime is now at 24%, the lowest level since the survey began in 1981.The survey claims that overall crime in England and Wales fell by 5% in the 12 months to June 2005, with "statistically significant" falls in domestic burglary and vehicle thefts. The number of domestic burglaries and vehicle thefts recorded by the police also fell by 11% and 8% cent respectively in the quarterly figures.The home secretary, Charles Clarke, said the statistics showed that overall crime was "continuing to fall" and that the chance of being a victim of crime was the lowest in almost a quarter of a century. But he accepted the figures for violent crime were still "too high". The government believes that greater recording of low-level thuggery and yobbish behaviour, which account for two thirds of all violent crime, are driving the increase in the police recorded figures. The shadow home affairs minister, Edward Garnier, said violent crime was continuing to "spiral out of control" under Labour. He said the rise was partly a consequence of the Government's "failure" in the war on drugs and again urged a rethink on 24-hour drinking. "With violent crime continuing to soar, it beggars belief that the government's only response is to unleash 24-hour drinking on our town and city centres - something which judges have already warned will lead to a further increase in violent and sexual crime," he said.The president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, Chris Fox, said: "The rise in violent crime against the person, according to our own recorded figures, is in part due to our targeting of low-level anti-social behaviour, particularly alcohol fuelled violence." 