Mary Marsh, chief executive of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC): "This is the most significant package of sex offences legislation being introduced by this government and the strongest warning yet to those who think they can abuse children and escape the full force of the law. The bill must be backed up by more funding for the police to investigate a massive backlog of suspected paedophiles. We are very pleased the home secretary has focused on the protection of children in this bill. However, we urge him to make child protection a key priority for police. This will mean they can keep children at the top of their agenda."Derek Green, sexual crime consultant at Ray Wyre Associates:"I'm pleased with the change of emphasis towards sexual abuse that reflects it is a relationship based crime. The new offence of grooming clearly tackles this in prosecuting those who befriend children in order to abuse them. But I'd also like to see more emphasis on dealing with children and young people who commit sexual offences, as services and interventions for them are poorly co-ordinated at best and at worst chaotic. The government still seems to be using detention to reduce sexual offending when the evidence shows it does not. What we really need are more preventative schemes."Richard Garside, spokesman for the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders (Nacro):  "It is clearly not sustainable to continue with a conviction rate for rape of only 7%, so we are supportive of sensible moves to look at the way consent is measured and evidence is gathered. We also welcome a review of the sex offenders register. There have been some historic loopholes which have, for example, allowed a rapist who then murdered someone to escape registration. However, while some offenders clearly present and ongoing risk, do we need all of them on the register."John Carr, internet advisor for NCH action for children:  "Currently, the police have limited powers to arrest adults in relation to illegal sexual contact with a child either. They can only act either after the child has been abused, or if the perpetrator is more or less found with his hands on the child's body and is obviously about to abuse them. But this does not protect children befriended by abusers via the internet. The new offence of sexual grooming will allow the police to step in a lot earlier in the process and save the child much of the trauma and resulting damage. A key question is what new resources will be made available to law enforcement agencies to equip and train them to make these very welcome new provisions work in practice."Sue Griffiths, spokeswoman for the Rape Crisis Federation:  "Rape Crisis welcomes the proposal that sexual intercourse with a child under the age of 13 years will be charged as rape and issues of consent will not be relevant - this effectively brings in the offence of statutory rape. It removes the opportunity for men to claim that six and seven-year olds 'acted provocatively' and 'consented' to sexual intercourse. "However the proposals in relation to the rape of adults remain inadequate and will not provide justice for most victims. There is no clear definition of consent and the list of circumstances where it is 'most unlikely to have been present' is too limited. There is considerable danger that the 'reasonableness' of the man's actions will be tested in light of the woman's behaviour, past and present, and that her moral credibility will provide the benchmark against which his actions are assessed."Harry Fletcher, deputy general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers (Napo):  "I welcome the repeal of the so-called 'cottaging' laws which have criminalised homosexual behaviour, as this is a waste or prison and probation resources. "Although I welcome the tightening of the sex offenders' register, it should not be seen as a panacea to the risks sex offenders pose. The register only tells us where people are, not what they are doing, and must be used in conjunction with supervision, tagging and psychiatric treatment."