A colleague of Akhtar Javeed has described the moment the businessman was fatally shot during a suspected warehouse robbery in Birmingham.Javeed, 46, the manager of a catering supplies company, was shot in the neck after he and three colleagues were tied up by two armed robbers on Wednesday evening. Police are searching for the gunmen.Mohammed Ashraf, 48, one of the workers tied up by the attackers, told the Mirror: “They were wearing masks and had guns, and tied the four of us up. Then they asked for Akhtar and took him away. I can’t remember if they said his name or asked for the boss.“The next thing is I heard the gunshot. I didn’t know what had happened. I didn’t see it, but it sounded like an execution. I freed one hand and rang the police on the landline. They arrived and took us away. I don’t know if anything was stolen or what the men wanted to steal. I can’t believe it happened.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Chief superintendent Andy Parson gives a statement on Thursday outside the warehouse Armed police responded to Ashraf’s 999 call. Javeed died a short time later in hospital.Javeed, who lived in London but worked in Birmingham during the week, was a manager of Direct Source 3, a catering supplies firm believed to have moved to the area 18 months ago.The married father-of-four was said to have been waiting for the last delivery of the day when the gunmen attacked at around 6.30pm on Wednesday. The warehouse is less than a mile from Birmingham’s New Street railway station and the Bullring shopping centre, which would have been packed with rush-hour commuters.Acting DCI Martin Slevin said: “We believe this was a targeted robbery attempt at the business premises in Rea Street South near to the junction with MacDonald Street. “It happened at a time when other people may have been leaving work for the day and someone may have seen what happened or have important information about the suspects. If you have any information that could help our investigation, please get in touch as soon as possible.”Anyone with information is asked to contact West Midlands police on 101 or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.