The quiz show cheat Charles Ingram was given a two-year conditional discharge yesterday for insurance fraud. The 41-year-old former army major, who was found guilty in April of trying to con ITV's Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?, was convicted last month on two counts of deception. Judge Samuel Wiggs told Bournemouth crown court yesterday that Ingram, of Easterton, Wiltshire, had already been severely punished as he had lost out financially and was on the brink of bankruptcy. Ingram, who was forced to resign his army commission in August, appeared close to tears as the sentence was delivered. The court was told that he had lost £30,000 when a claim for a genuine burglary at the family's home had been made void. This was because he had failed to tell Direct Line Insurance about previous claims in the three years before he took out the policy in 2001. He was found guilty of obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception and of deception by trying to claim on that policy. Selva Ramasay, defending, told the court the case was unusual because Ingram had lost out. "Most people think of insurance fraud as people making money but that simply is not the case here at all." He said Ingram, his wife Diana, and their three children had suffered over the past two years because of the adverse publicity over the Millionaire case and this case. Judge Wiggs replied: "Well he doesn't exactly shun publicity though, does he? One only has to watch the television to know that." Mr Ramasay replied that Ingram gave all the profits from his tabloid interviews to charity and had made money only from the Celebrity Wife Swap programme. He hoped people would see "another side of Charles Ingram", who is to run the London Marathon next year for charity. He said that because of a civil action against the makers of Who Wants to Be A Millionaire?, the family now owed about £400,000. Afterwards Ingram said he felt "humbled" by the decision and was grateful to the judge. "I would like to think of this as the first day of the rest of our lives," he added. · A documentary about the Ingrams filmed over the past few months is to be shown as a Real Story special at 7.30pm on BBC1 on Monday.