A carpenter who found Damilola Taylor minutes after the boy had been stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle wept yesterday as he described to an Old Bailey jury how the schoolboy looked at him, then fell into his lap and spoke his final words.The 10-year-old told Guillermo Casal that he was "OK, OK", though it was obvious from the amount of blood on his clothes and on the ground that he was in a terrible state, the court heard. "I told him that he was not OK," said Mr Casal. "I was shouting at him to tell me what happened, to tell me his name. He was just groaning. He collapsed into semi-consciousness." As Mr Casal cradled Damilola in the stairwell of the North Peckham estate, south London, he looked down and saw three youths standing in the road below, the Old Bailey was told. "I saw one of them look up to where we were. I then saw him make a gesture across the top of his left leg." Mr Casal left the witness box to show the jury and the judge, Mr Justice Hooper, what he meant, telling them that this suggested the youth must have known something about the attack. Four boys have been charged jointly with the murder of Damilola in November 2000. They have also been accused jointly of manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The teenagers - one aged 14, two brothers aged 16, and one aged 17 - plead not guilty. The prosecution allege that Damilola was "stopped, surrounded and trapped" by them as he walked home along Blakes Road, Peckham, and that they stabbed him "for a laugh" because he struggled to get away. Mr Casal told the court that he worked for a firm based on the second floor of the estate. On the day of the attack, he drove back to the office to clock off and noticed "a red blob" on the road when he got out of his van. At first he thought it was a squashed tomato, the court heard. But as he walked towards the stairwell, he saw another larger red patch marked with a footprint and realised it was blood. Mr Casal said he started to climb the stairs and when he got to the second floor he noticed blood on the handrail and saw "a little boy" four or five steps ahead of him. "There was blood everywhere," he said. "He had his shoulder against the wall. He was standing up. He looked at me and I looked at him. I rushed over to help him and he fell into my lap." As he gave evidence, Mr Casal looked through a book of photographs that were taken at the scene. Image number 12 showed the landing where Damilola collapsed and, in a heap, his blood soaked trousers, silver jacket and pullover. At this point, Mr Casal gasped and cried. He closed the album and pushed it away from him. He told the court that he called for an ambulance on his mobile phone and was "screaming for help, but nobody could hear me". He left Damilola to raise the alarm and returned with colleagues from his company. One of them, Phillip Evans, described how there was so much blood they could not tell where the wound was. They were attempting to cut off his trousers with a pair of scissors when the police arrived, the jury was told. Under cross examination, Mr Casal said that the youth in Blakes Road who made the gesture with his hand was not either of the 16-year-olds accused in the trial, referred to as boy A and boy B. Earlier in the hearing, Damilola's mother, Gloria, had to leave the court as the jury was shown CCTV footage of her son in an apparently joyful mood in the hour before the attack. The film showed her son running towards Peckham library, following the lines on the pavement and leaping on to stones. Later, the film showed him playing tag with a friend, then skipping away towards a car park which was on his way home. The last image of Damilola was taken from a camera at 4.31pm, six minutes before Mr Casal phoned for an ambulance. The case continues.