Honest people are falling victim to an "easy case syndrome" in which motoring fines are pursued while criminals are let off the hook, the Tories will warn today.In a bid to woo the voters of middle Britain, the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, will criticise the government for fostering policing that "defies fairness and justice" by penalising law-abiding citizens. "Picking on the easy case is a great way of raising revenue," Mr Letwin will say. "One need only think of the spread of speed cameras and the introduction of congestion charges. The motorist, that is the legally registered fully insured motorist driving his own vehicle, is the ulimate easy case... Meanwhile the joy-riders travel free of charge, free of restrictions, and free of parking tickets." In a speech to the right-of-centre thinktank Politeia, Mr Letwin will cite the example of a deprived estate in Camden, north London, where people have disrupted drug users by hiring private security patrols. The authorities responded by giving a parking ticket to the guards' van. "It is easier to slap a ticket on a security patrol van than it is to tow away a stolen car dumped in the middle of a housing estate. The former is achieved in minutes, the latter in months." Such an example highlights how the authorities target "easy cases" who have three things in common: such people are not powerful; they are "easy to get at" through their property, livelihood, and reputation - "sitting ducks as far as the authorities are concerned"; and they are law-abiding citizens whose instinct is to obey the rules or "take their punishment meekly". While the authorities concentrate their resources on such easy targets, "hard cases" are let off lightly. Mr Letwin gave three examples: powerful political and bureaucratic interests responsible for the "poor performance" of PFI projects; illegal immigrants who "disappear off the official radar"; drug-pushing petty criminals who "couldn't care less what happens to the car he just dumped". "So we have three kinds of hard case - the powerful, the invisible, and the uncivilised," Mr Letwin will say. "All of these make life difficult for those in authority, which is why the easy cases, who are neither powerful nor invisible nor uncivilised, present a more attractive target." Mr Letwin will blame the government's "penchant for targets and indicators": "It is easier to meet targets for crime clear-up rates by concentrating on traffic offences than by concentrating on the lawlessness of gangs that terrorise council council estates." By standing for less regulation and bureaucracy, and by abolishing the targets culture, a Tory government would "reduce the weight of authority on the law-abiding majority". He added: "But that is not enough. We also need new measures to make life harder for the hard cases. "That is why the next Conservative government will increase police numbers by 40,000."