The leader of the gang that kicked and beat Garry Newlove to death was released on bail despite having admitted to carrying out seven separate offences in the year leading up to the murder.Adam Swellings, 19, was one of three youths convicted on Wednesday of murdering the father of three last August. Newlove challenged the teenagers after they vandalised vehicles outside his home in Warrington, Cheshire.Newlove's widow has questioned how her husband came to be attacked by Swellings on August 10 2007, hours after the teenager was released by a court.But last night the Crown Prosecution Service confirmed that Swellings had that month been freed on bail by a court for offences including assault, only to carry out another assault later the same day. He offended while on bail nine days before the murder of Newlove. In November 2006, Swellings was arrested for breaching a harassment order and for assault. He was remanded in custody and on December 1 2006 was granted conditional bail.On August 1 2007 Swellings admitted four instances of breaching the harassment order and a charge of assaulting a young woman. His bail was continued and that evening he assaulted a young male.On August 3 he appeared in court again and was remanded in custody. A week later, Swellings admitted the assault on the male and obstructing a police officer. He was freed ahead of sentencing, having admitted seven offences and to have offended while on bail nine days before.That evening Swellings and other youths kicked and beat Newlove to death after a seven-hour drinking binge.A CPS spokesman said: "We can confirm while on bail for the breach of the restraining order and common assault [on August 1, 2007] he committed another assault."Swellings had been ordered by a court to stay away from a young woman but ignored the instruction four times. On November 3 2006, he verbally abused her, then a week later broke an order to stay at least 200 yards away from a school he was not supposed to approach. On November 16 2006, he again approached the young woman and on November 27 assaulted her. Swellings was granted bail on the morning he killed Newlove on condition he did not enter Warrington. Police and the CPS opposed his release, saying there was a risk he would reoffend.A senior police source said Swellings had first been arrested in April 2005 and had also been detained for allegedly making a hoax bomb threat.The Labour MP for Warrington North, Helen Jones, has written to the attorney general calling for an inquiry into why Swellings was set free.Last night the Judicial Communications Office defended the release of Swellings: "The Bail Act as amended provides for a general presumption that bail will be granted in all cases, except in specific circumstances which have to be supported by evidence."On August 10, Adam Swellings admitted the offences of common assault and obstruction of a police officer."The magistrates indicated that a custodial sentence would not be imposed but ordered further probation reports so as to consider the most appropriate non-custodial sentence. The magistrates considered all the material and in these circumstances were not satisfied that remand in custody was justified."