Prison inmates will be locked up for only a few days a week and be free to work or live with their families for the rest under Britain's first 'weekend jail' scheme, which opens tomorrow.The experiment is meant to reduce reoffending, since research shows criminals serving short sentences who have jobs and partners to return to when they come out are more likely to go straight in future. However, it could also ease the pressure of prison overcrowding by allowing 'hot bedding' in jail cells, with more than one inmate using each space. Some would be locked up at weekends but free during the week, and vice versa - while the Home Office admitted even those locked up at the weekends could be allowed out during the day to do community work, and just expected to spend the night in their cells. Home Secretary David Blunkett said the move would help create a 'virtuous circle' of prevention, detention, punishment and rehabilitation rather than a revolving door prison system where inmates keep reoffending. 'Intermittent custody can play a key role by punishing offenders at the same time as ensuring they undertake programmes to address their behaviour and make reparation to the community,' he said. However, prison reformers warned weekend custody should not be used in practice to lock up more people who would previously have been given community service. 'It's preferable to full-time imprisonment, but is that what it is substituting for?' said Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust. 'If it is widening the net and increasing the use of custody for those who could just as easily and more effectively serve their time in community sentences, I would have concerns.' Sexual or violent offenders will not be eligible for the scheme, which will begin with pilot projects at Kirkham jail in in Lancashire and Morton Hall women's prison in Lincolnshire, and confined to those serving short sentences of up to 26 weeks - such as drink drivers or some categories of burglar. Magistrates' courts will be allowed to sentence offenders to up to 45 days served on a part-time basis, and crown courts up to 90 days. Probation officers will conduct risk reviews of potentially suitable prisoners to weed out those who would be a potential danger to the public, or have drug or alcohol habits that might make them erratic. They would then consider further factors such as whether offenders were likely to lose their jobs or contact with young children if they sent to traditional jails. Prisoners who failed to turn up on time to be locked up would risk being sent back into full-time custody. Despite initial suggestions that weekend jails were intended to help prisoners keep their jobs, unemployed prisoners will also be considered for the scheme. They would be incarcerated during the week, doing educational courses and attempting to find jobs, and free at the weekends. But while they are out, they will be under the supervision of probation services. Paul Cavadino, director of the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders, said part-time prison could avoid inmates leaving prison unemployed, homeless and without family support, all of which make them more likely to reoffend. However, he said there was a 'real risk' that they could be used on people who would not otherwise have been jailed adding: 'For most offenders community sentences are a far better option that either part-time or fulltime prison. The Government should give courts a clear message that intermittent custody will be scrapped after the pilot period unless they use it for offenders who would otherwise have been imprisoned full-time.' The pilot projects - housed in specially built units at the two jails - will provide about 40 places for men and 40 for women. The results will be finally reviewed in 2005.