A London defence lawyer's experience:"The day-to-day life in a magistrates court is something like this ..."You arrive at court to find that your client's case is not listed. For some unknown reason, it then takes about two hours (the solicitor getting paid to wait) for the necessary paperwork to be sorted, so that the case can be called on. "Alternatively, your client in police or prison custody has not arrived because the security firm hasn't picked him up, or he is in a van travelling around London before he gets to the court he should be at. "Last week I had a trial which was adjourned only because a young offender had not been brought from a young offenders' institution in Rugby in time to get the trial going that day. The reason he was in Rugby was because the local YOIs were full. "If none of the above occurs, then you may find that the CPS does not have the case ready to commit to the crown court, often because they have not received the paperwork from the police. They ask for an adjournment, and the defence oppose. "In a case that is discharged, someone accused of a serious crime may go free; not great for any victim involved. "Lack of communication between the CPS and the police often results in witnesses not being warned to attend trial. This again may result in an adjournment, with more wasted costs and time, or again the case is chucked out. "These are fairly regular problems in my local courts, which are based in London."  A CPS lawyer's experience: "A lot of CPS lawyers make a huge effort to avoid work - it is a civil service career without the same responsibility as private lawyers. There is a vacuum in management, from the middle up. "Last week I was in the office and a senior lawyer was sitting at his desk, fast asleep, while his manager sat just four or five feet away, taking not a blind bit of notice. No one even queries it. "CPS lawyers spend a lot of time finding excuses to pass on files to somebody else. They will just dump files on somebody else's desk with a memo sticker saying, 'You worked on this earlier,' or some other excuse. "And there is a massive sickness rate, with people just not turning up for work. If you have a bad court coming up, you phone in sick and leave it to somebody else, even if that does mean that witnesses and police and court staff all have a wasted morning. "Our head of trials went off sick. We needed to check something with him; he was at the Chelsea flower show. "The charging pilot [the job of working in a police station to advise on charges] is popular with some CPS lawyers because it gives them a quiet day. But any senior lawyer who goes there regards it as a complete waste of time. You can spend a whole day just processing one theft, a shoplifting and a drink-drive."