John Reid last night urgently called on the courts to send fewer people to prison as jail numbers in England and Wales went through the 80,000 barrier with nearly 500 held in emergency police cells.The home secretary is also believed to have several other "politically unpalatable" options under urgent consideration, including a new early release programme and freeing immigration detainees and foreign national prisoners who have come to the end of their sentence but not yet been considered for deportation.Ministers have been alarmed by the acceleration of the prison population in the past three weeks. It is believed that the numbers rose by 271 on Monday alone to reach 80,045, including 482 prisoners locked out of overcrowded jails in emergency police cells.The package to try to persuade the courts to use prison less - ministers cannot instruct judges and magistrates - was agreed yesterday at a meeting of the National Criminal Justice Board co-chaired by Mr Reid and the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, with representatives of the judges, courts, police and prosecutors.Mr Reid and Lord Falconer both said that prison should only be used for serious, persistent and violent offenders and alternatives, including community "payback" schemes should be used for less serious offenders."The public have a right to expect protection from violent and dangerous offenders," Mr Reid later told a Newspaper Society meeting. "Prisons are an expensive resource that should be used to protect the public and rehabilitate inmates and stop them reoffending. However we should not be squandering taxpayers money to monitor non-dangerous and less serious offenders. Non-dangerous offenders should be saving the community money not costing it money. Offenders should be paying back the community through enforced work, payback and community service, thus saving the taxpayers the cost of prison places."His appeal was backed up by a letter from Sir Igor Judge, the senior presiding judge, to all the courts urging them to release those awaiting bail under electronic tags rather than to prison.The courts are also to be reminded that they should only use remand for defendants awaiting trial in limited circumstances. The 1976 Bail Act reserves its use for those who are likely to abscond, commit further offences or to try to intimidate witnesses. More than 13,000 people are currently remanded in prison - one in seven of the jail population - and ministers estimate that the decision not to jail remand prisoners and less serious offenders could free up 800 to 900 extra prison places.Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, backed the attempt to reduce the numbers held on remand: "Within a ragbag of desperate measures some longstanding wrongs may be put right. Each year around 55,000 people are remanded to await trial and, although innocent until proven guilty, are held in the very worst conditions in overcrowded local jails," she said. "Once in court, one in five is acquitted and just over half will be given a community penalty. Overuse of custodial remand represents a gross miscarriage of justice which up to now has been ignored."· Five men were arrested on suspicion of terrorist offences yesterday during raids in Manchester, Halifax and London. Three of the arrests, in Manchester, related to the disappearance of a terror suspect who was being monitored under a control order. The man, a British citizen in his 20s, is understood to have vanished from a mosque in the city and is thought to have slipped out of the country to join insurgents in Iraq. One of the arrested men, aged 32, was understood to be suspected of radicalising him, while the other two, both aged 24, are believed to be suspected of helping him to escape.