NSPCC strongly supports Children Behind Bars, the Observer and The Children's Society campaign. We are particularly concerned that those in Young Offenders Institutions are not afforded the protection of the Children Act 1989. This means they do not have the same rights to protection from abuse, neglect and violence as all other children.HM Inspectorate of Prisons has repeatedly pointed to the 'disgraceful and appalling conditions' that children and young people have to endure in prisons. The Inspectorate described Feltham, the largest juvenile jail in Western Europe as 'rotten to the core' and unacceptable in a civilised country. Prison officers are struggling to cope in institutions unsuited to the needs of troubled young people. More than half of young prisoners on remand, and almost a third of sentenced young offenders have a diagnosable mental disorder, according to the Chief Inspector of Prisons. Despite their best efforts, staff are struggling in a system that neither trains them adequately nor support them appropriately. It is hardly surprising that child protection needs are not adequately met. If our prisons end up brutalising our most disadvantaged children even more we are not only further damaging their futures but also as a society committing a serious social injustice. An injustice we need to redress. Philip Noyes Director of Public Policy NSPCC LondonCongratulations on the Children Behind Bars campaign. The Howard League's own research supports the view that imprisoning children is damaging to them and causes more crime.Howard League research revealed that more than 4,400 children have been held in segregation cells, nearly 1,000 of them for more than seven days at a time; 554 children have self-harmed or attempted suicide, and four boys aged 16 have taken their own lives. Physical force is routinely used against young teenagers in some prisons. Frances CrookDirector Howard League for Penal ReformLondon N1 Ten years ago the Conservative Government introduced the Criminal Justice Act of 1991 which provided for the abolition of prison custody for this age group. Regrettably, the provisions of the 1991 Act were never fully implemented and the start of the political race to be tough on young offenders quickly followed. Numbers of boys remanded in custody have increased dramatically and new provisions may herald a further increase requiring several hundred new secure placements. Of course it is true that immediately ending prison remands would currently be difficult to achieve, but 'unrealistic' it is not. Geoffrey Monaghan Chair of the National Association for Youth Justice 