A former security guard who led a cult from a cul-de-sac in a Welsh seaside town was told he might spend life in jail for committing a series of sex attacks on boys and girls.Colin Batley of Kidwelly, west Wales, presided over a quasi-religious sex cult that preyed on vulnerable youngsters, forced women into prostitution and indulged in occult rites.Batley was given an indeterminate sentence for public protection with a recommendation that he spend at least 11 years in jail. Sentencing him at Swansea crown court, Judge Paul Thomas QC told him: "You may never be released."The judge said Batley, 48, had "besmirched the unsuspecting town of Kidwelly" after moving there from London."You formed a community within a community, you were described as evil. That, in my view, is an entirely accurate statement of your character."It is likely that you have dedicated your life since you were 12 years old to satisfying your sexual urges by whatever means at your disposal."Jacqueline Marling, 42 – described as "Batley's right-hand woman" – was jailed for 12 years for her part in the group's crimes.The cult leader's estranged wife, Elaine Batley, 47, was jailed for eight years. And Shelly Millar, 35 – described during the trial as Batley's sex slave – was jailed for five years.  Occultist Aleister Crowley, said to have inspired Colin Batley's crimes. Photograph: Getty ImagesThe cult is said to have been inspired by Aleister Crowley, the late mystic and magician nicknamed the Great Beast who in 1904 published a text called the Book of the Law extolling permissive sex.During the five-week trial the prosecution claimed "the book" formed the basis for Batley's organisation and he would read from a laminated copy of it while dressed in hooded robes at the start of orgies.Batley insisted that no cult existed but the jury found him guilty of 35 offences including 11 rapes, three indecent assaults, causing prostitution for personal gain, causing a child to have sex and inciting a child to have sex.The three women, who got Egyptian Eye of Horus tattoos apparently to show their allegiance to the organisation, were found guilty of sex-related charges.Young boys and girls were procured by cult members to take part in sex sessions, the trial heard. The group preyed on vulnerable youngsters, impelling them to join with veiled death threats. Batley was accused of forcing a number of his victims into prostitution.One man told the trial Batley had repeatedly abused him as a child. A woman claimed she joined the cult after Batley told her an assassin would kill her if she did not take part in an initiation ceremony that began with a lecture on the occult and ended with a sexual assault.Batley bred rottweiler dogs from his home for profit but kept two – named after ancient Egyptian royals – for personal safety. Several of his victims were made to wear upside down crosses, the court heard.Despite having operated in Kidwelly for years, the cult had seemingly gone unnoticed by the rest of the town.