Traditionally, for a murder conviction, the prosecution needs to prove that the principal defendant intended to kill or commit serious injury. But under the law of joint enterprise (which the supreme court has ruled had been misinterpreted for 30 years,) the prosecution could seek a conviction if it proved that a secondary defendant – who did not deliver the fatal blow – foresaw the “possibility” that the death may occur, rather than intended it to. This is what happened to my brother Alex Henry.In March 2014 Alex, then 21, was convicted of murder under the law of joint enterprise, and is currently serving a life term of 19 years. In August of the previous year, Alex was out shopping in Ealing, west London, with three friends (Younis Tayyib, Janhelle Grant-Murray and Cameron Ferguson). Alex left the shopping centre with Cameron and saw Janhelle being attacked by a group of four older men. He hovered around the edge of the scene, picked up someone’s mobile phone and threw it at one of the men, and punched another who was attacking Janhelle. Unbeknown to him, Cameron had taken a knife from a bag and had fatally stabbed one of the men. have spent most of the past two years trying to contain the pain, and the terrible sense of injustice Cameron pleaded guilty and was convicted of murder. But the jury believed that Alex knew Cameron had a knife, and could therefore have foreseen the use of it to cause death or very serious harm. This belief was based not on direct evidence but on the prosecution’s argument that “friends tell each other everything”. Alex’s conviction, like so many joint enterprise convictions was not, in my opinion, beyond all reasonable doubt. But he is serving a life term of 19 years.Since that awful day in 2014 my family has campaigned with JENGbA (Joint Enterprise Not Guilty by Association) to keep joint enterprise in the public eye and on the political agenda. Alex’s case was featured in a BBC documentary Guilty By Association. The first question that the supreme court considered in R v Jogee was whether it is fair that a secondary offender can be convicted on a basis of what they foresaw being “possible”, and if not, perhaps the decisive factor should be what they foresaw as “probable” instead. We hoped that this might lead to acquittal for those involved in spontaneous affrays, who lacked any prior knowledge of the primary offender’s intentions.The second question the supreme court considered was whether joint enterprise over-criminalises secondary parties. It is clear to me that it does, because whatever their involvement in the fatal incident, the principal offender and the secondary offender will be condemned to a life sentence with a minimum tariff, usually exceeding 15 years imprisonment (25 years for a knife murder, 30 years for a firearm murder). The entire tariff must be served before the secondary offender can apply for parole.Joint enterprise law: what is it and why is it controversial? When the supreme court judgment was handed down we all sat on the edge of our seats as we listened patiently, wondering whether this would be like hearing “guilty” all over again.Then the judgment was delivered and it was unanimous: we were right all along. The law used to convict my brother and thousands of others was misinterpreted. Foresight of what might happen can not form the basis of a murder conviction without any intent for that crime to occur.I am completely overjoyed. Since 2013 we have been living a nightmare, branded the sister of a murderer. I have spent most of the past two years trying to contain both the pain and the terrible sense of injustice.When the judgment was delivered I heard everyone catch their breath. My mother fell into uncontrollable sobs of relief. Finally we are hopeful that my brother will come home and we will be a family again.