Ian Huntley, who was convicted today of murdering the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, was reported to authorities in his native Humberside on eight occasions over alleged sexual assaults or sexual relationships with underage girls.Within the space of a year, social services in the north-east investigated four sexual relationships between him and schoolgirls, one aged only 13. He was accused of raping three teenagers between April 1998 and July 1999 and was also accused of indecently assaulting an 11-year-old girl in 1997. Huntley, 29, was never convicted for sex offences over these incidents. The allegations of consensual underage sex, which involved three girls aged 15 and one of 13, were made to North-East Lincolnshire council between August 1995 and May 1996 when Huntley was in his early 20s. Three of these four cases reported to the council were passed on to Humberside police but none of the girls would make a formal complaint, brushing off help because they saw Huntley as their boyfriend.The authority was also alerted over an indecent assault allegation against Huntley involving an 11-year-old girl. The assault happened in September 1997 but the girl did not make a complaint to police until the following summer, when officers decided there was not enough evidence to prosecute. That summer, as was revealed during Huntley's Old Bailey trial, he was charged of raping a woman in Grimsby. The charges were later dropped but the woman still claimed Huntley had assaulted her. In May 1998, the woman, who was in her late teens, went to police claiming that she had been raped as she walked home along a badly lit path in Grimsby after a night out with friends. The teenager, who was 5ft 2ins tall, said she was grabbed, pulled to the ground and assaulted. Huntley was identified as the alleged attacker. He was charged and appeared before magistrates, and claimed he and the teenager had had consensual sex. CCTV footage showed that the pair had spent time together in the club. It helped undermine the teenager's claim, and the Crown Prosecution Service decided that there was no "realistic prospect" of conviction.But this was not the first time Huntley had been accused of rape. Just a month before this incident, in April 1998, an 18-year-old woman reported Huntley to the police saying they had met at a nightclub and gone back to her house, where he raped her. The case was not pursued due to a lack of evidence.About a year later, in February 1999, Huntley was again accused of raping a teenager he had met in a Grimsby nightclub. The 17-year-old girl took her claim to the police, who again said they could not proceed due to lack of evidence.Huntley was investigated by police over one more rape allegation, but this time - unlike the other occasions - he was not identified as the attacker by the victim. Given the previous allegations against him, police investigating a rape in July 1999 asked Huntley to provide a DNA sample, which he did. The victim said Huntley was not her attacker and Maxine Carr, then Huntley's girlfriend, provided him with an alibi.