A married doctor is facing jail after being found guilty of trying to spike his pregnant lover's drinks in an unsuccessful bid to make her miscarry.Edward Erin, from Kensington, west London, was today convicted of two charges of attempting to lace Bella Prowse's Starbucks coffee and orange juice with poison.But an Old Bailey jury found the consultant not guilty of spiking her Earl Grey tea, and could not reach a verdict on a charge of procuring drugs to induce an abortion.Prowse, of Brixton, south London, gave birth to a healthy son in September last year.The court heard that Erin, 44, who worked at St Mary's hospital in Paddington, had begged Prowse, 33, a medical secretary there, to have an abortion after discovering she was pregnant. Prowse said she and Erin began an affair after the office Christmas party on 20 December 2007; by 21 January2008, she had discovered she was pregnant. Erin tried to persuade her to have an abortion, but she cancelled two appointments.She wiped away tears and sobbed as she explained she had had an earlier abortion in 2002, and felt that she had made a mistake.Prowse said: "He said we could not have a baby. He was not ready to have a baby."He said he wanted us to have a future, and that he loved me. He wanted to take me climbing and he wanted to take me skiing, and this would ruin it."If I had a baby, it would destroy him. He said it would kill him and that he would have to leave work."He had sent her texts, including one that said: "I am in a very dark place, love. I want to die but that would be too selfish."After she cancelled the first abortion clinic appointment, he had become really upset. "He was begging me and crying," she said.After telling him of her final decision, he went over to her south London home.The next morning, she woke up to find him sitting up in bed. He had told her he had not slept and asked if she wanted a drink.She said: "Ed came into the bedroom with a cup of tea and gave it to me."Prowse said, when she had asked why there was a pale yellow powder at the bottom of the tea, he had rinsed the cup and told her it was fur from the kettle.That night, the consultant's wife, Dr Lowri Erin, saw him crushing tablets in their kitchen but thought nothing of it when he said they were for use at work.A week later, Prowse had become suspicious when they met for coffee and she noticed the lids of the cups had been removed and replaced.She poured the coffee into a bottle without drinking it.The next day, Erin offered her orange juice at work. She did not drink it after she noticed the seal on the bottle was broken. The coffee and orange juice were analysed by police and found to contain abortion-inducing drugs.Speaking after the case, Detective Chief Inspector Mickey Gallagher said Erin had "abused his profession and position of trust".He added: "This was not a morality trial, but the nature of this case is unusual in that it is only the second of it type to be brought before the courts in the last 40 years. Erin has been judged on evidence and the jury have applied good sense and fairness. I would like to state that this prosecution has been brought on behalf of Bella Prowse and my thoughts are with her at this time."Thankfully, Erin failed in his attempts and Bella has a healthy child."Erin was remanded in custody until 16 November for sentencing. Judge Richard Hone told him that a custodial sentence was "virtually inevitable".