A sailor who was the first member of the Royal Navy to be convicted of the rape of a female colleague since women were allowed to go to sea in 1990 was jailed for five years yesterday.Chief Petty Officer Philip Coates, 30, was also dismissed from the service, demoted and deprived of good conduct badges by the court martial panel at HMS Nelson in Portsmouth. He will serve half his sentence in a civilian prison and sign the sex offenders' register when he is released on licence. Five years is the lowest possible sentence for rape.The 24-year-old woman was raped on a bunk following a drunken barbeque held while the ship was at anchor in the Mediterranean. Coates had claimed the sex was consensual but his victim said she had been repulsed by his advances and had tried to push him away.Judge advocate general Jeff Blackett told Coates: "You made no effort to establish whether she consented. You had complete disregard for her objections, your story is a complete fabrication and your lack of care for her afterwards was callous."Saying his actions were a "gross abuse of position", the judge continued: "Not only did you cause your victim to give evidence, you have brought disgrace on yourself and on the Royal Navy. By pleading not guilty you ensured your victim had to go through with giving her evidence and your conduct has been a disgrace. You stated that she had consented to sexual intercourse and she had moaned in pleasure during the act, which was a complete fabrication. In passing sentence, I have taken account of some of the mitigating circumstances, such as her kissing you."The court martial heard that Coates had drunk a glass of red wine and six cans of lager before following his victim, who cannot be named for legal reasons, into a small room below deck. He then pulled her trousers and underwear down before raping her on a small bunk while she struggled to escape.Coates, who was married eight months before the incident, claimed that they had kissed before the attack on the ship's quarterdeck. However, his victim, who throughout the evening had been seen to be in a "happy and bubbly" mood, was found after the attack "sobbing her heart out" and in a distressed state.She was so upset, the trial heard, that she could only recall "images" and "gut feelings" about the incident. Two months later, after she underwent a psychotherapy technique called Eye Movement Desensitisation and Reprocessing (EMDR), she remembered further details of the assault.