  A Metropolitan Police handout picture of Rosimeiri Boxall, 19, who died after falling from a house in Blackheath, south-east London. Photograph: Metropolitan Police/PATwo teenage girls were found guilty today of causing the death of a vicar's daughter who jumped from a window to escape after they beat and bullied her.Kemi Ajose, 19, and Hatice Can, 15, both from south-east London, slapped and punched Rosimeiri Boxall just before she died in May last year.They blamed each other for telling Boxall, 19, to jump when she climbed up to the third floor kitchen window . Can shouted "serves you right, bitch" at Boxall as she lay dying.The pair, aged 17 and 13 at the time of Boxall's death, were convicted of manslaughter by a jury at the Old Bailey.Boxall, whose adoptive father, the Rev Simon Boxall, ran a community church in Thamesmead, south-east London, had left home in 2007. She was adopted at the age of three by her missionary parents after being abandoned in an orphanage in Brazil by her mother, who was an alcoholic.The vicar said his family forgave Ajose and Can despite missing Rosimeiri greatly. "She has given us so many moments of pure joy, and we are thankful for those times," they said in a statement. "We are sure that she is now safe in God the father's arms. No one can ever hurt her again. It will be wonderful to see her again one day. We continue to pray for those who are responsible for Rosi's death. We want them to know that we forgive them."Ajose and Boxall had been best friends and shared Ajose's flat in Blackheath, south-east London, but fell out when an argument escalated between Boxall and Can, who also ended up at the flat after running away from home.Can had pushed Boxall over a wall the year before, and became angry with her when she befriended a boy who came to the flat.She spent all night texting the boy to try to steal him away from Boxall, but became angry when he did not turn up the next day. After drinking vodka in the afternoon, the two younger girls attacked Boxall.The jury saw part of the attack on Boxall by Ajose in footage filmed on a mobile phone by a neighbour. Her hair was pulled, hairspray was aimed at her face and the sound of her being slapped and punched could be heard around the courtroom. Can admitted assaulting her, but both girls said they were not there when she fell.After her arrest, Ajose, who did not give evidence in court, said Boxall had asked "Do you want me to jump?" and Can had answered: "Yes." Can claimed Ajose had encouraged her to jump.Roger Smart, prosecuting, said: "Rosie leapt to her death from the kitchen window of Kemi's flat to escape from a prolonged period of physical and verbal abuse."Immediately before Rosie fell, she was clearly in fear of being hurt physically."This fear caused her to leap out of the window, as a result of which she met her death."Both Can, from Belvedere in Kent, and Ajose, from Charlton, south-east London, had previously been cautioned by police: Ajose for theft in 2009 and for assaulting a police officer in April 2009, and Can for criminal damage in April 2008.After the jury's verdict, Judge Peter Thornton QC lifted an order banning identification of Can, expressing his hope that it would act as a deterrent to bullying.The teenagers were remanded until 15 December for reports. Ajose was returned to the psychiatric hospital where she was being held and Can went into the care of her local authority.She wept after hearing the verdict and hugged and kissed her mother before walking, with her hands covering her face, to the cells with two dock officers.Some of the eight female members of the jury wiped away tears as Thornton told them: "These things are always distressing."Outside court, detective Inspector Bob Meade said that bullying was "neither normal nor acceptable"."This case highlights the extent to which victims of bullying may go in order to escape their tormentors – sometimes with tragic consequences."Bullying needs to be taken seriously and I would urge the victims of bullying to please don't 'just put up with it'."He urged young people to confide in someone they could trust, or organisations such as ChildLine, which can be contacted on 0800 1111.