The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 27 September 2009 We said that Judge Khan's cleaner had tried to blackmail him. In fact, she was never convicted of blackmailing Judge Khan. She appealed against her conviction for blackmail (involving a Judge J) and theft (involving Judge Khan). All charges were dropped and therefore she was cleared on both counts. Apologies.A Brazilian cleaner at the centre of a lurid blackmail case involving two immigration judges was jailed yesterday for 33 months. The recorder of London, Peter Beaumont, told Roselane Driza she was a "greedy and determined woman".Driza, who worked as a cleaner for a female immigration judge and her former lover Mohammed Ilias Khan, a crown court recorder and immigration judge, was convicted of blackmail and theft earlier this month. She had attempted to secure £20,000 from the female judge, who cannot be named, by threatening to go to the newspapers and reveal that she had hired her as a cleaner while she was an illegal immigrant.The Brazilian, who was once married to an Albanian serial killer, stole videos from Mr Khan which showed him having sex with the female judge, known as J, and allegedly revealed her taking cocaine, something J denied. The court heard that Driza had worked as a cleaner for J but had become a "nuisance". She was eventually sacked by J and shortly afterwards by Mr Khan. Shortly after she was fired, Driza and Mr Khan began to see each other socially and by Christmas 2004 they had become lovers. She moved in with the judge and refused to leave. Driza had claimed she was owed initially £1,400 in back pay for holidays and one month's notice from J. But this sum increased to a demand for £20,000 after Driza approached a journalist and tried to sell her story about being an illegal worker employed by the immigration judge.She told both judges she would write to the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, about their sexual activity and her illegal status unless she was paid the money.The case sparked a formal inquiry by the lord chancellor and the lord chief justice to examine whether the judges should face a disciplinary hearing. Both judges, who earn around £100,000 a year, have decided not to sit as the investigation continues.The recorder of London told Driza yesterday: "You saw an opportunity to make a lot of money and took it. The fact you did not succeed is a factor that I take into account. But the evil of blackmail is the misery it brings to its victims, in this case, by reason of the threats that you chose to make." He jailed her for 30 months for blackmailing J and a consecutive three months for stealing the sex videos from Mr Khan. Driza's solicitors, Galbraith Branley, said they planned to seek leave to appeal against her convictions.