The long Special Branch interrogation has left me numbed and disorientated. I search the court for friends but the looming faces belong to the police and the lawyers. The magistrate is saying something. Conspiracy charges, risk of flight, remand in custody. The hearing is over in seconds. Then it's a high-speed drive through parts of London I don't know. A long straight road, through some lights, then a right turn. A street sign says Jebb Avenue. The prison walls come into view and the gates open to swallow us. In reception I am stripped, measured, weighed and photographed. Reception smells of carbolic soap and soiled clothes - my clothes. I've been living in them for a week and they're stinking. They are exchanged for prison browns. The shirt collar is frayed, the trousers are stained and the grey woollen socks are damp from sweat that will never wash out. Passing through A wing with my escort, I see men in flip-flops and vests and baggy prison browns loiter at the top of the stairs. Others, towels slung over their shoulders, fill water jugs or empty piss-pots in the recess. Through half-open doors I glimpse the garish blur of pornographic collages - standard prison decor. We come to A seg, the special security unit, and go through a gate. An officer shouts after us, One on, and A seg has a new inmate. Set apart from the rest of the prison, A seg's compactness, fluorescent lighting and muffled sounds evoke the atmosphere of a hospital ward. A cleaner mops the floor, but everyone is locked up. I am taken to the fours and shown to a cell. It has an iron bed-frame concreted into the floor, a thin foam mattress, a chair and a fixed cupboard. In the far wall there is a radiator and, above it, a high, barred window. The door is pulled shut behind me. My first day as a remand prisoner in Brixton has begun. I sit on the bed and ask myself the question that dominates prisoners' lives: How long? How long am I going to be in here? And will I get through it? This was 20 years ago. Stephen Twinn is brisk, businesslike, assertive. On the wing they say he puts himself about, that he's not afraid to show who is boss. He is Brixton's new governor, is in his early 50s, wears a dickie bow and reads the Telegraph. We stand together on A wing fours and the prisoners crowd round us. What paper are you from? Write this down: say this is a third world prison. Say this is inhuman, it is degrading. Can you imagine what it is like to be locked up for days so you have to shit in front of another man you don't know? Smell my clothes, we didn't get showers today or yesterday. Write that down. One of the prisoners who has collared Mr Twinn says he is schizophrenic, psychopathic and suicidal, and he wants to be moved to a cell with his cousin. Another complains bitterly that there is no shampoo; another says his mail is being withheld, that he has got a new baby and he's waiting for the pictures. There are no library facilities and the phones haven't been turned on yet. Prison doesn't change anyone, the new father says, it just makes you more angry. The officer in charge of A wing says prisoners are more inadequate now than they used to be. He gets care in the community cases, shoplifters, the homeless, the chronically drug- and alcohol-dependent. Sixty per cent have been charged with drug-related offences. On Saturday, he received 15 new prisoners, 14 of whom the doctor put straight on the detox register. He should have 12 officers to control the wing. Today he has nine. When he hasn't the staff, he has to bang the men up. That is when they get angry, that is when they start mutilating themselves, killing themselves. Last year, the prisons minister Paul Boateng declared Brixton a "failing prison" and ordered that it be "market tested" - reviewed for possible privatisation. The old governor was moved out and Mr Twinn arrived to turn the place around. The men surrounding us have just been unlocked after 48 hours behind the door. They are brimming with anger. Mr Twinn thinks our presence is winding them up and that we should move on. I take a last look at A wing. A seg has gone. My old cell is indescribably filthy. The bedding should be burned. There is blood on the sheets. Some other stuff, too, but I don't want to look too closely. I tell Mr Twinn I can't believe how squalid the cell is. He says it doesn't look so bad to him. This is Brixton today. In my cell in A seg I can't imagine getting through the next 24 hours. I don't see how a life is possible. But wherever you are, whatever the conditions, you make a life; it's an irreducible human impulse. Letters and books arrive, newspapers, a radio, your own clothes. There's your family, though family can involve as much pain and guilt as comfort. There are visits and legal visits, there are your co-defendants. You nod cautiously to men on exercise and you start to make friends. In A seg they are armed robbers for the most part: very serious, professional men. These are the glory days of armed robbery, before grasses and technology get the upper hand; some of them have robbed millions of pounds in raids of commando daring. They are often big men who wear chunky gold jewellery and have blonde girlfriends. One night, a girlfriend is stabbed to death at the foot of a stairwell in a towerblock. The chaplain comes in to break the news to her lover. He disappears behind the door and I don't see him for a long time except when the medical orderly comes round with his tray of tranquillisers and he is at the cell door, knocking back whatever it is he needs to keep his life going. Sometimes I forget I am in prison. When I'm reading, when I'm playing football in the yard, when I'm playing cards with the robbers. When a letter filled with tenderness and news of friends transports me. But I don't forget for long. As the months go by, as summer fades and winter winds whistle through the wire, and more and more time is lost, that question, the prisoners' question, bears down: How long? What is my future to be? It tortures me in my sleep. It drives me mad and it makes me infantile. I take a deck of cards and before I cut I say, if it's red, I'm free. If it's black, it's prison. Black. OK. Two out of three. 1979. My second summer in Brixton. A hot year. The cell is stifling. The conspiracy charge has been dropped, a different conspiracy substituted. I lie on the bed in my shorts and stare at the ceiling. Nothing now - not the letters, not the visits, not the new friends - can make this life bearable any more. The heat makes it worse. In the visiting room there are women with almost no clothes on. Mr Twinn wants to explain. Brixton is a large, crumbling, inner-city prison and it has very serious problems. With 750 inmates and capacity for 824, it is not, by official standards, overcrowded. There are some lifers in D wing, but most inmates are doing short sentences or awaiting trial, deportation or extradition. Some have been inside for 30 years or more, others arrived yesterday. There are 61 nationalities and more than half are from the ethnic minorities: Asian, Chinese, but mainly African or Afro-Caribbean. Many speak no English or speak English badly. There is racism, alcoholism, drug abuse and mental illness. Many of his staff are demoralised. In the old days, Brixton was the main remand prison for London and the south-east. It had 1,000 inmates and 1,000 staff to process them in and out of reception and escort them to and from their court appearances, everywhere from the Old Bailey to Chelmsford crown court. Keeping this complex machine running gave Brixton staff a certain cachet within the service. They lost that when Belmarsh was built and Brixton lost the courts. Staff levels were reduced by half. Notionally, Mr Twinn can count on having 70 officers on duty on weekdays. In practice, he rarely has more than 45. Some of his older officers haven't been able to make the adjustment. They go sick a lot. Everything comes down to staff numbers. When the numbers are low, the prisoners are locked up all day. Mr Twinn rotates the lock-up wing by wing so that at least one wing should be open on any given day. It is not ideal, but it is all he can do. Money is tight and it is getting tighter every year. In the health care centre a cheerful nurse talks about her discussion groups and art therapy groups. The centre is an obvious improvement on the old days when F wing, the hospital wing, was a byword for maltreatment and neglect. But still, in the dimly lit wards, men lie listless, with a terrible air of dejection and hopelessness about them. If you are in prison, do all you can not to fall sick. We turn into a short corridor. I suggest we move quickly through here, Mr Twinn says. These men are grossly mentally disturbed. A black man's eyes stare out through an observation flap in the steel door. We come to another block. At one cell door an armchair has been pulled right up to the flap. The cell's occupant is a boy who has repeatedly cut himself and is under 24-hour watch. Recently, he has been biting into his arm to rip his veins out with his teeth. The irreducible impulse to make a life, whatever the conditions, is sometimes not irreducible at all. I never came even close to this, but there was a point when the earth seemed to give way beneath my feet, when I seemed to be sinking slowly to the bottom of the sea and the air was being pressed from my lungs. I ask Mr Twinn if we can go to B seg, the punishment block. The robbers go for their trials and on the news it says they get 18 years and 22 years and life. Summer turns to autumn and the cold winds start again to whistle through the wire. I am on a conveyor belt like everyone else, just waiting my turn before the judges. I am tense and angry and frustrated. I bridle at rules I have until now managed to negotiate, and, inevitably, I end up in B seg. The punishment block now has only six cells in use, but 20 years ago it had double that. It was a busier and more brutal place then. The cells contained no furniture of any kind. At 8pm the door was unlocked and a bed and mattress placed inside. At 6am next morning, the bed was taken out. That left a piss-pot, a bucket, a water jug and a mug. There was nothing else. There were no books, no papers, no radio. The boredom was crushing. Mr Twinn arranges for me to observe the adjudication in progress. In the old days it was rough justice, aggressively administered. I never heard of anyone getting a not guilty at an adjudication. After my second adjudication, I refused to participate and simply stayed in my cell to be tried in my absence. Today, I am looking at a small, pale, wasted man, a little confused, a hint of slurred speech. He pleads not guilty to throwing his steel tray on the floor but accepts he did what they say he did. He says when he got to the food queue there was only one fishfinger left. Yes, sir, he threw his tray down but he was hungry, sir, and his brother had recently drowned and he is depressed and having bad dreams. He is let off with a caution. When he is gone, the assistant governor turns to me and says he needs help and they'll do what they can to get it to him. Perhaps they will. Perhaps Mr Twinn's energy and leadership will make Brixton a safer, more humane establishment. He has already achieved some obvious improvements and relationships between inmates and staff have clearly eased, helped in no small measure by the recruitment of black and female prison officers. But Brixton to me looks worse now than it was when I was there. Nastier, more squalid, more chaotic. What's your answer?, Mr Twinn challenges me. It is a challenge for us all. I go to stand in one of the cells I occupied in the block during my last stay here. In my case, the question, how long?, was met with the answer: no longer. The card I cut turned out to be red. I did not know this when I was in this cell. No one who knows me would say I am a sentimental man, but standing here a memory floods back that leaves me momentarily trembling. It was when the board of visitors made one of their occasional inspections. The door opened and a man in a tweed suit and with the plummiest of accents said, Any complaints? I was sitting on the floor of a bare cell and I hadn't spoken to anyone for a week. I was too stunned to answer and before I got a word out the door had closed. They opened up my neighbour and I heard him shout, Any fucking complaints? Are you kidding? I heard the prison officers move in and restrain him. The last I heard was him shouting, half strangled, but resonant with outrage, I wouldn't keep a dog like this. Mr Twinn asks if I've seen enough here and I say that I have. • Ronan Bennett's first novel was The Second Prison, published by Review £6.99.