The chief suspect in the murder of a pregnant woman stabbed to death in her home was yesterday arrested in the Basque region of northern Spain.Hugo Quintas, wanted for questioning over the murder of his girlfriend, Hayley Richards, was seized by uniformed police officers after being stopped because his car's front number plate was missing. The officers checked his identification papers and found that an international warrant had been issued for his arrest. He is being held in a police station in northern Spain and will be brought before a judge within the next few days. He is expected to be brought back to the UK within three months. Mr Quintas, 23, flew to his native Portugal 10 days ago, a few hours after Miss Richards, who was pregnant, was found dead at her flat in Trowbridge, Wiltshire. He landed in Faro in the south before driving north to visit his family in Porto. He told his father he and Hayley intended to settle in Portugal after the baby was born. He then crossed into Spain. Mr Quintas was found yesterday in the town of Hernani, close to Irun, one of the main routes into France. He was driving a Toyota Yaris registered in Portugal. Miss Richards' brother, Paul Richards, said: "We cannot begin to express our relief that someone has been arrested in connection with her murder." Interpol and the police in Portugal and Spain have been hunting for Mr Quintas, who worked in a meat factory in Trowbridge. The Crown Prosecution Service has been advising Wiltshire police how it should organise the search without putting any future prosecution in jeopardy. The trail had appeared to have gone cold. Yesterday morning Wiltshire police launched an internet appeal in English, Portuguese and Spanish on its website containing a description of Mr Quintas. But at lunchtime the Spanish police phoned to tell them the manhunt was over. Miss Richards, 23, had complained a week before her death that she had been attacked by Mr Quintas. Police later admitted that they had missed chances to arrest Mr Quintas in Trowbridge in the days before his girlfriend was killed. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating Wiltshire police's handling of the case.