A UK-wide investigation into allegations of forced labour among migrant daffodil pickers has resulted in one of the industry's largest labour suppliers losing its licence.Timberland Homes Recruitment, which has harvested an estimated 13m bunches of daffodils across the UK this season, has been barred from operating, the Gangmasters Licensing Authority said last night. The flowers that were picked were eventually sold in high-street outlets and supermarkets such as Waitrose.The GLA accused the company of imposing debts on its mainly Polish workers, failing to provide them adequate housing, and paying as little as £24 a day in wages. Yesterday Timberland's director, John Beckson, 40, denied all allegations of malpractice or implied criminal activity, vowed to appeal against the decision and called the GLA's investigation "an absolute farce".The decision to investigate the gangmaster was taken in March after complaints from workers. The inquiry cited more than 15 breaches of regulations covering several areas of the business, including transportation, accommodation and minimum wage requirements.Investigators had found a letter to workers stating they were not free to leave before the end of the contract without paying £700, the GLA said, adding that "sinister threats" were made against employees' families in their home countries.A file detailing the GLA investigation has been passed to the UK human trafficking centre, a dedicated police unit. No investigation has been launched, but officers at the unit are understood to be in contact with Suffolk police.In a statement, the GLA said it had "uncovered a disgraceful story of forced labour in the 21st-century Britain".It added: "These vulnerable workers were threatened with huge deductions from wages and there was an even more sinister threat to involve their families in their home country if they left the employment of the gangmaster or failed to pay money to him. Abhorrent working and living conditions meant the workers were housed in sub-standard accommodation and transported in prohibited, un-certified vehicles."Yesterday Beckson gave the Guardian a tour of his base at Lakenheath Hall, a converted 17th-century manor house in the village of Lakenheath, Suffolk. He said the GLA had not visited his headquarters or inspected his paperwork and "troublemakers" lay behind the allegations. "I don't think I was doing anything wrong," he said. "We do everything we can to make sure the workers go home with as much money as possible."He also bemoaned the declining productivity of eastern European workers. "There's a lot of Polish people coming now to milk the system. They want to come here, stand in a field, and get paid [the] minimum wage for eight hours a day."Beckson's home is surrounded by fencing, beyond which are dozens of caravans and 25 minivans. His workers wear barcodes around their necks to monitor their productivity. A "picking rate" sheet from the company's accounts showed a worker picking daily between 440 (£17.60) and 1,360 (£54.40) bunches.Beckson said he employed more than 450 Polish workers who were paid on a piece-rate basis of 4p a bunch after "deductions". He said workers had money deducted from their pay for accommodation, transport to the fields, and use of the company's waterproof clothes in bad weather. Additionally, those who did not complete a 16-week season were asked to reimburse the company the cost of their coach journey from Poland, he said.Figures showing wages well below statutory requirements, he said, were explained by workers "sitting in the van and creaming minimum wage".Last year, Forest Heath district council officials discovered about 150 Poles housed in 23 mobile homes on Beckson's Suffolk site that they had previously been unaware of. Timberland Homes went into receivership in December last year, although Beckson insists that was a technical matter which has not affected operations.Beckson was previously director of another company, based in Cornwall, Ethical Recruitment Group.This year his workers harvested daffodils on farms across the country, including contracts with Grampian Growers in Montrose and Winchester Growers, the UK's largest flower producer, based in Cornwall.Mark Clark, managing director of Grampian Growers, said the action against of one of the industry's largest labour suppliers would be "extremely damaging" for farmers, who are short of good workers.He said Grampian Growers had gone "beyond the call of duty" to meet GLA standards, and suggested Beckson had been targeted for investigation only after a core of "rebellious" workers had complained. Winchester Growers, the UK's largest flower producer, did not return calls for comment yesterday. In 2004, environmental health officials in Penzance discovered 56 Romany Greek labourers living in tents and picking flowers for Winchester Growers via a sub-contractor. They described the treatment as "atrocious and inhuman".Michael Mann, Winchester Growers' production director, said at the time: "A decision to accept accommodation of this nature for pickers supplied to us will not be made again in a million years."Last night, Beckson promised to appeal against the GLA ruling. "I'll bring over 200 people from Poland to give testimony. We know there's gangmasters out there that charge workers and hold their passports - we don't do that," he said.Aside from clearing his name, he said, there was a wider issue about labour suppliers, who he argued are the bottom of a chain that begins with supermarkets that are keeping prices low.A spokesman for Waitrose said: "We are concerned to hear of these allegations and are currently investigating as a matter of urgency." Beckson said that without higher prices for daffodils, labour suppliers would be squeezed. "When you've got 100 people on a daffodil field, how can you clock in and clock out? It's gone from employers exploiting workers to the workers holding the employers to ransom."Paul Whitehouse, chairman of the GLA, said: "Some industry insiders have described us as draconian. We are. We are also ugly and intend to get uglier with those who abuse the vulnerable at work."· Additional research by Lauren GoodchildBackstoryThere are currently almost 1,200 gangmasters licensed by the Gangmaster Licensing Authority, a government agency set up in response to the death of 23 Chinese cockle pickers in Morecambe Bay, in 2004. They employ thousands of mainly eastern European migrant workers. Operating without a licence is an offence with a 10-year prison sentence. The authority has the power to revoke licences if it judges a company to be breaching industry standards. Gangmasters have the right of appeal. More than 50 gangmasters have had their licences revoked since the GLA was created. Farmers say they have come to rely on cheap labour to harvest fields, and this year havecomplained of a shortage of supply.