It was 23 years ago but if he closes his eyes, Terry Pinfold can still hear the austere tones of Mr Justice May, calling him a callous liar and jailing him for life at the Old Bailey.He has protested his innocence since a jury found him guilty of procuring the murder of a business associate. Pinfold is 70 and although he has lost his health, wealth and marriage, this week represents the best chance he has to clear his name. Tomorrow, following an intervention by the Criminal Cases Review Commission, his case will be heard again by the court of appeal. Campaigners are convinced that having spent so many years behind bars on a charge he always denied, he will prevail. He doesn't pretend to have been a model citizen, but preparing for the case at his flat in Essex, surrounded by books and legal statements, Pinfold says some form of redemption is overdue. "I have been out on bail waiting for this for two years. I could have been released sooner but they wanted me to admit to something I didn't do and I would not do that," he says. "I am old and sick now but if we get the right result, I will be able to settle down with my children and try to make up for lost time." From 1970, when he was released from jail having served a sentence for armed robbery, Pinfold seems to have been swept along by events beyond his control. He set up a business making diving equipment with Harry Mackenny, whom he met in prison. When John "Bruce" Childs, another inmate, was released Pinfold gave him a job. Another inmate, Terry Eve, was given factory space to manufacture teddy bears. In November 1974, Eve went missing. Pinfold was interviewed by police and told them he had last seen Eve loading teddies into a van just as he was leaving London with his family to spend the week end with in-laws in Clacton. He heard nothing for two years but then the sky fell in. In 1976, he was charged with two armed robberies. Despite pleading not guilty he was sentenced to 10 years in jail. The appeal court cleared him of the main charges in 1979. But even as he protested his innocence of the remaining charges, things took a dramatic turn for the worse. In 1980 his old friend Childs pleaded guilty to six murders and implicated Pinfold in four. He told police that he, Pinfold and Mackenny were involved in contract killings in which Pinfold would seek out the work and he and Mackenny would commit the murders. No victims' bodies or weapons were found. Pinfold was convicted largely on Childs' evidence. Childs was an unimpressive witness but Mr Justice May also cast doubt on Pinfold's protestations that he was in Clacton at the time Eve disappeared and the jury took those doubts to heart. Pinfold's position was strange from the outset. The court concluded that he ordered Mackenny to murder Eve. But Mackenny was cleared of murder. Other revelations about Childs have also emerged. He is now known to have written a series of letters about the case, changing his account each time. In one, written before Pinfold submitted his first appeal, Childs said his wife and not Pinfold asked him to kill Eve because the victim had sexually assaulted her. That letter was never disclosed. There is also doubt about whether Eve was ever murdered. Pinfold's lawyers will claim the police investigation was called off when Scotland Yard commander Bert Wickstead told his men that Eve was alive and living in west London under an alias. Danny Simpson, Pinfold's lawyer, said Childs' unreliability was now beyond doubt. "I am only sorry it has taken 22 years to prove it. Terry Pinfold went into prison a fit and healthy man. He has missed the prime of his life," he said. If he loses the appeal Pinfold has four years to serve. "If people had done their jobs properly, I would never have been in this situation," he said. "I just have to trust the system now, and hope it works."