Sixteen years ago, two teenagers from Birmingham were arrested in Bangkok and charged with attempting to smuggle £4m-worth of heroin out of the country.Their predicament and their age struck a chord with a London lawyer and led, eventually, to the formation of an organisation to campaign on behalf of those facing trials abroad. It has since helped hundreds of people facing trials in countries from Brazil to Pakistan, Thailand to Morocco.Now Stephen Jakobi, founder and chief executive of Fair Trials Abroad, is stepping down at the age of 71."I was listening to the BBC news on the radio," he said of the occasion when he became aware of the cases of Karyn Smith and Patricia Cahill."I couldn't believe it. I had done quite a bit of crime as a lawyer and people were treating it as gospel that two teenagers were handling 30 kilos of heroin. That's the value of a medium-sized company and nobody's going to make an investment like that in a couple of teenagers."I thought the case stank, so when I came back from holiday I spoke to the Foreign Office and that was how it all started. I started networking and found myself running a campaign. Naive wasn't in it."It soon became obvious, following the enormous publicity and requests for help that followed an eventual royal pardon in 1993 for the two girls, that it was not possible for Mr Jakobi to carry out both his normal work at his law firm and the business of running what was to become Fair Trials Abroad."My partners took fright," said Mr Jakobi at the Richmond home in London, which is also his office.Gradually, FTA evolved from a one-man band into a major charity receiving grants from the Joseph Rowntree and Nuffield Foundations and attempting to help what appeared to be deserving cases across the world."One of the biggest barriers to justice was language," said Mr Jakobi, who soon discovered that one of the most important aspects of the work was to find a good local lawyer.He also found that too often the person facing charges was not receiving much help from official British sources, and initially relations with the Foreign Office were frosty. That has changed over the years."The nicest tribute we have recently had was a top echelon mandarin describing us unofficially to journalists as 'friendly thorns'," said Mr Jakobi. "I like the balance of independence and cooperation that implies."At any one time, FTA has around 200 cases on the go, but there have been thousands more over the years asking for advice over the phone. "The most satisfying thing is that you get people out of prison who are innocent," said Mr Jakobi.But for all the highly-publicised success stories, there are many more cases of people who languish in jail, often with poor representation. "What is frustrating is that you lose most of them; you do not make a difference," he said.Is there not a risk that organisations like FTA are seen as, perhaps, patronising and post-colonial, telling foreign countries how to run their legal systems?"We never couch the argument under British law. Most countries are signed up to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR.) From the outside we appear much more powerful than we are."The European country in which he would least like to be arrested is "Portugal, but that would be a close call with Spain and Greece".Outside Europe, "the obvious places like Burma, the Latin American countries ... Japan is, surprisingly, not good".Now the hunt is on for someone to take over from Mr Jakobi.He said that the new challenges would be to make FTA more of a pan-European organisation - already it has worked for a Spaniard jailed in Bolivia - and to highlight the situation of Britons serving long sentences in foreign jails.