One of the most important parts of the welfare state was the Legal Aid and Advice Act of 1949, which ensured "assistance and legal advice...so that no one will be financially unable to prosecute a just and reasonable claim or to defend a legal right". The innocent and vulnerable facing criminal proceedings were protected by a comprehensive national scheme. But 60 years later, New Labour is demolishing these basic rights.The imminent implementation of the Carter proposals means that if you are arrested, an inexperienced minion in an NHS-Direct-style agency can deny you a solicitor. If you manage to get past this, you will no longer be able to have the solicitor of your choice, but instead will be appointed one from a list.These reforms follow the introduction of means-testing for legal aid. If you are employed on moderate wages, or have a partner who is, you will now have to weigh up if you can afford to defend a case through the courts. Alternatively you could save some money and plead guilty to a charge of which you may be innocent - or try your luck by representing yourself, against a paid lawyer.Wholesale sackings of solicitors are likely to follow. Small firms are being refused legal-aid contracts because the government believes that large firms will cost less - presumably on the economies-of-scale argument - although it has offered no evidence for this. Hundreds of livelihoods (including mine) are on the line, and the result will be the same advice desert as has been created in areas such as family law, immigration and welfare benefits.Legal-aid costs have increased in the past decade but this is the unsurprising result of a policy that has resulted in a thousand new criminal offences and record numbers in custody. Of course money could be saved by reducing the prison population, obviating the need for more costly prisons. But this seems an unlikely approach from a government responsible for serious attacks on human rights, including detention without trial, deportation to countries that practice torture, control orders, and the banning of non-sanctioned demonstrations within a mile of parliament.Conveniently, the Carter proposals will have a particular effect on the firms that challenge these attacks on civil liberties, because they are not large firms. Lord Levy is represented by one such threatened niche firm - maybe he could put in a good word for us.The implications are major. Abu Bakr was recently arrested in Birmingham by the anti-terrorist unit, and spent four days in custody. During the police interviews he was not even questioned about the allegation for which he was arrested. When he resurfaced he described his ordeal as the actions of a police state. In future someone like Abu Bakr will have no unqualified right to a lawyer and certainly not one of his choosing. This will make it more likely that he could be charged with something of which he was innocent. He would have to contend with the additional stress of deciding whether he could afford to defend himself. Would a police state not be pleased with such a system, which denies proper rights to a defendant?At the weekend, we saw the tragic death of Sally Clark, a victim of a terrible miscarriage of justice. But there will be many more if the government succeeds in bringing in this attack on our legal aid system. We need to protect the fundamental right of individuals to instruct a solicitor of their choice and to be able to afford to defend themselves. Today solicitors from around the country are protesting outside parliament to save legal aid and skilled jobs. If they are not heard, legal aid lawyers will soon be as rare as coal miners.· Matt Foot is a criminal defence solicitor at Birnberg Peirce and Partners  m.foot@birnbergpeirce.co.uk