One of five men accused of murdering two teenagers in a drive-by shooting outside a New Year's Eve party in Birmingham was today acquitted on the direction of the trial's judge.Charlene Ellis, 18, and Letisha Shakespeare, 17, were gunned down outside the Uniseven hair salon, in the Aston area of the city, during the early hours of January 2 2003. It is alleged the friends were killed by mistake in a hail of automatic gunfire from a car carrying four men involved in a botched gang revenge attack. At Leicester crown court today, Mr Justice Goldring directed the jury to clear Tafarwa Beckford, 22, of two murder charges, plus three counts of attempted murder. Mr Beckford and members of his family later left the court without comment. The four remaining defendants deny two counts of murder and three counts of attempted murder, and dispute the crown's case that they were members of a gang known as the Burger Boys. They are Michael Gregory, 24, of Ladywood, Birmingham, Nathan Martin, 26, of Smethwick, West Midlands, 24-year-old Marcus Ellis, of Winson Green, Birmingham, and 20-year-old Rodrigo Simms, also of Smethwick. The crown alleges that Mr Martin's family were "shattered" by the killing of his brother, Yohanne, a few weeks before the new year shooting. A rival gang to the Burger Boys, the Johnson Crew, was suspected of carrying out the attack on Yohanne Martin, and the prosecution says the drive-by shooting was targeted against the Johnson Crew gang.Another defendant, Jermaine Carty, 24, is alleged to be a member of the Johnson Crew. The crown says he returned fire against the car carrying the alleged Burger Boy members. Mr Carty faced two firearm charges, but the judge today cleared him of one of the charges. Mr Justice Goldring said the remaining cases against the defendants would proceed, and told the jury: "The fact that I am allowing those cases to continue simply means that there is evidence for you to consider in relation to them. It is, of course, no indication of their guilt in any way, shape or form." One of the accused, Marcus Ellis, is the half brother of one of the New Year's Eve victims, Charlene Ellis. The prosecution has said Mr Ellis was not close to her. Charlene's twin, Sophie, was badly wounded in the attack, the court has heard. The jury has been told how the three girls and another of their friends, Cheryl Shaw, 17, were getting some fresh air outside the party when they were shot.Timothy Raggatt QC, prosecuting, has characterised the motive for the attack as "revenge, reprisal, rivalry". Mr Simms is alleged not to have been in the car, but to have acted as a "spotter" for the alleged Burger Boy gang members.The trial continues.