An American paedophile was jailed today for five years after he bigamously married a British woman and deceived two others, claiming he worked for the CIA.William Jordan, a 41-year-old IT consultant, has at least 10 children: five to his first wife, two with her au pair, two to his second 'wife' as well as at least one more in the US. The explanation he gave to his victim, Mary Turner Thomson, 41, of Edinburgh, for his mysterious abscences from their marital home was that he was a secret agent seconded to the Ministry of Defence on covert business. In reality, however, he was tending to his real wife and a girlfriend who he defrauded of £4,500. Jordan was finally arrested last November in a police sting near Oxford. And today he was jailed at the town's crown court for bigamy, failing to register his whereabouts as required by a sex offender, illegally possessing a stun gun, plus a string of dishonesty offences. Judge Thomas Corrie told Jordan: "You are a con man, a convicted paedophile and a bigamist. You are an inveterate exploiter of vulnerable women, not just financially but also emotionally." Jordan, a naturalised Briton, married his first wife, Julie Cunningham, in 1992, before going on to 'marry' Ms Turner Thomson ten years later. Unbeknown to Ms Turner Thomson, Jordan's real wife was at one point living near to her in Gullane, outside Edinburgh. But not satisified with having relationships with two women Jordan also slept with his real wife's nanny, having two children with her. And in May 2005 he then struck up a relationship with yet another woman, Denise King, who was then based in Blackpool. "All this would not have been uncovered if it were not for his relationship with Ms King," said prosecutor Sophie Eloquin. Jordan had set up a recruitment firm, registered in his bigamous wife's name, and he used this to lure Ms King south to Kent with the promise of a better job. At the same time, he began a relationship with her and obtained her credit card details. Shortly before his arrest, Jordan visited Ms King, who had just sold her car for £4,500. He asked her to marry him and explained he needed the cash because he had had his hire car and its contents stolen. Ms King gave him the sum on the promise it would be repaid in the next month. But when it was not she called police to report unauthorised transactions on her credit card of £1,000 and £500 to a Mercedes Benz dealership in Kidlington, Oxfordshire. Knowing Jordan was going to turn up to collect a car he was having repaired, officers lay in wait at the car dealership on November 11 last year. Jordan later admitted fraud charges in relation to his use of Ms King's credit card. He also pleaded guilty to two counts of failing to register his address as legally required since his conviction, in 1997, of three indecent assaults on a girl under the age of 13.In addition, Jordan also admitted the charges of bigamy and possessing a stun gun illegally. Peter Coombe, defending, said: "Despite what has happened to his partners, he is still concerned for them and his children - although his actions do not appear to display this. He says he is very remorseful." Speaking outside court, Ms Turner Thomson said Jordan was a "very clever predator and a sociopath" who would probably pass off his spell in jail to his real wife as "an undercover mission" to do with his work. She said that during her sham marriage Jordan produced apparent documentary proof of his secondment with the MoD in Britain. Ms Turner Thomson, a motivational speaker, told how he would communicate using CIA web addresses, show her his passes to British RAF bases and even send emails from an address registered at the office of the deputy prime minister. In reality, however, Jordan had obtained these documents and addresses during his work as an IT contractor at a government department. Ms Turner Thomson said she and Jordan split up when she was confronted last year by his real wife. And following today's sentencing she would now be able to proceed with officially registering her marriage to Jordan as void. "I'm glad it's over," she added. "I'm glad the judge recognised him for who he is. I hope that if there are any other of his victims out there they too will find freedom though this." 