The father of murdered teenager Becky Watts has called for the death penalty for her killer, Nathan Matthews, saying he would carry it out himself.Darren Galsworthy said he did not feel justice was served when Matthews was told to serve a minimum of 33 years in prison for the murder, and criticised the conditions in which he said Matthews and his accomplice, Shauna Hoare, were being held.Asked by BBC Newsnight’s Kirsty Wark if he wanted Matthews dead, Galsworthy said: “Of course. Without a doubt. That might shock a few people, especially people who know me because I ain’t like that.Becky Watts' killers receive £400,000 legal aid “But the thing is, I was asked the question: ‘Do you think you’ve got justice?’ Well, no, I don’t. They’re still quite happy breathing and getting three meals a day. Apparently she’s having horse riding lessons.”He added: “If they were going to hang him, I would pull the lever, so no one else would have to carry that guilt.”Matthews was sent to prison for his stepsister’s murder in November last year, while Hoare was jailed for 17 years for the 16-year-old’s manslaughter. Both appealed against their convictions and sentences.And Galsworthy said he was still waiting for answers from Matthews. “I want the truth, that’s all we ever wanted. Not this useless stack of lies that he’s tried to come up with,” he told Newsnight on Thursday.Galsworthy spoke about his relationship with his wife, Anjie, who is Matthews’s mother.“We’ve had our rocky patches, it’s not all been plain sailing, not by any stretch of the imagination. We’ve had some real tough times. But our love has pulled us through it, all the way through it,” he told the BBC programme.Becky Watts' killers appeal against their convictions Galsworthy has written a 304-page memoir, Becky, describing family life before her murder in their Bristol home in February 2015, and what the schoolgirl’s relationship with her stepbrother was really like.In the afterword of his book, Anjie wrote about Nathan: “Of course, I still love him – he is my son. When you’re a mother, you can’t ignore that unconditional love for your children, no matter what they do. But I will never, ever forgive him for what he did to our family … the boy I gave birth to grew up to be a monster.”Galsworthy said that was a “bit of a sore subject”, adding: “I understand that, the unconditional love for an infant is fine, but not when they’ve turned into a monster. I can’t, I just can’t get my head around that.”And he told the programme that he has been having nightmares. “The recurring dream is I’m seeing what’s happened from a sort of third-person standpoint. I’m watching it but they can’t see me. There’s nothing I can do to help her.”Galsworthy said he had had trouble coming to terms with the thought that he may have missed warning signs. Matthews would carry out what Galsworthy called pranks. “I’ve been beating myself up for over a year now for not taking grasp of the situation. I just didn’t see it for what it was.”He added that the family had learned that, when she was eight, Becky had told a friend that Matthews “touched her”.Galsworthy told Newsnight: “All that was news to me … He kept jumping out on her, we used to think that was pranking. But then my sister Sarah said, ‘no he’s just letting her know he can get her any time he wants’. When she told me that it was like being hit by a hammer … Perhaps I’m naive.”