Drivers of cultural change can be pretty difficult to pin down, but it’s safe to say that Labour’s ambition to create a “continental cafe style of drinking culture” through the introduction of 24-hour licensing has failed, and was unlikely to ever succeed.When the Licensing Act of 2003 first went through parliament no one was really talking about a European drinking culture or 24-hour opening – in fact there was little press comment. This changed after the bill had passed, when statistics showed British young people were among the worst binge drinkers in Europe, and concerns about “Boozy Britain” dominated the coverage.As a result, longstanding criticisms of 24-hour licensing from the police and health professionals gained traction, and in the period between the Licensing Act becoming law (July 2003) and coming into force (November 2005) the media storm put the government on the back foot. In response, the government used the idea of stimulating a culture change towards relaxed continental drinking as a way of refocusing the media agenda. It was an attempt to associate late-night drinking with positive, relaxed results instead of drunken violence. Many people view alcohol’s omnipresence as problematic, particularly for children But this was little more than spin, dressing up significant deregulation for the drinks industry as something that would bring wider social benefits.Yes, crime, binge drinking and overall alcohol consumption have fallen in the past 10 years, but none of these positive trends have anything to do with the Licensing Act. Other factors, such as changing consumer preferences and the reduced affordability of alcohol, are more important. Drinkers do not appear to have used the extra time to slow down and relax. Instead, most spend about the same amount of time and money in the night-time economy, but their evening out has shifted back into the morning.This has had two consequences. At the start of the night there is now more time for people to drink at home before heading out. And, while problems associated with the “11 o’clock swill” have been reduced as intended, crime and disorder has been pushed back, causing logistical problems for the emergency services.How British ‘cafe culture’ drinks revolution ended in failure Previously most police forces would have finished up by 3am, but many are now kept busy until 6am, and most forces have had to rearrange shift patterns. Officers see this as a big problem, particularly given dwindling police numbers; in many areas local communities are missing their fair share of police time because the night-time economy ties up so many officers.So what kind of drinking culture did the 2003 act actually encourage? First, it has normalised a psychoactive, addictive substance to the extent where it is commonly found in every walk of life, even children’s play centres. Today virtually every corner shop is an off-licence, and while the impact of this is difficult to quantify, many view alcohol’s omnipresence as problematic, particularly for children.Second, we’ve been encouraged to ignore wider social and consumerist influences while believing in a drinking culture where only individuals do bad things or consume to excess. Deregulating the industry, encouraging competition, the commodification of pleasure and an increased concentration of licensed premises: this was always likely to – and was in fact designed to – encourage a consumerist response. This hardly comes as a surprise when the changes to legislation were proposed by the Department of Culture, Media and Sport after advisory meetings at the HQ of the British Beer and Pub Association.Younger people drink less but binge when they do, figures show But while a drunken “have fun, buy cheap” ethos hasn’t exactly been discouraged, those who engage with it are often stigmatised as “lager louts”, “ladettes” or worse, which seems rather hypocritical. While individuals do have choices, options and responsibilities, this is only half the equation. New Labour’s third way approach to alcohol licensing had the effect of removing from the debate the constraining, and at times coercive, structural issues within the night-time economy, such as competition, price and physical geography.In their place the behaviour of individuals is put forward as the only realistic cause of – and solution for – problems. As James Nicholls, the director of research and policy development at Alcohol Research UK, has pointed out: “While the right to sell and the right to consume alcohol were to be shared equally, the responsibility to avoid excess was to be slanted towards the consumer.”Rather than debate this shift and how to change it, we’re stuck discussing a mythical cafe culture that doesn’t even really exist on the continent. As far as spin and media manipulation go, that’s pretty damn impressive, if slightly depressing. In the words of the former Nottinghamshire chief constable: “If you want a continental cafe culture – build cafes.” But that is not what the 2003 Licensing Act set out to do.• This article is based on a recent report by the Institute of Alcohol Studies: The Licensing Act (2003): Its Uses and Abuses 10 Years on