The police, we are told, are here to protect us: when they make mistakes the facts will be laid bare and they will learn from them. The deaths of my sister and nephew testify that the first belief is flawed – and our exhaustive efforts over five years to expose their failures shows the second is unsound.Despite many attempts to get help from Thames Valley police, my sister Julia Pemberton and her son William were murdered by his father Alan Pemberton in November 2003. To make matters worse, the force consistently resisted our efforts to initiate an inquiry. The homicide review into the murders, published on Monday, found that Thames Valley denied the inquest full and accurate information about both their contact with my sister and known weaknesses in their firearms policy. Who made this decision to withhold information, and to deny society the opportunity to make the necessary changes as soon as possible?The public believe the police have a duty of care to them, but it is very hard to enforce – as the challenges of Van Colle and Smith, which the Lords threw out in July this year, show.Lord Steyn argued that a successful challenge would have inhibited the police's ability to assess suspects and victims robustly, and make them too defensive. Evidence from America suggests that the reviews that yield the most profound changes in agency performance are those that do not seek to assign blame. So we are encouraged to accept that lessons have been learnt and changes made. But nobody has a picture of all this lesson learning and change. The current Home Office guidance (pdf) for homicide reviews (still not law, yet part of the 2004 Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act) does not even stipulate that there should be a mechanism for drawing all these lessons together nationally. Are we really learning lessons? Or are we continually learning the same ones and failing to make the right changes? The cases of Victoria Climbie and Baby P of Haringey come to mind. Indeed, according to the West Berkshire Safer Community Partnership, who commissioned the review into the Pembertons' deaths, agencies do not have to take on the recommendations of this review.The review panel approached its task fearlessly and uncovered systemic and individual failures throughout the ranks in Thames Valley police. It uncovered failures in West Berkshire council too. With the exception of some individuals, both bodies have treated us shabbily. The report found that the police's failure to review this case resulted in the family "suffering protracted and avoidable distress". Despite our own efforts and those of others, Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary's report of 2007 on Thames Valley found continuing problems in policing domestic violence – albeit with some improvement.It is hugely hard work to challenge public bodies, and they don't like it. The Safer Communities Partnership minutes record that this family needed to be treated "robustly". We are not publicly funded, and yet the police can hire a barrister out of the public purse to prevent us from exposing failures at the inquest. The charity I have set up, Advocacy After Fatal Domestic Abuse, aims to raise funds to enable us to listen to other families, help them find out the facts of their case and stop these tragedies recurring.My family is devastated to have had our trust in public services broken, and that is why we challenged Thames Valley. In principle, of course, the police deserve the support of the public, but they also deserve a major shake-up if their incompetence, lack of senior management direction anddeliberate blocking of an investigation puts members of the public in danger. How dare they stop the public uncovering their failures? Without the ability to realistically challenge the police through the courts, we rely on their goodwill – which we know most officers give freely, as the terrible toll of injuries and deaths in the force attests. But the repeated failures merit a real challenge to the police, and perhaps a way forward is an act of parliament that would compel them to protect us or face a judgment in court. A fundamental social contract is that we give the police permission to uphold the law on our behalf. If they fail to do this, then we must be able to challenge them.* Frank Mullane is a member of the government's Victims Advisory Panel. This article represents his own views and not those of the panel.