The British National Party claimed yesterday that the police were to blame for the murder of a Scottish teenager because they failed to listen to the party's concerns about racial tension in the area where he was killed.The leader of the anti-immigrant party, Nick Griffin, said 15-year-old Kriss Donald would still be alive if the authorities in Pollokshields in south Glasgow had reacted more quickly when the BNP warned of rising racial tension in the area two years ago.Critics accused the party of exploiting the boy's death. Griffin made the claim as he travelled to Glasgow to visit the area where the youngster was abducted before being beaten to death. The young man was bundled into a car by a gang, described as Asian, near his home in Pollokshields last Monday, although eye-witness information last night suggested the gang may have been of mixed race. His body was found early on Tuesday dumped behind a Celtic supporters' club in the city's east end. He had been beaten to death in an attack described as 'brutal and senseless'. News of the controversial visit came as Strathclyde police linked a burnt-out car found in the west end of the city to the murder. Police believe the silver Mercedes was set alight on Monday evening and are seeking two men seen running from scene. One witness saw an Asian and a white man run away from the burning vehicle. Kriss was said to have been abducted by a gang of Asian men while he was walking with a 19-year-old friend. The other youth managed to escape but Kriss was bundled into a silver car. Police said that they had yet to discover a motive for the murder. The BNP leader has said he will visit the Pollokshields area this weekend. Despite officials in Glasgow, as well as Labour First Minister Jack McConnell, saying the party was 'not welcome', Griffin is understood to be planning a visit to Pollokshields tomorrow, although he refused to confirm this. 'Obviously there is some suggestion that I am going to make a visit but we will decide that later. I certainly won't be put off by anything anyone from the Labour Party says because they are all out to save their own skins,' Griffin said yesterday. 'But obviously the question of public order and in particular police resources while they are trying to catch the killers, is a consideration we will take into account. 'We are very angry because if the police had taken note of our warning two years ago, then that lad would still be alive. So we very much blame the police and the Procurator Fiscal and, of course, the usual suspects in the Labour Party.' Politicians and community leaders united to condemning the proposed visit . Police refused to comment on Griffin's claim. However a spokeswoman said: 'People who are intent on causing trouble should stay away and leave the community to recover from this tragedy.' Kriss's mother Angela Donald has also urged the public not to target the Asian community because of her son's death. Scotland's First Minister, Jack McConnell, described Griffin and the BNP as 'poisonous'. He said: 'To seek to exploit the grief of the family, friends and the community in Glasgow where he lived is, I think, a despicable act.'