A teenager who killed the school-leaver Jimmy Mizen during a frenzied scuffle in a south London bakery was given a life sentence and ordered to serve a minimum of 14 years yesterday after an Old Bailey jury found him guilty of murder.Jake Fahri, 19, was said to have gone berserk after challenging Mizen and his brother in the shop and throwing a heavy glass dish of sausages at him. The dish shattered after hitting Mizen on the chin and a shard of glass cut vital blood vessels in his neck.The case was the second murder conviction arising out of a south London teenagers' fight in three weeks, following the conviction of Karl Bishop for stabbing the Harry Potter film actor Robert Knox in Sidcup.Mizen, who had celebrated his 16th birthday the day before, died within minutes in the arms of his brother in the bakery's storeroom, in a welter of blood, while Fahri sauntered smiling from the shop. The case is believed to be the first in which a glass dish has been classed as a murder weapon. Fahri, who had pleaded not guilty, had claimed that he had been acting in self-defence.Mr Justice Calvert-Smith told him: "A trivial incident over absolutely nothing in a High Street bakery ended three minutes later with the death of a blameless young man."The court was told that Fahri, who had a history of difficulties controlling his temper, had not wanted to loose face after picking a row with the two brothers as they stood in front of him in the queue at the shop, where they had gone to buy sausage rolls. Fahri demanded they should get out of his way and became angry when Mizen's older brother Harry suggested he should say please.He promised to wait for them outside the shop and stormed back in after seeing the Mizens telephoning their older brother for help. The brothers bundled him out of the shop and he then returned a third time, wielding a metal framed advertising sign and kicking through the shop's glass door. As the 6ft 2 inch tall, 14 stone Jimmy Mizen, wrested the sign away, Fahri, 5ft 7ins, picked up the dish from the counter and hurled it at him.Crispin Aylett QC, prosecuting, said: "A trivial incident, brought about by the defendant's rudeness, escalated into something horrific. The defendant reached for any and every available weapon with which to attack the Mizen brothers. The whole incident lasted no more than three minutes – three minutes of absolute madness on the part of this defendant."Fahri had told the court he did not mean to do serious harm: "I did not think it would break, let alone hit him in the face. I literally picked it up and slung it in two seconds."Sally O'Neill, QC, defending, said the incident at the Three Cooks Bakery in Lee, south London had been deeply unlucky: "It was clearly something which happened on the spur of the moment. The dish was picked up because it was there."Mizen, one of nine children of a devout Catholic family, had been due to start an apprenticeship with a local council. He had just been out with his brother to buy his first lottery ticket. His large family applauded as the verdict was delivered but then fell silent, weeping and comforting each other. Outside the court the dead teenager's father Barry Mizen said Britain was rapidly changing from a place of civility and fairness to a "country of anger". His voice cracked as he said: "I want to thank God for Jimmy, thank God for his life. It was a pleasure and a privilege to have been his parents. This country stands apart from other countries. This is a country of civility and a country of fair play, fairness, and a country of safety. We are rapidly losing that. We have become a country of anger, of selfishness and of fear. It doesn't have to be like this. Let's together try and stop it."Fahri, who lived close to the Mizen family and had attacked Harry Mizen twice previously, showed no emotion as he was sentenced, but as he was taken to the cells he called out: "I will be all right, mum, I'll be all right" to his weeping mother in the public gallery.Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons said: "Jake Fahri is an aggressive young man who throughout his life continually demonstrated an inability to control his emotions and restrain his temper. As we have all come to know Jimmy was the exact opposite of Fahri; a peaceful, courteous person with only the best intentions."