"Stop! Thief!"It might be one of the oldest and cliched phrases associated with crime, but it got my attention as I gave chase to a mugger after he robbed a woman in broad daylight. My friend and I pursued him through the residential streets of suburban south-west London until he stopped in an alley to catch his breath. He stood still, meters away from us, rummaging through the handbag he'd stolen. The thrill of the chase was over, our adrenaline run dry. He looked up at us, and we at him. I felt myself tremble but we moved closer to him, no thoughts in our heads as to the consequences."Can I have my grandma's purse back, please?" I asked (she wasn't my grandmother, but it was feasible). He denied having it and slid the bag behind his back. As I lunged for it, with a comic lack of accuracy and balance, I slipped and fell to the pavement. I was terrified, and 15 years old.It is telling that what some might call my reckless citizen vigilantism took place 10 years ago. Reports published this week by the Metropolitan police highlight that the number of citizen's arrests has declined by 85% in less than 10 years. Britain is now a "walk-on-by culture". Analysts say that we are now too afraid to intervene when we see a crime taking place as we fear for our own safety. If the same thing had happened today, would I have given chase? I suppose I probably would.As I lay on the pavement he had the perfect cue to escape. He jumped over me and disappeared around the corner. This time we kept our distance and followed him while calling the police. We watched as he was arrested and were later happy to hear he was found guilty of robbery (it transpired the woman he mugged was an 80-year-old he'd also pushed to the ground, and that he was also wanted by the police on a rape charge).As I look back on it, with a bravery award handed out by the local council, I realise how lucky I was not to have been hurt. There might be a degree of romanticism attached to intervening in a crime on instinct – think how we celebrated "super gran" Ann Timson this year – but my experience makes me realise that physical intervention is not always the way.We may worry about a decline in citizen's arrests but we should also celebrate the work of community groups in places such as Vauxhall, south London, where they started to patrol their roads after a number of lone girls were attacked in the area and muggings and pickpocketing rose.Of course we have fears over intervention, but it is a moral obligation to help in any way we can.