The Spanish drifter who sexually assaulted and suffocated the Cornish schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson admitted yesterday that he was responsible for her death, but insisted he had never meant to kill her.On the opening day of his appeal against the murder conviction handed down last year by a court in Rennes, Brittany, Francisco Arce Montes said he was appealing because "I want to explain everything that happened that day, which I did not do before".Caroline, 13, was found dead on the floor of a shared room of the Pleine-Fougères youth hostel early in the morning of July 18 1996. She was on a school trip to Brittany with 40 other pupils from Launceston community college.Arce Montes, 55, an itinerant hotel and restaurant worker convicted or suspected of sex offences in five European countries, was found guilty last June of "murder preceded, accompanied or followed by rape" and sentenced to 30 years in jail, with no chance of parole for 20 years.During the six days of that trial Arce Montes said little, and then only in Spanish. Yesterday, looking relaxed and wearing a blue shirt with rolled-up sleeves and a reddish tie, he recounted in fluent French his version of the day leading up to the girl's death.He said he had travelled from Rennes to Pleine-Fougères via the port of Saint-Malo, where he had tried to return to England, where he had been living. After getting lost, he claimed he sought refuge in the only building in the small village where the lights were still on: the youth hostel.He admitted entering the room where Caroline and four of her classmates were sleeping, molesting her, and placing his hand over her mouth. "I killed her without meaning to do so," he told the appeals court in Saint-Brieuc. "It was the consequence of a rape ... an accident, a misfortune."Arce Montes's crime is defined as rape under French law: in fact, according to evidence at the Rennes trial, he masturbated above her body and penetrated her with his fingers.The prosecution, which is also appealing against the verdict in the hope of securing a heavier sentence, argued at the Rennes trial that Arce Montes had been planning his trip to Plein-Fougères for some time, and that given the force he used he must have been aware of the likelihood that the girl would suffocate.Caroline's now-separated parents, John and Sue Dickinson, also gave testimony yesterday. Her mother, 47, described her daughter as "a very well-behaved little girl, very good at school. She was a little girl, growing up, not yet a young woman. She had not entered puberty. Her teachers thought a stay in France would help her gain confidence."Mr Dickinson, who said before the hearing he was "confident in French justice" but that the appeal was "a worry", told the court he would be "forever haunted" by the vision of her body in the morgue. "Life has stuck at the same page for nine years. I have not been able to start afresh."Caroline's younger sister, Jenny, 20, who called her her "best friend", took the stand to say she had been unable to talk to even her close friends about what had happened for about six years.After a disastrous initial phase of the murder investigation led by a hopelessly ineffective examining magistrate, the French inquiry into Caroline's death was exhaustive: some 3,700 DNA tests were carried out, including the entire adult male population of Pleine-Fougéres.Arce Montes appeared on a list of 48 men wanted for questioning about the murder as early as 1997. But he was only arrested in 2001, thanks to a sharp-eyed US immigration official who read about the case in a UK newspaper, ran the name through a database and found that he was in a Miami jail after being arrested in the city for lewd behaviour.