British police caught more motorists over the legal alcohol limit this Christmas than last, with the largest increase taking place in Scotland - where at least one offender was detected every hour of the seasonal anti-drink drive campaign.Figures released by the Association of Chief Police Officers show that between December 18 and January 2, 1,035 people in England and Wales were caught drink driving, up from 8.7% of those tested in 2002-03 to 8.9% this year. In Scotland 770 drivers failed breath tests, up 3% from 750 the previous year.The rate, which has been climbing steadily since 1998, increased despite there being fewer crashes in England and Wales, which meant not as many motorists were tested. There were 5,002 crashes involving injuries in the two countries, 4.58% less than the previous festive period. The number of drink-related collisions was also down by 4.17%. In Scotland, there were 720 serious accidents, up from 693. Police caught 107 female motorists over the limit, a 30% increase on last year. They also detected 663 men drink driving, compared with 668 the previous Christmas. Richard Brunstrom, the North Wales chief constable, said the safety campaign had achieved its main objective in England and Wales of reducing injury collisions. He said, however, that the number of people driving after drinking too much was "worrying". He urged the government to adopt the European Commission's recommendation of a lower blood alcohol limit of 50mg to replace the current UK limit of 80mg. Mr Brunstrom also called for police powers to be extended to allow the use of intelligence to target and prosecute offenders. Kevin Clinton, the head of road safety for the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, said the government's own figures had shown that lowering the blood alcohol limit could save 50 lives and prevent 250 serious injuries a year. "People are dying needlessly and there will be no improvement in this dreadful situation unless the drink drive limit is lowered and the police are given powers to breath test motorists anywhere anytime," Mr Clinton said. "Between 50mg and 80mg, drivers are two to four times more likely to be involved in a fatal accident than drivers with no alcohol. We are now one of only four countries in the EU with a level above 50mg." John Thurso, the Liberal Democrat transport spokesman, said the confusion over how much alcohol drivers could consume could be eliminated by the simple message: "If you've had a drink, don't drive." Hugh Henry, the Scottish deputy justice minister, said the statistics were "extremely disappointing". "Anyone caught faces massive insurance premiums, loss of their licence and even a small prison sentence," he said. "Despite this, it is clear there are still some people who continue to risk heavy penalties and put themselves and others in danger. It is also disheartening to see that the number of women caught drink-driving has increased."