A teenager who was fatally stabbed through the heart had been raped before she was murdered and dumped in wasteland, police revealed yesterday.As the hunt for the killer of Jeshma Raithatha entered its seventh day, police gave more details of the attack on the 17-year-old A-level student. Detectives were yesterday focusing their inquiry on a suspect who lives near Jeshma's family home in Greenford, west London. The man, thought to be Russian, disappeared after the discovery of Jeshma's body last Tuesday in dense undergrowth on a recreation ground some 500 yards from her home. The teenager, who hoped to become a singer, disappeared on May 16 and forensic tests show she died nearly a week later from three stab wounds to the heart. It is likely her body was moved after her murder. "A post-mortem gave the cause of death as three stab wounds to the heart. Since that original post-mortem we have been waiting for the results of forensic tests. We now have them. She had been raped," a Scotland Yard spokesman said yesterday. Sniffer dogs and police in forensic science suits descended on Dimmock Drive, Greenford, west London yesterday as the murder hunt for her killer focused on the immediate area around her home. Scotland Yard said the occupant of one of the houses they were searching was a "suspect" because he left the area in the days after the discovery of the teenager's partially clothed body. Neighbours said they believed the occupants of the properties were Russian, but that little was known about them, saying they kept themselves to themselves. A spokesman said: "We can confirm that police investigating the murder of Jeshma Raithatha are conducting inquiries to locate a man who is known to have left his address in Dimmock Drive. "Searches at Dimmock Drive continue. There have been no arrests at this stage. We are not prepared to discuss the identity of the man at this stage." Natasha Young, 22, a local resident, said she believed the house being searched by police yesterday was occupied by a group of Russians. "It's mostly young people - in their twenties. You always see people going in and out," she said. "We were all out in the street yesterday and no one knows who they are. A couple came out with their passports. We've never had any trouble though." Jeshma was an aspiring singer who had listed herself for voice-over work on a professional website. Investigators have speculated that she may have met her attacker on the internet but her parents, Suresh and Manjula, said she would not talk to strangers on the net. Mrs Raithatha said: "She told me she only used to access safe sites and she would only talk to people she knew." "I know that if she was going to meet someone she would have told me. My instinct tells me that someone tricked her into a car, maybe a person she met who had other motives she was not aware of. "She had boyfriends but they were not deep emotional relationships because she was not ready to settle down." Police are trawling through phone, text message and internet records to find any relationships Jeshma might have kept hidden from her family. Jeshma disappeared three days before her 18th birthday. Her brother, Trishul, 15, and sister, Nishma, 12, are said to be "devastated" by her death.