A former binman who murdered his girlfriend, her twin sister and an elderly couple was told today that he would spend the rest of his life in jail.Leeds crown court heard that Mark Hobson, 35, was the first person be given a whole life tariff after pleading guilty. The sentencing means he will never be released from prison. Sentencing Hobson, Mr Justice Grigson said he had caused "incalculable" damage with the killings in July last year. At the court last month Hobson admitted murdering his girlfriend Claire Sanderson, 27, and her sister Diane at his flat in the village of Camblesforth, near Selby, North Yorkshire, and then murdering pensioners Joan and James Britton at their home near York. Paul Worsley QC, for the prosecution, had told the court: "Only a whole life order is appropriate because the seriousness of the offences is exceptionally high. Mark Hobson should never be released. "The defendant had no alternative but to admit the killings because the evidence against him was overwhelming."As his sentence was read out today, the twins' mother, Jacqueline Sanderson, stood up in the public gallery and, crying, shouted: "Rot in hell ... You bastard. Rot in there."Hobson, dressed in a dark suit and tie, sat with his head bowed in the dock during the hour-long hearing, surrounded by five security guards. During sentencing the judge said: "You not only destroyed the lives of your victims, but you devastated the lives of those who loved them. The damage you've done is incalculable. The enormity of what you've done is beyond words." Mr Worsley said that Hobson's offences were premeditated and of a serious sexual nature so he should not be given any credit for his guilty plea. In mitigation before sentencing, Jeremy Richardson QC said: "The only point I can reasonably and properly make on behalf of the defendant is that he has pleaded guilty." The judge rejected defence pleas to give his client credit for admitting the offences and not deciding to peddle a "preposterous defence", sparing the families of the victims the ordeal of a trial. The defence's argument for a minimum prison term of 30 years was also rejected. Jeremy Richardson QC, defending, said psychiatrists had examined Hobson and found he had a history of depression and also an antisocial personality disorder but doctors had failed to find a psychological explanation for his crimes. Last month the court heard Hobson, who has one natural daughter and two adopted children, may have planned to kill even more people and had scribbled lists of other potential targets. Hobson killed Claire Sanderson with 17 hammer blows and carefully wrapped her body in binbags. A week later, he phoned her sister Diane claiming Claire was ill and asked her to call round as a plan to lure her to the house. He had told a fellow refuse collector some months earlier that he was "going to have Diane" and had picked the "wrong sister".James and Joan Britton were found dead in their home 25 miles away near York. Hobson had brutally beaten them with Mr Britton's walking stick before stabbing them to death. The murders led to one of the biggest police manhunts in British history. The killer was on the run for eight days before he was arrested in a field off the A19 after being recognised when visiting a garage shop. When arrested he was armed with a knife stolen from the Brittons' kitchen.Mr Worsley said that when he was arrested, Hobson told police: "I'm a fucking murderer, aren't I?" In a police interview, he told detectives he had taken a cocktail of drugs including cannabis, cocaine, ecstasy and alcohol and could not remember anything about his girlfriend's death. He claimed to have "lost a day and a half" and come round with a bloodstained hammer in his hand.The court heard that Hobson had met Claire Sanderson 18 months earlier and both had problems with alcohol. Their relationship was violent and they often rowed.Hobson concocted a series of spurious stories to cover his movements after he murdered Claire on July 10 last year, and a week later lured her sister to the house. Diane had been due to meet her boyfriend, Ian Harrison, in the Cricketers Arms pub in Selby on July 17. When she failed to turn up, Mr Harrison phoned her mobile, which was answered by Hobson.The court heard Hobson claimed that the twins' father, George Sanderson, had died of a heart attack, and that Diane was "very upset". He arranged to meet Mr Harrison in the pub, and then calmly invited him into the maisonette, "where Claire's body lay decomposing near to that of her sister's sexually mutilated body", Mr Worsley said.The prosecutor said Mr Harrison noticed the "very unpleasant smell". Hobson claimed he had a problem with the drains. When Mr Harrison got up from the sofa he found his trouser leg soaked in blood. Hobson said Claire was "poorly with women's problems". The next morning Mr Harrison called at the twins' parents house and was "shocked" when George Sanderson opened the door, fit and well. "They drove straight to Hobson's house," Mr Worsley said. "The door was unlocked, so they went inside and noticed the smell of rotting flesh. When they went upstairs, they found the bodies of the twins in the bedroom."