Gordon Brown was accused last night of offering £1.2bn to win the votes of nine Democratic Unionist party MPs whose support ensured the government won the 42 day vote in the Commons.Minutes after Peter Robinson, the DUP leader, led his MPs through the government's division lobby, the former Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith intervened in the Commons to claim that the government had bought its victory.He asked the Speaker: "We understand there has been internal agreement to an extra expenditure in Northern Ireland of some £1.2bn announced today. I wonder if you have had notice of an emergency budget statement concerning Northern Ireland?"Duncan Smith intervened after a day in which a series of inducements, covering Cuban sanctions and Yorkshire miners, via Churchill's "dreary steeples of Fermanagh and Tyrone" for the DUP, were offered to Labour MPs as the government embarked on what critics condemned as "pork barrel" politics to avoid defeat.Conservative sources said a three-point package had been floated before the DUP:· Up to £1bn in extra money for Northern Ireland by allowing the assets from the sale of army bases, due to close as a result of the peace process, to remain in Northern Ireland.· Up to £200m by relaxing Treasury rules on the proceeds of new water charges in Northern Ireland.·  A commitment that liberal abortion laws in Great Britain, which do not apply in Northern Ireland, would not be extended to the province.The prime minister held a series of meetings with Peter Robinson, including one less than two hours before the key vote. But both the DUP and Downing Street insisted no deal had been done.No 10 sources said Brown had recently given a public commitment to Ian Paisley, the former DUP leader, that the 24-week upper limit on abortion in England, Scotland and Wales would not apply in Northern Ireland. The sources added that proceeds from the sale of army bases would remain with the Ministry of Defence and no extra money had been offered to soften the blow of water charges."These are all long-standing issues that have been debated for some time," one government source said. "There is no change in policy."Gregory Campbell, one of the nine DUP MPs, said his party had voted on the merits of the 42-day plan. "We came down in favour of the 42 days on the merits of the case." But he said the DUP would use the leverage it now had over the government. "It proves that now beyond doubt the DUP MPs are crucial and we will be reminding them of that on each and every occasion that that comes into play, which will probably be more and more often now."There was more certainty over other inducements. Ian Gibson, the Labour MP for Norwich North, was amused when he heard that the all-party Cuba group had been told that Britain would change its stance on EU sanctions against Havana. Colin Burgon, the Labour MP for Elmet, was told by a senior government minister, that Britain would vote to end mild EU sanctions, including a freeze on visits by high level officials imposed in 2003.Gibson, a strong opponent of sanctions, was unmoved. "My wife told me she would leave me if I voted to support 42 days. She said I had been around long enough not to fall for inducements. Even if I were offered a ticket to watch Scotland play in their first World Cup final that would be no substitute for a serious debate on this issue."Most MPs laughed at the offer on Cuba because Britain, which kept up links with Havana even while Fidel Castro was president, treads carefully in the EU on the issue for fear of offending the US.There were no laughs among Labour MPs about the touchstone issue of compensation for miners. In recent days, the prime minister has taken an intense interest in compensation for those suffering from osteoarthritis, a condition that affects the knees from years working underground.Mick Clapham, a former National Union of Mineworkers official who is now Labour MP for Barnsley West and Penistone, held talks with Brown this week after an inconclusive meeting with Malcolm Wicks, the energy minister. Clapham, who met the prime minister with fellow Labour MP David Hamilton, wants up to £10,000 to be given to miners by making osteoarthritis a formally designated industrial injury.Clapham, who changed his mind on 42 days to vote with the government, insisted the timing was "coincidental". He said he changed his mind last week. "I am tempted to go with 42 days. "But I think it has been marketed very badly. It should have been marketed as 28 days with the potential for being able to extend the time limit in certain serious instances with serious parliamentary and judicial oversight."The concession that was easiest to pin down was an offer by Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, to Mohammad Sarwar, the Labour MP for Glasgow Central, to compensate people who are detained beyond 28 days and then released without charge.A former minister was unimpressed by the bartering. "This is the worst form of pork barrel politics. It makes the government look weak and will strengthen the resolve of the House of Lords to destroy this bill."