The Prison Service has admitted that its officers subjected inmates to sustained beatings, mock executions, death threats, choking and torrents of racist abuse, the Guardian has learned.Fourteen prisoners were seriously assaulted by officers in Wormwood Scrubs in west London, the service has admitted, in what amounts to the biggest abuse scandal in a British jail in modern times. It has admitted that the prisoners suffered at least 122 separate instances of assault between 1995 and 1999, according to court documents seen by the Guardian. The Prison Service has also settled a further 32 cases without admitting the prisoners' claims of violence were true. It has paid out £1.7m so far - although this figure could become much higher. Wormwood Scrubs has been dogged by allegations of brutality for years, but only one case had been proved - until the admissions revealed today. The documents show that prison officers tried to cover up the assaults by bringing false disciplinary charges against inmates. The Prison Service has also admitted that senior officials in the jail and in management failed to investigate the assaults properly. Inmates who tried to complain were threatened and beaten to keep them silent. One officer assaulted an inmate who had been to see the chaplain, jumping on his ankle and taunting him by saying: "Will the chaplain help you now?" The victims and penal experts have demanded that the government set up a public inquiry into the violence, and investigate whether managers in the jail, Prison Service or Home Office were aware of it. Last night Sir David Ramsbotham, the former inspector of prisons, said if repeated warnings about brutality at the jail had been acted upon the assaults would not have taken place. "I cannot believe that the senior management of the Prison Service did not know about these assaults," he said. "Any responsible management should have done something about it, because it was a cancer in their midst. The documents name 14 officers who were involved in the assaults and one who took part in the cover-up. The Prison Officers' Association said four were still at the Scrubs and a further seven at other jails. Two have been promoted. In one of the worst incidents, an Irish inmate was pinned on a bed and choked as eight officers beat him, with one shouting for the victim to call him "English master". Other inmates were left with broken bones, one was so terrified that he slashed his wrists and another will need residential care to cope with the mental trauma. On several occasions officers psychologically tortured prisoners by threatening to hang them and bragging that they had done this to other inmates without being caught. Yesterday the final paperwork to settle a case brought by an inmate who had a noose placed around his neck was signed by the prisons minister, Paul Goggins. The Prison Service admits that its officers had beaten the inmate before at least four others took a sheet from his bed and told him they would hang him and make it look like suicide. Then the officers tied the sheet into a noose and fixed it to cell bars. The prisoner was terrified and lost control of his bladder. The officers then lifted the inmate up, gagged him with a towel and placed the noose around his neck. The sister of another victim who needs ongoing psychi-atric care said: "I do want a public inquiry. There are men there and I want them to explain themselves. I want them to lose their jobs." In a statement to an employment tribunal a former Wormwood Scrubs governor, Tony Hassall, said some staff members had witnessed the brutality and had tried to blow the whistle, but managers had ignored them. "There was almost a gang culture and vigilante culture within the prison," he said. "If there were difficult prisoners, they would have them removed to the segregation unit. There was a constant use of force to resolve issues." The prison was at the centre of a police investigation which began in 1998. Three officers were jailed for violence against prisoners and 24 were cleared or had the cases against them dropped. The Prison Service dismissed six officers, including three who had been convicted and cleared on appeal. But the investigation did not deter some prison officers. At least four of the assaults admitted by the Prison Service took place after detectives arrived at the jail in March 1998, according to court documents. Warnings from two chief inspectors of prisons, Sir Stephen Tumin in 1994 and Sir David Ramsbotham in 1996, also went unheeded. Sir David told the Guardian he had raised concerns with the head of the service, but the management had been "turning a blind eye". He also raised the problem with the then government, but again nothing happened. In 1998 the prison's board of visitors wrote to the then home secretary, Jack Straw, warning of persistent fears of brutality. Again nothing happened. A Prison Service spokesman said last night: "We have not admitted liability in any of the recent civil claims. We have accepted that there were failings amongst a number of individual prison officers which led to six convictions of assault in September 2001." John Hancock, the secretary of the Prison Officers' Association at the Scrubs, said he was concerned the service was scapegoating his members. "We would welcome a public inquiry to clear their names once and for all," he said.