More than two dozen MPs have been sent an identical message threatening to kill them and their family, along with a picture of a severed head.Chris Bryant, a former shadow cabinet minister, said police were investigating the threats against at least 25 MPs made at the weekend, which come two months after the murder of his Labour colleague Jo Cox.Bryant said threats against politicians were on the rise and those who are women, gay or from a minority ethnic background appeared to receive the worst treatment.“I don’t want to give too much detail because obviously there is a police investigation going on now,” he said. “But the truth is that this is a regular part of what we are dealing with at the moment, and I don’t want police to waste time and I don’t want politicians to be treated differently, but the truth of the matter is that we are in the public eye and somehow or other, this world of the internet has fostered an anger and a bitterness which a lot of us are still bearing the emotional scars of losing one of our colleagues earlier on this year. And the sad thing is that is not the only time that has happened.”The identical death threats are understood to have been sent to MPs from across the parties and contain a same message: “Warning I am going to kill you and all of your family.”A spokesman for the Metropolitan police said the force was investigating a linked series of threatening emails that had been received by a number of MPs since Friday.“All of these emails have been received via MPs’ parliamentary email accounts. No arrests have been made and enquiries are ongoing. This is not being treated as a terrorist incident,” he added.People have been prosecuted in recent months for making death threats to Labour MPs Luciana Berger and Ben Bradshaw. Labour MP Jess Phillips revealed this month that she was having a “panic room” fitted in her constituency officeafter a series of threats to her safety. A number of other parliamentarians are in the process of updating security measures at their homes and constituency offices.Bryant has been one of the most vocal in calling for threats against MPs to be taken more seriously.“What is particularly disturbing is that a lot of these threats are to women. I think women MPs, gay MPs, ethnic minority MPs get the brunt of it,” he said. “Or at least that is what I have heard from people on an anecdotal basis. “One of the things that I have been very keen to try and achieve is that we should have in parliament a proper body which I think is now being set up, which will look at all of this in the round so that it is not just Greater Manchester police and then Merseyside and so on, dealing individually with MPs. But you can see whether, for instance, the same person is targeting all of these people or not.”