A schoolgirl has been convicted of manslaughter after helping her parents with an arson attack that killed the mother and father of a girl she had bullied.Natalie Connor, 18, along with her parents, Jane and Michael Connor, both 40, plotted to pour petrol through the letter box of fellow pupil Lucy Cochrane's house in Manchester over a "trivial and nonsensical" hate obsession. Lucy's parent's, Alex Cochrane, 54, a baggage handler, and his ex-wife Maureen, 45, who worked at a garden centre, died as a result of the blaze which erupted at the house on January 12. Lucy, then 16, survived.Jane and Michael Connor were found guilty of murder after a six-week trial at Manchester crown court yesterday. The Connors carried out an 18-month "campaign of harassment" on the Cochranes, the court heard. Their daughter, Natalie, harboured an obsessive hatred for Lucy after the pair fell out, and her mother was a "ready ally", who plied her ex-husband with alcohol while inciting him to "sort out" the problem. Natalie had plotted with her parents to set Lucy's home alight, the court heard, after making up entirely false claims that the teenager, who had special needs, was bullying her at Newall Green High School in south Manchester.The court heard how the Connors waited outside the Cochranes' house until they had gone to bed before setting the house on fire. Michael Connor then poured 1.5 litres of petrol through the letterbox and then lit a match, while his wife kept watch.By the time fire crews arrived Mrs Cochrane was dead and, although her husband was pulled from the house, he died later in hospital. Lucy suffered severe burns. She now lives with an uncle.Yesterday Lucy's grandmother and grandfather said in a statement: "Maureen and Alex were lovely, gentle people who would not, indeed could not, harm anyone. They would not retaliate even under provocation, as everyone now knows."It was our Maureen, Alex and Lucy's misfortune to be targeted by a moronic, mentally and morally corrupt family of misfits."The Connors will be sentenced at Manchester crown court on December 20.