The landlord of murdered landscape architect Jo Yeates is to sue the police force that he claims falsely arrested him on suspicion of her killing.Friends of Christopher Jefferies say that he will launch a legal action against the Avon and Somerset force over the manner of his arrest and questioning by police investigating the death of Yeates, 25, whose body was found by a roadside verge near the village of Failand, Somerset, on Christmas morning last year.The former public-school teacher was arrested on 30 December, prompting negative coverage by a number of newspapers that are already the subject of legal action by Jefferies. Following two days of questioning on suspicion of her murder, Jefferies, 66, was placed on police bail that expired on 7 March. Friends say that the experience caused him considerable distress and that his treatment has left him embittered."He was arrested completely falsely; there was no evidence against him. He is already suing a number of newspapers and now he has decided to issue legal action against the actual police," said a source close to the case. Last week Dutch engineer Vincent Tabak, 33, admitted that he killed Yeates, pleading guilty to manslaughter during a brief hearing at the Old Bailey in London. The Crown Prosecution Service, however, rejected his plea, and Tabak is expected to stand trial for murder in October. It is possible that Jefferies may yet be summoned as a witness, although a case review by prosecutors on Friday is not thought to have reached a final decision.Both Yeates and Tabak, who lived in adjacent flats in the Clifton area of Bristol, were tenants of Jefferies. Friends say that he will have little to contribute to the forthcoming trial except that he took rent from the pair.An Avon and Somerset police spokesman said last night that they would not be drawn on the issue of his legal action. "In light of the ongoing legal proceedings it would be inappropriate for us to give a view," he said. Jefferies has issued libel and privacy proceedings against a number of newspapers, including the Sun, Daily Mirror, Daily Mail, Daily Express and Daily Star.Media lawyer Mark Lewis said that it might not be so much the arrest that was the issue, but the manner in which it was announced. "There is an argument that they made it sound like he [Jefferies] did it, while all the time the actual killer was living next door. It was a very high-profile arrest and there was a very high public perception that the police had got their man."Yeates shared an apartment with her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, who alerted police after he returned from a weekend away to find his girlfriend missing, though many of her personal belongings remained in their rented home. Her frozen body was found three miles from the flat. She had been strangled and was fully clothed apart from a missing sock.Police also found two bottles of cider and the receipt for a Tesco pizza, which tests showed had not been eaten by Miss Yeates and has never been found.Yeates was last seen alive on the evening of 17 December after going for Christmas drinks with colleagues at a pub in Bristol city centre. Last week her parents, David and Teresa, were in Court 2 of the Old Bailey to witness Tabak, who was appearing by videolink from Long Lartin prison where he is on remand, admit to killing their daughter.Tabak, who lived with his American girlfriend Tanja Morson, 34, moved to Britain from the Netherlands in 2008 after taking a job as a design analyst with Buro Happold, which is based in Bath.Just before Christmas, and shortly after Yeates was reported missing, Tabak and Morson flew to Holland to spend time with his family.