A man was arrested yesterday after a woman was found shot dead at a house in north Staffordshire. Police cordoned off the house in Audley in the early hours of yesterday after finding the body of the middle-aged woman. A 44-year-old local man is helping police with their inquiries.Last night the house, at the end of a cul-de-sac, remained sealed off as detectives continued their examination of the scene. The woman was named as Susan Rondel, 48. A post-mortem showed she died from a gunshot wound. It is thought she was shot at around midnight on Boxing Day.Neighbours said she had lived there alone for around eight years but had two grown-up sons, Philip and Dean, who live nearby.Kevin Phillips, who lives opposite, said: "It's come as such a shock. I didn't hear guns going off or anything last night, but I woke at about 4am and saw police outside. She was a very nice woman; always very polite when I saw her and friendly to children - it's awful to think someone would kill her."Another neighbour, a retired man who refused to be named, said he woke yesterday morning to find police in the street. "I don't know the people in the house but it is still a shock to think something like this happens on your doorstep, and being this time of year just makes it that much worse."Meanwhile detectives on Merseyside are questioning a 26-year old man after a pensioner was murdered in her own home. Neighbours found the body of Ada McCabe, 83, at her home in Windle, St Helens.She spent Boxing Day with her family and returned home in a taxi at 11pm. Neighbours said they heard noises from her terrace house in the early hours of the morning.When one concerned resident went to check on Mrs McCabe in the morning, they discovered her body.Marion Dixon, a neighbour who knew her well, said Mrs McCabe had lived in the area for 35 years. She was a widow who lost her husband seven years ago. "She was a lovely person. She knew everybody; she spoke to everybody," said Mrs Dixon.Police believe the victim may have known her attacker, and they have appealed for witnesses to come forward.Chief Superintendent Peter Brinkley said: "It's a quiet road and a close-knit community. We have been very encouraged by the response from the community, but would like to hear from anyone who heard anything at 3am or before."The 26-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder.