A summit aimed at tackling the increasing number of "weapon dogs" in London was held at City Hall today .The number of suspected dangerous dogs seized by the Metropolitan police rose by 60% in the last year, while court cases involving dangerous dog offences rose by 50% between 2006 and 2007. In the last five years, London's hospitals have seen admissions for dog bites increase by 79% , compared to 43% nationally.The Conservative deputy mayor of London, Kit Malthouse, hosted the meeting with the RSPCA, Metropolitan police and representatives from the capital's 32 boroughs.Malthouse, who is deputy mayor for policing, said urgent action was needed so that "Londoners are free to walk the streets without fear of intimidation, injury and attack from a snarling weapon dog"."There is a new weapon of intimidation terrorising the streets of London," he said. "Using a weapon dog is no different to using a gun or a knife to attack, maim and even kill. More and more people are choosing specific types of breeds as their weapon of choice and choosing them for a reason. Certain types of dogs are inherently more aggressive than others."Between April 2008 and 2009, 719 dangerous dogs were seized in London, a huge rise from the 27 seized in 2004/05. Malthouse said police were on course to pick up more than 1,000 dogs this year.Earlier this month, the deputy mayor said it was time to "find a way gently to phase out the canine weapons that terrorise the streets of Peckham, Toxteth and Moss Side"."More and more people are using their dogs as instruments of fear and attack and they are choosing certain types and breeds," he wrote in the Sunday Times. "It's not just the owners we must be concerned about; there is also something in the dogs that must be considered. These breeds are chosen for a reason."But Malthouse's campaign has been criticised as "increasing the appeal" of the very canines he is trying to crack down on.Ryan O'Meara, editor of K9 magazine said that by branding breeds "weapon dogs" the deputy mayor was "creating a demand" for the very dogs he was trying to restrict."Malthouse is doing the equivalent of sticking parental advisory labels on CDs – calling breeds 'weapon dogs' is making them appeal to the exact groups they're trying to avoid," O'Meara said. "But he is coming at this from a position of ignorance. The four people killed by dogs since 2003 have all been killed by dogs belonging to family members inside family homes."Dogs are the product of their upbringing and their environment. The solution is training owners and having compulsory ownership tests, not trying to enforce [breed specific legislation as enshrined in the] 1991 Dangerous Dogs' Act – one of the most ineffective pieces of legislation in history."Malthouse came under the spotlight in September after declaring that he and Boris Johnson "have our hands on the tiller" of the Metropolitan police and have an electoral mandate to influence what it does.Sir Paul Stephenson, the commissioner of the Met, interrupted his holiday to insist he alone set the operational strategy for policing in the capital.