The soldier who is thought to have killed himself after murdering the Cambridge student Sally Geeson had served eight months in a military jail for falsely imprisoning an 18-year-old woman in a car, it emerged last night.Lance Corporal David Atkinson, 31, was found dead on Saturday morning. It is believed he set himself alight before leaping from the seventh floor of the Corus hotel in Glasgow city centre. Witnesses said he was wearing an unusual harness. Twelve hours earlier, the naked body of Ms Geeson, 22, was discovered in woodland at Madingley, near Cambridge. She had been strangled. Last night the Ministry of Defence confirmed that Atkinson, who served with the Royal Engineers and was based at Waterbeach, near Cambridge, had been charged with kidnapping and assaulting a Polish woman while stationed in Germany in 1998. He was cleared of kidnap and assault, but sentenced to eight months in a military prison at Colchester, Essex, after being found guilty of false imprisonment. He was also fined £1,000. Atkinson, a divorced father of one from East Kilbride, Lanarkshire, returned to his unit after serving the sentence. It emerged yesterday that army officials had contacted the police after Atkinson went missing from Waterbeach last Wednesday, and gave information leading detectives to believe he could be responsible for Ms Geeson's disappearance after a New Year's Eve pub party. Soldiers at the barracks said they had been concerned by his attitude to women. Described as a "loner", he had the reputation of taking his car out at night and then boasting about picking up women from pubs at closing time, sometimes posing as a taxi driver. It is understood that Ms Geeson was seen on CCTV in the early hours of New Year's Day apparently trying to hail a cab in central Cambridge after a party in a pub. Her body was found three miles from the pub on Friday. Detectives are understood to have recovered her clothes from a spot nearby. Detectives hope DNA analysis and other forensic tests will positively link the soldier to the attack on Ms Geeson, a third-year forensic science student at Anglia Polytechnic University. A spokesman for the university said yesterday it was "very likely" she would be awarded a posthumous degree. Fellow forensic science students were being given the option of delaying their final exams, due to start this week. Ms Geeson has a twin sister, Julie, a sister, Nicola, 19, and a brother, John, 15. Her parents, who separated 13 years ago and are divorced, spoke to the Cambridge Evening News yesterday. Laurence Geeson, 51, remarried and living in Hockley, Essex, said: "I have been robbed of a beautiful daughter. It's devastating... she loved life and her positive outlook was infectious. She threw her heart, body and soul into everything she did." Her mother, Sue, 46, living in Southend-on-Sea, Essex, told the newspaper: "Christmas was fantastic. She was full of life. She was the first one up and tried to wake up everyone else. She loved buying presents for everyone."