Crown courts can be intimidating places even for adults. But for the increasing numbers of child defendants, the formality and adversarial nature of the proceedings often make appearing in court an overwhelmingly stressful and frightening experience.Now, leading child law experts, social workers and others working in the criminal justice system say that it is time for a radical overhaul of the way child defendants are dealt with in England and Wales. Some practitioners are also calling for the age of criminal responsibility to be raised.The call for reforms comes in the wake of the case of a 12-year-old autistic boy accused of killing his brother.The boy, who had been exposed to years of abuse, appeared at Bristol crown court accused of murder although his plea of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility was accepted.Both the judge who heard the case and Lady Helena Kennedy QC, who defended him, have raised doubts over the suitability of the crown court as a means of trying such young defendants."There has to be some better way of dealing with children in the criminal justice system," says Helena Kennedy. "There should be a public debate and possibly a commission in the wake of the Bulger case and cases like this one to look at the procedures that we have for dealing with children."One possibility would be a High Court judge sitting possibly with a panel. In Scotland they have the children's panels and we could look to other countries to see if they handle these cases more effectively."The Bristol case was one of the first involving a child defendant of such a young age on a murder charge since the James Bulger case. As a result of the criticism of the way in which the Bulger case was handled, efforts were made in Bristol to minimise the formality of the courtroom.Lawyers dispensed with their wigs, the public was excluded and the press presence was kept to a minimum. A small part of the court was cordoned off to hear the case and the windows were taped with brown paper to ensure privacy. The boy sat in the main body of the courtroom with his social worker and solicitor rather than the dock, and he was allowed frequent breaks.But even with these attempts to make the courtroom a less intimidating place, Justice Toulson expressed grave doubts over the present system."It is certainly a matter for legitimate public discussion how well our present system of criminal justice is attuned to handling cases of this kind."Allan Levy QC, a leading child law expert who has campaigned for changes for many years, agrees that the way children are dealt with in criminal cases is unacceptable."We are treating them as adults and expecting them to cope with the adult language and adult procedures of the legal system. I would take children out of the crown court and they would not appear there at all. For cases of murder and manslaughter particularly there should be special courts for children with specially trained judges. It is quite wrong to have children appearing in the crown court,'' he says.''The most radical suggestion that I advocate is that the age of criminal responsibility should be raised to 14. At 10, we are way out of line with the rest of Europe. We are taking away the protection that childhood should bring."Kate Akester, criminal justice director of the human rights organisation, Justice, also agrees that the system is seriously flawed and requires radical re-working."Other countries take a more child centred approach. Scotland for instance through the children's hearing system is an example of the way in which young offenders can be diverted out of the criminal process. Children are seen by a panel of three lay people who meet the child in an informal atmosphere, although serious cases like murder, manslaughter, rape and serious assault are dealt with in the adult courts,'' she says."There are concerns that the lack of legal advice for children who come before the hearings in Scotland - who are not legally represented in the majority of cases - can leave their human rights infringed. But countries like Scotland, New Zealand, Austria and New South Wales in Australia have an approach which places the best interests of the child as the paramount consideration and such a guiding principle is absent from the system in England and Wales."Hilary Cross, spokeswoman for the NSPCC, stresses that the priority in any system is making sure that the child understands what is going on."We stress that if young people, whether they are defendants or witnesses, are to receive justice in the courts, they need to understand and follow the legal process that is taking place, they should be given every opportunity to have their story heard, and their specific needs as children should be taken into account," she says.