Refugee organisations yesterday criticised as "unfortunate and irresponsible" a claim by one of Britain's most senior police officers that a "tidal wave" of migrants has brought a new level of organised crime.The row comes as Tony Blair prepares to confirm on Thursday that there has been a dramatic fall in the number of asylum seekers coming to Britain. He is expected to say that the latest figures show the government is on course to meet its target of halving the number of applicants to 4,500 a month by October. The latest quarterly figures are expected to show that there was a surge of 1,000 asylum applicants in the first week of January, when new rules denying benefits to late claimants came into effect. But monthly numbers in February and March are believed to have fallen sharply from last October's 9,000 peak. The official statistics will also show that 14,400 failed asylum seekers were deported last year - a rise of more than 2,000 on the previous year. The Refugee Council yesterday said it was "extremely disappointed" by the comments of Chris Fox, the first full-time president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, as the police had previously stressed that the vast majority of asylum seekers were law-abiding. The row comes as the press complaints commission is considering drawing up new guidelines for editors on the language used in reporting asylum issues. Mr Fox was quoted in an Observer interview yesterday as saying: "Mass migration has brought with it a whole new range of and a whole new type of crime, from the Nigerian fraudsters to the Eastern European dealer in drugs and prostitutes to the Jamaican concentration on drug-dealing. Add to that the home-grown criminals and we have a whole different family of people competing to be in the organised crime world." He said the flow had reached a "tidal wave" two years ago, when the Sangatte refugee centre opened at Calais, but new government measures had helped to stem the influx. Mr Fox, the chief constable of Northamptonshire, made it clear that he did not blame "genuine asylum seekers". "My personal view is that this is a small island. We have some very, very intensely populated areas and I think we have to be careful just how we let the mix develop," he was quoted as saying. "It's a healthy situation that we've got lots of different people in different communities, but if you into some of the cities - looking at the north, Bradford simmers, Blackburn simmers - it does not take much to disturb the balance. We've got to be careful to make sure we're not overwhelming our current infrastructure." Fazil Kawani, the Refugee Council's director of communications, said: "We are extremely disappointed, given the previous exemplary work undertaken by Acpo on promoting community cohesion by challenging the most pervasive myths surrounding asylum issues. "As Acpo has previously acknowledged, the vast majority of asylum seekers are law-abiding and more likely to be victims rather than perpetrators of crime." A Home Office spokeswoman confirmed that the latest asylum figures, from January to March, will be published on Thursday, when the prime minister is due to hold a press conference. 