A bank worker cycling home was thrown against a wall and died after two cars "jostled" at speeds up to 60mph along a residential road, a court heard today.Graham Thwaites, 51, was just yards from his doorstep when he was knocked into the air by a Mitsubishi Shogun, the Old Bailey was told.The vehicle, driven by Andrew Carlisle, hit him after it careered "completely out of control", said prosecutor Mark Heywood QC.Thwaites, an administrator at Lloyds TSB headquarters in the City, suffered "catastrophic" injuries after being thrown against the car before hitting a garden wall in September 2008.He was riding back from Petts Wood railway station to the home where he had lived with wife Hazel for 23 years when he was struck by Carlisle's vehicle.The driver was being pursued by a Vauxhall Vectra occupied by William Dennard, David Cook, George Webb, and his cousin Shane Webb along Leesons Hill in Orpington, south-east London, the Old Bailey heard. Twice, Carlisle's car was shunted by the Vectra.Heywood said there was a "great deal of animosity" between Carlisle and the other four defendants. Carlisle later told police the animosity was caused by a dispute over the price of a rottweiler.Carlisle, 35, of Mottingham, Dennard, 24, of Darenth, Shane Webb, 24, of Dartford, George Webb, 27, and Cook, 24, both of Orpington, all deny manslaughter and causing death by dangerous driving.Heywood said: "These five men played out the grievances between themselves on the public highway in two powerful motor vehicles."He said they drove for about three-quarters of a mile at up to 60mph along the "leafy residential road" where the speed limit was 30mph."They jostled for position in the road. They paid no heed to other users of the road. They were interested only in their own immediate purpose."Those in the second car drove so hard and in such a way that the front of their vehicle hit the back of the one they were following. They hit that car not once but twice over that short distance."All of this ended, as it was bound to end, in tragedy. It ended in death – but not for them."The man who died didn't know them. He had never heard of any of them. He knew nothing of their fight or petty grievances. It is probable that he didn't even see them coming."He was riding properly, he was dressed properly and, what's more, he was just yards from home."Such was the speed of the driving and the kind of driving that the lead vehicle ran completely out of control. Almost certainly it was hit by the second vehicle just before that happened."It careered across the road so fast that the driver had no prospect of controlling it. The second car sped past, overtaking it."The first car, leaving the road, hit the cyclist Graham Thwaites from behind, causing him to be thrown up on to the bonnet over the windscreen and to hit the roof of the car, and then to be projected forwards against a garden wall."This impact caused catastrophic injuries. These injuries were not survivable. Despite expert medical attention, Mr Thwaites died the same night."Prosecutors allege that all five men are criminally responsible for his death, either by their own driving or encouragement.The trial continues.