Sir Paul Condon, after denying the existence of institutional discrimination within the Metropolitan Police, questions three of the recommendations made by Sir William Macpherson to strengthen the law against racial discrimination. Two of them were tentative and are certainly open to criticism. To extend offences involving racist language or behaviour to private homes would achieve little. Proof would be difficult (except in the rare case of video surveillance of those suspected of the Lawrence murder) and might well fall foul of the protection of freedom of expression in the European Human Rights Convention. The suggestion that a second prosecution should be allowed after acquittal, where fresh and viable evidence is found, has more merit but offends against the long-established rule against double jeopardy. It could even encourage police laxity if mistakes in investigation could be corrected. The third recommendation, that the full force of the race relations legislation should apply to all police officers and that chief officers of police should be made liable for the acts of their subordinates, is a vital step and Condon's resistance to it is alarming. The exclusion of the police from liability, even when racial discrimination can be proved against them, is an anomaly which the Commission for Racial Equality has repeatedly criticised. It is indefensible and must go. Already the Act covers the police in important ways. Though the office of constable is historically independent and in general not counted as employment, the Race Relations Act treats it expressly as employment for the purpose of the Act, so that a potential recruit to the police service or a serving policeman has legal protection from discrimination. Police are also liable for discriminating against those who seek 'goods, facilities or services' which they provide to the public.  In 1997 the Court of Appeal was faced with the case of Zeinab Farah, a 17-year-old Somalian refugee who called the police after a gang of white teenagers set a vicious dog on her. When the police arrived, instead of arresting the attackers, they arrested Farah and charged her with causing unnecessary suffering to the dog (the case was later dropped). The court upheld her right to claim discrimination against the police officers as they were (or should have been) providing the 'service' of protection from crime. The Commissioner, not being their employer, escaped responsibility (hence the second part of Macpherson's recommendations). The court drew a distinction between Farah's case and those in which the police confront individuals in their investigative role. Then, said the judges, they may be providing a service to the 'public as a whole", but not to the 'individual' they are stopping and searching or arresting. Thus the Act does not bite on this 'operational' role. Juggling with the words of the statute cannot make sense of giving the police immunity in one case and not in the other. Nor does the anomaly stop with the police. Inland Revenue officials are liable if they discriminate in granting tax reliefs, but immigration officers are not liable if they discriminate in issuing visas. No wonder the CRE has been urging for the past 15 years that the Race Relations Act should cover all public bodies and all aspects of government activities. Macpherson did not recommend changing the law to deal with the 'institutional discrimination' which he found pervasive. The 1976 Act was designed to tackle the problem in two ways. First, by prohibiting unintended indirect discrimination; second, by giving the CRE the power to conduct wide-ranging investigations in order to track it down. It can use those powers to investigate the police.  Unfortunately, over 22 years the CRE has found its investigatory powers increasingly difficult to use effectively. It is not its fault. Investigations have been vigorously contested through the courts, often by public bodies. This has put an intolerable burden on limited resources. In 1981, the Home Office itself forced the CRE to prove in court its right to investigate the immigration service. On that occasion the CRE won, but often the judges have encouraged legal challenges by narrow interpretations. They in turn have with some justification blamed the tortuous wording of the Act. The late Lord Denning once said: 'I am very sorry for the Commission, but they have been caught up in a spider's web spun by Parliament, from which there is little hope of them escaping.' The Government should set to work urgently on the reform of the Race Relations Act, a task which Sir Paul Condon must not be allowed to obstruct. Geooffrey Bindman is a partner with Bindman & Partners solicitors