The notion that therapy could weaken the testimony of a witness and undermine the conviction of a sexual predator, as was claimed in the Chetham trial last week, sits alongside some strange notions of just what kind of activity therapy is.Over the years I've heard that what we therapists do in our consulting rooms is everything from implant false memories to turning people with ordinary difficulties into victims thus creating a culture of woe, and this latest version – ridding a witness of the strong feelings she would naturally have so that she would no longer be a compelling accuser whose testimony would be capable of influencing judges and jury.Oh dear. So many ways to blame the therapist and the abused.The view of the survivor of sexual abuse as somehow living with Technicolor memories just waiting to be tapped is lurid and often inaccurate. Yes, early sexual violation is associated with a disowning and a splitting off of the knowledge of the violence one has experienced. It marks a child for life and can mean the suppression not just of the circumstances and experiences of the abuse but a range of feelings that can be too dangerous to feel. There can be a haunting that accompanies the child as she or he journeys through life with many unaddressed questions and a painful sense that there is something wrong with them.But this was hardly the case of Frances Andrade, who killed herself during the trial. She well knew what she had lived with as do the other women who have come forward.Shame and confusion accompany almost any unwanted sexual encounter. The invasion of one's body by another is disturbing. Questions beset the individual about what she or he did or didn't do to encourage the unwanted behaviour because a psychological mechanism we all possess has us juggling the difficult emotional issue of helplessness.No one likes to feel helpless. We find it psychologically unbearable and inside ourselves we may try to make ourselves part author of our misfortune rather than simply the recipient of it. Unconsciously we endeavour to remake the situation in such a way that we are or were not quite so horribly powerless. We might even convince ourselves that we might have been able to avoid it. If the assault was perpetrated by someone important to us and on whom we depended, someone we needed such as a parent, carer or teacher, our psyche seeks to protect and maintain them as basically benevolent and us as somehow failing. The images of what happened and the attempt to make sense of it all live together in a contradictory fashion.So if it comes to court, the last thing one wants is a witness who has had no support in thinking through their troublesome experiences. The damage that abuse causes is not trivial. Compassion and delicacy are the bywords for addressing those who have been hurt in this way so that the circumstances of the abuse are understood as well as the attempts a particular individual has made to manage what has happened. This is a painful knot to undo.As if that weren't enough grounds for therapy, let's add to the shock, confusion, fury and humiliation of the abuse, the almost inevitable inadvertent taking on, by the abused, of the feelings of the perpetrator. These feelings melded into the experience. The abuser, particularly in the case of the Chetham school where frequent transgressive contact with students created a sense of impunity, nevertheless will have had his or her feelings about what they were doing to the young women they were purportedly teaching and inspiring. Psychoanalysis tells us that the perpetrators' disavowed or unknown feelings of shame and self-disgust can leak out and be washed on to the survivor causing a double layer of unwanted harassment and pain.In trying to sort these multiple layers of aggression out, the survivor has an awful lot to go through and therapeutic help is the minimum we should expect alongside legal protection. The individual has worked hard to hold on to her or his integrity and see her or himself as more than a victim. Isn't it time we respected what they've struggled with and continue to struggle with as they endeavour to move forward in life.