Liverpool prison is so overwhelmed by the city's drug and street gang culture that there are no-go areas where staff are afraid to walk in some wings, according to a report by the chief inspector of prisons published today.Anne Owers says that Liverpool's street culture of bullying and violence thrives inside the prison, which with 1,400 inmates is one of the largest in England, with the result that illegal drugs and bullying are so rife that some prisoners are afraid to come out of their cells. During her unannounced inspection in September she found that over 30% of all mandatory drug tests proved positive - far higher than other prisons. The majority of prisoners said drugs were "easy or very easy" to get hold of. "It was clear that the gang culture of the streets outside had infiltrated the prison: resulting both in easy access to drugs and in bullying and intimidation within the prison," says the chief inspector in her introduction. "We observed wing cleaners [who are themselves prisoners] answering prisoners' cell alarm bells and switching off access to in-cell television. We also observed some staff either colluding with, or standing back from these problems, and we report that in general staff were overwhelmed by the imported drug and gang culture." Ms Owers says security needs to be urgently improved to tackle drugs and staff on all wings need to assume responsibility for managing prisoners, who are not locked behind their doors most of the time. She says that in July and August last year there were 73 alleged assaults and security reports described numerous threats by prisoners towards other prisoners and the use of weapons. The report says that the fact that other prisoners working as cleaners were turning off cell bells and controlling access to televisions was evidence that the staff were not in control of prisoners on some wings: "Some staff also indicated that they had fears about walking through certain parts of the prison." Ms Owers says that sophisticated drug route networks had been imported into the prison using mobile phones and intimidation of prisoners working in the grounds to collect items thrown over the wall. The threats sometimes extend to their families in the community. She says 50 mobile phone detectors have been bought by the prison and full area dog searches have been carried out. The inspector's report says work and education provision has improved since their last visit, but was still insufficient to meet the requirements of the "service level agreement". More than 40% of those inside are unemployed and many education classes start 90 minutes late. Liverpool prison passed a performance test meaning it should remain in the public sector but that is subject to meeting the service level agreement. A continuing failure to meet the SLA could result in the prison being offered to the private sector - but private companies have not so far shown any interest in taking over such failing inner city prisons. Phil Wheatley, the director-general of the prison service, said: "We are working closely with the police across the north-west to address the problems of drug supply and gang culture and we anticipate that significant and visible progress will be demonstrable over the next year." But Juliet Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust said that the report on "this overcrowded, understaffed and under-resourced local prison raises lots of questions: Not least why it is easier to get hold of illegal drugs than to take part in work, education or constructive activity." · The Prison Service should consider stopping sick pay for staff in an attempt to improve "unacceptable" levels of absenteeism, MPs say today. The Public Accounts Committee says this could save some of the £8m cost of sick leave in English and Welsh jails.