Britain's criminal justice system is failing people with lawyers cynically manipulating the system and too many offenders slipping through the net, says a damning assessment by Lord Falconer, the minister in charge of overhauling it.In a forthright interview with the Guardian, Lord Falconer admitted that most people "have a deep and profound sense that the criminal justice system is failing them" and they were right to think that. But the minister saves much of his criticism for lawyers, some of whom are accused of deliberately and cynically delaying criminal proceedings to help get their clients off. Many lawyers are also over-aggressive in court, with witnesses left feeling "humiliated and confused", says Lord Falconer, a lawyer himself. The admission of failure comes as the government's criminal justice policy is expected to suffer a severe setback with the announcement next month of a large increase in the annual crime rate. The recently appointed Home Office minister revealed that plans for controversial changes to the system will be announced in next month's white paper on criminal justice. Among them will be moves to allow courts and juries to have information on a defendant's past to "let people and juries know the facts". But it is the breadth of his attack on courts in England and Wales that will surprise his former legal colleagues. With crime now a critical political issue, the minister says he agrees with a widespread feeling that defendants can play the system, avoiding trial, being wrongly acquitted, or even carrying on offending while on bail. Asked if the system is failing people, he replies: "Yes it is. People see the system failing them as deprived communities watch offenders go into the criminal justice system, be granted bail and go straight back out and reoffend." He wants a change in the legal culture, including speeding up trials to encourage lawyers to stop delaying justice. At present, "if you stretch it out for long enough, your client's case might slip through the cracks and he gets off altogether - you can see there is a motivation for lawyers to assist in stretching out the process". Instead, Lord Falconer says, the courts need to become "remorseless and effective, quick and simple". The cross-examination of rape victims by defendants had been "utterly outrageous" while the Damilola Taylor trial also angered him: "What do witnesses think if when you go to court you end up feeling humiliated and confused?" He says there has to be a culture change with lawyers, too. "It needs to be a culture change, where there is no benefit in making the process last long. There is no benefit in, as it were, aggression and difficulty in court." Meanwhile, the audit commission confirms that the government plans to impose fines on lawyers who delay cases to boost their fees. It estimates more than £80m a year is wasted through adjournments and cancellations of trials, and suggests, like Lord Falconer, that a "new culture" is needed. Home Office sources would not confirm speculation yesterday that the crime rate will rise 6% for the 12 months to March 2002, saying that the final figures from all 43 police forces were not yet in. But ministers are clearly braced for a rise and their commitment to further sweeping reforms of the criminal justice system will be underlined in major speeches by both Tony Blair and David Blunkett this week A Home Office spokesman said: "Clearly a rise will be disappointing after five or six years in which the figures have fallen. We would put it down to the increase in street crime and to the fact that we have more police officers than ever before which means more crime is being recorded. The chances of being a victim is still the lowest for 20 years." Part of the rise is down to some forces changing the way they count crime through the early adoption of a new national police reporting standard, although some individual forces have reported worrying rises - there has been a 29% rise in burglary in Avon and Somerset and a 15% increase in all crime in West Yorkshire.