A "depraved" care worker who raped three vulnerable women while they lived in supported accommodation has been jailed for 14 years.Police said Colin Stokes, 48, was a sexual predator who had shown no remorse for the damage he inflicted on the women, all of whom have learning difficulties and need 24-hour care.A review has been launched after it emerged that Stokes, who worked for a private care provider in Gloucestershire, had previously been accused of another sexual offence against a woman with a mental illness but the case was discontinued.Police began investigating Stokes again last year after a vulnerable woman told one of his colleagues she had been abused.Detectives used a specialist intermediary to question residents and came across a second victim who said Stokes had attacked her. Forensic evidence linked Stokes, a married man, to a third victim. During interviews, one of the victims told how what Stokes had done to her made her feel "sad" and was "bad".Stokes, of Dursley, Gloucestershire, pleaded guilty to raping three women aged between 30 and 55. Gloucester crown court heard he was employed to cover the night shift and because of staff cuts was allowed to work alone.Jailing Stokes, Judge Jamie Tabor QC said: "These three ladies had the bodies of adults but the minds of little children. These ladies will never be fully able to explain either what happened or how they feel."You had sex with each of them. Such behaviour was cruel and depraved. None of these ladies was capable of giving consent. It is difficult to imagine a greater breach of trust than the taking advantage sexually of highly vulnerable persons entrusted into your sole care. You have no moral boundaries whatsoever."The victims' families said in a statement: "Stokes was in a position of trust – he was there to look after and protect these women. Not only did he betray that trust in their own home; he turned out to be a monster. We are relieved that he is now behind bars and can't hurt anyone else."In April 2007 Gloucestershire police arrested Stokes on suspicion of a sexual offence against a woman with a mental illness. The alleged victim had severe communication difficulties and there was no witness to support her account. The Crown Prosecution Service judged there was not enough evidence to secure a conviction and it was discontinued. Both the CPS and the police said it would have treated that case differently now.Gloucestershire county council, which commissioned the company Stokes worked for to provide services for it, accepted it was aware of the previous allegation. A county council spokeswoman said: "No charges were brought and the case was closed. However, we have now asked the safeguarding adults board to carry out a serious case review to understand exactly what happened."The council has terminated its contract with the provider, which cannot be named, and has contacted every local authority in the UK suggesting no care business is placed with it.