Four prison staff are to face disciplinary action as a result of a prison ombudsman's investigation into the suicides of six woman at Styal, Cheshire, it was announced last night.The devastating report by Stephen Shaw in particular criticises a nurse and three prison officers for their role in the failure to prevent the death of Julie Walsh, 39, from Liverpool, from a drugs overdose last August. The inquiry, the first ever independent investigation of prison deaths by the ombudsman, reveals a bleak picture at the prison where six women have killed themselves since August 2002. His 132-page report remains secret but a four page summary and "action plan" published yesterday by the prisons minister, Paul Goggins, says that five of the women died on Waite wing which is said to "have a forbidding and isolated appearance". The wing is used for new prisoners and the ombudsman is highly critical of its regime. Many of the women spend most of their time locked in their cells, some of them two to a single cell. "Most meals are eaten in the cell. Apart from in-cell television, there are few means of occupying time, with the only recreational facilities being a bookcase and pool table," says the summary. Mr Shaw is particularly critical of the inadequate drug detoxification regime and mental health treatment at Styal. All six women died within the first month of being in the prison. Two died after being in prison only one day, two died within the first week, one after eight days at Styal and the other after 25 days. Three of the six women had a history of mental health problems. It is believed that the disciplinary proceedings involve security in the administration of medicines which is also to be reviewed. Mr Goggins defended the decision not to publish the report saying he did not want to add to the distress of the families by making public the personal information it contained and because five of the inquests have yet to take place. He said all the report's recommendations had been implemented. "Every death in custody is a tragedy for the families left behind, and is deeply distressing for staff." But Pauline Campbell, whose 18-year-old daughter, Sarah, was one of the six who died, said: "I am saddened that so many women have lost their lives in HM prisons in recent years. The problems are not new, and the Home Office has been well aware of the seriousness of this situation. Urgent action must be taken to end prison overcrowding, improve conditions and bring to an end the needless loss of life." Geoff Dobson of the Prison Reform Trust said it was not acceptable that the report remained unpublished. "Reports of investigations into deaths in custody should be published in full, subject to agreement on the detail of the contents with the families concerned and the coroner." The report is the first death in custody investigation carried out by the prisons ombudsman. He is now looking into Harold Shipman's suicide and will investigate all deaths in custody from April.