It is impossible to imagine the emotions which Siôn Jenkins' daughter and former wife must have experienced when they climbed the steps into the witness box, and glimpsed their father and ex-husband in the caged dock opposite.Charlotte Jenkins - she no longer likes her childhood name of Lottie - had travelled from Tasmania, where the family now lives, having been called by Mr Jenkins' legal team; Lois Jenkins, on the other hand, had flown in to give evidence for the crown, which was fighting the appeal. Considering the pressure they were under, both seemed to stand up remarkably well. Ms Jenkins, now 18, broke down when she was asked about seeing Billie-Jo's body as a 10-year-old, and rushed into a backroom. Mrs Jenkins collapsed in tears when she described how even now the family could not talk about the tragedy they were involved in. But they managed to get through the questioning, and the judges accepted they had told the truth. Mr and Mrs Jenkins married in 1982, 15 years before the death of Billie-Jo. At the time of the murder, Mrs Jenkins worked for social services in Tower Hamlets, setting up a respite care centre for adults with learning difficulties. Mr Jenkins was considered to have a bright future as a deputy head at a school in Hastings, where the family lived. The murder of Billie-Jo was all the more traumatic for the family because of the media spotlight that fell on them. In court, Mrs Jenkins told how they became prisoners in their own home and how she had to be retaught how to go to the shops and buy a loaf of bread when the interest finally eased off. She said she did not feel she could talk to her daughters in case they were called as witnesses. Mrs Jenkins said she had tried to get help for the girls, but they had been reluctant to see anyone. After the trial at Lewes crown court in 1998 at which her husband was found guilty of the killing, Mrs Jenkins issued a statement in which she said the loss of Billie-Jo had been "almost too much to bear". But for the sake of her four natural daughters, Annie, Lottie, Esther and Maya, she had to try to keep going. She got a judicial separation from Mr Jenkins and then divorced. Mrs Jenkins remarried, to a man 11 years her junior called Vincent Ives, and the whole family moved to Tasmania, where Mrs Jenkins now works as a nurse. Thoughts of Billie-Jo are never far from the family's minds, but they had no choice but to face them head on after Mr Jenkins asked the criminal cases review commission to take his case on. Lottie and Annie were interviewed in 2002 for the appeal as lawyers tried to find out if their mother had turned them against their father. During her evidence, Mrs Jenkins gave an insight into how difficult the experience had been for the girls, describing how they had both returned home after their interviews and lay on their beds in the foetal position. Mr Jenkins' team fears the girls will not be persuaded to return to the UK for the retrial. Mrs Jenkins said in her evidence that Lottie came to the appeal seeking "closure" while Annie, the more timid of the girls, was "totally confused" about "everything". After Charlotte Jenkins' appearance at the appeal, she and her mother pointedly walked from the Royal Courts of Justice arm in arm. Meanwhile, Mr Jenkins' barrister, Clare Montgomery QC, told the appeal he had spent six years in prison in "appalling conditions as a child killer". She said his arrest had led to divorce from his wife and estrangement from his daughters. "His life has truly been ruined," Ms Montgomery added.