Tough laws aimed at seizing assets bought with the proceeds of crime have led to a dramatic shift in the way criminals manage their finances.Where once the sign of a successful crook was a large house, flash car and a mass of gold jewellery, villains now live outwardly frugal lives while trying to keep their wealth hidden. The Proceeds of Crime Act, introduced in January last year, allows assets to be frozen if criminals cannot explain how they were paid for. Last month estate agents and car dealers were added to the list of retailers who are required to informpolice of any suspicious purchases.According to the National Criminal Intelligence Service, shifting from the 'flash Harry' lifestyle is part of a trend in which criminals see themselves relocating abroad once they have sufficient wealth. Turkish, Albanian and other East European drug dealers notoriously send their profits abroad while living on modest 'wages' in the UK: the same technique is now being employed by British criminals. Last week Lincoln White, said to be Britain's biggest ever crack dealer, was found guilty of conspiracy to import and distribute the class A drug. White is believed to have smuggled in more than 1.7 tonnes of cocaine in four years. Though he lived in a rented flat in east Dulwich, south London and drove a Peugeot 206 his drugs empire was worth about £170m. 'He had no aura, no presence and that's what allowed him to get away with it for so long,' said one police officer. In Southall, brothers Sukhdev and Rajinder Bassi made millions selling cocaine but drove old cars that earned them the nickname 'the Fiat Bravo Boys'. In West Ham, a leading member of a British crime family lives in a flat on a rundown estate. He has taken millions from drug dealing and protection rackets but knows moving would be a red rag to the authorities. Instead he has lavished cash on marble columns in the hall, gold kitchen and bathroom fittings, and a chandelier in the living room. Five Regional Asset Recovery Teams launched this year need only civil proof - on the balance of probability - to 'restrain' wealth. A pilot scheme in the West Midlands in one year has frozen more than £39m in assets.