A swath of new on-the-spot fines for offences ranging from dropping chewing gum to fly posting and graffiti were unveiled yesterday as the government went on the offensive over the scourge of anti-social behaviour. Under the proposals issued by five government departments, binmen and other council workers would be entitled to issue on-the-spot fines for litter. For the first time chewing gum would be specifically classified as litter with possible fines of £50. In some areas, such as near schools, councils would be entitled to ban the sale of gum from shops. Magistrates could also crack down on beggars, issuing repeat offenders with community service orders. The proposals come on top of nationwide plans to extend on-the-spot fines by the police for a range of anti-social behaviour. A scheme in four police force areas has been deemed a success. Tony Blair yesterday described anti-social behaviour such as vandalism, graffiti and fly-tipping as "probably the biggest immediate issue for people in the country". It will be the centrepiece of the Queen's speech on November 13, he added during a visit to Newham in east London. The consultation paper issued yesterday states: "The presence of beggars, rough sleepers, peddlers, buskers and other persons who are threatening or who engage in anti-social behaviour can affect the use of and condition of public space. The existing legislation is considered by many local authorities to be unworkable and ineffective." The usual penalty for begging is a fine or a night in the cells which does little to address underlying reasons such as drug misuse, it says. The owners of street property such as phone boxes or lampposts would also be made responsible for clearing up graffiti or fly posting. Fines for dog fouling or letting burglar alarms ring for excessive periods would also be increased. Councils and police would also be given a new power to set their own level of on-the-spot fines or fixed penalty notices for offences such as littering or dog fouling. Maximum fines would be set nationally, with discounts for early payment. The revenue would be kept by local councils. Businesses that distributed free literature, such as adverts for takeaway pizzas, could face £500 fines if they do not have a licence. Spray paints or indelible markers which are used to scrawl graffiti would also be banned from sale to anyone under 18, with shops facing a £1,000 fine for non-compliance. Under other proposals, householders who install bright security lights could be forced to fit dimmer lights if neighbours complain. Councils and police would be given stronger powers to disable burglar alarms. Citizens would also be given new fast-track powers to apply free to magistrates courts for a litter abatement order requiring the council to clear up filthy areas. People could serve notice to apply for an order by telephone or email, as well as in person. Councils outside London would also be given a new power to direct owners of private property to clean their land. Councils would be entitled to secure a litter notice from the magistrates court setting out how frequently the property must be cleaned. A new duty would be placed on public bodies to clean canals, beaches and rivers. Householders could also be placed under a new duty of care, requiring them to ensure that they dispose of their waste in an environmentally friendly way. Local councils would also be given a stronger new power to serve a notice on the owner or occupier of land blighted with illegally dumped waste requiring it to be cleaned up within a specific timetable. The extraordinary crackdown follows repeated government polling showing that low-level crime and street disorder concerns the public almost as much as the state of schools and hospitals. Mr Blair ordered a review led by the Treasury on public space, chaired by the Home Office minister Lord Falconer as part of the 2002 spending review. The ideas unveiled yesterday in a consultation paper called Living Places were then developed by a cross departmental review run by the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. The report admits that current laws are not working due "to confusion within and between service providers, an unawareness of the responsibilities associated with the right to have a clean and safe local environment, and unmanageable powers for tackling irresponsible and anti-social behaviour".