To the local council, Margate has the potential to become Hoxton-on-Sea, a coastal haven for young British artists who will spearhead its renaissance.But following a murder and two high-profile arson attacks in the past month, the Kent town has been the subject of a series of lurid headlines that suggest it may take more than a cultural revolution for Margate to escape its seedy past.Local businessman David O'Leary, 31, was buried last week after being gunned down outside his home in the hamlet of Lydden, just outside Margate. More than 200 people attended the East End-style funeral, complete with a horse-drawn hearse. O'Leary's father, Dan, described his son's killers as 'assassins' and there are suspicions that the shooting was the result of a feud. The 'hit' - two shots at close range - rekindled memories of Margate's violent past, when the town was dominated by the notorious Richardson family. Then, in an unrelated incident two weeks after the shooting, the town's famous Grade II listed roller-coaster, which featured in an episode of Only Fools and Horses, was subject to a major arson attack that destroyed almost a third of its frame. The rumours spread almost as quickly as the flames. The roller-coaster is on prime land just behind Margate's sea front where a number of other buildings have been torched in mysterious circumstances. For years locals have been joking that the roller-coaster would 'meet with an accident', given that its listed status has impeded plans to turn the site into a retail and residential complex. The site owners, Margate Town Centre Regeneration Company, have pledged to rebuild the ride and experts believe it is salvageable. Thanet council has said it is prepared to take legal action to ensure the roller-coaster is rebuilt. Days after the roller-coaster was torched, two men strolled into the Tivoli arcade, one of the few remaining on the seafront, and doused its slot machines in petrol before setting them on fire, causing £500,000 of damage. Local bloggers speculate feverishly that the arson attack on the Tivoli arcade and the O'Leary killing are connected, although police say they have yet to establish any links. There is talk, too, of a turf war along the esplanade between rival drug dealers battling to control distribution. 'It's becoming like the Wild West around here,' one blogger wrote.Whatever the truth, the attacks have come at an unfortunate time for a town desperately attempting to reinvent itself. The council is earmarking scores of deserted shops for conversion into artists studios and galleries in an audacious bid to woo the White Cube crowd - named after the art gallery in Hoxton, east London - which championed many of the young British artists including Damien Hirst with cheaper rents and more space than they could otherwise expect in the capital. 'There will be good quality studios and incubation units,' enthused Sandy Ezekiel, the leader of Thanet council. 'There's a lot more here to attract artists than the East End of London can offer.'Ezekiel hopes Margate's most famous daughter, artist Tracey Emin, will help spearhead the town's art-led renaissance. 'It would be great if she would donate a piece of work to the town,' he said.The apex of the arts-led regeneration is a £17.5m art gallery, the Turner Contemporary, named after the Romantic painter JMW Turner, whose iconic paintings of the sky were inspired by the Margate coastline. The centre, due to open in 2010, thanks to funding from the lottery and the Arts Council, will boast five galleries showing a mixture of modern and classical art. 'Fingers crossed that it does for Margate what the Tate has done for St Ives,' said a woman in the Turner centre information office, situated next to where the new centre will be built on the seafront.If Margate can emulate St Ives, it will mark a stunning comeback for a town whose halcyon days are long behind it. In the Victorian era it was a popular haunt of the health-conscious who were keen to take its waters in the belief they had restorative powers. The likes of Karl Marx, Charles Dickens and Charles Darwin were regular visitors. Then, in the Fifties, the town became a tourist mecca, with thousands of Londoners making day trips to Margate by boat at weekends. But the arrival of the package holiday saw people flock abroad for warmer weather, and Margate, like many coastal towns, fell on hard times. Local people complain Margate has become a drop zone for asylum seekers, funnelled in by local authorities outside Kent keen to avail themselves of its cheap hotel rooms and bedsits. Today 340 people a month, mostly from outside the town, continue to join its waiting lists for social housing. And although the number of asylum seekers arriving in Margate, whose 40,000 population is 97 per cent white, has dropped significantly in the last couple of years, some still label it 'benefits-on-sea'. Economic migrants from eastern Europe have come to the town looking for jobs, and in this climate the British National Party has prospered. A march through the town held by the far right party two years ago attracted 200 people. Last week the local paper carried stories about a former teacher charged with running a prostitution ring and a house exposed as a major cannabis farm. Along with the arson attacks and the O'Leary shooting, they offered a stark reminder as to how difficult it will be for Margate to escape its problem past.Yet Margate is learning from its affluent neighbours such as Whitstable and Broadstairs, whose restaurants, galleries and boutiques are popular with the London weekend crowd. Margate's old town, dating back to the 18th century, is being restored. Occupancy rates in this part of Margate have shot up from 20 per cent to 90 per cent as roads are pedestrianised to make way for a cafe society. The harbour wall, once home to unloved fishermen's huts, is being developed into a series of galleries and restaurants, all due to open this summer.Some, however, question whether Margate's attempt at regeneration can be successful without a major shift in government policy. 'The seaside towns of southern England increasingly find themselves struggling on the fringes of the London-centric economy, ill-prepared to meet the harsher economic realities of a changing Britain,' said Simon Moores, a local Conservative councillor. Ezekiel, however, is convinced Margate has turned the corner. 'I wouldn't have wanted to walk around here four years ago,' he said. 'We've got a long way to go; but we are going up.'