Susan is 19 years old, bright and strong-willed - and she wants to kill herself.The daughter of a drug-addicted mother, she left school at 11, turned to drink, drugs and crime. At 16, she was sentenced to five years for a knife attack on a woman who owed money to a friend of hers.In jail, she repeatedly cut herself. Sometimes she used a razor; once, a shard of broken pottery. She took overdoses. She tried to hang herself. She set fire to her cell. She was often in solitary confinement for more than 20 hours a day - before a High Court ruling last month got her moved to a secure psychiatric unit.Tomorrow, the prison-reform charity, which won that ruling, will write to the Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, to seek an investigation into her case - with the aim of securing Britain's first public inquiry into how the prison system deals with young people with mental illness who are behind bars.'Our hope is that the Home Secretary will seize the opportunity to deal with a problem to which there are no easy answers, but which is placing lives significantly at risk,' said Chris Callender, legal director of the Howard League for Penal Reform.There are no simple good guys and bad guys in this story, Callender concedes, just 'the tragedy of a prison system that is not equipped to deal with mental illness - and the terrible effects on many of the 3,500 young people who are in confinement at any one time.'Court papers reveal Susan and her friend tied up their victim before the knife attack, and that she 'enjoyed' seeing the woman suffer.A chilling account of Susan's first time in the youth offenders' unit in prison, which she entered at age 17 with slash-marks on her arms, reads like staccato signposts on a journey towards death. It is a list of incidents assembled from Callender's visits to the jail: 'Cuts to arm... 21 Cephalexin tablets... Headbutted sink... Pools of blood on floor ... Re-opened cut to right wrist...'At one point, she says she wants to hurt herself rather than other prisoners so that she would not be sent back to solitary confinement.When Callender learnt that Susan (not her real name) had discharged herself from hospital and was going back to prison, he secured a High Court injunction - allowing her to be transferred to Rampton secure psychiatric unit. 'This is the first time in her life that she has ever been given serious psychiatric care,' he told The ObserverFrances Crook, director of the Howard League, said she hoped to secure a long-overdue review into prison practices affecting many young people in jails.She cited the inquiry into the death of Asian teenager Zahid Mubarek, who was battered to death by his racist cellmate at Feltham Young Offenders' Institution in March 2000.'That came after a young person died,' she said. 'But a court ruling has established that in some cases the state's obligation can extend to near-fatal attempted suicide... this case offers us an opportunity to act before, not after, it is too late.'