The home secretary, David Blunkett, has been forced to shelve plans to give legal rights to the victims of crime in order to make way for a crackdown on begging and antisocial behaviour to be announced this week.The Home Office has confirmed that there is no parliamentary time for a victims bill to be introduced this session despite the fact that the promise to legislate to "give support, protection and rights to information and compensation to victims" was contained in both the 1997 and 2001 Labour election manifestos. Plans to set up a "victims' fund" to ensure that they receive the financial compensation due to them from offenders more quickly have become bogged down over a Treasury insistence that the fund is self-financing. Officials' fears that the cost of an open-ended fund could quickly mount up has meant the proposal, first publicly promised by ministers in February 2001, still has not emerged from the Whitehall policy process. In some cases, victims are still waiting years to be paid compensation ordered by the courts. The victims bill was also supposed to create a powerful commissioner to "champion the rights of victims and witnesses" and introduce a statutory code of practice backed by an independent ombudsman. At the time that the current criminal justice bill was published in November last year the Home Office printed a short pamphlet promising that "the first national strategy for victims and witnesses will be published early in 2003". So far all that has happened is that 10 victims of crime have been recruited to sit on a panel to advise the government on reform of the criminal justice system. The first meeting took place last week and the government now says their views will be taken into account publishing the national strategy "in the spring" to be followed by a "draft bill" in the summer. This week will now see the publication of a white paper focusing on spot fines against truants, drunks, louts and noisy neighbours. The plans include proposals which would effectively ban begging. A Home Office spokeswoman confirmed that there will be no legislation on victims before the start of the next parliamentary year this November. "We still plan to have a victims bill in the next parliamentary session. This will be subject to securing a firm legislative slot. "But we still aim to publish the bill in draft by midsummer. It is good practice to publish a draft bill," she said. The Home Office also confirmed that the victims' compensation fund was "still being considered within government" and the date for publishing the national strategy has slipped from "early in 2003" to the "late spring". David Heath, the Liberal Democrat spokesman on policing, said: "Having built up expectations for so long, victims will be understandably aggrieved by this news. Progress in improving victims' rights has been stop-start and piecemeal. The government expects us to believe this is a priority when in reality it is little more than rhetoric."