A young woman has been jailed for orchestrating a “revenge rape” on a teenager after telling her: “Snitches get stitches.”Aliyah Weekes, 19, instigated a sex attack carried out by her younger brother on a 15-year-old girl whom she accused of spreading rumours.Weekes was sentenced to four-and-a-half years’ detention in a young offender institution, and her brother Lacquan Weekes, 18, was given five years after he was found guilty of rape.Aliyah Weekes and a 16-year-old girl were convicted of aiding and abetting the attack. The youngest defendant was given a youth rehabilitation order lasting 18 months.Sentencing the three at the Old Bailey, the judge Jeremy Donne said: “This was no game. This was no childish folly. This was a wicked crime and one that, Aliyah Weekes, you determined upon over the space of about an hour during which the victim was detained.”The victim was confronted by the two girls in a park in Willesden, north-west London, on 29 April and corralled into an alleyway where she was forced to have oral sex with Lacquan Weekes while a group of youths watched nearby.The judge said: “This was a revenge rape and this poor girl was being punished. She was accused of spreading stories. Her explanations were rejected. She was very distressed throughout this. She must have been terrified. To compound her fear was the added humiliation that all of this was happening before a group of other youths who were nearby.”He said he held Aliyah Weekes “principally responsible” for the incident as it would not have happened without her involvement. She accused the victim of telling secrets about her and the 16-year-old, threatened to make her “do a lineup” – street slang for giving oral sex to multiple men – and warned her she would be hurt if she did not comply.The judge said Aliyah Weekes’ “stitches for snitches” comment to the victim before the attack made it clear that the motive was revenge.In an impact statement, the victim’s mother said the girl had changed from “bubbly and carefree” to “jumpy and withdrawn”, with a lack of confidence and trust in people. She suffers from asthma and eczema and her health has deteriorated after the attack, and she failed to achieve her potential in her GCSEs.The family had also been intimidated and a brick had been thrown through their window, the court heard.The judge said Lacquan Weekes, who has previous convictions for battery and possession of drugs, had shown no remorse for the crime and said his behaviour while on remand had been appalling.Paul Stanislas, for Aliyah Weekes, said she played no more than an instigator role in the attack. Michael Chambers, for her brother, said he had a troubled background.Clare Gordon, representing the youngest defendant, said she neither “perpetrated nor instigated” the incident.