On the third request to visit, I accepted. It was 14 years ago; Myra Hindley was then at Cookham Wood Prison in Kent. I knew only the broadest details about the Moors murders; the sight of the ravaged faces of the parents and the sound of the recorded cries for mercy of little Lesley Ann Downey, had been sufficient for me not to want to know more.The panda eyes and peroxide blonde image of a twentysomething Hindley, used again and again in the media as a visual shorthand for the demonic, have conveyed a Peter Pan aspect upon the child murderer. So, when she walks into the prison visiting room, it is both a surprise and yet inevitable that she looks as normal as any middle-aged woman in any high street in the land. Lilac trouser suit; pink nail varnish and matching lipstick; savagely plucked eyebrows replaced with two pencilled arcs, eye make-up in the style of a 1960s air hostess; hair dyed solidly brown and lacquered into place. She declines a Kit-Kat, says she is on a diet and smokes ceaselessly. She is at ease among fellow inmates and prison officers; she has both charisma and status. I sense she knows she already has some power over me because I am here; because I have now been forced to read reports of the trial; because she has turned me into a voyeur and given me a small piece of history: I met Myra Hindley. What does she want in return? The answer is simple. She wants me to join the small army she has recruited working for her release. She flatters by quoting copiously from articles I have written. She works hard to make me like her and is renowned in the prison system for her ability to seduce women. She asks if I have children. 'Lovely,' she says. The intermediary in our meeting is Chris Tchaikovsky. Chris, who died this year, was also strong and charismatic, the founder of Women in Prison. She had first met Hindley when she was serving time for fraud. Later, as part of the welfare support WIP offers to all prisoners, she had frequently driven Nellie Moulton, Hindley's ailing mother, to visit her daughter. Chris's view was that, no matter what Hindley had done, the mother had a right to see her daughter. Chris and I had worked together on a number of cases in which women, frequently mentally ill and often with domineering partners, had received unduly harsh sentences, damned for failing to meet deeply ingrained stereotypical views of how 'good' mothers and wives should behave, the courts often choosing to disregard their psychiatric reports. Hindley quickly taps into the theme of the oppressed woman. We only had an hour. Initially, the question I wanted to ask was one put to her many times: how could she? Her answer, again and again, was Ian Brady. She told me that police have always said that if she hadn't met Brady, she would have married, had children, led an ordinary, uneventful life. At first, I am only dully aware that the axis of our entire conversation is just plain wrong. She is articulate, coldly charming, so the profound oddness, the way in which she draws you into sharing her perception of events, is initially disguised. Only in the car coming home does it hit me in waves. It's an oddness which eventually will make even invincible and perceptive Chris Tchaikovsky stop visiting Hindley altogether and, briefly, seek counselling. How to describe this 'oddness'? For instance, she recited the circumstances of the murders, as if the children involved had been incidental bit part players. The rhythm is all me, me, me: poor me; bright me; persecuted me. Does she have a conscience? Nightmares? Of course, she says patly, she's Catholic. So why wait 21 years before confessing to two more murders? 'Brady,' she replies. Then, perhaps because of the disbelief on my face, she adds: 'Remorse.' Then: 'You don't understand.' The atmosphere is instantly icy. She reminds me that I have written often about redemption. I ask how she could take a 10-year-old from a fairground and bring her to a man like Brady to be tortured and raped. Aggressively, she says: 'The girl shouldn't have been out at that time of night.' No empathy, no compassion; a slice of reason completely missing. She is like an old-fashioned telephone switchboard in which the wires are there, but all in the wrong place. She acts regret, but it comes from a moral vacuum. In the years since Myra Hindley was sentenced, the capacity of women to commit horrific crime not in the shadow of a man but of their own volition has become more and more apparent. Mad or made bad, they are not manipulated. The police officers who originally investigated Hindley appeared unable to believe that a female could be an equal participant in the carnage they uncovered. If they had, the history of Hindley might have been very different. In our meeting, she stuck by her claim that she had only 'known about' one out of the five killings. By the end of my visit, I didn't believe her. How can there be redemption before the scale of the crime is acknowledged? Would she have led a 'normal' life without Brady? I doubt it. She wrote to me three times after the visit. I never replied, never visited her again and have never written in detail about the meeting until now. I saw no point in continuing the connection because the key question for me had changed from, 'How could you?' to one I knew she would never even begin to answer: 'How much more have you done?'