An emergency extension of the prison service's early release programme involving thousands of inmates was ordered yesterday by the home secretary, David Blunkett, in an attempt to ease the jail overcrowding crisis.The changes to the home detention curfew (HDC) scheme will mean that in future inmates will be released on an electronic tag 90 days before the end of their sentence, instead of 60 days at present. It is expected that the measure will cut the 72,551 daily prison population by about 600. Mr Blunkett's action comes as a report published today by the chief inspector of prisons on Ford open prison, West Sussex, says overcrowding has become so bad that prisoners are now having to sleep in cleaning cupboards. Mr Blunkett has kept the decision to step up the pace of the early release programme in his back pocket since he raised it as a possibility at the prison service annual conference in February. But his hopes of keeping it in reserve have been dashed by the relentless rise in prison numbers. HDC only applies to inmates serving sentences of four years or less and only those who pass a risk assessment test are released early. The changes will mean that low-risk inmates serving between 12 months and four years will now be released three months before the end of their sentence, instead of two months. Those serving between eight and 12 months will also be released earlier but the exact number of days will be tailored according to the length of their sentence. Those serving three to eight months will not be eligible for the scheme. So far 56,000 prisoners have been released early on electronic tags since HDC started in 1999, and the reoffending rate has been less than 5%. It is expected that the changes will affect between 20,000 and 25,000 inmates every year. The prisons minister, Hilary Benn, said the decision would ease the pressures on the prison estate: "This is not a soft option, nor is it a mandate to commit more crimes." But Geoff Dobson, deputy director of the Prison Reform Trust, said it was necessary to go further and cut the daily jail total by several thousand. He added: "We are delighted to see this extension of HDC but it needs to be part of a much wider plan to reduce prison overcrowding and ensure that prison is reserved for the most serious and persistent offenders." The report on Ford prison shows that overcrowding is now having a corrosive impact on even the most relaxed open prisons. Anne Owers, chief inspector of prisons, says overcrowding has led to living conditions described in the report as "appalling, providing neither privacy nor dignity". She says a bed had been put in a large walk-in cupboard previously used for storing cleaning materials, and seven beds - each 2ft apart - had been in put in the healthcare waiting room, leaving inmate patients to queue in the corridor. These areas had been pressed into use because the dormitories were excessively crowded. "Simply because prisoners are in a more relaxed and open environment, there is no excuse for such living conditions," she said. "There appears to be an attitude of resignation about this. We cannot understand how or why some of this additional accommodation has been certified as fit for use."