The following correction was printed in the Guardian's corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday December 22 2004 Contrary to what we said in the article below the Monastery of St Francis, Gorton, Manchester, is not a "world heritage site". This designation can only be granted by the members of the Unesco-administered world heritage convention. St Francis, Gorton, is, however, on the current two-yearly "List of 100 Most Endangered Sites" of the World Monuments Fund, a private, New York-based, non-profit foundation sponsored by American Express.www.wmf.org Hundreds of redeeming angels will soon be flying from a northern prison to help restore a ruined monastery.The angels, from Wymott Prison, Lancashire, crafted from bronze, slate and marble, will be housed in wooden display cases made in another jail, Lancaster Farms.Their glory will be reflected in stained glass windows also made by prisoners in Risley near Warrington. They will be put in place by female inmates of Buckley Hall jail, Rochdale. The involvement of the Prison Service in community restoration work is the brainchild of the Inside Out Trust, a charity which aims to develop prison projects based on restorative justice.The trust has joined forces with the Monastery of St Francis in Gorton, east Manchester, described as a 19th century Gothic revival masterpiece which, after closure in 1989, was sacked by vandals and thieves, and is now being restored to its former glory. The monastery is one of 100 world heritage sites deemed in need of protection.David Brown, a regional coordinater of Inside Out, believes passionately in the value of such projects as tangible evidence that prisons can be a valuable resource in the community: "It enables prisoners, in a restorative sense, to put something back into society, which increases their self-esteem as well as making positive use of their time in jail."Kat and Debbie are nearing the end of lengthy sentences for drug-related offences and are held in Buckley Hall; they work with the Monastery Trust, which is overseeing the restoration. They said the project had changed their lives. Kat, 26 and from London, said that, for the first time in "a long time" the trust had made her feel accepted and valued by ordinary people. Describing visits she and Debbie had made to an old people's home in Gorton, she said: "They knew that I was from prison, but they welcomed me as one of the family."Forty-year-old Debbie, from Blackburn, has a history of drug abuse and a long prison record, dating back 22 years. She spoke of the confidence she has gained with involvement with the monastery."Everybody just takes us as we are, nobody judges us," she said. She resolves that this will be her last prison sentence and says that this is the first time she has ever thought that.Even in its crumbling state, the monastery, designed by Edward Pugin, provides a glorious contrast to the grimness of this once thriving part of Manchester. At the very heart of the Industrial Revolution, Gorton was once home to dozens of engineering firms, employing tens of thousands of skilled workers. The scars inflicted by its decline are evidenced by high unemployment, a massive crime rate, soaring drug and mental health problems and the tag of Asbo capital of England.Ilma Scantlebury, the trust's arts and education director, speaks of the "moving symmetry" of people whose lives have been fractured, playing a vital role in restoring a ruined building and bringing hope to a depressed area. She says that when the monastery reopens, in 2007, it will be a "sacred place that will embrace all faiths". She sees the building and the involvement of prisoners in it as a "catalyst of the rebirth of Gorton".