The government has defended its decision to add 10 new names to its list of the most wanted alleged tax dodgers after just one of the 20 original targets was caught in the last year.Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs (HMRC) published the names and pictures of 20 people accused of owing hundreds of thousands of pounds – and in many instances millions – for the first time last year.The appeal helped provide intelligence on 15 of the alleged offenders, no update on four, and one was captured, according to HMRC. A second man not included in the original list of 20 but later added to it has also been caught in the last 12 months, the department says.HMRC has now renewed its appeals on 19 of the suspects and added 10 new names wanted in connection with offences including VAT fraud, tax evasion and money laundering. The new people listed have cheated the taxpayer of between £120,000 and £10m, HMRC alleges.Sajid Javid MP, economic secretary to the Treasury, dismissed suggestions that the scheme was little more than a public relations exercise. "If we hadn't gone through the process the public wouldn't have got involved and we wouldn't have caught those two people," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme."We have to be very strong on tax avoidance and Britain is leading the way as it needs international co-operation. This is part of the package of tackling avoidance and evasion." He said the government would do all it could to bring such offenders to justice.His remarks echoed those of the chancellor, George Osborne, who said the new list would help bring more offenders to justice. However, Labour has said the list has been a failure because so many suspects have yet to be caught.The new names on the list include Michael George Voudouri, who pleaded guilty at Glasgow high court in relation to money laundering linked to VAT fraud but failed to appear for sentencing. HMRC said Voudouri, aged between 40 and 50, was believed to be residing in northern Cyprus and was estimated to have cost taxpayers £10m.Anish Anand, aged between 25 and 35, failed to appear at Croydon crown court in April in relation to a £6m VAT and film tax credit fraud. He was convicted in his absence last month and is thought to be in the UK.Another on the list is Michael "Arthur" Fearon, aged between 18 and 25, who was charged in connection with evasion of excise duty on nearly 8.4m Benson & Hedges cigarettes, according to HMRC. He is also wanted by the UK Border Agency in connection with money-laundering offences and by Irish police for driving offences.HMRC said Fearon had crossed over the border into Northern Ireland driving a black Mercedes. The department estimates the Northern Irishman has cost taxpayers £2m, and believes he is in the Republic of Ireland.Osborne said: "The government has stepped up HMRC's enforcement activities to enable them to pursue tax cheats relentlessly around the world. The publication of HMRC's most wanted has already helped catch two people wanted for tax fraud. This new list will help put more tax fraudsters in the spotlight and bring them to justice."The shadow Treasury minister Catherine McKinnell said: "One year on, it's a huge failure that 18 of the 20 most wanted tax fraudsters have still not been caught. At a time when families are facing a cost-of-living crisis, it's even more important that everyone pays their fair share of tax. The government needs to do better."The two men caught since the most wanted list first emerged are John Nugent, 53, and Anthony Judge, aged between 35 and 45.HMRC said Nugent fraudulently claimed more than £22m in duty and VAT reclaims. The Crown Prosecution Service announced on 31 May that he had been jailed for four and a half years for an £11m fraud.Judge was wanted for his role in arranging financial crimes totalling more than £350,000, HMRC said. He failed to appear at Canterbury crown court in 2003 to answer charges relating to money laundering and had not been seen since. HMRC said Judge was caught at Heathrow airport on 4 July while travelling on a false passport, and had since pleaded guilty.