Today, Big Brother Watch has released a report about the nation's CCTV network. It shows that the number of CCTV cameras around the country controlled by local authorities has trebled in the past 10 years.I'm not a luddite. Technology has an important role to play in law enforcement. But the public purse offers finite resources. The cost of installation, maintenance, monitoring and storage of the imagery produced by CCTV is money taken from a finite pot of funds available to law enforcement that cannot then be used in other ways, such as having officers on the street.It's a question of balance. CCTV's supporters stress the merit of solving the small number of crimes that can be solved with CCTV footage, without weighing against that the harm of law enforcement personnel fruitlessly going through millions of hours of footage or the millions of pounds that might have been spent in other ways.We're the only country that's gone so far down this path. The Shetland Isles have more CCTV cameras than San Francisco police department. This year, Breckland council (with a population of 121,000 people) spent £3.5m on a new surveillance system for the Norfolk district. Alternatively, that's the pay of more than 150 new police officers. If asked about the introduction of the cameras, the people of Breckland probably would have been in favour. But had they been offered the choice of the cameras or the new police officers instead, what might they have said?These decisions are taken by specific individuals in councils, and were until now, without scrutiny. They produce wildly dissimilar situations in different areas. Portsmouth has a CCTV network 10 times as big as Plymouth's despite the fact that more people live in the latter. We hope to prompt people to question their councillors – is this really the best use of our law enforcement budget?CCTV cameras are often out of order. When they work, they are often turned off. Recently in Somerset a grandfather was badly beaten while on a train station. The area should have been covered by CCTV, but it wasn't switched on. Some of Southeastern Railway's CCTV cameras are always switched off – not because of technical problems, but as a part of cost-savings policy.When cameras work and are switched on, they're often pointing the wrong way. When they're working, switched on and pointing the right way, footage is often "scrubbed" before an investigator requests it, because storage is expensive. When all of that goes right, the quality of imagery obtained is usually so low as to be unusable for investigations and certainly not good enough for court identification purposes.In these situations, having CCTV is worse than it simply not being there. We develop a false sense of security because of it, and law enforcement becomes dependent on an unreliable resource: our overreliance upon this technology can be cruelly exposed when it is tested and it fails to look after us, and no alternative provisions are in place because of the money spent on cameras and the trust wrongly vested in them.Perhaps it is for these reasons that research indicates that crime is not driven down by CCTV, as confirmed by London's Metropolitan police report this year, which stated that one crime a year was solved for every 1,000 cameras.Efficacy alone is enough to show the faults of our CCTV network, the biggest in the world. But there are legitimate privacy concerns too. People are increasingly concerned by the capture and (in principle) permanent retention of the images of innocent people without their consent.Our report doesn't reflect the large number of cameras held by organisations other than local authorities – by Transport for London, by government ministries, or in private hands. But it's a start in developing a genuine and accurate picture of the extent to which we are being watched.