A man arrested in Morocco in connection with Britain's biggest cash robbery was named today as Lee Murray, a martial arts expert who has competed as a "cage fighter".Mr Murray, 26, of Sidcup, south London, was arrested yesterday afternoon in connection with February's £53m Securitas raid in Kent. He was held by Moroccan police near the largest shopping centre in the capital, Rabat. He is known as Lee "Lightning" Murray in the world of cage fighting - a mixture of kick boxing, karate and other martial arts - and has appeared on television.Mr Murray was arrested with three other men, who are thought to be from the UK but are not wanted by British police. The other three are understood to have been arrested for offences linked to a disturbance.Moroccan officers have described yesterday's swoop as a "sizeable operation" because those targeted included "specialists in martial arts and the use of weapons".The arrest is the culmination of a three-month investigation by police, who believe some of the robbers of the Securitas cash depot in Tonbridge fled abroad after the February 22 raid. Speaking today outside Kent police headquarters, Detective Superintendent Paul Gladstone named Mr Murray and gave new details about the arrest. "[Mr Murray] was arrested for robbery, kidnap and other offences linked to the £53m Securitas raid." Mr Gladstone, the senior investigating officer in the case, said: "The arrest was made with the authority of the Crown Prosecution Service, Kent police and the Moroccan authorities. The man is in custody in Rabat and the United Kingdom is now seeking extradition."Britain has no formal extradition treaty with Morocco, so would have to make a special, one-off request. The Home Office would not comment today on whether a request had yet been made. An individual was last extradited from Morocco to Britain in 1995. Mr Murray's name was published in tabloid newspapers in September last year when he was stabbed after a birthday party for a page three model. He was taken for treatment at St Mary's hospital in west London after being found with stab wounds near the Funky Buddha nightclub in Mayfair.Five men and two women have already been charged in connection with the Securitas robbery and are due to appear in court next month. Mr Gladstone also revealed today that two men, from Devon and Hampshire, had been charged with money laundering after a "number of people" were arrested on Friday in Surrey and Hampshire. He said a "significant" amount of cash had also been recovered but could not confirm reports that the figure was £1m or that the cash was definitely linked to the Securitas raid. Officers were understood, however, to be working on the theory that the recovered money was linked to the Tonbridge robbery. "The money is now being counted and forensically examined," Mr Gladstone said. Raiders stole £53,116,760 from the Securitas depot. So far, £20m has been recovered. There have been at least 18 arrests directly linked to the raid. The trial of the seven people who have been charged is scheduled to start at the Old Bailey on July 10 when the accused - John Fowler, 60, Raluca Millen, 25, Stuart Royle, 47, Jetmir Bucpapa, 24, Lea Rusha, 33, Ermir Hysenaj, 27, and Kim Shackleton, 38 - are due to enter pleas.The seven, who have been remanded in custody, face a variety of charges linked to the robbery and the associated kidnapping of the depot manager, Colin Dixon, his wife, Lynn, and their nine-year-old son, Craig, from their home in Herne Bay, Kent.