Whitehall's least conventional civil servant takes over today as director of a Home Office unit dealing with bad behaviour.Louise Casey, 36, a civil servant for barely three years, becomes head of a new anti-social behaviour unit intended by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to be a "centre of excellence" in how to tackle litter, dumped cars and neighbourhood intimidation. Its first task will to be to produce the antisocial behaviour bill promised in the Queen's speech. Ms Casey, formerly deputy director of the housing charity Shelter, joined Whitehall to launch the rough sleepers' unit, which was then in the Department of Transport, Local Government and Regions. She subsequently headed the homelessness directorate in the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. In charge of the government's £200m programme to end sleeping in the streets, she admonished refuge charities for encouraging homelessness. She advised the public not to give money to beggars, and has argued that the homelessness problem is about drug dependence and domestic violence. Ms Casey's promotion is a sign of Whitehall's new-found enthusiasm for civil servants who make things happen. Her move also illustrates the Home Office's growing involvement in what used to be defined as social policy. Under the heading community cohesion, the Home Office has groups looking at schools, housing, sport, race, and employment. Though the Cabinet Office said three years ago that there was no agreed definition of anti-social behaviour and not much data either, it has become an intense focus of Labour ministers' attention. Antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) were introduced by the Crime and Disorder Act 1998. Since then, more than 650 have been granted to police and councils. Intended to cover harassment and intimidation, for example of neighbours, breach of an Asbo can bring a five-year jail term.But lately, anti-social behaviour has been extended to include public drunkenness and litter. Half of all councils have anti-social behaviour strategies. Nottingham even includes drug dealing and racial insults. According to surveys, one in 10 adults experiences antisocial behaviour each year: the most common complaint is of young people being rude or abusive. Ms Casey is thought to be sceptical of a punitive approach and has misgivings about, for example, orders requiring parents to attend classes on better child rearing. As homelessness director, she has questioned the utility of locking up street offenders, and called for the expansion of drug treatment programmes. Her main task in the unit will be to tell Mr Blunkett the best way of cutting antisocial behaviour. "Inevitably, " she said in an interview before Christmas, "we will be try to pull together local authorities, health, social services, housing." Said by a former charity colleague to "have become very New Labour in her outlook", Ms Casey will try to put into practice recent work by the Cabinet Office strategy unit on building up "social capital" - networks of parents and tenants - in deprived areas.