The mystery of what happened to a yacht that sank off the Isle of Wight with the loss of its three crew members may never be solved after a ferry officer was cleared yesterday of causing their deaths.Michael Hubble, who was in charge of the car ferry Pride of Bilbao, had been accused of knocking over or swamping the seven-metre yacht Ouzo, and leaving the men to die in the water.A jury cleared Hubble of the manslaughter of the three friends and after 33 hours of deliberation failed to reach verdicts on lesser charges.Hubble, 62, who has been a sailor for 42 years, was allowed to walk free and said he would return to sea. He expressed "the deepest sympathy" to the families of the men who died, James Meaby, 36, Jason Downer, 35, and Rupert Saunders, 36, but said: "The demise of those men was nothing to do with me, or any action of mine or the Pride of Bilbao. I have never done anything negligent in my life."Some of the men's relatives were visibly distressed as Hubble was formally cleared at Winchester crown court of the three remaining charges he faced under the Merchant Shipping Act.The crown decided that it was not in the public interest to try to put Hubble back on trial over the three charges.In a statement the victims' families paid tribute to the men: "They enjoyed life to the full. They worked hard and played hard. They were safety-conscious sailors. Safety first, safety second, safety third."The three, who were school and university friends, left Bembridge on the Isle of Wight on the evening of August 20 last year en route to Devon to take part in the Dartmouth regatta.All three were found dead with their lifejackets on and inflated. Meaby is believed to have remained alive in the water for at least 12 hours and the others at least three hours.Hubble, of Folkestone, Kent, accepted that the 37,500-tonne P&O ferry passed close to a yacht at about the time Ouzo disappeared. The prosecution claimed that yacht was Ouzo but Hubble said he had seen the lights of the yacht that he had passed behind him and was sure it was safe.Hubble's defence claimed Ouzo came close to a 3,000-tonne tanker called Crescent Beaune on the night it disappeared. The captain of the tanker, Alaistair Crichton, told the jury he had broken the law when he had only a second officer and not another lookout on his bridge that night.But the jury was not given access to a report from the government Marine Accident Investigation Branch (MAIB), which concluded the yacht Bilbao passed close to was Ouzo. It suggested the light which Hubble saw could have been Ouzo. No trace of the yacht has ever been found. The MAIB flagged up a number of safety concerns, including the fact that Hubble's lookout who was on the bridge was wearing glasses that reduced his ability to see in the dark.Also highlighted in the report, published earlier this year, were concerns about the Ouzo's equipment. It is believed to have been fitted with a "radar reflector" intended to increase the chances of being picked up by a ship's radar. But tests have shown that many radar reflectors are ineffective. The MAIB said that if the yacht had carried a liferaft or a device that automatically sent out a distress signal the crew might have been saved.The theoriesWhat could have happened to cause the Ouzo to sink?Explosion This possibility was discounted by investigators because the bodies of the crew showed no signs of burning.Hull failure Unlikely as the yacht would almost certainly have stayed afloat for at least a short time.Collision with another vessel Still the most likely explanation.· This article was amended on Friday December 15 2007. Michael Hubble, who was cleared of causing the deaths of three yachtsmen, was watch officer on the Pride of Bilbao, not the captain, as we suggested in the headline of this article, which has now been corrected. Mr Hubble was the only officer charged in relation to the deaths.