The Home Office hurriedly withdrew part of the Stephen Lawrence report yesterday after an extraordinary security blunder by the inquiry team allowed the publication of more than 20 names and addresses of police informants. By the time the mistake in the appendices volume was noticed, copies had been sent to the five murder suspects or their solicitors. Hundreds more had been sold with the main report through HMSO book shops. The security implications immediately took police to the Eltham area, in south London, where the informants live, to reassure them about their safety. The inquiry team accepted full responsibility for the error and apologised, but the mistake was seen at Westminster as a huge embarrassment for the Home Secretary, whose officials have had the report for 10 days.Jack Straw was visiting the vandalised memorial to Stephen Lawrence yesterday when he said: "Naturally I am very concerned indeed about the names. When I learned of this this morning, I undertook to investigate. Obviously, it would be wholly wrong for myself or anybody in the Home Office to go through the report checking it." One of the suspects, Gary Dobson, has instructed his solicitor not to show him a copy of the appendices, his solicitor said yesterday. Michael Holmes said his client did not want to be blamed if anything happened to an informant. "My client wants nothing to do with seeing anything about that at all," Mr Holmes said. Last night a spokeswoman for the inquiry team said: "It is entirely our responsibility and our mistake. We are obviously very sorry." The team was alerted to the problem by Scotland Yard. The names of more than 20 informants who identified the suspects - and other members of their gang - have always remained a closely guarded secret because of fears of retribution. The publication of the list, which was received with horror by the policeman who compiled it, has given Scotland Yard and Greenwich Council a security nightmare. The inquiry report concluded that some witnesses were scared of coming forward. "It was apparent to the first investigating team that young and impressionable witnesses on and around the Brook Estate were holding back because of their fear or apprehension," it said. There were also fears yesterday that the mistake could impair the ongoing investigation into Stephen's death by Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, the head of the Yard's racial and violent crime taskforce, who has been reassessing all the information that was volunteered to the police in the days after Stephen's racist killing. Mr Grieve was said to be furious, particularly at the release of a top secret address which was a central location in the early days of the investigation. One woman, who had told police, "Acourts carry knives" (in reference to two murder suspects, brothers Jamie and Neil Acourt), described the publication of her personal details as "disgusting". The woman said she gave the police a "bit of gossip" when they were conducting door-to-door inquiries. "It makes it sound as if I phoned up the police," she said. "I said there had been a bit of talk, that they hadn't gone in for gang warfare or anything like that. I honestly wish they hadn't said that. It makes it sound as if I am accusing them." The information is contained in a four-page document, appendix 11, which was drawn up by Chief Superintendent David Clapperton, the second-in-charge of the Kent police investigation into the Met's handling of the case. He said yesterday: "I was horrified to see it [the document] in the appendices yesterday. This has arisen because it was only made available to the Kent County Constabulary and the Police Complaints Authority at 3.30pm yesterday. We were not given any advance access to the report." The Police Complaints Authority, which supervised the Kent police investigation, also expressed amazement at the list's publication. A Home Office spokesman said: "We are urgently assessing the implications of this."  Greenwich Council said: "Our first course of action would be to try to prevent any harassment and we will work with the police to take any action against perpetrators. "We want to protect people being forced out of their homes."