Six climate change protesters who cut through the fence at Manchester airport and surrounded an aircraft in protest at emissions actually led to an increase in pollution, a court has heard.The activists from Plane Stupid chained their arms together, encircling the nose wheel of the Monarch Airlines plane bound for Egypt in May last year, Trafford magistrates court was told. All six deny aggravated trespass.Nicky Moore, for the prosecution, asked defendant Robin Gillett, 24, if he was aware that the protest led to an increase in emissions because the airport was closed and six aircraft diverted elsewhere.Gillett acknowledged that emissions increased but said that had not been the intention of the action. He had felt "fobbed off" after trying to meet a city councillor to discuss emissions from the airport, which is 55% owned by the local authority."By stopping the aircraft taking off we were hoping to prevent the release of emissions and greenhouse gases," Gillett told the court. "It was a peaceful protest about climate change."The protesters claim they acted to prevent death and serious injury caused through climate change by stopping emissions from Manchester airport. Barney Francis, 27, Jess Bradley, 21, David Cullen, 31, Iain Hilton, 31, Edward Watson, 21, and Gillett, all of Manchester, wore orange high-visibility tabards with "Our climate, not your business" written on them.Moore said the six breached the perimeter fence on 24 May last year and approached the plane which was waiting to take 252 passengers and crew to Egypt. Five surrounded the nosewheel and chained their arms together while a sixth chained himself to the group so he could move freely and provide food and drink.The airport had to be closed to aircraft for 30 minutes, he said. The delay led to an additional £1,500 fuel bill and £196.88 in crew costs for Monarch as the plane attempted to make up lost time.The court heard that Gillett had previous convictions for obstructing a train bound for Drax power station, for trespassing at East Midlands airport, and for a breach of the peace during the 2005 G8 summit in Edinburgh.Police sergeant Natalino Practico said he saw five youths chained around the aircraft. As he approached, he realised they were not terrorists, "just climate protesters"."I asked for their names and they all decided to call themselves George," he told the court. He asked how long they were going to be there. They told him they wanted to speak to a representative from the airport, but this was refused as being too dangerous.Practico said considerable resources had been used – a helicopter checked the airport fence and a tactical aid unit was diverted from another operation.District judge Jonathan Taafe asked Gillett why, if he believed so fervently climate change, he had replied "no comment" to every police question. "It was the legal advice I was given at the time," he said.The trial continues.