With his sentencing today, Levi Bellfield joins a small group of prisoners whose crimes were so heinous that they must spend the rest of their lives in jail. The former nightclub bouncer was told he will die in prison for murdering two young women and trying to kill a third. Steve Wright, jailed last week for the murders of five women in Ipswich, was also given a whole life term. The former QE2 steward was told his "targeted campaign of murder" warranted the harshest punishment available to the judge. According to Ministry of Justice figures, today's sentencing means there are now 37 living prisoners for whom life will mean life. Many of those on the whole life tariff list committed crimes so shocking that, decades later, their names remain etched on the public memory. Some notorious cases include that of the Moors Murderer Ian Brady, who tortured and killed children with his accomplice, Myra Hindley. Five children are known to have been killed by the pair in and around Manchester during the early 1960s. Hindley and Brady were jailed for life in 1966 for the murders of 10-year-old Lesley Ann Downey and Edward Evans, 17. Brady was also convicted of murdering 12-year-old John Kilbride, while Hindley was found to have been an accessory. In 1987, the pair confessed to killing 12-year-old Keith Bennett and 16-year-old Pauline Reade.Brady has been serving his sentence at Ashworth hospital on Merseyside, while Hindley died in 2002. The murderer and robber Donald Neilson – also known as the Black Panther - shot and killed three sub-postmasters. Neilson abducted and killed heiress Lesley Whittle, 17, whose body was found at the bottom of a drain shaft. Convicted in 1976, he was sentenced to life by the trial judge, and the lord chief justice decided he should never be released. The only woman on the list is Rose West, who was convicted in 1995. A killing spree with her husband, Fred, saw 10 young women murdered, eight of them within a two-year period. Victims of West and her husband included her own daughter, Heather, 16, and her step-daughter Charmaine, aged eight. Their remains were found under the patio and in the cellar of the couple's home in Cromwell Street, Gloucester. West later hanged himself in prison, his wife has blamed everything on him. Jeremy Bamber is also serving life after being convicted of murdering five members of his adoptive family. Bamber has always denied shooting dead his adoptive parents Neville and June, Sheila Caffell and her twin six-year-old sons, Nicholas and Daniel, at the family's home in Tolleshunt D'Arcy, Essex, in 1985. Aged 25 when he was convicted in 1986, he has since lost appeals against the verdict.Another conviction to end in a whole life sentence came in 1983, when Dennis Nilsen, a civil servant, was found guilty of strangling six young men and burning and dismembering their bodies. In 2005 Glyn Dix, then 51, was convicted of stabbing his wife Hazel, 54, to death and chopping her body into 16 pieces using a knife, hacksaw and scissors. Dix butchered his wife in the kitchen of the couple's home in Abbeydale, Redditch. Her son came home to find his stepfather crouched naked over his wife's body holding the hacksaw. Last June, David Tiley, then 48, was convicted of murdering his disabled fiancée Sue Hale, 49, and her 39-year-old carer, Sarah Merritt. Tiley lived with Hale's body for a week after her death and killed Merritt when she came to visit Hale. Their bodies were found at Hale's flat. Last March, Rahan Arshad, 37, was convicted of murdering his wife and three children by beating them with a rounders bat. He claimed that killing his wife had been prompted by the discovery that she had killed the children. The Soham murderer, Ian Huntley, is not on the whole life tariff list. He is serving a 40-year minimum term. Huntley was convicted of murdering 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman in 2003.