When the GP came calling on retired teacher Winifred Mellor, she had no reason to be anything but pleased to see him. After all, the 73-year-old grandmother had no idea that police had recently begun a secret investigation into suspicions that her doctor, Harold Shipman, was murdering his patients.The inquiry ended with a call from the detective in charge to the local coroner, John Pollard, reassuring him that there was no evidence of wrongdoing: the coroner's notes of the conversation conclude, in emphatic capitals, that "ALL IS OK". Less than a month after those words were written, Winifred Mellor was found dead, a half-drunk cup of coffee beside her and her sleeve still rolled up from Shipman's fatal injection. Her family is haunted by the belief that the police missed their chance to stop the killer in his tracks. 'The police did not murder my mum, Shipman murdered my mum,' said her son Danny Mellor, a 52-year-old RAF flight lieutenant from Lincolnshire. 'But I am very angry with the police. They failed me. 'The anger and the frustration have got to be channelled somewhere else. It is pointless going around feeling bitter. You have to turn that into positive action to try to get things changed. I am doing this for my mum. She was a great champion for social justice. She would have latched on to this.' Winifred Mellor was a determined woman, who left school without any qualifications, but became as a special needs teacher at 50. She was still fit enough to play football with her grandchildren. Shipman blamed her death on 11 May,1998, on an invented heart condition: the family were surprised she had apparently had an illness she had never spoken of, but accepted his explanation - until the day in September that year when Shipman wasarrested after forging the will of his final victim, Mrs Mellor's former neighbour, Kathleen Grundy. Danny Mellor has since asked himself many times why his suspicions were not aroused, why he did not push for a post mortem examination. What Winifred Mellor's family are less able to forgive, however, are the emerging shortcomings of the Greater Manchester Police investigation.