Oundle school in Northamptonshire today seemed bemused by the media interest in their forthcoming sixth-form speaker - convicted killer Tony Martin.Mr Martin, who was recently released from jail after shooting dead a teenage burglar and injuring another, follows a series of distinguished speakers at the independent school, including three Nobel laureates, Stella Rimington, the head of MI5, and former foreign secretary Lord Hurd. Lord Archer has also spoken to sixth-formers - before he was convicted and jailed for perjury.Today Megan Smedley, a spokeswoman for the school, said: "We have had numerous speakers in the past and none of them created this level of interest. We have had world-renowned speakers who haven't caused any interest at all."She said the school would cancel the talk if it appeared it was likely to cause distress to the local community or anyone connected with the school. "The students won't sit dumbly while he's speaking and will be offered opportunities to ask questions. We always have lively questioning whoever comes to speak. They are there to make up their own minds," she added. Mr Martin will be paid a fee including expenses. Asked whether he should be profiting from his crime, Ms Smedley said the guidelines were "tremendously hazy". "As far as schools are concerned I don't think there is any clear guidance," she said, adding: "If we get a great deal of media involvement we may just feel it is really not worth all the hype."Previous speakers included James Watson, discoverer of DNA, the Nobel-winning biologist Sir John Sulston, and David Trimble, the Unionist leader who received the Peace prize for his work in Northern Ireland. Other events on the programme for Oundle sixth-formers include wine tasting and a session from a hypnotist. Ms Smedley said Mr Martin would not simply be telling his story. "The brief would be for him to speak in general terms about himself as a victim of burglary and then about his campaign to standardise sentences for burglary. We're not looking for a rehash of what happened."