It was the afternoon of Friday, April 18, when the two bodies were found. Police had been called to the hostel for homeless men in Monkwearmouth, Sunderland, and a murder inquiry was launched. As the remains of 41-year-old Wayne Pearce and 44-year-old Brian Pallister were removed from the scene, the neighbourhood was alive with rumours, but Northumbria police were giving few details and, even after the postmortems, refused to give any information about the cause of death. Instead, we were force-fed what can only be described as political spin. A senior officer told journalists: "This does appear to be an isolated incident and extra patrols in the area should reassure people that Sunderland is still a safe place to live and work."Incidents of crimes described as "rare" or even "incredibly rare" are now becoming common in Northumbria. Only last year, we had the case of a young man stabbed to death after tackling a gang outside his house in Pennywell, Sunderland. Within 24 hours of the murder, a senior officer told journalists: "We understand people's concern about knife crime when they hear about incidents such as these over recent weeks but I want to stress the region remains a safe place to live and work. We should also point out stranger attacks are also very rare. Most incidents like this are between people who know each other." A Freedom of Information request would later show that the force had one of the highest levels of knife crime in the country in 2007. Positive spin This tendency to play down appalling crimes is all part of the force's attempt to convince the public that all is safe and well on the streets. The £700,000-a-year press office pumps out press releases on how crime is falling. Sadly, these stories are usually printed in place of the real crime stories we are no longer given. For the most disturbing aspect of all is the growing tendency for police to not release crimes to the media at all - or release them many days, weeks or even months later.When I started as a journalist 23 years ago, it was usual for serious crimes to be given out within 24 hours. As crime reporter at the Sunderland Echo in the 1980s and 1990s, I can't recall detectives being forced to issue political spin about how "rare" robberies, rapes or other offences were. But now, as well as playing down crimes, it seems to be standard procedure for the force not to publicise offences.In recent years, I have compiled a list of 150 incidents that were either not released or were released very late by Northumbria police. They include attacks on elderly people, stabbings, sex attacks and armed robberies. Weekends appear to be a particular problem when, according to my sources, low-ranking officers are scared to release crimes without permission from their superiors. After one weekend during which not one crime was put on the police press line, I made a Freedom of Information request and discovered there had been no fewer than 5,083 incidents, including 45 classed as "serious". These included the death of a teenage girl who fell from a tower block, a 74-year-old man beaten senseless by thugs armed with a plank, and a missing hospital patient found washed up on a beach. Last year, as a result of the failings myself and other journalists had highlighted, the force carried out a review of its media operations. A "media consultant" was brought in at a cost of £5,633.89 (the figure provided courtesy of another Freedom of Information request). The chief constable instructed officers to be more open with the media and, from April, the force started staffing its press office at weekends. The move has hardly led to a flood of crimes being given out but it is a step in the right direction. However, I also noticed that during the review officers had listed the possibility of raising the "fear of crime" as one of the main concerns of being more open with the media. For many years, police have held some details of crimes back for "operational reasons". The media have usually gone along with such practices if they helped catch criminals. The Data Protection Act then led to some officers releasing fewer details to the media. The "fear of crime" factor has now led to what can only be described as censorship. Stonewalled I have written to the force, asking why particular crimes were not released sooner. I usually got a letter or a phone call. Sometimes the officer would cite "operational reasons". At other times they would admit there was no good reason why the crime had not been given out. But now, despite the chief constable's promise to be more open, my approaches are stonewalled. The Northumbrian police said: "There must be a legitimate policing purpose for releasing information to the media and operational considerations must take precedence over media requirements. Therefore there will be times when information is not released, or there is a delay in releasing it ... We do not seek to hide the true picture of crime - the figures speak for themselves - and we would reiterate that this is one of the safest areas to live, as Home Office crime figures show."After being told that my concerns would no longer be investigated, I complained to the IPCC and the police authority, only for them to forward my complaint back to Northumbria. Meanwhile, Warcup is taking his "operational reasons" to the sunnier shores of Jersey, where he will take up the position of deputy chief constable. Hopefully, whoever replaces him may take a more enlightened stance when it comes to dealing with such concerns. Then my concerns truly will be "rare" and "isolated".· Nigel Green is an author and freelance reporterWhen police trusted reportersBack in 1951, the famous detective superintendent Robert Fabian compiled an authorised Boy's Book of Scotland Yard, perfect for a young chap's Christmas stocking. One chapter opens with a description of a "scarcely noticeable green door (through which) you will find yourself in a room with men playing cards, perhaps, or reading, or just smoking and chatting ... They are the crime reporters of the national newspapers."Ah, how simple it must have seemed in those days, when relations between the police and press were based on a mutual understanding. But this closeness meant the corruption within the Metropolitan police in the 60s and early 70s went pretty much unreported.Since then, police forces across Britain have installed press bureaux, which have acted as a buffer-zone between most of the media and the officers themselves. While individual reporters still have their own contacts, the majority of the information now comes from the various force media outfits, which often reflect the attitudes of the hierarchy in their particular force.For instance, when the head of a Lithuanian migrant worker was found on a beach in Arbroath by two young sisters last month, the Tayside police press office sent out updates and returned calls. At the other end of the scale is the press office that seems to take greater pleasure in witholding information and where the policy appears to be that no news is always good news. Some press officers argue that they are obliged to err on the side of caution in terms of the information they give out because of the dangers of breaching contempt of court rules.Attitudes within the police towards the media fluctuate. The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, who has had a rough a ride from the press, is currently engaged in a consultation exercise over media relations and has stated that "a healthy and responsible relationship between police and the media is to be encouraged and supported". Easier said than done.Duncan Campbell