The property tycoon Nicholas van Hoogstraten faces a retrial for manslaughter after appeal court judges yesterday quashed a conviction for killing a former business associate.Mr van Hoogstraten, 58, was convicted of the manslaughter of Mohammed Raja at the Old Bailey last year, but the verdict was overturned yesterday for legal reasons which cannot be reported until after the retrial. Mr Raja, 62, was stabbed five times and shot in the head at his home in Sutton, Surrey, in July 1999. Robert Knapp, 55, of Co Limerick, and David Croke, 60, of Moulsecoomb, Brighton, were convicted of murdering Mr Raja, while Mr van Hoogstraten was convicted of hiring the pair to act as hitmen. The prosecution claimed he ordered the killing after Mr Raja threatened to take the tycoon to court in a row over property deals. Mr van Hoogstraten denied involvement in the killing, but was found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to 10 years in prison last July. He was remanded in custody yesterday, will be charged with manslaughter within 28 days and will return to court for a plea hearing within two months. Mr Van Hoogstraten, who sat in the dock flanked by prison officers, remained impassive as the conviction was quashed, but members of Mr Raja's family burst into tears. Outside court, the family's lawyer, James Lightfoot, said they were in shock and were too upset to comment. Knapp and Croke, who are serving life sentences for murder, are also challenging their convictions. When he was jailed, Mr Van Hoogstraten was in the process of building a £40m country home on his estate in East Sussex. Earlier this year ramblers celebrated winning a 13-year battle to use a public footpath across the estate. Mr Van Hoogstraten had described the ramblers as "scum, riff-raff and the great unwashed" for wanting to use the footpath. But in February, Kate Ashbrook, chairman of the Ramblers' Association's access committee made the symbolic first cut through barbed wire blocking the path before a digger began removing obstacles. Mr van Hoogstraten's retrial is not expected to take place before March next year.