Police hunting for the missing three-year-old, Madeleine McCann, are today scrutinising four pieces of "very useful" fresh information, Crimestoppers said. The tip-offs came among hundreds of calls made from Portugal to a special UK number set up by the charity. A spokeswoman said they have been passed to Leicestershire police, who are working alongside their Portuguese counterparts on the case. She declined to comment further on the nature of the information. Madeleine, who will be four on Saturday, disappeared a week ago tonight. Her parents, Gerry and Kate, discovered her gone after returning from dining with friends at a tapas bar opposite their holiday apartment in the village of Praia Da Luz. There has been no news on her whereabouts since, although police are looking at CCTV footage showing a girl fitting Madeleine's description with a woman at a service station just a few miles away. The couple have endured an agonising wait during the past week as they also care for their two-year-old twins, Sean and Amelie. Last night the McCanns, who are both doctors, insisted they remained positive and full of hope. Mr McCann's brother, John, said the family had refocused in the last couple of days. "They've got a 'to do' list of lots of contacts," he told Sky News. "They are working through a whole raft of ideas over in Portugal." Speaking from the UK after returning from Portugal, he told of moments such as when one of the twins asked "Where's Madeleine?", and they had to tell them she was not there at the moment. "As a two-year-old your perception is not as profound as older children," he said. He added that he had not seen Madeleine's parents break down, although he described them as having gone "through the mangle", and their emotions were "ripped". He called the couple "inspirational", adding that the family was "very proactive". There has been some criticism of the McCanns for leaving their three young children alone in the apartment while they went out for dinner. But Mr McCann's sister, Patricia, 47, a nurse from Glasgow, said they did not trust a babysitter. She told the Daily Mail: "They felt it was better than leaving them with a babysitter as you don't know who you are going to get with a stranger." Mrs McCann's mother, Susan Healy, told Sky News: "I don't think for one minute that Kate and Gerry would leave their children. I know they wouldn't. "They never go anywhere without babysitters in this country. "You can make all the arrangements you want and think that your children are safe, but this is not a normal act." Search teams have scoured a nine-mile stretch of land and sea as part of the efforts to find the three-year-old. Police have also inspected 500 apartments and interviewed more than 100 people. However, according to reports, the Portuguese authorities may scale down their efforts within the next few days as some of the 930 police officers involved are reassigned. There has been a string of possible sightings, some of which have turned out to be false alarms. Among 350 different potential leads is the service station CCTV tape. The woman was said to be urging the girl to say "thank you" to staff, but she appeared reluctant, apparently wanting to say something else, which made staff suspicious. The Galp service station is the first stop on the motorway which cuts across the Algarve towards Spain, less than an hour away. Portuguese police are said to be focusing their search on the possibility that an organised network of paedophiles abducted Madeleine. But the investigative Policia Judiciaria has not commented publicly, hinting only that it has narrowed down its hypotheses. The force has come under intense criticism for its handling of the case but refuses to reveal details of the investigation amid an information blackout due to Portuguese laws.