Metropolitan police chief Ian Blair's piercing comments about "institutional racism" in the media capture the feelings of many south Asians in Britain (The year of living dangerously, G2, January 30). In sharp contrast to white British cases, such as the recent murder of the Entwistle family, British Asians who have been attacked or murdered (like Balbir Matharu and the Chohan family) have received only a fraction of the attention in the mainstream media.Ian Blair's comparison of the uneven media coverage given to the murders of Thomas ap Rhys Pryce and Balbir Matharu captures this disparity perfectly. Both were London residents, murdered on exactly the same day, using exactly the same level of premeditated violence, by a gang motivated by theft. The same applies to cases overseas. In 1998 we witnessed the massive media attention on white au pair Louise Woodward, convicted in the US of child manslaughter. The similar case of British Sikh au pair Manjit Kaur Basuta, in 1999, received no such coverage. We commend Blair for asserting race equality as a central factor in media coverage. Jagdeesh Singh Sikh Commission on Racism & CohesionWhen will the media apologise to the families of Joy Gardener, Ibrahim Sey, Brian and Wayne Douglas, Clinton McCurbin and the many people of African origin who died at the hands of the British police during the 1980s and 90s and on whom only criticism and contempt were poured. Where were they when we needed a free press to criticise the police? They were silent then, but suddenly they seem to have found their voices when it comes to Blair's criticism of them for ignoring black people. I shall not forget the five years of silence following Stephen Lawrence's murder. Linda Bellos Former leader of Lambeth councilThe notion that anger at Ian Blair's lamentable performance last July must be "mischievous" is absurd (Leaders, February 1). Calls for his resignation were based on his statements and claims, the nature of which called either his competence or his judgment (or both) into the most serious question. Even if we adopt the most cautious approach to the events at Stockwell tube, the time to make the case that "Blair must stay" is after the report on those tragic events is made public not before.While it takes a few weeks for the government to decide just what civil liberties to destroy and which new powers to confer on the police, we have to wait over six months for a report on the events of a couple of hours last July. Meanwhile, members of a police force which has demonstrated its incapacity effectively to wield powers that it already possesses, get to lobby MPs in order to acquire yet more draconian prerogatives over the rest of us. Peter Lake Princeton, New Jersey, USA