Of the two, it was Jon Venables who appeared the more emotional as he and Robert Thompson were on trial for the murder of James Bulger.He regularly cried openly, leaning against the shoulder of his social worker. He continually glanced at his parents, Susan and Neil, while nervously shredding the tissues handed to him.Media descriptions of him as "quivering" and "vulnerable" compared with the "impassive" Thompson at Preston crown court in 1993 served to define him as the more impressionable of the two. Yet prior to the murder of the two-year-old, there were signs Venables, then 10, did not just follow. Sometimes, he led.It was Venables who had previously shown uncontrollable violence by trying to throttle a fellow classmate with a ruler, pulling so hard his victim's face was red before a teacher could intervene. And it was Venables who singled out the toddler to approach in the Strand shopping centre in Bootle, Merseyside, on that February day.The guilty verdict, when it came, saw the pale and skinny boy collapse into convulsive tears. He did, however, whisper to his solicitor as he was led to the cells. "Would you please tell them I'm sorry," he said. Those words, perhaps, suggest a young boy just starting to come to terms with culpability.But that journey was to be a long one. Only when Venables was 15 would a child psychologist, involved in his rehabilitation, write that he had "worked through the essential stages of coming to terms with the murder".Prof Susan Bailey wrote: "He had moved through the normal sequence of psychological reactions: denial-disbelief, avoidance, sense of loss, experience of grief, ownership for his part in the murder (emerging from the process of re-enactment spanning a period of two difficult years), shame and remorse, which was ongoing and would remain for ever.".It had taken Venables a year to get over the trial, and he still thought about it every night, she concluded. Much was made of both boys coming from difficult backgrounds. Though by no means affluent, Venables's home in Walton was not among the most deprived in the area. His parents were separated, but they raised their children together, with Venables spending half the week with his mother, and half with his father, an unemployed panel beater.Venables was happy to flout authority, displaying no fear of his teachers. But he was afraid of his mother. So fearful was he of her reaction detectives believed it could inhibit his confession. Only when assured by her she would love him forever did he admit his part.Since their convictions the two young murderers have not seen each other. Venables spent his time in custody at the Red Bank children's home, a former approved school in Newton-le-Willows, Merseyside. There, aged 11, the once-skinny youngster swiftly became overweight as the result of binge-eating through boredom.Like Thompson, who was sent to a separate secure unit, he led a highly regimented life, waking at 7am, with lessons from 9.15am-3.15pm, and spending his evening in his room, which he turned into a shrine to Manchester United. As part of the programme to acclimatise him to outside life, he was allowed to attend an Old Trafford game with his father. He passed GCSEs and A-levels, and showed an aptitude for computers.Apart from these scant facts, no further details of his life after release on licence in 2001 have been given by the authorities owing to the anonymity orders made to protect his and Thompson's new identities.