Anthony Walker never knew Stephen Lawrence. As just another black kid trying to get to college and on to a decent job, he'd probably not have thought twice about there being any connection between them.But on Friday night that changed. Standing at a bus stop after an evening with friends, Anthony was racially abused by a gang of young whites brandishing a weapon. Like Stephen, he fled in terror, only to be caught and savagely murdered. For those last few, desperate, horror-filled moments of life, Anthony and Stephen were united.In death, though, the similarities end. When police arrived at the scene, they treated Anthony's companions as witnesses. Stephen's friend, Duwayne Brooks, had been considered a suspect. Police kept Anthony's family fully informed of developments; Stephen's parents, Doreen and Neville, were kept in the dark by officers who objected to their requests for information. "They are patronising us," Doreen said days after the killing, "and when they do that to me I get very angry."Nowhere is the contrast more stark than in the coverage of the two killings by the media. Two days after Stephen's death in south-east London on April 22 1993, there was a smattering of pieces in the national press: mainly just a couple of hundred words, many misspelling his name. Then everything went quiet: no interviews with the family or friends, no updates on the police investigation, no features on the racial strife in the area - in which three other young black people had been racially murdered in the previous two years.This time Anthony's killing has made the front pages and been lead item on the TV news. His family's anguish has been sympathetically portrayed; we know about the kind of person he was - including his devout Christianity, which confirms he's not the kind of menacing black stereotype-of-a-man that editors and their readers so fear.Of course, the fact that black deaths - be it Damilola Taylor, Victoria Climbié or Kieran Rodney-Davis - receive so much more attention now than a decade ago is intrinsically linked to Stephen Lawrence's murder. When Nelson Mandela, visiting Britain, met Doreen and Neville two weeks after their son's killing, the media's ears first pricked up that the case may be more than just another item for the "In brief" column.Over the years, as Doreen first threatened to sue the police for their failure to investigate, then took out a private prosecution against the alleged murderers, then gained the help of the Daily Mail - whose editor's home Neville had decorated - public awareness of the case grew, culminating in the then home secretary Jack Straw's decision to hold a public inquiry into the catastrophic police failings.The resulting Macpherson report laid bare the institutional racism endemic not only within the police, but also within most of Britain's leading organisations and businesses - including, of course, the media, which since then has been trying to show how seriously it takes race reporting.The problem is, though, that rather than eradicate this disease from their organisations - by recruiting and promoting minority journalists so they can influence the news agenda - the press, in particular, have merely picked on a few symbolic cases as some kind of totemic symbol of their right-on-ness.And for the most part, across the rest of their pages they've continued to spout the kind of kneejerk intolerance towards difference that they've always done. Be it scapegoating of Muslims, scares about asylum seekers, or slurs about Africans, its difficult to feel that anything has changed for the better since Thatcher said we were being swamped, nearly 30 years ago.Yes, the Anthony Walker case shows that we have taken great strides over the years; but we cannot escape the likely fact that the bigotry which drove his attackers was fuelled through the same news pages that now weep for him.joseph.harker@theguardian.com