A substantial number of ethnic minority police officers still suffer serious racist abuse from colleagues which they are too frightened to report, while their bosses are failing to handle racial discrimination complaints effectively, areport out yesterday revealed.Eighteen months after the BBC's Secret Policeman documentary exposed the shocking racist attitudes of some recruits at a Cheshire training school, the Commission for Racial Equality's investigation into forces in England and Wales found an "atmosphere of overwhelming fear of reporting racist incidents". Sir David Calvert-Smith, a former director of public prosecutions and recently-appointed high court judge, who led the inquiry, said there was still "ice in the heart of the police service" as regards race issues. Many officers still viewed diversity training as a "politically correct bolt-on", rather than an integral component of good policing. Managers often lacked the training and support to deal with race grievances, so even relatively minor issues tended to escalate out of proportion. The CRE report makes 125 recommendations aimed at the Home Office, chief constables, policing watchdogs such as the constabulary inspectorate and independent police complaints commission, and training establishments. They include more stringent vetting of new recruits, more effective diversity training, a new disciplinary offence of "racial misconduct" to ensure that racism is properly recorded, and better guarantees of confidentiality and protection for whistleblowers. Trevor Phillips, the CRE chairman, said: "The investigation found an atmosphere of overwhelming fear of report ing racist incidents. This has to be extinguished and racist behaviour dealt with effectively." When the CRE published its interim report last June, it threatened to take legal action against 14 English and Welsh forces which did not have adequate guidelines to combat racism in the ranks. All these forces have now produced compliance schemes, but the CRE said only time would tell if they were implemented. More than 20 years after Lord Scarman's report into the Brixton riots, and five years after the Metropolitan police stood accused of "institutional racism" in the wake of the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry, Sir David said the police service must change from within, rather than being jolted by external shocks. He said the aim was to move away from the "quasi-military" police force of the 1940s and toward a service where officers were not just crime fighters but "part of the cement that binds a multi-cultural community together". He conceded that there had been progress, but insisted there was a long way to go. "Willingness to change at the top is not translating into action lower down, particularly in middle management, where you find the ice in the heart of the police service," he said. "We welcome the improvements that have already been made. But the fact remains that every time you drill down you find that ice, and unless more is done, it won't melt any time soon." Sir David said that police forces should also try harder to ensure that ethnic minority officers felt as valued and respected as white staff. "We heard very disturbing stories about treatment which made their [ethnic minority officers'] particular bit of the police force such an impossible place to work that they sought work elsewhere," Sir David said.