The dirty streak in New Labour's character isn't a corruption of power or a hidden trait which reveals itself only in moments of crisis. It has been a persistent stain on public life since the start of the movement. In 1993, Tony Blair, then the Shadow Home Secretary, snatched the body of James Bulger and claimed that the murder of a toddler by two 10-year-old boys reflected the degraded state of Britain under the Tories ('A hammer blow against the sleeping conscience of the nation,' he called it.) Pre-pubescents had hardly ever killed before and didn't take to killing afterwards.James Bulger's death didn't have a 'message' beyond the bitter and hopeless news that a terrible crime had taken place. The facts were of no importance. The future Prime Minister was happy to turn a freak killing into a propaganda tool and use it in a competition with Michael Howard to determine who could be the tougher guy.The years since the Bugler murder have coarsened the country. Insults to public intelligence and rank stupidity became commonplace. The craving to 'set the agenda' for the 24/7 media led from a sinister playing to the gallery on asylum and crime ('Today in Britain, in the twenty-first century, it is not the innocent being convicted, it's too many of the guilty going free' - the Prime Minister to the Labour Party conference, 2003) to the preposterous readiness to cock a leg over every news story ('I have grown up with Frank Sinatra and he will be deeply missed' - the Prime Minister on the death of a singer he barely knew, 1998) and back again. Critical sensibilities have been dulled, and today outrage comes only when the Government moves from the Right to the far-Right; when, to cite last week's instance, the Home Secretary has to choose between condemning a trainee policeman who dresses up as Ku Klux Klansman and threatens his Asian colleagues or the BBC journalists who expose the potential abuse of power, and decides that the statesmanlike course is to condemn the BBC. After a decade of authoritarianism, the only force which can check the executive is the judiciary. At the high point of the Blair-Howard war in the mid-1990s, the courts were begged by petitioners to declare repressive legislation unlawful. Once again, the services of the judges are in demand. The current batch of cases nicely illustrates how the Government abuses public trust and creates chaos in the name of imposing order. The chasm which separates then from now is the 11 September atrocity. In the 1990s, Britain had no external enemies and crime rates were beginning their long fall. There was a faint risk of attack from the Real IRA and others, and in December 1999 Jack Straw assured Parliament that his new anti-terrorism legislation was aimed solely at countering these fanatics. For a democracy enjoying peace and plenty, the terms of the Bill were sweeping. MPs worried that any protester could be labelled a 'terrorist'. Their fears were groundless, Straw replied. The measure would not threaten the right to demonstrate peacefully. Nor was it designed to be used in situations where peaceful protests unaccountably turn ugly. The Government was wielding a rapier, not a cudgel, and wanted to concentrate on the clear and pressing dangers. After the slaughter in America, few quibbled about the need for emergency powers. With fundamentalists out there who would happily detonate a nuclear bomb in Parliament Square, the Government and the security services had the trust of the public. For the past few weeks, the High Court in London has been considering the possibility that not even the threat of mass murder can make the British state grow up. Before it is an account of what happened to demonstrators who gathered in September outside Europe's biggest arms fair in London's Docklands. Cluster bombs, conventional bombs, each and every type of bomb, were on sale to buyers from pretty much every dictatorship on the planet. The demonstrators' number included Quakers and nuns, and members of the Campaign Against the Arms Trade and Globalise Resistance (which is dominated by the Socialist Workers Party). The Campaign Against the Arms Trade is a reputable pressure group which provides research of the highest standard. The SWP is a totalitarian organisation which parasitically attaches itself to every left-wing movement. Although it drives many decent people away from left-wing politics, nobody has ever accused it of practising terrorism. Quakers and nuns are what they say they are. If there were threats to security in the East End, they were buying bombs inside the exhibition rather than preparing to plant them outside the gates. Dozens of protesters were arrested and searched under Straw's anti-terrorism legislation none the less. Pennie Quinton wasn't even demonstrating. She was an accredited journalist who was making a film of the demo for a pressure group. Her treatment as a potential bin Laden left her baffled. 'I'm quite ordinary,' she told me. 'I've got straight brown hair and wear casual clothes. I don't look like Rambo, put it that way.' Her case was taken up by the civil rights group, Liberty, which asked the High Court to decide whether the police were using what were meant to be emergency powers against potential psychopaths as 'another tool in the kit of day-to-day policing'. Liberty's lawyers discovered that it has become routine for the police to declare the whole of London a special zone for anti-terrorist operations. No one knew what the Met was up to because orders akin to the announcement of martial law were declared and confirmed in secret. From 13 August for 28 days and from 11 September for 28 days, the police had unconstrained power to treat everyone in London as a terrorist, and stop, search and hold them without cause or reasonable suspicion. The judge will deliver his ruling this week on the legality of using exceptional powers against unexceptional people. What he won't be able to do is comment on what happens to respect for the Government and the police when their promises are broken without an attempt at an explanation and the 'war against terrorism' is turned into a war against nuns. A few rooms away in the Royal Courts of Justice, Mr Justice Kay was ruling on Friday that vast amounts of 'public money were being wasted' because New Labour had left destitute asylum- seekers with no option other than to turn to the courts. There was a backlog of 800 cases and 60 more were arriving each week, he said. The Government had decided earlier this year that if potential refugees didn't apply for asylum as soon as they arrived in Britain, they could receive no assistance for food and shelter. Their remaining options were sleeping on the streets, prostitution, crime and starvation. With winter coming, their lawyers were phoning judges in the middle of the night to plead for emergency relief. At the Labour Party conference this year, Tony Blair had sounded more like Silvio Berlusconi than a democratic leader when he had ranted against lawyers on the 'gravy train of legal aid' who were upsetting his plans to punish asylum-seekers. The judge replied that most asylum- seekers who were threatened with penury couldn't get near the few underpaid lawyers who were prepared to give them a hearing. 'The cases which are coming into court in almost unmanageable numbers are the tip of the iceberg,' he said. 'The solicitors acting in these cases are having to turn away far more clients than they are able to take on.' Even the tip of the iceberg was enough to clog the courts with appeals for help from the homeless and hungry. Most claimants were getting it because the judiciary wasn't prepared to let them to starve. When you hear Blunkett screaming about the BBC, or Blair condemning 'gravy-train' lawyers who make a fraction of what his wife earns, it's easy to dismiss their cries as mere bluster for the benefit of the tabloids. But the bluster of the powerful is translated into legislation and threatens the lives and liberties of real people. For several months now, the police have been able to treat all demonstrators in London as if they were potential suicide bombers. In the same period, asylum-seekers have been left to cope with the risks of malnutrition and hypothermia as best they can. The climate is growing darker and colder while the conscience of the nation sleeps. nick.cohen@observer.co.uk