The government admitted today that 24-hour licensing had exacerbated alcohol-related violent crime in the small hours - but insisted that the "widespread problems" feared by many had not materialised. In a written statement to the Commons, the culture secretary, Andy Burnham, said that the first official review of the law showed that it was achieving "mixed" results.He added that tougher enforcement was needed to make sure responsible drinkers could enjoy the "freedom" of late licences without encouraging violence and antisocial behaviour. Some areas appeared to have suffered ill effects, and the impact of the law had not been "consistent" across the country, he said. "While crimes involving violence may have reduced over the evening and night-time period, the evidence also points to increases in offences, including violent crimes, reported between 3am and 6am. This represents 4% of night-time offences." He went on: "Similarly, while there is no clear picture of whether alcohol-related admissions have risen, some hospitals have seen a fall in demand, others have reported an increase."Responding to the report, the shadow home secretary, David Davis, accused the government of being "in denial" about the consequences of 24-hour drinking."The damning evidence against the government's 24-hour drinking policy is overwhelming and comes from all sides: from the police, local authorities, statistics on hospital admissions and the Home Office itself."He added: "As for the government's proposals, they are a hastily cobbled together mix of reheated announcements that have not even been properly enforced in the past two years, or a blatant attempt to rip off existing Conservative policy."The Tory leader, David Cameron, said that alcohol abuse was a "social problem" and needed "social solutions" to bring about a change in the British drinking culture.Speaking at a London press conference this morning, he said: "I think it is very important to recognise that there is no one change in opening hours, no one change to taxation, no one change to the law that is going to solve this problem." He added that businesses, families, the government and the police all had a responsibility to tackle the problem of binge drinking. Cameron said it was time to "look at issues in terms of alcohol taxation", but declined to spell out what measures he had in mind, saying only that he would be making an announcement on drink tax later in the week.He said that the most useful thing the government could do in relation to binge-drinking was to provide "a really clear sense" that existing laws that allow pubs that serve under-18s and people who are already drunk to be stripped of their licences would be enforced.The government's measures included a five-fold increase in the maximum fine for antisocial drinking in public places and a battery of new sanctions on supermarkets and off-licences that sell alcohol to underage drinkers.But there were no announcements today of action to legislate over cheap supermarket alcohol promotions, which have led to police complaints that lager is sold cheaper than bottled water. Measures to tackle binge-drinking included:• A new "yellow card, red card" alert system for supermarkets, off-licences, pubs and clubs that repeatedly breach the terms of their licences. At present the enforcement authorities only have a "red card" sanction of revoking a licence if there are repeated failures. The "yellow card" sanctions would encourage the authorities to take earlier action. In the example of supermarkets selling to underage drinkers or drunks, they would be restricted to one checkout till only for alcohol sales.• A sharp increase in fines for drinking in designated public areas which have had a history of antisocial behaviour. The maximum fine for refusing to comply with a police request to stop drinking is to be increased from £500 to £2,500.• An extension of the use of juvenile acceptable behaviour contracts - short of an asbo - for drink-related behaviour.• A curb of underage sales of alcohol in shops through tougher enforcement action. The "three strikes and you're out" penalty against shopkeepers who commit three offences in three months is to be increased to two in three months.• The drinks industry taking action to stop irresponsible promotions.