The appallingly low conviction rate for reported rapes implies that the police do not treat rape as they do other serious crimes (Police admit failing victims, March 3). A poll in 2005 for Amnesty highlighted the prejudices rape victims still face if they do not fit the model of a "perfect victim". These are prejudices that the police and juries are also likely to hold and contribute to the denial of justice for rape victims. But it's important to look at the bigger picture. Up to 90% of rape victims never report the attack to the police, and these women are being failed by the lack of specialised support services around the country. A funding crisis has meant that rape crisis centres are closing at an alarming rate - there are now only 38 affiliated groups across England and Wales, and none funded in Northern Ireland. The fact is that most women across the UK do not have access to a centre, as research for the End Violence Against Women Campaign and the Equality and Human Rights Commission showed recently. Scotland is the only part of the UK where rape crisis centres are expanding. This is as a result of a more strategic approach being taken by the Scottish government, which includes a national fund for services. The government must take urgent action to ensure that rape victims have access to the support they need to rebuild their lives - this should be a right, not a privilege determined by a postcode lottery. Professor Liz KellyEnd Violence Against Women Campaign More desperately needs to be done in terms of training police to deal appropriately with victims of rape. The Metropolitan police service is doing a lot of good work to improve the experience of rape victims in London, particularly through the introduction of sexual assault referral centres, as part of a joint initiative with the Department of Health. However, I am concerned by the huge disparities in sanctioned detection rate - where an allegation of rape has resulted in a charge or other court action - that exist between different boroughs. Merton's sanctioned detection rate was just 12.9% for April to December last year, in contrast to Haringey's, which was 55.8%. It is vital to share existing good practice to ensure that rape victims are not subjected to a postcode lottery. Jenny JonesGreen, London assembly and Metropolitan Police Authority It's not surprising conviction rates for rape are low. The nature of the offence means trials are often a case of one person's word against another's. Physical evidence is rarely conclusive in establishing the absence of consent, which is the key issue. Under such circumstances, the requirement that the prosecution prove its case beyond reasonable doubt tends to produce a high acquittal rate.  Trevor CurnowUniversity of Cumbria