Last Wednesday, writing in the Guardian, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, sparked a much needed conversation about the state of justice in this country on the issue of sexual offences.Some were enraged at the suggestion that police forces had been operating a policy of “believing victims”, rather than upholding the basic principle that anyone is innocent until proven guilty. Others, quoting figures of low reporting and high attrition, were enraged at the suggestion that officers should do anything other than believe victims in the first instance.Those worried about the rights of suspects should have no fear. Police officers do not automatically believe reports of sex offences. Officers are likely to listen to the victim’s account and then come to some kind of conclusion regarding the credibility of the victim and their complaint. In far too many instances, this assessment is based on a skewed idea of what a “real” sex offence looks like and a misplaced faith in an ability to spot time-wasters.Survivor organisations are right to be concerned. How many victims don’t get justice because it’s too easy to see a confused, chaotic, vulnerable person as a time-waster instead of someone struggling with the trauma of abuse? How many reports are labelled “false” without considering that if someone wanted to waste your time, or get revenge, they’d probably come up with a convincing story rather than one full of holes? The number of reports that turn into prosecutions is still too low, but the solution isn’t to demand that police officers believe victims.I see many officers working with commendable compassion. Things have changed and victims are much more likely to get a sympathetic earfrom our specialist officers. But there isn’t a direct line between compassion and justice. Victims go to survivor organisations for therapeutic support. When they come to the police, they want justice, which means they want a good investigation.We don’t want police officers to be so programmable that you can simply tell them what to believe. We can’t expect the same person to swallow every word a victim says, but remain sceptical and alert to potential grooming and manipulation when interviewing suspects. As juries are required to make a decision beyond reasonable doubt, we want officers to remain alive to these areas of potential weakness, so that they can address them in the course of the investigation. Justice can only come from smart, creative, thorough police work.This is in everyone’s interests. Good police work will not only bring justice to victims, but it’s also what suspects want who feel they have been wrongly accused. However, the fact that we have so many heated conversations about false reporting and believing victims suggests that the public don’t think our police forces are there yet. False reporting wouldn’t be a concern if there was more faith in the subsequent investigation. Whether a police officer believed a victim would be irrelevant if justice was based on investigations, instead of hunches about who has been telling the truth.The debates last week show how lost our criminal justice system is about sex offences. Our police forces, prosecutors and courts have failed to get to grips with the complexities of these crimes.Our justice system works on confidence, but when the main evidence is one person’s word against another’s, the system acts as if it has hit a dead end. It relies far too much on establishing the credibility of the victim, as if there is nothing more to do but work out who is more likely to be telling the truth. Forgetting, perhaps, that people who lack credibility can also be victims of these crimes and that appearing to be believable happens to be a strong area for the serial sex offender. Most sex offences happen behind closed doors. Most cases boil down to one person’s word against another’s. Many cases involve events that happened years ago and lack any kind of physical evidence.The two sides who were in disagreement last week need to come together and demand the same thing. We need investigators and prosecutors to up their game and to stop acting as if cases that rely on testimony are a dead end. We need them to be better at turning victim and suspect interviews into evidence that juries can use to make decisions with confidence. We need cases to feel less like they hang on belief and more like they are grounded in evidence.Dr Nina Burrowes is a specialist in the psychology of sexual assault. She works as a trainer and consultant with police, prosecutors and judiciary