Lily Allen has accused the Metropolitan police of “victim-shaming and victim-blaming” after she spoke out about her seven-year stalking ordeal and criticised the force’s handling of the case.The singer, who is awaiting the sentencing of Alex Gray, a stranger who threatened her life, read out an email on television on Tuesday night from a police officer who said that the high-profile nature of her claims could discourage other victims from coming forward. Allen, 30, spoke publicly for the first time in an interview with the Observer on Sunday about the ordeal, which started on social media and ended with Gray breaking into her bedroom as she slept, with the intention of stabbing her.Lily Allen on being stalked: ‘I was asleep. He steamed into the bedroom and started screaming’ The mother-of-two also spoke about how she felt that the police had made her “feel like a nuisance, rather than a victim”, and how evidence supporting her case had been destroyed. The force also lent her a panic alarm for a few months before asking for it back. Allen told BBC2’s Newsnight that, after the Observer interview appeared, she received an email from a police officer wanting to “understand what – if anything – went wrong during the investigation”, while suggesting Allen’s response would dissuade other victims from reporting stalkers. It read: “As you know there have been press reports suggesting you were dissatisfied with the response you received. Further, due to the high profile of this matter, I fear other victims of similar crimes have read the story and now may not have the confidence in us to support such matters.“As such, it is really important I can understand what – if anything – went wrong during the investigation. I was saddened to hear of this report, I would like to hear your views on what we could do better.”Gray was charged with burglary after he broke into Allen’s bedroom in October last year while she was sleeping and screamed at her before stealing her handbag. He was also charged with harassment after she hired her own lawyer to pursue the matter, although the stalking count reportedly did not cover anything before 2015. He was convicted at Harrow crown court this month and will be sentenced in May. While not commenting specifically on Allen’s claims, the Metropolitan police said that the force took stalking and harassment extremely seriously and dealt with about 20,000 allegations of harassment each year – a small percentage of which are allegations of stalking.The Met statement added: “The victim should be at the heart of any investigation into such allegations and kept informed of developments as this work progresses. If this is not the case then we are keen to speak to victims and learn any lessons we can to improve our investigations.”Allen told the Observer that she had been left “a changed person” after the ordeal, feeling isolated from friends and family. Her stalker had steadily undermined her confidence and security after popping up on a social media account in 2009, claiming to having written her hit song, The Fear, and using the handle @lilyallenRIP. It was followed by letters, abusive rants, accusations and suicide threats.Allen also told Newsnight: “I’m not in the slightest bit angry with Alex Gray and I could see from the minute that he came into my bedroom that he was ill and that he needed help.”Wiping away tears, she added: “I wanted to help him. I felt immediately like something is really wrong with this guy and I feel like he has been let down. I have been let down, and how many other people are being let down.”Allen has since been in touch with the Independent Police Complaints Commission about the handling of her case, the BBC reported.Greater Manchester police’s assistant chief constable Garry Shewan, the Association of Chief Police Officerslead on stalking and harassment, said that it was important to listen to Allen’s story and that police forces needed to do more.“Listening to Lily Allen, clearly she feels very let down,” he said. “I don’t know the circumstance of the situation. I think we have to reach out to victims.“I would say to all police forces around the country that this is an important story to listen to.”