Scotland Yard's efforts to limit the damage over its bungled investigation into the murder of Stephen Lawrence were dealt a blow when it emerged last night that the head of the current investigation has been moved from his post.Detective Superintendent Albert Patrick was the head of the third team of detectives to investigate the racially motivated killing, for which no-one has been convicted. Last night Scotland Yard could not say why Mr Patrick had been moved, but it followed a letter of complaint by lawyers acting for the parents of Stephen Lawrence.The Metropolitan Police has been heavily criticised over a string of errors in its handling of the murder investigation. A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "We will be replying to the solicitors' letter informing them that he [Det Supt Patrick] is no longer dealing with it [the murder investigation]." She was unable to give the reason for Mr Patrick's departure from the investigation, but added: "The Complaints Investigation Bureau investigation [anti-corruption squad] is not linked in anyway to the Stephen Lawrence investigation." Imran Khan, solicitor for Doreen and Neville Lawrence, wrote to Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon last week raising concerns about Mr Patrick. Mr Khan told the Guardian: "It is of concern to the family that Mr Patrick remains in charge of the investigation into the murder and we've asked that he be removed." Mr Patrick is head of murder squads in south-east London. Scotland Yard is bracing itself for heavy criticism over its Stephen Lawrence murder investigation in a report from the public inquiry into his death. The inquiry heard of a string of blunders by detectives and its report, to be unveiled next month by Home Secretary Jack Straw, is expected to lead to a shake-up in the way police tackle racially motivated violence. Last night it emerged that the lawyers who represented Stephen Lawrence's parents over their masterminding of a failed private murder prosecution, are facing criticism in the report. Sir William Macpherson, chair of the inquiry, is understood to have attacked the barrister Michael Mansfield QC, and Mr Khan. Sir William has criticised the professional judgment of the lawyers in allowing Stephen's parents to pursue a rare private murder prosecution against white youths suspected of the murder. The select disclosure of this part of the final report came in a leak to a newspaper. Stephen, aged 18, was murdered at a bus stop in south-east London in April 1993 by a white gang who screamed racist abuse before stabbing him. Doreen and Neville Lawrence were enraged when the Crown Prosecution Service dropped charges against five white youths because of lack of evidence. The Lawrences instructed Mr Khan to explore a the feasability of private prosecution. A full commital hearing at Belmarsh magistrates court decided that three of the suspects, Neil Acourt, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight, had a case to answer and committed them to trial at the Old Bailey. But in 1996 Mr Justice Curtis directed the jury to acquit the three after ruling as inadmissable the crucial eyewitness testimony of Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen when he was stabbed. Mr Khan said last night that reports of the criticism were "pure speculation." He said: "We will await the final report and if there are criticisms we shall deal them then." Two of the gang, Jamie Acourt and David Norris could still face murder charges if new evidence were found. 