Another day, another headline proclaiming Nottingham "the capital of crime". The statistics seem to speak for themselves (115 crimes per 1,000 residents, 5.2 murders per 100,000 residents, four times as much crime as Southend ... ), although the leader of the city council, Jon Collins, has already come up with a predictably spluttering line about "lies, damn lies and ... " Well, you know the rest.But what is it like to live in Nottingham? How do these numbers, and the stock press images of armed police officers and cordoned-off streets, translate into people's daily experiences? Certainly in the area of Nottingham where I live there is the perception of crime - sirens, boys in hoods hanging around phone-boxes - but my own experiences, and those of people I know, are generally crime-free. I've never seen a gun (no, not even on a police officer), and the last time I saw a boy in a hood he was offering his seat on the bus to an old lady. (Honestly. I know, it made my day, too.)But maybe I've not been paying attention. Maybe I'm just lucky. In fact, I count myself lucky to live where I do. My neighbourhood, Forest Fields, is a functioning and thriving place to live. A densely populated area of narrow terraced streets, with all the food shopping you could need in the small local shops, a couple of decent pubs, community centres, a huge park at the bottom of the hill and a tram into town. It's the kind of neighbourhood where you can do everything on foot, and bump into two or three people you know on the way.Not that it's any kind of Scandinavian utopia. Crime does go on, and apparently a fair load of it - it's just that there's more to the story than that. Over lunch yesterday at the Indian Community Centre (which, at a full thali plus dessert for just £2.90 - or £2.50 for the unwaged - is one of Nottingham's great bargains), I spoke to some other locals to see whether their experiences better reflected those damn statistics.The first people, appropriately enough, are media studies lecturers. What do they think of the latest crime headlines? "Well, they don't reflect my experience of living in Nottingham," Ben Harbisher tells me. "It's an image that's been created by the media," his colleague-who-wants-to-remain-anonymous adds, "and Nottingham will have great difficulty shedding that image." And what of his personal experience? "I've never felt threatened," he insists. "It's like any place, as long as you keep your wits about you, you'll be OK. Most of the violence is contained within gang culture."Which is kind of reassuring, but not entirely. They rush off to afternoon lectures, and their places at the table are taken by Sam Soni, a beautician, and her husband Ram Soni, who works at the community centre. Their take on the situation is less comfortable. "There are worse areas in Nottingham, but Forest Fields is still not safe," Sam says. "If you walk in the evening, anybody can nick your purse." Has this happened to her? No, she concedes, but her husband has been mugged, and they were burgled some years ago, moving to the suburbs as a result.Catherine McKeown, a new mother having lunch with a friend, is thinking of moving away as well. "But that's not just the crime, it's air pollution, traffic, things like that." Does she think Nottingham is any worse than other places? "No, it's just inner-city life, isn't it? It can feel a bit intimidating when there's a big gang of youths hanging around, but I've never had anything affect me." Her friend nudges her, and she remembers something. "Although my brother was mugged a while ago." Ah. "And my mate had his phone nicked when he was standing on our doorstep." Oh.It seems to be turning out that I have just been lucky; most people I speak to over lunch have a tale of burglary, or of mugging, or of some kind of petty crime. But no one mentions guns. Shashi Bouri, a care assistant at the community centre, isn't sure what to make of this week's survey, which declared Nottingham to be the most dangerous city in England and Wales. Is crime in Nottingham really that bad? "Maybe," she says. "But nowadays crime is everywhere - one can go crazy listening to the news." But aren't there good things about living in Nottingham? She thinks for a moment. "Compared to other places, people know each other, it is still like a village, people do mind their own business but they do know each other. It's not like big cities."Patrick Smith, a catering manager and vegetarian campaigner, is philosophical about his experiences of crime. "I like to think of myself as a trusting person, and I don't like the idea of having to lock my doors and windows all the time. But I wouldn't expect Nottingham to be any different from anywhere else. It has too many advantages - the location, the countryside, the open-mindedness - for me to consider moving away."Which ties in with what Ben Harbisher, the media studies lecturer, says: "If Nottingham was such a dangerous place to live, the house prices wouldn't be escalating the way they are."Which is true. Nottingham is a place where people want to live, and with good reason. It's a compact, walkable city with an attractive range of parks and open spaces, easy access to the countryside and a thriving - sometimes too thriving - city centre. There is a busy arts culture, a resurgent music scene and a new generation of writers building on the area's deep-rooted literary heritage. (The castle's rubbish though - just a big house.) It's a decent place to live and while it would be nice if there was less crime, it would also be nice if journalists and statisticians thought before throwing statements about "gun city" and "crime capital" around.And if you want to see for yourself, you could do a lot worse than lunch at the Indian Community Centre.· Jon McGregor's second novel, So Many Ways To Begin, will be published in August by Bloomsbury.So what's it like for you? The view from the streetKirsty Blake, 16, college studentThere's always muggings going on and people getting stabbed or beat up and stuff. My family has had experience with it, robbery and being assaulted. You don't know who's going to follow you. Sometimes the girls are the worst. It will start off with a dirty look then yelling and shouting at you, then just being beaten up. Me and my friend were at the bowling alley once and some girls followed me and her into the toilets and demanded money but they didn't get anything out of us because I forced my way out of there. I had to call my mum to come and pick me up.Sophie Ellis, 17, student Everyone says it's a really violent city but personally I have never had any problems, except I was mugged when I was 13 one Halloween. We were trick or treating, there were about seven of them and they were older guys, chavs, and they picked on my friends and took all the boys' mobile phones and money but they didn't do anything to the girls. We went to the police and they caught them but they just got cautioned because they weren't much older than us.Michele Martini, 26, unemployed I have been mugged twice at knifepoint. Once I was on my bike and a young hoodie stopped me and said, "Are you selling that bike?" I said no. He said, "There's two ways, you can either give it to me or I'll knock you off the bike." Then he pulled a knife about four inches long out and threatened me. I went to the police and made a statement; they were quite supportive. They took all my details from the description I gave them, they felt quite confident in finding him but I have not heard from them since.Mimi Enefiok, 18, studentPersonally I think I'm a bit sheltered from everyone else because I live on university campus but I know that some of my friends have experienced things that they wouldn't have experienced in other cities, for example two of my friends live in the street where the policeman got shot down. The worst thing that has happened to me is I have had my camera stolen in a bar. Sometimes I feel unsafe but that's just generally, not just when I'm in Nottingham.Marcus Wakely, 60, retiredI don't think the survey is at all accurate. The statistics were not done properly. It's just like they say: lies, damn lies and statistics. I'm the governor of a school which is in a very poor area and it's amazing how well the students behave because they have a lot of problems to face. I'm in the city centre almost every night. I see a lot of noise and a lot of horseplay but nothing else.Jacki Bowyer, 55, therapistI understand that the figures they used were misleading. They were using figures for the outside of Nottingham as well as the inner city. If you read the papers you imagine Nottingham to be violent. I don't come into town at night but I have never actually witnessed anything myself.David Hathersmith, 36, sales managerIt's the perception from the outside that Nottingham is violent but I think it's from all the publicised crimes we have had. I don't think its worse than anywhere else. People from outside think they'll come in and see it on every corner, but it's not like that. You hear about normal things like car burglaries but the major crimes, you only read about in the papers.David Herd, 21, studentOne of my friends got burgled just yesterday. They took everything. I have only been here for a year or so and I've not been a victim of crime myself but I've heard stories from friends who have had knives flashed at them. I work at one of the clubs and I see the nastier side of things there. Some nights staff have been threatened at knifepoint. But when I'm with my friends going out I feel perfectly safe.Interviews by Jacqueline Maley