The comedy actor Chris Langham seduced a 14-year-old girl with presents and trips to exclusive restaurants before repeatedly abusing her, a court heard yesterday.The alleged victim, who is now 25, said she had become "best friends" with the award-winning star of The Thick of It after meeting him on a birthday trip to see him star in the hit musical Les Misérables.Speaking from behind a screen at Maidstone crown court yesterday, the woman told the jury how, in the months that followed her 14th birthday, Mr Langham took her to the London restaurant the Ivy and bought her presents from Harrods. He then booked a room at a luxury hotel in central London, where they had sex. "He undressed me and led me to the bed and he started kissing me," she told the court.The woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, said that they went on to meet and have sex most weeks, often in his dressing room at the Palace Theatre.At one stage she said Mr Langham feared she could be pregnant. "I remember him saying to me there was a small chance I could be pregnant and if I was he would arrange an abortion," she said.Mr Langham, from Cranbrook in Kent, denies 10 counts of indecent assault and two counts of buggery between January 1996 and April 2000. He also denies 15 offences of making indecent photographs of children on computers between September and November 2005.The court heard how Mr Langham first kissed the girl in his dressing room at the Palace Theatre. "We were reading through the scripts of Shakespeare and he was teaching me breathing techniques," said the woman, who as a teenager had been to see Les Misérables more than 50 times. "He was talking about the diaphragm and how you breathe ... he lifted up his top so I could see how his stomach would expand and slowly go down ... he came up and he gave me a small kiss on the lips."Richard Barraclough, prosecuting, asked if Mr Langham had given an explanation. The girl replied: "He said it was so I could relate to the character and it would help me with Shakespeare, because I wasn't from a close family so I didn't understand the meaning of affection and love to the extent I could have done. He thought if I did that it would at least teach me what affection or love was, that's what he said."She said that Mr Langham told her he loved her. "He used to say that it was nice that we had our own little secret and that he loved me and if he wasn't married and in a relationship we could give it a go."The court heard that the 48-year-old actor had been like a best friend to the girl. She said he had known about her troubled background, which included being bullied at school, parental problems and anorexia.The woman broke down as she explained how Mr Langham had always been kind to her, prompting the court to take a 10-minute break."I saw him as one of my best friends. He was extremely kind. I had never known anyone to be so kind."She said she had become bulimic before meeting Mr Langham, but the condition had worsened.The court heard that the pair had lost touch in recent years. The woman said Mr Langham responded only after she sent him "threatening text messages"."I started sending threatening messages saying I would go to the police if he did not contact me," she told the jury.It was not until the woman saw reports that Mr Langham had been accused of downloading child pornography from the internet that she contacted him. "I wanted to know what the hell was going on," she said. "What they were saying in the newspapers I could not believe ... He could not do any wrong in my eyes. He just talked so much sense in the time I had known him."