One of Britain's most senior traffic policemen was banned from driving for 42 days today after pleading guilty to speeding.Meredydd Hughes, the outgoing chairman of roads policing at the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), was also fined by Wrexham magistrates.The chief constable of South Yorkshire police admitted speeding at 90mph on the A5 at Wrexham, north Wales, in May. The road has a speed limit of 60mph.Hughes did not attend the court today but said in a statement that he regretted the offence. He said: "I recognise this is a significant breach of road traffic law and I have accepted my guilt and the punishment it merits. There is never an excuse for bad driving and I should have paid more attention to my speed." As the Acpo roads chief, the officer has in the past argued in favour of "less conspicuous" speed cameras as a means to slow down traffic.He said after the sentence: "I remain convinced that safety cameras and speed enforcement are vital to reduce casualty levels and I will continue to support these actions. "Drivers who know they are guilty should plead guilty ... and I am proud to have at least lived up to that belief." South Yorkshire police said Hughes, 49, who is married with one son, had been on a family trip when the offence happened on the morning of May 28.His solicitor, Huw Edwards, told the court: "Mr Hughes has pleaded guilty to this matter. It's effectively a guilty plea at the first opportunity. He has cooperated fully with the police."With regards to the offence itself, Mr Hughes recalls that on that morning he was returning from north Wales where he was on a short climbing holiday."He doesn't seek to make any excuse about this matter ... he accepts that he must be punished for the offence. He asks me to apologise for the offence. He recognises that the matter is a serious matter."The court was told that Hughes had received two fixed penalty notices in the past but his licence was presently clean.The presiding magistrate, Brinley Hughes, said: "We have looked at guidelines and taken advice and we have come up with a decision that Mr Hughes, for the excessive high speed and the time of day that the offence happened, we feel this merits disqualification for 42 days."[The] early guilty plea has been reflected in the financial penalty."Hughes was fined £300 and ordered to pay £35 costs and a £15 victim surcharge.Jools Townsend, the head of the road safety charity Brake, said the sentence was too lenient."Speeding is a reckless and selfish act, and the lenient sentence handed out today reflects a justice system, which lacks the teeth to punish speeders appropriately," Townsend said."By committing this deadly crime, Hughes undermines the work of traffic police to protect the safety of road users. He should seriously consider his position as a result."However, Nick Freeman, the lawyer who became known as Mr Loophole after helping celebrities to avoid motoring convictions, said he thought the district judge had made an example of Hughes."The sentence is certainly at the top end, but I am sure that nobody will be surprised about that," he said.Hughes joined the South Wales constabulary in 1979 after leaving university, and worked in a variety of roles, including as a firearms officer.In 1999, he was promoted to assistant chief constable of Greater Manchester police, before moving to South Yorkshire in 2002 where he became deputy chief constable. He has been in his current role as chief constable since September 2004.