Almost 10 years ago, Diana, Princess of Wales and Dodi Fayed took a ride in a car driven by a drunk driver and died. Sad, but there you are; passengers in cars driven by drunks die every day. The inquest into her death isn't going to tell us anything we didn't know within a week of the crash. Instead, it is inadvertently shedding light on the state of England's judiciary.Last week, Elizabeth Butler-Sloss quit as coroner, clearly bruised by her arguments with Mohamed al Fayed's bumptious lawyer, Michael Mansfield, QC. Most people would expect a senior judge to be able to handle a jury or, indeed, Mansfield, who has switched from speaking up for the victims of injustice to propagating the fantasies of hysterical retail tycoons. Unfortunately, the task was beyond Butler-Sloss, who couldn't handle either.She didn't want a jury to return a verdict on the cause of the deaths of the princess and Fayed's son. When Fayed protested and the High Court upheld his objection, she cracked. 'These inquests now require a jury,' she said as she resigned. 'I do not have the experience of jury cases that I feel is necessary for presiding over inquests at this level of public interest.'Butler-Sloss is 73. She was called to the bar in 1955 and worked her way up to become a judge in the Court of Appeal and president of the Family Division. Her long career did not give her 'experience of jury cases' because the family courts hear cases about the taking of children into care in secret and without juries.Her unfamiliarity with the basic safeguards of English law is commonplace among the senior judiciary. Money and status do not go to criminal lawyers who take legal aid work and argue in public in front of juries. The classic route to becoming a judge is for barristers to make money in their thirties in commercial law and move on to become a judge in their mid-forties when school fees stop and mortgages are paid off.Observer readers may not care that certain High Court judges lack experience of civil-liberties cases because the political instincts of the senior judiciary are generally liberal. But there is no good reason to suppose they will stay that way. Today's law lords were young in the Sixties. Lawyers from the Thatcher generation may not be as compassionateIn any case, judicial liberalism is a highly selective political philosophy. Senior judges generally support the liberal cause of reducing the prison population, even though their position threatens their (and our) long-term interest in keeping an independent judiciary. Lord Woolf, the former Lord Chief Justice, showed the dangers of this line when he worried last week that the government's proposed Ministry of Justice might put improper pressure on the judges to save money by sending fewer people to jail. He may be right, but the poor man had the wind taken out of his sails when his critics replied that reducing the prison population was what he and his colleagues said they wanted to do. Thus, they had no grounds for complaint.While they stick their necks out for penal reform, they are nowhere near as keen on liberal causes that might inconvenience them. The Family Division that Butler-Sloss presided over until her retirement inflicts more misery than any other branch of the law. Every MP and journalist has stories of social workers swept along with wild theories about Munchausen's syndrome by proxy or satanic child abuse. Yet proposals to open the courts up to scrutiny run into sustained resistance from judges who don't want their mistakes made public.Defending trial by jury is as great a liberal imperative as standing up for open justice. But England is the only Anglo-Saxon country whose legal establishment doesn't trust juries to deliver verdicts and plainly thinks that it could do the job of determining guilt or innocence better itself.My guess is that Butler-Sloss panicked at the mention of a jury at the Diana inquest because she suspected that Mansfield would earn his huge fees and a Harrods hamper every Christmas by turning the inquest into a trial of the royal family. To date, the coy QC has failed to provide evidence to support Fayed's claim that the princess had been murdered on the instructions of that Napoleon of crime, Prince Philip. Nor did he explain at the pre-inquest hearings how the French police, British police, doctors who conducted the autopsies, chemists who tested the alcohol level in the driver's blood and eyewitnesses fitted into a vast conspiracy to cover up the hideous plot.Instead, he announced his intention to go on fishing expedition and demanded every scrap of paper produced by the police inquiry into her death led by Lord Stevens, the former Metropolitan Police commissioner. Because it is the only tactic open to him, he surely intends to seize on minor errors and inconsistencies and try to throw enough sand in the air to stop the jury seeing that the deaths were accidental.You can't blame him - lawyers have to do the best for their clients and befuddling jurors is his best hope. What is offensive is the belief that the poor, deluded little jurors would be so blinded by the complexity of his arguments they would go along with him. A corrective to the English establishment's dislike of juries is the trial of Conrad Black in Chicago. His alleged frauds are complicated, but Judge Amy St Eve, runs her court strictly, doesn't allow lawyers to bluster and confuse. The result is a fair trial which will deliver a fair verdict.It is sobering to think that no similar trial can happen here. While the American legal system successfully demonstrated the complicated crimes of Bernie Ebbers of WorldCom and Ken Lay of Enron to juries, the British legal system's attempts to prosecute complex frauds are invariably fiascos. If it can't now manage what should be an open-and-shut inquest, a judiciary which is constantly instructing others to reform should be told to reform itself first.