There follows (briefly) a snippet of fiction so outlandish that no TV company would dare to make a documentary of it. Scene: the kitchen of a South London home. Time: one evening last week. Characters: Jack, a minister; and Alice, his wife. Alice is emptying the washing-up machine as Jack enters, right, and sits down with a groan of weariness.She speaks: 'You're very late again. You said 8.30 latest, and that was two hours ago'. 'I know, I know. Sorry, love. It's just been a lousy week for all of us. People forget that in-trays don't stop filling because there's a Big Report on.' 'Have you eaten.' 'I got a sandwich off the trolley.' 'You're looking so tired these days. You haven't had a moment of peace for weeks. Last weekend was another write-off with all that legal and radio stuff. Thank God we've got a break planned.' 'Yes, well. Um. I was going to mention that. There's been a bit of clart-up with an appendix and it may turn nasty. I was thinking, maybe, we ought to stick around here just in case.' 'Of for Heaven's sake - not again! You're doing a job, not serving a life sentence. I work too, you know. I've got demands and schedules. I had to indent for a couple of days away ages ago, and it wasn't that simple. We're snowed under with work, too. We chose this weekend deliberately because we thought it would be clear with everything over. The flights are paid for, the hotel's booked. Tell me why you can't come.' 'As I said. There was a botch. There are some names in the report that ought not to have been there. It may turn messy.' 'Well, was that your fault? You didn't even have time to read the whole bloody thing last week with the phone always ringing. And haven't you got deputies fixed on duty anyway? Don't you trust them to cope?' He sighs. 'Of course, love. It wasn't my fault. It wasn't my responsibility at all. And of course Paul can cope.' 'Well, then. It's your decision. It is always your decision. But I think you need a break. I know I do. If we don't go now, there won't be another chance for months.' 'OK, OK. You're right. Have you had time to start the packing?' Exeunt omnes. That exchange, as I say, may be pure fiction. It's built on life in general - my life, probably your life, too - rather than any knowledge of specific people in specific kitchens, which is not our business. But there is one awful thing about it, and about adjacent scenarios. They can never be cited in public as explanation and defence. Too weak and weedy. My wife was so fed up I felt I just had to go! Opposition jeers. We'd been looking forward to it all winter! Foot-stamping in the aisles. Quite frankly, we needed a glass of wine and a walk in the sun and a sleep away from all you lot! Uproar.  Yet the fact - the brute fact of existence and relationships - is that the imperatives of the private and personal aren't separate from public duties. They inter-react constantly in kitchens and bedrooms around the land every waking hour. And the additional fact that, when push comes to shout, they can't be explained in detail, doesn't mean that they don't exist. On the contrary, they make the other part of our world go round. It has been, I think, a theme with some sad resonance through the days of the Lawrence Report. On the one, public hand, Jack Straw started it when he injuncted the Sunday Telegraph in the middle of a Saturday night (when its editor was on holiday). A public act and arguably a public error. But only linked to Easyjet flips to Nice, on the other private hand, by an inchoate cant and animus. Gotcha. Got what? And this, alas, has been a theme with many strands. Institutionalised racism? You totally know what that means after 30 years of driving home at night down the Walworth Road. It means a battered Ford pulled in near the burger bar and a glum black man watching as the cops go through his boot, a routine as predictable as night following day. It means the initial, stinking assumption of criminality from Duwayne Brooks. But how does the institutional meld with the personal? The ordinary beat copper I knew best years ago (because his daughter was going out with my son) was married - in non-instutional life - to a vibrant Ghanaian nurse. Some dislocation there, surely. And, at a personal level, you can't find a less likely racist than Sir Paul Condon. He may or may not, have been wholly effective in making his writ run through hundreds of canteens: any more than Sir David McNee or Sir Kenneth Newman before him. But when he says, in ritual defence, that there were countless other things on his plate apart from the Lawrence tragedy, any one of which could have blown into scandal, he speaks nothing but the truth.  It is not an excuse, but it is a human reason. I remember vividly the day after Brixton erupted. I, by chance, was in the Commissioner's office on the umpteenth floor of New Scotland Yard. Sir David McNee was vividly shaken, anxiously showing some of the weapons seized the night before, producing the testimony of his officers on the spot.  The lasting impression wasn't of control, but of isolation from events: a personal isolation. This man might be 'responsible', but he wasn't and could not be there, on the ground, when things went wrong. So he and his successors had to devolve more, but also to remain just as responsible. If we're honest, we know there are elements of impossibility to all this. But are we honest? At a crunch, alas, there is only institutionalised dishonesty, which is where the theme comes full circle. Sir William Macpherson 'regrets' that the wrong appendix got used. He 'accepts responsibility' - except that, of course, beset by many other things, the mistake happened somewhere else.  Fine. That's life. But does it occur to him, as it occurs to me, that his whole judicial life (high on hindsight, rigorous in excluding irrelevant pleadings) has been an instutionalised lie. The lie is that the bones of the case before him were the only things absorbing its players and witnesses at the time, that every decision was sentiently considered. The truth is that weekends away and kitchens and phones and in-trays exist as well. And that they are part of the deeper truth of responsibility, guilt and innocence: that, in real life, stuff happens. 