A police constable based in one of London's wealthiest residential districts was yesterday suspended from duty after it emerged he had a string of convictions, including one for burglary.In a highly embarrassing admission, the Metropolitan police said it was launching an investigation into how the officer, originally from Northern Ireland, came to be employed three years ago. "A 34-year-old male police constable based in Belgravia has been suspended pending conclusion of an investigation into the validity of his initial application to join the Metropolitan police force," a Scotland Yard spokeswoman confirmed yesterday. Vetting of the recruit was carried out by the Police Service of Northern Ireland. It failed to show he had a criminal past. The man told the Met that he had a conviction for assault, but did not reveal that he had also been found guilty of car crime and burglary. Vetting is a particularly sensitive issue in the wake of the Bichard inquiry, which examined police failures to spot problems in the record of the Soham school caretaker Ian Huntley, who later murdered Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. The failure to detect the officer's record raises fears that others with serious criminal records may have slipped through the recruitment system. An urgent review by the Met's head of professional standards will now investigate whether other recruits from Northern Ireland need to have their vetting reassessed. Police vetting requires convictions deemed to be spent under the terms of the 1974 Rehabilitation of Offenders Act to be revealed. The constable's criminal record was reportedly acquired between 1985 and 1990. The PSNI said it could not comment on the case or on its vetting procedures. The suspended officer, who had previously served in the armed forces, had admitted having a minor assault conviction following a pub brawl. When the PSNI vetting failed to corroborate this, the Met concluded it could not have been serious and recruited him. The man is understood to have a fairly common name and it is possible that the wrong person may been checked on police databases. Home Office guidance states that more serious convictions are likely to render a potential recruit with a criminal record ineligible. Such offences include burglary and serious assault.