Nursery school worker Vanessa George had become "obsessed" with fellow child abuser Colin Blanchard and took eight pictures a week of children in her care to please him, a court heard today.People who knew George told police she seemed prepared to do anything to please Blanchard and her "sexual boundaries" became "blurred".The pair and a second woman, Angela Allen, 39, are being sentenced for abusing children and swapping indecent images of them.At the start of the hearing, the prosecutor Simon Morgan revealed that George called herself "your paedo whore mum" in online exchanges with Blanchard. Bristol crown court heard that George, 39, who worked at Little Ted's nursery in Plymouth, had commented to one child's father that his boy was "well-endowed".Morgan said that after meeting on the Are You Interested? site on Facebook, the mother-of-two had become "besotted" with Blanchard, 38, who lived near Rochdale, Greater Manchester. She started to send him a steady flow of abuse images and texts.Morgan said: "Witnesses believed her sexual boundaries had blurred. It was as if she wanted to do anything to please Blanchard."Blanchard was arrested at Manchester airport after an associate found indecent images of children on his computer. From there, detectives traced George.After her arrest, she told police: "I knew this would happen. I can't believe what I've done. That family don't know anything about it. I'm disgusted with myself. I can't believe what I've done. I love children."She then corrected herself and said: "I love working with children," Morgan told the court.George admitted to texting Blanchard regularly on a mobile she called her "fun" phone, adding: "It doesn't matter what I say now. My job is gone, my family is gone."Justice John Royce said the evidence was "chilling", as he heard of the two discussing rape via text. George had joked that Blanchard was a "dirty paedo". On another occasion he joked back that she did not need "grooming" and that the perversion was latent in her.More than 1,000 contacts were logged between the pair, Morgan said. The court heard that personal phones were not allowed in the nursery – George was once told off for having one – but rules had been relaxed because the in-house phone was unreliable.