The court is situated in the main city magistrates court, a new, purpose-built building. The security procedure for entering the youth area is exactly the same as that for the adult criminal courts; uniformed security guards and x-ray machines from the passage to the concourse.The waiting area for the juveniles and their families is bright, with sunlight streaming in through full-length windows, and a TV set showing children's programmes. Otherwise, the trappings of the adult system are in place: the ushers are robed, the Tannoy system breaks in with frequent requests/demands for solicitors or defendants to attend immediately at hearings and uniformed guards patrol regularly.Once inside, there is no doubt that this is a criminal court. A huge coat of arms glowers above the raised bench where the three magistrates preside and one wall is dominated by a TV screen supplying the video link for defendants "appearing" from young offender institutions. Defendants answering bail sit behind a rail directly in front of the bench.To the right of the magistrates is a glass-enclosed secure dock for those arriving from custody. The court clerks and youth offending team workers sit behind separate desks and the one small window behind the bench is balefully opaque.Mandy, 17 and charged with assault, is sitting next to her mother. Her solicitor has not turned up. Both the clerk –when asking her to confirm her name, address and date of birth – and the bench chairman address her by her first name, as did the usher when calling her in.As there are apparently "other matters" to be dealt with along with the assault, the bench say they will not proceed without her solicitor. They ask the usher to contact the law firm and Mandy and her mother are asked to stay in the court building while this happens.Case number two is 15-year-old Hayley, charged with stealing lingerie, valued at £18, from a city centre chain store. She, too, is sat next to her mum. Her solicitor, who sits behind them, tells the court that the mother is on benefits and that Hayley is not in mainstream education, but attends an "education project" where she is doing well.The girl's mother says Hayley is "not a problem child at home" and she cannot understand why she gets in trouble outside – the teenager has a previous conviction, for criminal damage and assault.The chairman, who is the only magistrate to address Hayley, tells her that she seems indifferent to her predicament and asks directly: "Are you bothered?" "No" is the reply.It is clear that the chairman is really trying to engage with Hayley and professes his worry at her lack of understanding of the situation. (Would she understand and engage better in different, less austere surroundings?) The bench tell her that they are considering ordering an "action plan" for her, which may include an attendance order and the case is adjourned until the afternoon.Meanwhile, the usher has been successful in contacting Mandy's solicitor and her case recommences. It is agreed that Mandy will liaise with youth offending team workers who will prepare reports.The chair urges Mandy to be "open with them". The case is adjourned, with Mandy remaining on bail.Next in court is Jason, 15. He had previously appeared before the bench and was convicted of burglary, along with another youth. The co-defendant was sentenced to custody; Jason was made the subject of a supervision order, which means he was required to be supervised by a member of the youth offending team.It emerges that, at the original hearing, Jason had asked the court to put him in custody, too, as without the help of his friend, he would not feel able to comply with the conditions of a supervision order.The bench evidently ignored his request and Jason has now breached the supervision order.His solicitor tells the bench that Jason's parents are "long-term class A drug abusers" and that his mother, who should have appeared this day, is ill. The magistrates say they are not prepared to hear the case without an appropriate adult present. The chairman asks the lawyer if Jason has a social worker. He has not.The case is adjourned and a witness summons will be sent to the boy's mother. The chairman tells Jason that he appreciates that the boy has turned up on time at this and other hearings, but repeats the warning about the consequences of failing to observe his bail.If there were any ambiguity about the seriousness of the morning's hearings, it is harshly dispelled with the appearance of the next defendant.Laura, aged 15, is produced from custody – a secure training centre – and makes her entrance from behind the heavy glass security screen. She is flanked by three officers, two men and a woman.Her mother, who came into court before her, sits facing the bench. To see her daughter, she has to crane her neck sharply to the left.Laura is charged with several counts of assaulting police. When a date is agreed after some discussion, the chairman asks Laura if she was "able to hear any of that, from the sidelines". She nods and leaves.At the end of these proceedings, I found it very puzzling that David Hanson, the justice minister, could have said: "We do not accept that young people who offend and are dealt with in court are treated as adults."With the one exception – using their first names – that seemed to be precisely how they were treated.• All defendants' names have been changed.