The snatch must have been quick, because the front wheel of the little girl's blue bicycle was still spinning when it was found.Moments before the 13-year-old had been chatting happily with schoolfriends. She turned the corner to continue her paper round, and disappeared. Today is the 25th anniversary of the disappearance of Genette Tate. Her undelivered newspapers were left scattered across a lane in the village of Aylesbeare, in east Devon. The investigation is now Britain's longest missing person inquiry. Retired detectives lement that it is the greatest unsolved mystery on the books of the Devon and Cornwall police. Detective Superintendent Nigel Boulton, who was three years older than Genette when she disappeared, said the investigation would continue "as long as there is something positive to inquire into". His team of 20 officers is still trying to track down the murderer. Last year police scientists extracted a DNA sample from a woollen sweater belonging to Genette and kept by her mother Sheila Cook. They hope to make a match with belongings of her murderer. Robert Black, a convicted killer, has long been suspected of her death. In February officers from Devon and Cornwall looked again at Black, who is serving 10 life sentences for the murder of three girls and the abduction of a fourth. Their inquiries continue. Mrs Cook told the journalist Marcello Mega that she had spent her life grieving for Genette. She had considered that Black may be her daughter's killer. "At first, I didn't want it to have been him, because he was so evil. But then I thought about it and realised that whoever took Genette had to be evil. If it was him, at least he would know where she was." This week Genette's father, John, separated from her mother, returned to Within Lane, the scene of the disappearance. He has made an annual pilgrimmage from his home in Greece, but this will be his last. He said: "I have spent 25 years of my life wondering what happened to my daughter. It is just as draining now emotionally, mentally and physically as it was from day one. To lose a child in any way at any age is the worst thing that can ever happen to a parent - but when your child has been murdered it is worse. "A horrific situation is compounded when you don't know where your dead child lies and what happened to your youngster. "It would help both Genette's mother and I if we could find her and give her a proper burial. "We don't know if she is buried near her own home, in her home county or somewhere else in the country. Or if her body was dumped into the sea." On the 20th anniversary of Genette's death the police hoped that their wide appeal would trigger someone's memory. They received 50 calls, but none was fruitful. It was a sunny August Saturday in 1978 when Genette set off to do a friend's paper round: she was filling in while he was on summer holiday. She cycled down a leafy lane where she bumped into two friends. When they discovered her abandoned bike, the girls thought she was playing a game with them and began searching the hedges, calling her name. When they began to suspect something more sinister they ran away, fearing that the same thing might happen to them too. More than 5,000 volunteers hunted for the missing girl - who would be 38 now - including holidaymakers, Royal Marines and nuns. Villagers raised a £23,000 reward but has never been claimed. Reviewing documents relating to the Black case, the police discovered that he was probably in Devon delivering posters on the day of Genette's disappearance. He is known to have regularly used a red Ford Transit van during that summer. Eighteen years after Genette's disappearance, a woman came forward to say that Black was the driver of a red van she had seen watching her children outside Exeter airport, near the village of Aylesbeare. The Scots-born killer has been questioned about Genette's disappearance but has always denied being involved. If he knows more about it, her parents and the police can only hope that the crucial piece of evidence that might prove his involvement will be found among his belongings.