Shane Annable sits on a bed in the B&B furiously tapping a cigarette lighter against his fist. A black and white television set flickers above; paper peels from the wall in a leisurely curve. His mother Jackie sits, legs tucked under her, on the other end of the bed. Shane's makeshift bed, a mattress, takes up most of the floor. There are no cooking facilities. A green Pot Noodle - lunch, sits by the kettle.It is almost five months since Shane, 15, and his mother were evicted from their Nottingham home on the grounds of Shane's anti-social behaviour. Since then he's lived with friends, kipped on floors; but for the last 12 weeks, he has shared a room with his mother in the Park Hotel, in Forest Fields, one of Nottingham's least salubrious areas. The cost is £650 a week. Anti-social behaviour orders, Asbos, are at the centre of the government's tough talk on social policy. Shane and his mother are its reality.In 2002 there were 2,246 evictions clearly attributable to Asbos. The government wants many more. The Home Office has set up an anti-social behaviour unit. Hazel Blears, the minister charged with overseeing the policy, says it's her "number one priority". In all, £75m has been allocated over the next three years to deal with anti-social behaviour. In this series the Guardian has recorded the reality of the political rhetoric: a family evicted, then separated, and now about to begin a new life in a new home. In a week, Shane and his mother are due to move in to a two-up two-down 10 miles from their old home. Evicting them has been an expensive process: court proceedings, which are ongoing, and hostel costs. But perhaps the money will have been worth it if Shane's behaviour has changed.  Uncomfortable Shane taps the lighter, rolls on the bed, then jumps up to look out of the window. He has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and barely sits still for a second. Putting him on the spot, asking him uncomfortable questions, makes it worse. Before he was evicted, did he take the acceptable behaviour contract and the Asbo seriously? Shane shrugs and stares at the television. "I knew it meant I had to be in at a certain time, but I wasn't really bothered, because no police came to the door and said I had to be in at a certain time." When he was evicted in November Shane moved in with his mates. "It wasn't that bad. Not bothered we got evicted," he says, tapping the lighter again. His mother tells a different story. Away from her control, Shane went even further off the rails. He and his mates caused havoc. A new neighbour telephoned the Guardian to say: "They've moved him from Eastwood to come round here and make our lives a misery." Shane, though he would never admit it, missed his mum. Two days before Christmas they were reunited at the B&B. It is a horrible place. The corridors and stairs snake confusingly. No visitors are allowed; guests cannot enter each other's rooms. Breakfast is provided, nothing else. "We've been living on sandwiches and Pot Noodles," says Ms Annable. "I've been to the chippy once, but I'm too afraid to go out at night on my own." Shane spends hardly any time there. "It's just boring, that's all," he says. "I would rather be in a house, but there's a telly here and I'm out most of the time. I am in here at night-time just to go to sleep." In the last week or so Shane's behaviour has improved. He's sullen, faintly aggressive even, but nothing compared with what he has been like. He says he has learned his lesson. "I don't get into trouble no more," he says. "I know not to do it again or we will lose our house. I hang around with the same people, but I don't get into trouble no more. I have learned from the first time. I was just getting drunk, that's what mostly done it. But I don't drink much now. I don't do it so much because that is what got me evicted: too much drinking." Shane's behaviour at the B&B, though, has been at best problematic. A few weeks back Shane's mother called her case worker in a panic: Shane was keeping her in the room against her will. He wanted money; she wouldn't give it to him. The police were called and Shane let her go. When asked about it, he ignores the question, rolls over on the bed and pulls his hood up. "I'm bored, I want to go." It's not the only time the police have been called to the B&B. The hotel is full of sad cases: young people down on their luck, the evicted, those with drink and drug problems. Shane has made some new friends. They are not the best influence. Ms Annable doesn't mention the police, or Shane's drug-taking, but she admits he has not been perfect. "He has had his moments, he had a few paddies. He was kicking off when he couldn't get his own way. I think he found it quite difficult to get his head round being here." As his mother talks Shane, for the first time, looks away from the television and listens. It's obvious his mother is a little frightened of him: the doors of their old home in Eastwood bore the scars of Shane's temper. "I think he has learned from his mistakes," she says, as Shane looks on, pounding the lighter into his fist. "Come on, I'm bored. I want to go shopping," says Shane. Ms Annable gathers up her cigarettes. The family moves into a new home next week, and this is the last time the Guardian will be following them. "I think it's going to be all right in the new place," says Ms Annable. "Yeah, all right." 