A pilot who flew an executive jet from Spain while hungover after a three-day drinking binge has been jailed for nine months.Ian Jennings, 47, from Gosport, Hampshire, was arrested at Norwich airport after landing a commercial chartered plane carrying Andre Serruys, a millionaire scrap metal mogul, along with a woman and three teenage girls.When police breath-tested Jennings on 30 October he smelt strongly of alcohol and seemed nervous, Norwich crown court heard. He was found to be three times the legal limit for a pilot.Jennings, who admitted at an earlier hearing to flying while the alcohol in his breath was over the prescribed limit, claimed he consumed only three pints of lager the night before, but the judge Stephen Holt said this “did not add up”.The defence barrister Marcus Crosskell accepted that Jennings may have fallen foul of “topping up” after several days of heavy drinking to celebrate his engagement.The prosecutor Chris Youell said Jennings had reported for work at 8am and there was no evidence he had consumed alcohol that day. He was not breathalysed until after 2pm.Holt said: “Some eight or nine hours earlier you must have been considerably higher than the level detected. You must have been drinking considerably the night before you went to the airport.“The public must have 100% confidence that pilots in this country are 100% sober. The devastation you could have wreaked, not only to passengers but also on the ground, goes without saying. It is my duty to send the clear message that any pilot who commits this kind of offence must expect an immediate custodial sentence.”On the morning of the incident, Jennings acted as captain while a co-pilot flew the Canadair CL601-3A Challenger from Oxford to Palma in Majorca. From there, Jennings took the controls and flew to Norwich. Somebody on board the flight became suspicious that he had been drinking and contacted the police.Officers detected 31 microgrammes of alcohol per 100 millilitres of breath – the limit for pilots is nine microgrammes, while the limit for drivers is 35.Crosskell said in mitigation that Jennings had recently finished a period of flying out of Africa where he had been under pressure because of the Ebola epidemic.“He is not a gentleman who habitually drinks or has a drink problem. But having ended a stint in Africa there was a period of celebration,” he said.“He had got engaged that week and been out for various dinners and events and had been drinking alcohol in the three days leading up to the offence. The night before he had not drunk excessive amounts of alcohol but he had been drinking heavily that week and may have been at the point where he was simply topping it up.”The court heard that Jennings, who has 20 years experience as a pilot, began his career on an RAF scholarship after developing a love for aerobatic flying. He was described as having an exemplary record.Crosskell said: “He is a gentleman who has lost his distinguished career and his reputation.” Jennings’ licence has been suspended by the Civil Aviation Authority.