A four year-old girl was shot dead and her mother critically wounded in an incident in Aldershot yesterday in which a man, believed to be the child's father, was also found shot dead.Hampshire police were called to the terrace house near the town centre at 10am after neighbours reported hearing a violent dispute.It is thought the woman, named in reports as Julie Harrison, had dropped her daughter Maisie off at the house she formerly shared with her estranged partner, and that a row about custody broke out in front of the girl inside the house. When police arrived they found the child covered in blood and dying from a gunshot wound to her head, and her mother also with a head wound. The man was found dead at the house with a shotgun beside him, apparently having turned it on himself. It was not known whether he owned the gun legally.The woman was taken to a London hospital and was said to be in a critical condition. Police were unable to speak to her.Speaking outside the house last night, Detective Inspector Darren Rawlings said officers had met with a "very traumatic" scene. They attempted to resuscitate the girl, but she was pronounced dead a short while later. The couple had split up four weeks ago, and investigators were not looking for anyone else: "This is a tragic death of a four-year-old child. What police are working towards is to establish the identity of those involved. We also need to find out why this has happened, and exactly what happened in the premises."It is not thought that the man, believed to be in his 50s, was connected to the military in the garrison town. The property, part of a residential development, was still sealed off while forensic examinations continued. The woman's red Renault had been parked outside before being taken away for tests.Graham Selway, who works at a toolshop across the road, told reporters that he understood the couple had split up over Christmas: "A man who I think is called Andy lives at the house. I believe he is in the building trade, because he often came into our shop for tools."When I saw him he would always smile and seemed like a genuinely nice guy. I can't believe this has happened at that house."I heard she had moved out at Christmas, but she came back this morning. I don't believe the child was living at that address any more – I assumed she lived with her mother."Sally Denny, 35, said that her four-year-old son Noah was in the same reception class as the girl and she described her as a "happy, cheeky girl".She said: "Maisie was so full of life – a happy, funny and cheeky girl who knew how to bring a smile to people's faces. My last memory of her was seeing her perform in the school nativity. She was dressed as a star, but she will always be an angel."