Britain's biggest and most powerful police force is insular, stagnant and wastes much of its multi-billion-pound budget because of out-of-date management techniques and the growth of 'Buggins turn' promotion of staff not up to the job.A damning report to be released this week will say that the Metropolitan Police, which looks after the safety of millions of Londoners, as well as tourists and some of Britain's most prestigious landmarks, has failed to modernise and that many of its internal affairs, including disciplining corrupt officers, are mishandled. The Morris inquiry into the handling of complaints within the force, management policies and bureaucracy is expected to reveal a culture of tortuously slow decision-making and sloppy management, allowing macho and racially discriminatory behaviour to flourish. Although it focuses on Britain's biggest force, it will have lessons for police opera tions across the country, many of which suffer from similar problems. The report says that police constables are often unable to do their job properly because they are caught up in layers of bureaucracy. Promotions are often determined on the say-so of a single officer. Sweeping criticisms are expected of the Met's directorate of professional standards, which oversees the force's internal anti-corruption squad investigating suspected rogue officers, its diversity policy and its handling of industrial tribunals. Its senior officer, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stephen Roberts, told the inquiry of the dangers in an 'Al Capone' approach to investigations. Officers, already convinced an officer was guilty, simply tried to find 'sufficient evidence to ... get them out of the organisation and preferably into prison'. He added: 'It does not matter what you get him for - you can get him for tax evasion, as long so you get him for something.' Inquiries could take up to seven years to resolve and sensitive information about suspects was routinely leaked to rightwing tabloids. The inquiry heard that black and Asian officers were disproportionately more likely to have internal complaints made against them. Roberts admitted that managers, frightened of being accused of racism, shied away from dealing informally with petty complaints and ignored them until the behaviour became serious, or passed the buck into the formal disciplinary process - leading to endless delays as the allegations ground their way through the slow-moving system. Yesterday the Metropolitan Black Police Association - which has accused Met investigators of mounting a vendetta against several of its senior members - called for the anti-corruption unit to be disbanded, arguing that it was out of control. 'They seem to have this attitude that there's no smoke without fire,' said general secretary Ray Powell. 'They should be thinking "Why are we getting this disproportionate amount of information [about black officers]?"' He suspected resentful colleagues of making 'malicious' allegations against ethnic minority colleagues as previously overt racism in the Met went underground. 'What we have is this "postmodern" racism, where people who may have been overtly racist in the past say the right things and do the right things, then, when it comes to the implementation of practices and policy, [they] can be discriminatory.' But the report of the inquiry, chaired by former trade union leader Sir Bill Morris, is expected to make clear that the problems go well beyond race, with outdated and clumsy management risking holding back the careers of officers regardless of race, gender or sexuality. The inquiry took evidence from dozens of officers and reviewed nine high-profile cases, ranging from that of senior gay officer Commander Brian Paddick - accused of taking cannabis at home in a tabloid 'kiss and tell' by his ex-lover, but later cleared - to a white officer suspended after the death of a black inmate in custody, and officers languishing on long-term sick leave. The report was commissioned last year in the wake of the high-profile cases of Gurpal Virdi - sacked for allegations of sending racist hate mail to himself, but re-instated by an employment tribunal - and Supt Ali Dizaei, an Iranian-born officer who was subjected to mammoth undercover surveillance following allegations of drug-taking and accepting bribes. He was acquitted at trial of two minor charges and the Met settled out of court with him. Among the solutions that the inquiry has considered are an independent ombudsman system for police complaints and making constables subject to normal employment rights and conditions, though the right to strike could be excluded.