The policeman who acted as liaison officer for the family of one of the murdered Soham schoolgirls concocted an elaborate alibi to escape charges of accessing "questionable images", an Old Bailey jury was told yesterday.Detective Constable Brian Stevens, 43, and Louise Austin, 32, a Crown Prosecution Service case worker, both from Cambridgeshire, deny perverting the course of justice. Mr Stevens was originally charged with accessing pictures on the internet, but the charge was dropped last year. The judge told the jury about Mr Stevens' Soham connection, but stressed that that had nothing to do with this case. Peter Joyce QC, prosecuting, said Mr Stevens and Ms Austin, who were close friends, invented a detailed story about him staying at her house without his laptop on the night when he was alleged to have downloaded "questionable images" in the early hours of June 9 2002. "The alibi was a deliberate, calculated, planned, desperate throw of the die to get Brian Stevens off the hook, away from his computer at 2.01am, 2.05am, and 2.13am on that night," said Mr Joyce. The prosecutor said that when Mr Stevens was first arrested on September 12 2002, he had said he stayed at Flint House, Goring-on-Thames, a police convalescence centre, from May 31 to June 10, while recovering from a foot injury. He said he had his laptop computer with him during his stay, it was left on "24/7", and that he allowed other people to go to his room and use it in his absence. On September 13 2002, he was charged in relation to the computer images. Almost a year later, in August 2003, Mr Stevens completely changed his story, to say he had not been at Flint House on the night in question, but had stayed at Ms Austin's home, without his laptop, the prosecutor said. Ms Austin also gave a statement to police, saying that Mr Stevens had stayed at her house from lunchtime on Saturday, June 8 2002, until 11.30am the next day, without his laptop computer. She said she remembered the date for three reasons - Mr Stevens had comforted her over a recent split with her boyfriend, it was two days after her brother's birthday and her nephew had called at her house on the Saturday to collect his present, and June 7 was the anniversary of a traumatic court case where she had testified against another police officer. She had been close friends with Mr Stevens for about nine years, and also knew his wife, and two children. But there had never been a sexual relationship between them and he spent the night in the spare room. However, Mr Joyce said there was "overwhelming evidence" that Mr Stevens was in the Goring area when he claimed he was at Ms Austin's house, almost two and half hours' drive away, and that he had access to his laptop at the relevant times. He said there were emails between Mr Stevens and his wife. His bank card was used twice on the Saturday afternoon in Windsor, near Goring, where fellow police officers remember him going to the pub with them and, additionally, paying for an officer's medical prescription. "We can show from the volume of other evidence that Brian Stevens cannot have gone to Louise Austin's home at any time during the course of his stay at Goring," he said. Mr Joyce said the defence might argue that the accused pair had not deliberately lied but had made an honest mistake about the date of the visit. But he pointed out Ms Austin's insistence on the date, and said she was well aware that her friend faced very serious allegations. The "blizzard of communication" between the pair was the "conspiracy in action", he said. The trial continues.