There are many stories that cannot be told about Soham, yet. One particular story may never be fully told. But there is also one story which has already been told, told all last week in the near-soporific monotones of Richard Latham, QC, prosecuting counsel in R vs. Huntley and Carr: it's just that it's not really about Soham. It's about Britain, today, and about the footprints we leave.Imagine this scene. You may not have to imagine too hard, because much of it was all over your TVs a year ago. August. A close, warm, threatening evening in Soham, 11 days after Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman's disappearance signalled the start of the longest fortnight this soft, green, rather down-at-heel corner of Cambridgeshire will ever know: as it would with any of the myriad similar places in the land. People are filing towards a hall, the local college, picking up their pace infinitesimally in that pointless gesture you make when spotting rain turns to plumper drops. Some have arrived from the East, via an alley and a car park, home to the town's only security cameras, which are starting to vanish high in the gathering gloom. Others walk south by the main road, down College Lane. Chat is desultory, but contains anger. They pass photographers, busy on their mobiles, and TV cameras, whose lights splash onto neighbouring homes and cars. More than one window displays a picture of the missing girls, necklaces dangling over those Manchester United shirts, a clock in the background. Most duck clear of reporters' questions and file in for the public meeting. It is groggily warm inside. I hope this picture is vaguely clear. It is for me, still, for I was there, part of the intrusive media, and perhaps more intrusive than most; the meeting was closed to the press, but I had pulled off my tie, and bought some groceries to look like a local, so sauntered in with my bag of tinned soups and took my sneaky seat. I can remember a caretaker going round the sweating hall with a wrench, trying to open windows. Now look again. There are at least 10 footprints here which put Ian Huntley in the dock. We learnt an awful lot, this week, in and around England's Central Criminal Court. At 11.14 on Monday morning, as reflected clouds waltzed endlessly back on themselves in the tall glass walls of the City, we learnt down at street-level that Lesley Chapman is an extremely human man: as the families stood briefly by the court entrance he managed to jink a little, to half-feint, for the feasting cameras, silently forgiving them. We learnt that Mr Justice Moses has a grand sense of humour, unless you're the grubby press; we learnt from him a little of the bleeding obvious, which is that there is, in fact, quite enough real drama in this awful tale already, and it doesn't need any more vigorous frothing. We learnt, with something of a delayed shock, Mr Latham's carefully vigour-free and frothless tones give little hint of build-up, that Ian Huntley is unlikely to contest the fact that the girls died in his house, and that he buried them. And one lesson that definitely emerged last week, a lesson told through plasma-screens and saved on DVD, told through purple squares and red dots and swooping graphics, but none the less real, was this: everything we do, no matter how small or sleepy our surroundings, has an effect, and most of our footprints can now be found. If the collective will is there, the need to find out; if the crime is grim enough, unforgivable enough; there will, now, always come a trial. The expertise exists. Every part of that college-hall picture tells a story. First up, the security cameras of course, although they were perhaps the most useless. They told us, indeed, that Holly and Jessica had crossed the car-park by the same college hall, stepping out of sight for the last time that Sunday evening, 4 August. 'Much, much later,' according to the prosecution, police were to discover that both cameras' internal clocks were wrong, and by up to 17 minutes. Had this not been found out, the whole narrative would have been queered, but the discovery was made, the desperate police persistence was there, and the corrected version has the girls stepping out of the final frame at 18.28 and 30 seconds. Kevin and Nicola Wells's old-fashioned wall-clock, in the background of all those posters which showed the girls on their last afternoon alive, was in better shape. It put the girls proudly in their Man U. shirts at 5.04pm, and gave an important and reliable start to the evening's chronology. The more vital elements in that poster, however, were the shirts themselves. We learnt a lot about the shirts, last week. They weren't simply the totemic 'last-picture' shirts; their very make-up plays a part in the case against Huntley. The three kinds of threads that make up the shirts, we learnt, goodness, did we learn a lot about threads last week, are designed for a rough rather than a casual life, and so the threads of the sport wool (and the round, and the crimped) are unusually short, just between 1 and 2 mm long. This, according to the prosecution, makes them easy to miss if you are trying to clear them as evidence from your home or your clothes; if you are, in the words of Mr Latham, engaged in 'the ultimate spring-clean'. No head-hairs, nor prints, from either girl were found anywhere in Huntley's home, 5 College Close. But microscopic forensics later yielded 49 'fibre transfers', tiny, near-invisible, 2mm pieces of red thread which could only have come from the girls' shirts. Now, back in that snapshot from a year past August, we are passing the photographers, busy on their mobiles. We learnt about mobiles, in court number one, last week. How they're clever enough, when powering down or running out of battery, to send a farewell 'handshake' to the mast through which they've been communicating; and how Jessica's last signal was sent at 18.46, that evening, to the mast in Burwell, some 12 miles away. We learnt a bit about Vodafone, her signal provider. We learnt, incidentally, that the mobile giant now appears to have mapped Britain in more finicky detail than the government Ordnance Survey: but we learnt, more crucially, that the Vodafone network has anomalous 'hot spots' where a distant mast will wrench the signal from the expected mast; and that there are a small handful of these in Soham, where the signal goes instead to Burwell; and that there is only one such hot-spot where Jessica's phone could have been at 18.46; and that this hot-spot is centred on one front garden. The address is 5 College Close. We also, while on mobiles, learnt that records show the timing and duration of calls between Huntley and Carr, a deal of which is expected to be made by the prosecution in later stages. Even the photographers played their part; one press photograph of Huntley's red Ford Fiesta, snapped innocently, incidentally, just after the girls disappeared, was garnered by the prosecution, blown up by experts and used to show the difference between the tyres at the start of that week (treads worn and blurry) and the tyres after he had apparently had all four changed (treads sharp and new). Ah, yes, the car, which those hurrying towards the hall may easily have passed that August evening. We learnt, as you may be beginning to suspect, rather a lot about that car. We learnt that many police have been very, very diligent indeed over the past year. We learnt about Tait's Garage in Leeds selling the car new, 13 years ago, to one Harry Paul. Learnt much of its history until on 19 July 2001 it was sold to Huntley, who took it the next month to Kwik-Fit in Scunthorpe for a full tyre replacement, each new tyre's tread a 7mm minimum. Almost a year later, on 10 July, 2002, 24 days before the girls died, Huntley took it for an MoT and service - £44 it cost - to Ian G. Ford, in Ely. A careful mechanic, Paul Squire, noted on the 'visual health check document' that the tyres had worn evenly, treads down to 5mm on the front, 6mm on the rear. We then learnt that on Monday 5 August, the day after the girls died, a man took a red Ford Fiesta to Ely Tyre Services in Angel Grove, and had four highly serviceable tyres changed. The invoice was timed at 3.36pm, the registration marked as L788 TXR, a registration which does not exist; the mechanic had been slipped a tenner by the customer to falsify the document. On Friday 16 August the police impounded Huntley's car, and removed four brand-new tyres of the same type fitted in Ely on the Monday. Bear with me, for we're not finished with the car yet: we're not finished with the myriad things we learnt about it thanks to experts, and technology, and a year of extraordinary zeal from the police. We learnt about the concept of 'footwell debris', the stuff that falls under the pedals, and how it can be microscopically sourced by taxa, or pollen grain. We learnt (between learning about the science of sluice-opening and the geology of chalk) that there exist nettle experts. We learnt about the spores of yarrow and hogweed and mudwart, and the jury was shown colours representing spores found on different parts of the car (red dots for the brake and clutch pedal-rubbers, brown for bumper spores, grey for spare wheel, etc), and, of course, all in all, it will go towards the prosecution's case that Huntley put Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells deep into the nettle-ditch at Common Grove, Lakenheath. And perhaps, here, the prosecution could have found a gentler marker for their hi-tech graphics map than 'Body Deposition Site'. Many of these details above can seem niggling, pedantic; many people will remember other details from last week's opening prosecution statement. The fact that the bra found on Holly had been bought just the day before. The fact that two items were found on Jessica's body: her necklace (yet more living evidence from that poster); and a half-finished packet of Polo mints. And the import of many forensic details will surely seem tiny if, as expected, Huntley accepts anyway that the girls came into his home, and somehow died, and then he buried them where Mr Latham says he buried them. Huntley, by the way, was the caretaker, trying to open the windows that night. Even then, he was carrying permanent evidence against himself: five of his own hairs were eventually found attached to Jessica's clothes. Yet whatever the outcome of this trial, I suspect that the three-day opening statement leaves us with a different sense of our own anonymity. If the story is big enough, the shock and outrage sufficient, then heaven and earth will be moved; history itself will give a shake, and come to life. Point by slow point, graphic by triplicate graphic, belt and buttons and braces, one week last summer was carried into court and had life breathed back into it, and a strangely unsettling experience it was, to realise how many thousands footprints we all leave, if someone starts looking hard enough. A few mysteries, of course, remain. The police of half of England may have thrown an enormous amount of diligence and resources at the case for many months, but questions are going to be asked later, afterwards, about that very first two weeks. And, personally, I will never quite understand the media's obsession with courtroom behaviour, as if we are to read volumes into a head-shift from Maxine Carr, or extrapolate anything more than the obvious when Kevin Wells or Les Chapman looks at the dock, looks at the man in court accused of having killed a daughter. Anyone with a modicum of imagination can surmise what they might feel. And one big mystery, of course. We've learnt everything, almost every second, of before; we've learnt a great deal of after. We've learnt the where, and the when. We haven't yet learnt, until Huntley's defence begins on Wednesday, anything of the what: of what happened, in a matter of minutes, some time shortly after 6.30pm on Sunday, 4 July, 2002, in number 5 College Close, Soham.