The number of registered sex offenders in the community has risen by 18% in the past year, the Home Office said today.There were 28,994 sex offenders on the register in England and Wales in 2004-05 - a rise of 4,422 on the previous 12 months, according to a report on the monitoring of violent and sex offenders.The annual report on Multi-Agency Public Protection Arrangements (Mappa) also showed that 993 registered sex offenders were charged or cautioned for new offences during the year despite being under surveillance. In all there were 44,592 violent and sex offenders monitored by local multi-agency public protection panels (Mappps), which bring together the police, probation and social services to monitor offenders release from jail. The number of "medium" and "high" risk offenders rose by 12,765. This figure included 1,478 of the so-called "critical few" who are subject to the most intensive supervision and may even be put under police surveillance. The report showed 526 offenders were put on measures designed to stop them committing further crimes. This included 503 who were handed sexual offences prevention orders, which can bar offenders from contacting their victims or prevent them from living with minors. Home Office minister Baroness Scotland said: "Mappa represents a big leap forward in the way we protect our communities from re-offending by violent and sex offenders."She said there had been wide take up of measures, including the sexual offences prevention order, introduced under the Sexual Offences Act 2003. "By using a multi-layered approach and access to increasingly more sophisticated measures, Mappa is working to ensure we are more likely to effectively intervene than ever before to protect the public." The Association of Chief Police Officers' spokesman on child protection, Terry Grange, said: "The increase in the number of registered sex offenders was anticipated and the use of new and existing powers assist a range of agencies to enforce compliance and registration. Mr Grange, the chief constable of Dyfed-Powys police, added: "The risk offenders pose will never be completely eradicated but our ability to manage information has improved greatly by the introduction of the Violent and Sex Offenders Register, a national database linking every police force in the United Kingdom."