All judges from time to time think the verdicts juries deliver are not those which they would have reached. It is rare, however, for the verdict to be one which defies rational explanation (Juries aren't delivering justice, March 27).When juries differ from us, many of us console ourselves by acknowledging that a) there is no reason why judges should be better than anyone else at making findings of fact (typically who has given truthful or reliable evidence); b) case-hardened tribunals are not necessarily the best forum in which to do justice, particularly where the defendant is actually innocent. Alistair McCreathCircuit judge, Birmingham Here we go again. Andrew Geddes says that in 1999 the acquittal rate in the crown court was 64% (of those pleading not guilty), but 5% in the magistrates court - presumably implying juries are getting their verdicts wrong and verdicts in magistrates courts are right or about right. Any hapless advocate with experience of defending in crime cases in the magistrates court will have found themselves far too often up against the brick wall of an apparent reversal of the burden and standard of proof, leading them to the conclusion that far too many people are convicted. My own experience of juries is that, with exceptions both ways, it is they who tend to get it about right. Andrew KeoghEight King's Bench Walk Judge Geddes deploys his advocate's training to good effect in his attack on our current jury system. Unfortunately, it is not only jurors, but also judges, barristers and policemen who have been know to make racist remarks or fall asleep in court. When I recently served on a jury we were delayed in returning our verdict because the judge had "gone for lunch". Geddes displays professional arrogance in asserting that judges know better than juries who is guilty. The record of the appeal court in upholding verdicts later shown to have been demonstrable miscarriages of justice is hardly reassuring. Juries are an essential democratic safeguard. By all means let's have well-founded research and reforms to underpin improvements in the legal system. Let's start by addressing some of the archaic and amateurish practices that alienate jurors, defendants and the public alike. How about some real action to address the appallingly unrepresentative character of our judiciary and legal profession? I was impressed and reassured by the healthy mixture of careful consideration and common sense which my fellow jurors brought to the jury room. Dr Malcolm EamesBrighton 