Detectives hunting the killer of a teenager who was stabbed to death in the street after a cinema trip were yesterday looking for two youths wearing grey hoodies who fled the scene as the boy lay dying.Adam Regis, 15, who was the nephew of the British Olympic silver medal-winning sprinter John Regis, was the second teenage boy to be fatally stabbed in the capital in three days after the killing of A-level student Kodjo Yenga in west London last week. Adam had gone to see a film with friends and was attacked at about 9.30pm on Saturday in east London.As the latest killing reignited concerns over knife culture, the communities secretary, Ruth Kelly, moved to offer reassurances that the deaths were isolated incidents, even as the Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Menzies Campbell, called for tougher penalties.John Regis said last night: "We cannot put it into words what has happened. It is a nightmarish situation to be involved with." He said his nephew had a bright future . "He liked sport as any 15-year-old would like sport and, with the Regis gene, you never know. But he was an intelligent kid."Adam had spent the afternoon at a cinema in Beckton, later boarding a number 104 bus which would have dropped him close to his home in Plaistow. He got off at least a mile early, leading detectives to two initial theories. One is that he got off the bus to visit relatives in the area and was set upon; the other that he had got into a row with his killers on the bus, and got off early to try to avoid trouble, but was followed. He suffered a knife wound to the leg, and at least one other knife wound. He also had other injuries consistent with being punched, police said.Adam was found lying at the junction of Kingsland Road and Boundary Road by two youths who called an ambulance and by Sandra Wynands, 59, who saw the boy slumped on the floor in a pool of blood. "At one point a man in overalls came along and was tickling the boy's ear, saying, 'Stay alive'. He was still alive, but he wasn't conscious," Mrs Wynands said. Detective Chief Inspector Ian Stevenson said: "Passersby in the area heard shouting and raised voices at about 21:35 and saw the victim stumble and fall. Two black males wearing grey hoodies were seen running up Kingsland Road and we would urgently ask them to come forward or for anyone else with information about them to contact us."Senior police sources said Adam was not a member of a gang and had no criminal past.By yesterday a collection of floral tributes built up near the junction, one of which read: "Rest In Peace, Adam, you was a great friend of mine, you've gone to a much better place."Local people and politicians were shocked by the killing. Ms Kelly said while the deaths were tragic, similar crimes were not "sweeping the country". "Even though they are more prevalent than we'd like, [these are] still relatively isolated incidents which cause extraordinary grief and agony in particular communities."She added: "We've got again to think about the security response, but also to think about the nature of those communities, how we intervene to tackle the gang culture, how we create resilient communities, and work with families and voluntary organisations to combat that."Sir Menzies called for tougher measures. "The Labour government refuses to accept that carrying a knife can be as dangerous as a gun. The sentence for carrying a knife in a public place should be made the same as that for carrying a gun."Police said there was "nothing to indicate it was a gang-related act. But residents in Plaistow raised familiar concerns about youth crime. Aurora Correa, 43, said teenage gangs were a problem and she feared for the safety of her 14-year-old child. Ms Correa, who lives on Kingsland Road, said: "Every evening after 7pm, there are teenagers in gangs aged 15 or 16 taking drugs. My daughter has been robbed twice. She was robbed by other kids. My friend was robbed [of her mobile] by a boy on a bike. I feel scared."Spate of attacksThe latest murder in east London follows a spate of knife crimes:· Police in Manchester launched three murder inquiries at the weekend. The victims were killed in unrelated knife attacks. Seven people, aged 17 to 25, were arrested after a 21-year-old man died in Hattersley. Three men were detained after a 30-year-old man died in Farnworth. No one has been arrested in connection with the death of a 24-year-old stabbed at Moss Side community centre· Last Thursday, 16-year-old Kodjo Yenga was stabbed to death in Hammersmith, west London. Two youths aged 13, one aged 15 and one aged 16 have been charged with murder· On the same day, a boy aged seven stabbed a young woman 21 times as she fought with his mother in Norris Green, Liverpool. She sustained serious injuries· On the same day, Sue Hale, 49, was found stabbed to death in her home in Southampton. A carer, Sarah Merritt, was also found dead in the flat. A 47-year-old man is being questioned· Father Paul Bennett, 59, died from stab wounds last Wednesday afternoon in the village of Trecynon, south Wales. Geraint David Evans, 23, was charged with killing the father of two