An illegal website selling stolen personal data has been shut down, putting a "significant" branch of virtual criminals of operation, the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) said today.The Darkmarket forum, an international site where fraudsters bought and sold credit card details, was shut down last night. It allowed criminals to exchange information about how to commit online fraud as well as offering details contained on the magnetic information strips on the back of credit cards.Sixty people around the world have been arrested in connection with the website, including some in Leicester, Manchester, Humberside, South Yorkshire and London. Police international crime specialists infiltrated the website and identified its users.A spokesman for the agency said the operation was a "big success". "It was a huge website," he said. "It was very significant in the online criminal fraternity. "People were exchanging information about how to commit online fraud. It gave methodologies of how to steal data, and enabled a whole range of criminal activities, from how to go about stealing data to how to make the best use of it once it had been stolen."People are safer from identity fraud as a result." Soca said one of the people arrested had spent £250,000 buying personal data on the site in six weeks that could have been used to make £10m from identity fraud. The website, which had been in operation for three years, could only be accessed by invitation."You couldn't just wander into it," the Soca spokesman said. "It was a virtual criminal organisation, but it had the advantage of not having to meet in person." The international nature of the website made it far harder to track down, he said. "It was operating in a number of countries, so the barriers involved aren't just technological but also geographical. "You don't necessarily have the power of investigation in a foreign country, so it does make it much harder to investigate."The deputy director of Soca, Sharon Lemon, called Darkmarket "a one-stop shop for the online criminal". Speaking to the BBC, she said: "You can go to the forum and engage in criminal activity quite freely."You can buy any product you want, you can sell any product you want. "They are taking someone else's money. These aren't geeks we're talking about. These are serious and organised criminals."And they can vary. You can be the beginner who can go on to the site, get a tutorial and start your life of crime."