The man accused of murdering schoolgirl Tia Sharp told a prison officer that her death was an accident and insisted: "I'm not like Ian Huntley", a court heard on Thursday.Prison officer Warren Fegan, who was working at Belmarsh when Stuart Hazell was taken there in August last year, told the Old Bailey that the 37-year-old denied "anything sexual" had happened between him and Tia.Hazell is accused of sexually assaulting and murdering the 12-year-old at some point between 2 and 10 August last year, which he denies.Fegan said: "He was saying: 'I'm not like Ian Huntley, it was nothing sexual, I'm not a nonce'."He was saying that the press was trying to make it look like it was sexual but it wasn't. He was saying that he loved his stepchildren [sic]. He said that it was an accident: she had fallen down stairs and broken her neck."Prosecutors claim that Hazell killed Tia and hid her body in the loft of the house that he shared with the child's grandmother, Christine Bicknell.Fegan said: "He said that he didn't know what to do and he picked her up and took her upstairs and laid her on the bed, and he thought that she would get better."He didn't know what to do, so he wrapped her in a sheet and put her in the loft."He said Hazell was full of remorse. "He asked me how hard it would be to prove not guilty to murder but guilty to manslaughter," the prison officer told the court.Fegan told the jury that when Hazell was assessed at the prison, the risk of him harming himself was "at the far extreme". "He really wanted to kill himself. He was saying he was sorry and he felt guilty. Initially he was fearing for his personal safety. He was very, very distressed. He was clearly saying that, any opportunity he had, he would kill himself."Fegan added: "He wanted to be dead. He wanted away from everything."The prison officer said Hazell talked to him again two days later. "He stated that he wished he could turn back the clock," he said.He said Hazell told him: "I deserve everything I get. If I get 25-30 years, I don't care. I deserve everything I get."Hazell also said he could not get the images of Tia that police had shown him out of his head.Fegan said that, when he asked Hazell how he felt, he held up one hand, and said: "Guilty, guv'nor", which the officer took to be linked to his earlier description of feeling guilty about Tia's death.Junior prosecutor Jocelyn Ledward read a statement from senior prison officer Gerald King, whom Hazell also told Tia had died in an accident. The statement read: "He stated that he wanted to end it and take his life. He didn't want to be seen as an Ian Huntley."He added that it was an accident, that he had been playing with her at the top of the stairs as they always did. She fell down the stairs and broke her neck."He wished he could turn back time. He then laid her on the bed for a while, then wrapped her in a blanket and put her in the roof."He said Hazell went on to say that he wished he had said Tia's death was an accident, but had listened – and joined in – with the family saying what they would do to the person responsible for her disappearance."He wished he had told them it was an accident as he was with the family, listening to what they would do to whoever had taken her or hurt her. And he was saying what he would do to this person as well."King went on: "He wanted to make sure that people knew that it wasn't a sexual thing. He wished that he had explained the accident to his partner but he didn't want to ruin the relationship."Fellow prison officer Dan Dobson said in a statement, which was also read to the court, that Hazell had told him: "It's bollocks, they've got nothing on me. The loft runs from one end of the street to the other. How come they searched it five times and found nothing?"Earlier, prison officer Paul Leahy told the court that Hazell had said police should investigate his neighbours, and that he had been framed."He said that the police had fitted him up and he claimed that there were six people to see her after him," Leahy said.Hazell told the guard that the group of houses where he lived had interlinking lofts, and insisted that someone had moved Tia's body into the space above his house.Leahy said Hazell told him: "What the press don't tell you is that all six or eight houses have joint lofts."The police have searched my house four times and not found anything, with dogs and some specialist search teams. In my opinion, someone has moved her into my loft."He also pointed the finger at Somali neighbours, claiming they were "bacons" – prison slang for sex offenders. "They were shouting and throwing plates at each other. It's them the police should look at: they are the bacons, not me."He also said that a paedophile had been grooming Tia by contacting her on her phone.Leahy told the court: "He claimed that Tia had paedophiles hassling her on her iPhone. Apparently, he was 25 years old but messaging her claiming he was 13."When Hazell arrived at the jail, he said he had been feeling suicidal. The prison officer told the jury that Hazell said: "Since Friday I've been feeling guilty and I just want to kill myself."He said he tried to get razor blades from his bag while in custody at the police station.The court heard that Hazell told Leahy: "I have a real problem with my anger and when people say wrong things to me, I can flip. I just feel like hurting everyone."The trial continues.