A police force has defended spending £20,000 investigating a man's death after his ghost was said to have told psychics that gangsters had forced him to drink petrol and bleach.Carlos Assaf, 32, a baker, was found dead at his flat in Lampeter, west Wales, after a row with his girlfriend, Louise Edwards, 23, on 30 March.An inquest this week recorded a verdict of suicide after hearing there was no evidence of foul play. However the coroner, Peter Brunton, queried the murder inquiry held after mediums tipped off police, suggesting that the words "lion, a horse and a man called Tony Fox" were significant. "There was a great deal of communication between the mediums and the police," he said. "A great deal of effort was expended in following these leads up."Detectives visited a dozen pubs called the Red Lion and Black Horse from Burry Port to Tregaron. They even visited the Feathers hotel in Aberaeron because there is a statue of a horse outside.The psychics claimed Assaf's ghost contacted them to say he had been strangled by gangsters and forced to drink petrol and bleach. A second postmortem examination was ordered, which found no sign of bleach or petrol in his digestive tract.A statement from Dyfed-Powys police said: "The revelations of the mystics were brought to our attention via the family and these were followed to reassure the family that the full circumstances of the death were as they appeared. Police have a responsibility to the deceased, their family and the public to investigate all deaths thoroughly."Sergeant Mark Webb told the inquest that officers began investigating links with "Tony Fox". He said: "We received communications from friends and family of Mr Assaf involving spiritualist mediums. We interviewed the mediums and, having carried out an investigation, we found the information far from conclusive. We wanted to be absolutely satisfied there was no third party involved."The coroner's officer, Eric James, said that it had not been possible to ascertain who had put the police in touch with the psychics. "The family said in court that it wasn't them," he said. "It certainly did happen because the CID were involved."At the Red Lion in Pembrey, a staff member recalled the police visit. "They wanted to know if this bloke had ever come in here or if he had worked here. They asked about other Red Lions in the area. It is difficult with the clairvoyant really, it is not something you could dismiss without checking what they said was possible."A police source said: "We are becoming a laughing stock. We went haring across the country looking for a lion, a horse and someone called Fox based on info from cranks. Not surprisingly, it turned out to be a wild goose chase which cost at least £20,000 in time and resources."