The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition has proposed a ban on the identification of men accused of rape. Which means that most men arrested on suspicion of rape will never be named because the vast majority never get to court.What an absolute disgrace that the one issue relating to tackling sexual violence the new government proposes would end up being a shot in the arm for some rapists. Unless 94% of women are lying, then there are a shed load of guilty men getting away with rape, including those who are reported to the police. If this law is passed they will be able to relax in the knowledge that if, as in the majority of cases, it does not even get to court, no one will be any the wiser.When the arrest of black-cab driver John Worboys was made public many other women came forward; ditto the teenagers in the notorious Owen Oyston and Peter Martin case back in the 1990s; ditto the other victims of serial rapist and murderers John Duffy and David Mulcahy; ditto countless other cases. To grant anonymity would be to remove the one opportunity many women have of seeing their rapist questioned, let alone convicted."What about those falsely accused?" I hear you cry. "Their lives are ruined." In reality, rape is not really seen as a heinous crime, only those cases Whoopi Goldberg notoriously described as, "rape-rape". Indeed, the most commonplace rapes – those committed by partners, friends, acquaintances, family members and work colleagues – are often not considered rape at all, which is why the vast majority never get to court or are acquitted if they do.A fair number of celebrities including footballers, musicians, actors and authors have been accused of rape in the past and do not seem to have suffered longer term. To say that an accusation ruins lives is perhaps a sweeping generalisation.Most arrests for rape do not get reported in the press unless the accused is famous or the circumstances highly unusual. If such cases do make a brief mention in the local paper it is often no more than the community will already have learned from local gossip.If we are to go down this road in order to protect those wrongly or falsely accused, why not extend it to murder, child abuse, and theft from employers – all of which carry a significant stigma. Accusing a white person in a public sector role of racism is pretty damning in terms of reputation and career prospects, but I do not hear similar cries for anonymity.Passing this law would boost the widely held belief that most women who report rape are lying. The latest research on false allegations found that the figures are around the same as with other crimes. If a woman is found to have made a malicious accusation of rape she loses the right to anonymity. Media coverage of false allegations far outweighs reports of men arrested for rape.Besides which, since when do laws get changed as a result of a tiny number of cases? Feminist lawyers are already in discussion about challenging this preposterous proposal through the sex discrimination and human rights legislation (while we still have it).To grant anonymity in rape cases we are saying that the problem is not with the estimated 75 to 95% that never get reported; the 94% of reports that do not end in a conviction on the charge of rape; or the widespread belief that women out drinking, flirting or just plain breathing ask for all we get. The problem, according go the new government, is the fact that a tiny percentage of men accused are innocent. Shame on the government. Let's campaign to ensure this proposal falls at the first hurdle.