Another patient of serial killer Harold Shipman was unlawfully killed, a coroner ruled today.The verdict on Alice Kitchen's death was delivered by the South Manchester coroner, John Pollard, after hearing a day's evidence at Tameside magistrates court. Mr Pollard recorded the same verdict earlier this month after a similar inquest into the death of Sarah Ashworth, 74. The inquest heard how former doctor Shipman, 54, left a note on the mantelpiece at 70-year-old Mrs Kitchen's home in Kirkstone Road, Hyde, Greater Manchester. It told her family that she had suffered a stroke. Later Shipman described her death as being "a blessing".Mr Pollard said that he had found 15 similar points between Mrs Kitchen's death and the death which formed the prosecution's case at Preston crown court, where Shipman was convicted of murdering 15 women patients. To disregard these similar facts would be "an affront to common sense", he said. "Beyond any reasonable doubt, Alice Kitchen was unlawfully killed." He said that the pathologist and Dr Alan Banks, of West Pennine Health Authority, found no evidence to support the cause of death recorded by Shipman.Mr Pollard said that he had then looked at Mrs Kitchen's previous health and said that as she had had major surgery several weeks before her death, the surgeon and the anaesthetist would have also investigated her state of health and would not have operated if she had any obvious signs of heart trouble. Mrs Kitchen had made no complaints about her health to her family other than that she was suffering from a bit of a cold. "The doctor apparently leaves a note on the mantelpiece indicating the patient had suffered from a stroke and telling the relatives to take her to hospital. "That I find incredible, and I use the word accurately: I find it unbelievable that a doctor who finds a patient has had a stroke would not summon an ambulance to take her to hospital."The Kitchen family, who were visibly upset when they left the courtroom, declined to comment. But their legal representative, American trial lawyer Professor Daniel Simons, of Alexander Harris solicitors, said: "Today's verdict has confirmed suspicions they had from the outset... They now have to come to terms with their grief."