"We shall probably never know," said John Humphrys on the BBC Today programme, "what turned an apparently normal man into a crazed killer." This sentiment has been echoed in the press, on radio and TV. The most extraordinary thing about such statements is the admission by the normally omniscient media that something actually passes their comprehension. That's what they are there for. To understand. To explain. To enlighten. To make sure that no dark corner remains in any event – particularly, one might have thought, an event so searing and tragic as this.They don't know. It is not for want of unearthing every conceivable theory about the actions of Derrick Bird, whose mysterious and demented rage caused him to take 12 lives before he took his own. It was an event that numbs the senses and stops the heart. Who can imagine the harbouring of such virulence? Who can offer even a glimpse into the mind of one moved by such ungovernable hatred and incontinent violence?The "trigger" for this ghastly sequence of killings has been variously identified as a dispute over a family will, indebtedness, unpaid tax, a dispute with other drivers on the taxi-rank where Derek Bird worked; but all falter in presence of the enormity to which such relatively mundane happenings gave rise. After all, most of us will reason, we have our own family disputes, we feel slighted at work, we are anxious about our financial affairs – but we would never dream of giving way to such depravity.On the other hand, it simply does not do to say it is beyond our capacity to know. The first reaction to such events – mercifully infrequent though they are in Britain – is for society to distance itself from any taint to itself, by designating the perpetrator as a "loner", a "psychopath", a "man with a grudge". It is as though he does not inhabit the familiar world of the small town and the comfortable, tolerant, peaceable people of Cumbria, who were his victims. What must be stressed is the isolation of his madness. He stands, deranged, a monster, a wild animal, ferocious and as unlike the rest of us as it is possible to be.And yet. The very discrepancy between his daily self-presentation to others and the actions of which he has shown himself capable, suggests that he was indeed part of society, a seemingly integrated member of the local community.For one thing, such an outbreak of violence suggests that, beneath the surface, there is a great deal of rage, unresolved anger and hatred in a society that likes to promote itself as the embodiment of civilisation, a model and inspiration to the whole world, the template for the development of all humanity.For the most part, this violence remains suppressed, seen only in low-level violence, antisocial disorder, and the time-honoured British way of coping with reverses in life by means of alcohol, and drinking ourselves into oblivion as the quickest way out of our troubles. The fact that this bloody happening is a rare occurrence shows that the safety-valves on offer for our disappointments and frustrations usually work quite well; but how precarious it is, a social peace that can be shattered in an instant by spectacular acts of wanton violence.The second thing is, in our desire to explain these events solely as examples of personal pathology, we concentrate on the individual, and do not interrogate the role of society and a socially produced ideology of individualism. For the circumstances in which personal griefs and grudges express themselves in this brutally uninhibited way ought to come as no real surprise. After all, we are supposed to prize the individual above all else; and in our celebration of the individual, we publicly value disproportionately the loves and lives, the passions and capacity for amassing fortunes of the successful and triumphant.The importance of self-expression, self-indulgence, self-realisation in our society is bound to have its less glamorous form; and for all the exaltations of success, the parade of showy individuals who, by virtue of their beauty or skill, or simply their assertiveness and celebrity, there is bound to be another, suppressed march of misery, frustration, despair and hatred. The insistent singleminded worship of wealth and power is itself a powerful generator of a darker side of human experience; and all the pathologies of crime, disorder, emotional breakdown, psychiatric illness and depression, are simply the shadow of the excessive adulation offered up to fame, youth or talent.There are other forms of inequality in these rich societies than the mere monetary gap between rich and poor. One of them is the vast gulf that separates the objects of reverence and semi-sacred deference and the rest of us, the punters, the public – the people, in short. More than this: there also exists in our culture a widely diffused iconography of the serial killer, the mass slayer, the slaughterer of innocents, the sawn-off shotgun, the lone gunman and those who embark on the gratuitous killing-spree.Much of the entertainment industry relies on such imagery for its appeal. Its baleful influence stretches through film, TV drama, crime fiction, video games; and also feeds into lurid fantasies of heroic survivalism and the stand of rugged non-comforming individuals, who will not bend to the tyranny of government or the perverse will of controlling power."I can't believe this is real," say the numbed victims of such cruel occurrences. "It was like being in a film." People say they feel numb and disoriented, for it is as though the violence of entertainment had suddenly erupted into a real life, which, by its nature, is humdrum and without dramatic happenings; for our own poor loves and attachments, our own small feelings are constantly diminished by the towering rages and immoderate emotions engendered by the screen to which our distracted eyes are constantly drawn.Of course there are particular circumstances that remain hidden and unknowable in the psychology of those who, for no clear reason, set out to destroy their own lives, on condition that they may take as many innocents with them as they can on their sombre journey of destruction. But things don't happen in a vacuum. There is such a thing as society; and it reaches deep into the psyche and heart of all its members.Whatever we may say in homage to and in grief for those whose lives were destroyed by Bird, or any others like him hidden in the seemingly eventless calm of small villages, market towns and big cities, let it not be said that such things remain inexplicable to us, even if they do remain obscure to the sagacious know-alls of the media.