A man who went on the rampage through the streets of London, stabbing one man to death and leaving five other people seriously injured, has a history of mental illness, police said yesterday.The man drove across a six square mile area of north London at the height of the morning rush hour, stopping and stabbing victims at random in six locations. The hour-long series of attacks left one man dead and three other people needing surgery after suffering life-threatening wounds. The attacks ended only after police traced the suspect from the registered address of the car he was using. They went to the address where the car, a red Hyundai, was registered and arrested the man as he pulled up outside his home. Police said there were signs of blood on the man and in the car. Last night police said they were holding a 30-year-old man in connection with the stabbings of five men and one woman. One witness told how he battled to save the life of the man who died. The victim, believed to be a construction worker, was 58 and married with children. He was stabbed by a scrapyard on the edge of an industrial estate in Advent Way, Edmonton. He staggered down stairs, bleeding heavily, and asked a security guard at an industrial unit. The man was taken inside where Dervish Dervish, 54, and a colleague fought to save his life. Mr Dervish, a delivery worker, said as they removed his bloodsoaked clothing they saw the man had suffered three stab wounds to his front, and one to the back. Mr Dervish said he asked the man, who was slipping in and out of consciousness, what had happened: "He said 'I was walking, a car pulled up and two guys got out and stabbed me. I said 'why' and he said 'I don't know'". Police said only one person carried out the stabbing. Mr Dervish said he and a colleague administered heart massage and mouth to mouth resuscitation after the victim's heart stopped three times. He said: "It burns me up. I felt like crying. The bloke is going to work, the next thing they're phoning his wife to say he's dead." Some of the victims received multiple stabs wounds and at least two were fighting for life last night, including a 20-year-old woman who was stabbed as she was cycling. Police say the woman was so surprised by the random attack that she cycled on thinking she had been punched in the back, before collapsing. The terrifying series of attacks started just after 8am, when a 29-year-old man said goodbye to his girlfriend, left his home and was stabbed. He staggered to Edmonton Green rail station before collapsing, leaving a trail of blood in the street. Police were called to the first attack at 8.20am, and arrested a man at 9.24am. The last victim was not reported until 80 minutes after the arrest at 10.45am, when a 76-year-old man walked into a hospital for treatment, apparently unaware how serious his injuries were. At one time over 100 officers were involved in hunting the knifeman and helping the victims. Chief superintendent Simon O'Brien said: "The stabbings were random and there appears to be no link between the victims. "There was a man coming out of his vehicle, picking people at random. Some were cycling, some were walking. He was stabbing them, sometimes in the back, and then driving off." Chief Supt O'Brien told BBC Online: "We could be dealing with a person who has mental illness. Certainly the person in custody has a history of mental illness." Police said they had recovered a large kitchen knife, which they believed was used in the attacks. The Barnet, Enfield and Haringey NHS mental health trust said it was checking its records to see if the suspect had been a user of its services. Chief Supt O'Brien said the suspect was 29 and believed to be of Turkish origin. Dr Yasmin Drabu, medical director of North Middlesex hospital, said the victims had multiple stab wounds, some "life-threatening", including in the stomach and abdomen.