The mystery of why a judge did not flee from his burning shed before it exploded remains unsolved after a coroner said yesterday that he had been alive when the fire took hold.Sheriff Payne, the Dorset coroner, ruled out the theory that Judge Andrew Chubb was murdered by his wife, Jennifer, because he was having an affair and had just asked her for a divorce. "If she was intending to kill her husband how on earth did she do it?" he asked.There was also no evidence that the judge, who strongly believed suicide was wrong, killed himself. But nor was it possible to establish that his death at his home near Chard in Somerset was an accident, as an earlier inquest ruled.The judge's mistress, Kerry Sparrow, has campaigned for six years for a fresh inquest on Judge Chubb, 58, believing that he may have been the victim of foul play and claiming that the investigation into his death was botched.At the end of the second inquest in Glastonbury, which spanned five days and involved 40 witnesses, more questions than answers remained. The coroner said it was "likely" the fire was caused or accelerated by the ignition of petrol vapour. But it had not been established where the vapour came from or how it had been ignited.Mr Payne even said the original cause of death - burning - could not be proved and recorded the cause of death as unascertained.However, he flagged up one crucial piece of new evidence. The pathologist who examined the judge always maintained she had not inspected his airways. But at the new inquest Charlotte Fisher admitted she had done so and had found soot in them - evidence that he was breathing when the fire began.Mr Payne also said he believed the fire had started first and caused the explosion, not the other way round. Giving a narrative verdict, in which he outlined what had been discovered about the judge's death, the coroner said these two pieces of evidence led to the question of why Judge Chubb had not tried to get out.Mr Payne said: "It has not been possible to establish why Judge Chubb did not escape from the shed when the fire started. Although the doors were almost certainly closed, they were not locked." He continued: "Examination of his airways revealed some soot staining which indicates he was alive and breathing after the fire started."It has not been possible to determine whether he was disabled from escaping by the effects of the products of combustion or other means. Both the means and cause of his death remain unascertained." On the question of suicide, Mr Payne said: "Evidence that might indicate he had expressed thoughts of harming himself falls far below proof beyond doubt."The inquest heard evidence of Mrs Chubb's odd behaviour in the minutes after the explosion. She took the washing in to stop the ashes marking it and worried about her sheep. She told some neighbours that she was certain her husband had killed himself but later changed her story when she was interviewed by police. Mrs Chubb, 60, has moved back to her homeland of Australia and refused to return for the inquest.Ms Sparrow, 38, criticised the original police investigation and postmortem. Important witnesses were not interviewed at the time and the shed was allowed to be bulldozed the day after the fire.A police statement said: "Avon and Somerset police have long accepted that there were some shortcomings with the initial investigation, which is why the case was reinvestigated. We feel a line must now be drawn."