A father who killed his son by throwing him from a hotel balcony was cleared of murder by a Greek court today, but sent to stay in a psychiatric unit.John Hogan, 33, from Bristol, hurled his six-year-old son Liam from the balcony then jumped himself with two-year-old daughter Mia in a suicidal act described as "selfish love" by his ex-wife Natasha.Liam died of head injuries, but Hogan and Mia survived with broken limbs in the fall during their holiday on the island of Crete.Hogan had been "incapable" of murdering his son and will be placed in a psychiatric unit, the court in Chania ruled. Paraskeri Kiraleou, the senior judge at the trial, said: "His responsibility was diminished. He was incapable of murdering his son and he needs to be in a psychiatric unit for therapy."Hogan said nothing as he was led from court by two police officers. As he left the building, he shot a quick glance at his mother Josephine, who looked tearful. His ex-wife Natasha condemned the verdict, saying that her son had "lost his young life for nothing".In a statement read out on her behalf, Mrs Hogan, 35, a nurse who now lives in Newport, said: "We have found it particularly difficult to hear the circumstances of Liam's death all over again."I feel deeply for my family and especially my mother, who has provided me with a great deal of support throughout. The Greek authorities have had a considerable time to examine the evidence gathered both by themselves and the UK police."I have done my best to provide a balanced view of John and our life together so that the Greek court is aware of the troubled times in both John's life and our relationship together."This result, albeit somewhat unexpected, has left me feeling that Liam lost his young life for nothing."Hogan had denied charges of murder and attempted murder. A jury of three men and a woman, selected to sit alongside three judges, returned the not guilty verdict.Hogan's lawyer Dimitris Xiritakis told reporters: "It is the right verdict. John Hogan is very happy with the verdict." Referring to Hogan's family members, he added: "Everyone is with him now."Hogan will continue to receive treatment in Greece while the British and Greek authorities discuss his long-term care.Like his two brothers, who both killed themselves, Hogan had been dogged with clinical depression since childhood. He stopped taking anti-depressants seven months before he leapt from the fourth-floor balcony.Earlier today, Hogan told the court he did not feel guilty as he had not been sane at the time. "I do not feel guilty because I did not do it," he said. This person you see before you is not the person who jumped from the balcony, from the fourth floor. I already have my son's forgiveness and I have God's forgiveness."Hogan asked the court not to judge him on his actions on the night: "One day I will get free again. The psychological help I am getting in Greece has been superb. One day, when I am released, I will be a father again to my daughter Mia."Hogan said he believed his son was now in paradise and he wanted to "join him in death so I could look after him". Both prosecution and defence had argued that Hogan should be sent to a psychiatric hospital.At a previous court hearing, Hogan said he might have been driven to the incident because his "mental functions" were unhinged. He said he was "mentally disorientated" when he grabbed Liam and Mia before jumping from the balcony.A statement from Hogan, handed to Greek judges by Xiritakis in 2006, said: "I have suffered from a mental illness for many years, perhaps from birth. My brothers, Stephen and Paul, committed suicide because of serious personality disorders."My dad, John, died following a long battle with MS. My father's illness had changed our house into a little hospital, where despair and grief ruled. I felt lonely after the death of my father."I tried to prove to everybody that I was capable of taking care of the family because I thought it was my duty. The death of my brother, Stephen, who I was very close to because we were a similar age, shocked me very much."I was the person that found his body and this caused me much grief. As a result I was depressed for many years."Hogan's older brother, Paul, had been a manic-depressive who had been sectioned in a mental hospital on a number of occasions. In 2004, after setting fire to the family home, he committed suicide by jumping from the Clifton suspension bridge in Bristol.Despite John Hogan's problems, a series of psychiatric assessments in Athens declared he was fit to stand trial for the murder of his son.Previously, Hogan told the court his children "meant the world" to him. He said he was once a fantastic father: "I did not believe I was man enough to be a dad. But when Liam came along I was a beautiful dad."I was having counselling. I was having medication but it wasn't helping so I stopped the counselling and the medication. It was all my fault. I used to have panic attacks."Whatever you do to me in this court, no-one can do to me what I have already done to myself. I have lost a daughter and I have lost a son until someone decides to take my life. I'm not even allowed to write a letter to her."He told the court his wife had "every right to hate me. I took away her children," but said he could not remember anything about the night he jumped. "I do not remember shouting, maybe I did," he said. "The only people who would know is Liam, who is dead. I remember the suitcases on the bed. That is it."Speaking about what happened after he jumped, Hogan said: "(My) thoughts are delusional after that. I had a thought in my head that my ex-wife was in the ambulance with me. That is impossible. I do not know. I have no memory of the ambulance now, no memory of jumping and no memory of the hospital."On Monday, the first day of evidence, a jury panel heard Hogan thought he was taking his children to "heaven" on the night of August 15 2006. Standing in the same room as each other for the first time since the fatal fall, Hogan and Mrs Hogan, 35, clashed when he accused her of saying he was from a "family of death".Mrs Hogan broke down in tears as she described the night when Hogan gave her "a crazed look" before jumping from the balcony of the 227-bed four-star Petra Mare hotel.An official working for Hogan's lawyer said Hogan had tried to kill himself on several occasions while awaiting trial. She said: "He has suffered depression throughout his life."It's such a tragic incident. We know he has tried to take his own life. This has been well-documented."