Brian Paddick, one of Britain's most controversial police officers, is to leave his job next month, the Guardian has learned.Mr Paddick, a deputy assistant commissioner with the Metropolitan police, was sidelined last year by his bosses.He clashed with the Met commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, over the police shooting of an innocent man who was mistaken for a terrorist at Stockwell tube station in July 2005.Mr Paddick told the Independent Police Complaints Commission investigation into the commissioner's conduct that officials within Sir Ian's own office feared the wrong man had been killed just hours after the shooting. Sir Ian has repeatedly said that he and his aides had no inkling until the morning of the next day that the man shot eight times by officers hunting suicide bombers was innocent. The dead man was the Brazilian electrician, Jean Charles de Menezes.Mr Paddick has been in negotiations with his employers about his departure, and the date has now been set for May 31.Mr Paddick came to public prominence as the borough commander in Lambeth, south London, where he oversaw a pioneering scheme under which people caught with small amounts of cannabis were warned about their conduct. The initiative was launched on the back of community demands that police concentrate on more serious crime.This, plus the fact he is openly gay, made him a hate figure for certain rightwing tabloid newspapers, but a hero for those who believe the police should become more liberal.Mr Paddick has experienced a roller-coaster career in the Met. Five years ago, he was moved from his Lambeth job after a former partner made various claims to the Mail on Sunday, including the allegation that he had smoked cannabis at Mr Paddick's flat.The following year, after he was cleared of the most serious allegations, he was promoted to be the Metropolitan police's acting deputy assistant commissioner and there was talk that he could one day be a chief constable. In rebuilding his career he had allies, including fellow officers and the mayor of London, Ken Livingstone. In 2003, Lee Jasper, the mayor's leading adviser on policing and equality, said Mr Paddick was one of the finest officers he had ever met. He said Mr Paddick was accessible, willing to respond and "when he could not do things he would explain why. He trusted the community and they trusted him."Mr Paddick is relaxed enough to laugh at himself, having told a gay magazine: "My last staff officer got promoted and went to royalty protection. In his leaving card I wrote, 'Same job, different Queen'." He was not always so comfortable with his sexuality. The son of a plastics salesman and a building society secretary, Mr Paddick was born in south London. During his adolescence he was tormented by his homosexuality and bullied by other children who realised he was gay. He joined the Met at the age of 18 in 1976.He had two failed engagements before getting married, which he says he did to cover up his sexuality. Mr Paddick took a break from policing to study politics, philosophy and economics at Oxford. He has a criminology diploma from Cambridge University and even his critics concede that he is bright. In 2005, Mr Paddick told the Observer newspaper he was considering retiring from the police and planned to take on a new role promoting "honest debate" on such issues as crime, drugs and social deprivation.Mr Paddick, who once admitted he found the idea of anarchism attractive, said he was keen to pursue a new career in politics, television or working with a non-governmental body such as the new Commission for Equality and Human Rights.