Some decisions are very difficult to understand, however much you analyse them. It is quite hard, for instance, to fathom what the magistrates who gave Stuart Brown a £500 fine this week - after he dragged his wife out of bed and punched her at least 24 times - meant when they described him as being of "good character". For the seven years of their marriage, Brown's wife, Carol McEwan, complained of regular verbal and physical abuse. Brown hasn't even lost his job - he still works at the Norwich and Norfolk University Hospital as a consultant anaesthetist, although the General Medical Council will be holding a disciplinary hearing. "No punishment this court could enforce could come anywhere near the impact you feel this had on you, your profession and your colleagues," the presiding magistrate, John Warne, told Brown.The case caps a week of astonishment and despair for campaigners against domestic violence. On Monday, Colin Read, a management consultant, was fined just £2,000 for a catalogue of violence against his wife, Elizabeth Axe. Read became violent soon after the couple married last year, and, in one of the worst attacks, slashed his wife's feet with a knife while she was asleep because she hadn't made his sandwiches for work the next day. When she protested, he punched her. Eight days later, he complained that she hadn't ironed one of his shirts and branded her twice with the iron on her back - the steam holes were burnt into her skin. Too terrified to see a doctor, Axe treated her burns by standing under a cold shower.Read wasn't given a community punishment as the judge said that the demands of his job meant he would be "too busy" to fulfil it. "A fine is not really a deterrent," said Axe after the three-day trial. "People might think they can do whatever they want, pay a few pounds and it's all over." When you consider these men's salaries, it becomes even clearer that the fines handed down were no real punishment - Brown is said to earn £100,000 a year, Read £90,000.Axe was too afraid to go to the police - who were alerted by her friends - and had to be persuaded to go to court. After the trial she summed up her despair: "I didn't really want to go to court. Now with the sentence the way it was, it doesn't really seem there was much point." She has recently filed for divorce."These cases make a mockery of police and crown prosecution efforts to take domestic violence seriously," says Sandra Horley from the charity Refuge. "What is the point of the government passing new legislation if judges do not sentence in accordance with the crime? It is most worrying that non-custodial sentences appear to be the norm."Deborah McIlveen of the charity Women's Aid agrees. "It takes an enormous amount of courage for a woman to prosecute her abuser in court and sentences like these may deter other women from doing so."One in four women in the UK experience domestic violence during their lives, and it accounts for the murders of two women - and as many as 10 suicides - a week. In Britain, police receive half a million complaints a year, although this is, of course, a tiny proportion of the actual number of incidents. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) says it takes domestic violence "very seriously" and points to the increasing number of specialist prosecutors working on domestic violence cases. Overall conviction rates are higher year on year, but, looking at this week's cases, that seems almost irrelevant if the punishment doesn't fit the crime. In cases where domestic violence hasn't ended in murder, just 4% of men who are convicted serve prison sentences."[You need to look at] what you are trying to achieve when you sentence someone," says Kevin McCormack, head of the Sentencing Guideline Secretariat. "It can be punishment but you're also trying to make sure that it doesn't happen again. If the court reached the view that, in a particular case, there was little risk of it happening again because the relation-ship had ended, and if there were other things ... in the defendant's favour, then that could persuade the court to use financial penalty instead of a community or custodial sentence."When setting fines, he says, "it is a balance between the seriousness of the offence and the financial resources of the individual ... £500 is quite a high fine in terms of the average level. It depends on the individual's income." And Brown's high salary? McCormack says he won't comment on individual cases.In Read's case, he was spared a community sentence because the judge said he was unlikely to reoffend. This will hopefully be the case, but there's no guarantee and this assumption seems yet another example of the courts' failure to understand domestic violence and its perpetrators. "Only 24% of domestic violence survivors report to justice agencies and only a small percentage of these go forward for prosecution," says McIlveen. "This means that most perpetrators are not held accountable for their violent behaviour and it is most likely that they will continue to use violence. There is anecdotal evidence that when one woman escapes a violent partner, he does the same to his next partner."So why is the judicial system still failing women? Ranjit Kaur, director of the voluntary organisation Rights of Women, says that, historically, the law has been written from the perspective of men and is still dominated by attitudes that fail women. "We still have judges making all sorts of comments which imply the woman is at fault, which takes us back to the time when men were allowed to beat their wives. There needs to be more training for all those involved in the criminal justice system."This includes the police. "The caution rate for domestic violence perpetrators is worryingly high, despite guidance from the Association of Chief Police Officers, which recommends caution in only the minority of cases," says Horley. "A caution is not enough. We know that rigorous arresting, charging and sentencing, in accordance with the crime, can act as an effective deterrent. Yet the efforts of the CPS are in danger of being undermined by courts opting against custodial sentences, sometimes in favour of anger management programmes."Refuge seriously questions the effectiveness of these programmes. "Little is being done to increase the number of cases brought to prosecution in the first place. This leaves thousands of women and children unprotected and living in the terrifying grip of violence in the home. More needs to be done to encourage these women to call for help. And, when they do, they must be taken seriously."