Plans to reduce violent crime by restricting the sale of imitation firearms and knives were among key measures announced in today's Queen's speech.The flagship crime measure in the government's programme for the next 18 months was the violent crime bill, which would toughen up laws on the sale of imitation firearms and also raise the minimum age on knife purchases from 16 to 18.The bill would also give headteachers the power to search pupils for knives and create a new offence of using children or innocent parties to hide or carry knives or guns. Figures published last month showed that while crime overall continued to fall, there was a 66% rise in the number of offences that involved imitation firearms. Today's speech, which underlined the government's new "reform and respect" agenda, also contained pledges to tackle anti-social behaviour, which was high on the agenda in the general election campaign earlier this month. The government confirmed plans for police to be given powers to impose "alcohol disorder zones" to try to combat increasing concerns about problems linked to binge drinking in urban centres. Delivering her speech at the opening of the new parliament today after Labour's historic third-term victory, the Queen, amid all the traditional pomp in the House of Lords, said: "My government is committed to creating safe and secure communities, and fostering a culture of respect".The government also signalled its determination to push through the creation of an incitement to religious hatred offence. Previous attempts to introduce the law - in 2001 and in the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act earlier this year - failed because of concerns over free speech.Earlier today the home secretary, Charles Clarke, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the government would be ready to use the Parliament Act to force through its bill on incitement to religious hatred, which has twice been blocked by the House of Lords. "I hope it won't come to that, but if necessary we would," Mr Clarke said. Mr Clarke also gave his backing to the idea of making offenders doing community service wear uniforms so they can be identified by the public. He told Today that some offenders were already wearing uniforms and they helped combat the idea community service was a "soft" punishment. Some civil liberties campaigners and probation workers have called the uniform idea "degrading" and likened it to US-style chain gangs. Today's Queen's speech also included new plans for sex offenders to face compulsory lie detector tests. Ministers want to use polygraph tests on sex offenders who have been released from jail on licence. The move is an attempt to ensure offenders are telling the truth about their behaviour, such as obeying bail conditions to keep away from schools and playgrounds. The idea has been piloted on a voluntary basis in 10 areas across England, but it would now be extended under a management of offenders bill on a compulsory basis. The bill would also extend the use of electronic tagging for offenders serving community sentences and those on bail. A new system of "day fines" would be introduced which base an offender's punishment on ability to pay as well as the seriousness of the offence. The government said its new legislation would reduce re-offending by better management of offenders. Also announced today was a bill that would create a criminal offence of corporate manslaughter, based on proposals published in a draft bill in March. The legislation would aim to hold senior company managers accountable if they grossly fail to take reasonable care for the safety of employees or others, with a penalty of an unlimited fine. Chris Fox, the president of the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), said the proposed crime-fighting legislation "suggests a comprehensive package of action ... to target both anti-social and violent criminals who continue to blight the lives of decent law abiding citizens". Speaking at Acpo's annual conference in Birmingham, Mr Fox said that several of Labour's most controversial law and order measures were beginning to have an effect on crime. He told chief constables that anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos) are helping to reduce yobbish activities. Mr Fox said that civilian community support officers, which have been opposed by some sections of the police and dubbed "plastic policemen", were also starting to improve law and order.But Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust, was critical of the government's record on crime, and said there was nothing in the Queen's speech that would reduce violent crime. "The new legislation on knives will do nothing to deter those who carry blades. This government needs to commit resources to tackling violent crime on the same scale they committed resources to Iraq," he said.Plans were also announced by the government to reform the system of service law that covers the armed forces. Currently the army, navy and royal air force are each covered by their own discipline laws, but the government said a single system would now be introduced in the first substantial review for 50 years. The changes would be made in the armed forces bill, which is to be introduced in November.