Champion jockey Kieren Fallon is one of the three jockeys arrested today as part of an investigation into alleged race fixingFergal Lynch and Darren Williams have been named as the other two, together with trainer Karl Burke. More than 130 officers raided 19 addresses across Suffolk, North Yorkshire and South Yorkshire. Police suspect widespread corruption involving more than 80 races over the last two years."Of the people we have arrested three are jockeys and one is a horse trainer," said detective chief superintendent Steve Wilmott, of City of London police, which is co-ordinating the case. "We have amassed a large amount of information, including computer records and documentation seized today, and will now commence the detailed task of examining it all." "This case is of great national significance," added assistant commissioner Mike Bowron added: not just to the racing community but to the wider public throughout the UK." John Blake, chief executive of the Jockeys Association, was quoted by the BBC as saying: "These are serious issues and are very damaging to the reputation of racing."Today's arrests come as a fresh blow to the reputation of the racing scene after a series of high-profile controversies. A 2002 investigation by the BBC's Panorama programme led to the resignation of Jockey Club security chief Jeremy Phipps.A report by the News of the World earlier this year led to a Jockey Club inquiry into disrepute charges against Fallon and John Egan, which was due to start in September but has been delayed.In a four-page article published on March 7 and described as the "sports scandal of the decade", the paper alleged that Fallon told undercover journalists before a race at Lingfield that eventual winner Rye would beat his mount Ballinger Ridge. Fallon was found guilty of not riding out for first place on Ballinger Ridge, which was beaten a short head by Rye, and he served a 21-day suspension for the offence. Both jockeys have insisted they are innocent of allegations of race-fixing. Another rider, Sean Fox, is to appear before the Jockey Club disciplinary panel on September 10 to appeal against a 21-day ban for his ride on Ice Saint at Fontwell in March. Local stewards found him guilty of breaching a racing rule after they decided he intentionally stepped off the horse at the Sussex track. The Jockey Club's security department launched an investigation into the race and public relations director John Maxse revealed that information gained from that investigation may be used in separate proceedings. Former jockey-turned-bloodstock agent Graham Bradley is waiting to hear the outcome of his High Court appeal against a five-year ban imposed after he gave evidence at a drugs trial. Bradley, 44, claims the April 2003 disqualification order by the Jockey Club's disciplinary committee and appeal board is unlawful. The order bans Bradley from entering any racecourse or premises owned, used or licensed by the Club and from dealing in any capacity with a racehorse. It was imposed in the wake of his appearance at Southampton Crown Court in September 2001 when he gave evidence at the trial of a friend who was later acquitted of drugs charges. During his evidence, Bradley stated that he had received presents in the form of nights out and the occasional flight, and cash payments, from a man called Brian Wright in return for privileged racing information. Mr Justice Richards reserved judgment in June and is due to give his decision in writing.