Garry Walker knows a thing or two about sectarian hatred. This time last Sunday, the 29-year-old was at Parkhead, working as a steward at the Old Firm game. Before a ball was kicked he was tapped on the shoulder by a Rangers fan, called a 'Fenian bastard' and slashed on the face with a razor blade.Walker is, in fact, a Rangers supporter. But such is the mindset of those in love with hate in Glasgow football, that his attacker assumed that simply because he was working at Celtic Park, he must be a Catholic. And it was for that reason alone, he was slashed. Some would say Walker, who was left with a small scar under his right eye, was lucky. After a previous Old Firm match, there was one murder, three attempted murders and 62 arrests. Tonight, a shocking BBC Panorama investigation, to be broadcast across the UK, will accuse Scotland and its two world-famous football clubs of having an almost blasé attitude to the problem of sectarianism.In an interview, Rangers' chairman David Murray was asked what his message would be to fans who sang offensive, hateful songs. Murray said it was 'totally unacceptable'. But when asked if he was ashamed of such fan behaviour, he said he wasn't. The programme will make uncomfortable viewing. Less than a fortnight ago, First Minister Jack McConnell hosted a high-profile summit to tackle what he has called 'Scotland's shame'. At the event, both clubs said football was not at the root of the problem and insisted much had been done to renovate the image of the Glasgow game. Those who chant about being 'up to our knees in Fenian blood' are, they said, in a tiny minority. The programme, however, reveals deep enmities. Two young offenders said sectarianism was drummed into them by age 10. 'Getting a Rangers shirt and being told to hate Fenians, was my first memory,' one said. An A&E consultant said it was not unusual, following an Old Firm game, for staff to be verbally abused simply because of the colour of their scrubs. 'Nurses wear blue, doctors wear green. This may not be the colour of choice of the individuals who need treatment. An injury that would take five minutes to stitch, ends up taking an hour with three staff trying to calm the guy down about the colour of someone's uniform.' Celtic's chairman Brian Quinn said undue attention was focused on Old Firm matches as a source of problems. 'Football is an expression of the problem but it doesn't create the problem.' However, anti-sectarian campaign group Nil By Mouth criticised both clubs for failing to adopt a zero tolerance policy to sectarianism. In 2003, the charity, which was formed after 16-year-old Mark Scott had his throat slashed for wearing a Celtic shirt, issued an eight-point plan to both clubs. Although some suggestions were adopted, neither club has implemented the tougher measures. 'Until [the clubs] identify and ban supporters who sing sectarian songs, the truth is that they are not doing enough,' said a Nil By Mouth spokesman.