The family of the murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler yesterday launched a safety campaign encouraging parents to learn to use text messaging to keep in touch with their children.Sally and Bob Dowler said texting had allowed them to give their 17-year-old daughter, Gemma, a certain amount of freedom despite their impulse to be over-protective and not let her out of their sight after Milly went missing last year. "We felt it important that Gemma should still be able to go out and have a normal life so we quickly learned to text as an easy and discreet way of keeping in touch without embarrassing her by constantly calling. Texting has worked really well. It gave us both a great sense of security and still does," Mrs Dowler said. Milly disappeared on her way home from school in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, in March last year. Her remains were discovered in Yateley Heath Woods in Hampshire six months later. Her killer is still at large. Her parents have since set up Milly's Fund, a charity which aims to raise personal safety awareness in children and young adults. Speaking at the launch of Teach UR Mum 2 Txt in London, Mrs Dowler said she hoped parents would embrace texting and encouraged young people to show adults how easy it is. The campaign, which is part of the Suzy Lamplugh National Personal Safety Week, was also endorsed by Gemma Dowler. Flanked by her parents and Milly's best friend from school, Hannah MacDonald, 15, she said: "It was all due to my mum. Since Milly went missing she has been more worried about me when I go out with my friends. "It makes a difference. When your mum calls you and you are with your friends it's embarrassing and you don't want to answer. But when she texts me it's much more discreet and I always respond. "If I was with my boyfriend I wouldn't answer if they rang but it's different when they text." Mr Dowler added: "Teach your mum to text, teach your dad to text, teach your guardian to text, teach your grandparents to text." A touring text clinic will visit UK cities to give parents and their children further texting tips as part of the campaign. Pocket-sized booklets with texting tips will also be available from O2 stores and from www.millysfund.org.uk 