Three key measures in the criminal justice bill - disclosure of previous convictions, the ending of double jeopardy and restrictions on jury trials - will face strong opposition in both the Commons and the Lords, it emerged last night, despite relief that they were less draconian than had originally been suggested.The Home Office minister Lord Falconer indicated that if necessary, the government would use the Parliament Act to force the measures through the Lords, where a coalition of opposition peers and Labour rebels inflicted a series of defeats on the last criminal justice bill. The main provisions were also included in Labour's manifesto, and by convention the Lords do not obstruct legislation which the electorate has approved. But last night, one senior Lib Dem peer and criminal lawyer, Lord Carlile - the QC who defended Paul Burrell in the Princess Diana trial last month - warned: "There are nil prospects of this bill getting through the Lords unscathed. Scathed, it will get through. It depends on whether they're prepared to eat the right amount of humble pie." The shadow lord chancellor, Lord Kingsland, said: "All the central issues the government trailed have big question marks over them. On issues like revealing previous convictions, we approach them with deep scepticism. You have to ask what effect these changes would have on crime levels - and I would say, very small." The Labour peer Baroness Helena Kennedy has already strongly condemned what she believes is the erosion of civil liberties by this government. In the Commons, a senior Labour backbencher, Chris Mullin, chair of the cross-party home affairs select committee - which questions Lord Falconer about the bill next Tuesday - said: "I will need much persuading that it is right to allow a defendant's previous convictions to be disclosed to a jury as a matter of course." But there was relief that some aspects of the bill already appeared to have been toned down after widespread criticism. Vera Baird, a QC and Labour backbencher, remained opposed to the proposals on jury trials although she welcomed an apparent softening of the line. She was also concerned that the bill would allow the "routine introduction" of previous convictions despite a warning from the independent Law Commission that it might jeopardise fair trials. Oliver Letwin, the shadow home secretary, and Simon Hughes for the Liberal Democrats raised concerns about civil liberties. The home affairs committee publishes a report on the bill early next month.