Forty years ago he masterminded one of the most audacious crimes of the 20th century, the Great Train Robbery.Today Bruce Reynolds returns to the scene of the crime for the more mundane purpose of raising money to fix the leaky roof of a village hall. Visitors to the event at Oakley, near Oxford, will pay £2.50 to hear his memories of the crime which netted £2.6m (about £32.5m in today's money) and see him meet John Wolley, the local bobby who discovered the gang's hideout at nearby Leatherslade farm. They will also be able to examine the lorry used to move the used bank notes and the Lotus Cortina Mr Reynolds used to carry out reconnaissance before the raid. Memorabilia - ranging from the mail sacks to some of the cutlery they used as they hid out - will be on display. To mark the anniversary, Thames Valley police has also expanded the Great Train Robbery exhibition at its museum. The highlight is the Monopoly set the gang used to while away the hours- using, of course, real bank notes. But not everybody is happy at the attention the anniversary is receiving. The family of train driver Jack Mills, who was coshed over the head during the robbery, have said they are "sickened" at some of the events. The Oxford Mail reported the fete at Oakley under the headline: The Great Shame Robbery. The present owners of Leatherslade farm have also insisted they do not want to be involved in the event. But Mr Reynolds, who was sentenced to 25 years in jail, is delighted to be asked to return. "It's a bit like being told 'come back, all is forgiven'. I was very surprised to be asked back, but people there recognise I was part of their history." It was with one eye on the history books that Mr Reynolds, who rejoiced in the nickname Napoleon, put together his crew of criminals. He said: "It was something I had been looking for all my life, the big one. As a career criminal, you reach a pinnacle and that was it. Plus it had those elements of fantasy. I was brought up on Butch Cassidy and Jesse James. Other crimes have got their points, but for the audacity of it and the way it captured the public imagination it's up there." It was in the early hours of August 8 that Mr Reynolds, now 71, lit a Montecristo No 2 cigar as the gang lay in wait for the Glasgow to London mail train, believing the crime had been planned to the last detail. They had rigged the signals at Sears Crossing between Leighton Buzzard and Cheddington in Buckinghamshire and the train ground to a halt, allowing the gang to pounce. The train was driven up the line by Mr Mills to Bridego Bridge where the cash was loaded into the lorry and other getaway vehicles. The scale and daring of the crime gripped the public imagination. The robbers were portrayed as no ordinary thieves. Co-driver David Whitby told the papers one of them acted like a "perfect gentleman" and spoke in a "refined voice." Mr Reynolds sounds wistful when he recalls where it all went wrong. The hide-out was discovered after a tip off. Police found a mass of evidence, including fingerprints. "Everything was planned up until we divided up the money," he said. "Someone had been paid to clear the farm. They didn't do it." Despite the anger of Mr Mills's family, Mr Reynolds does not accept he should be ashamed. "I'm neither proud nor ashamed and I've paid the penalty for it. I'm not celebrating the anniversary, I've never celebrated it. I was a career thief. As far as I was concerned, when you were caught you were caught, that was it." He denied the gang was responsible for the driver's death seven years after the raid. Mr Mills died of pneumonia after suffering leukemia but his family say his health declined after he was attacked.