Five white supremacists were jailed for a total of 15 years today for producing and distributing a race hate magazine that gave instructions on how to make bombs.The men were members of a British extreme right-wing group called the Racial Volunteer Force (RVF), which had formed in early 2003 and created and distributed the magazine Stormer.The five pleaded guilty last month to conspiracy to publish Stormer with the intention of stirring up racial hatred. Sentencing the men today, Judge Jeremy Roberts said the magazine had tried to "encourage readers to resort to violence against people with non-white backgrounds". He said they were not being imprisoned for their political beliefs because "this was a free country", but because the magazine could have inspired people to cause "a great deal of damage".The court heard yesterday that one edition of the magazine had included a step-by-step guide to making a nail bomb and a petrol bomb. The guide was part of a tribute article on the London nail bomber, David Copeland, who was jailed for life after killing three people with a bomb in a gay pub in Soho in 1999. He also left bombs in Brixton and Brick Lane and around 130 people were injured in the three attacks. The Old Bailey heard that Stormer also included an article headed "Roast a Rabbi" which offered "one hundred team points" for the first person to torch a synagogue.Above a picture of a firebomb it said: "With the winter nights to shroud you in darkness we thought a few of you would like to don your disguises and rubber gloves and make things a little warmer." The front of one of the magazines said above picture of a swastika: "We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children."The group managed to publish three editions of Stormer before it was stopped by the police after raids in London, Lincolnshire, Surrey, Bedfordshire and Greater Manchester. Police became aware of the magazine after discovering the RVF's website. Mark Atkinson, 38, of Egham, Surrey, was jailed for five years for Stormer and 12 months concurrently over the website. Jonathon Hill, 33, of Oldham, Greater Manchester, was jailed for four years for Stormer. Nigel Piggins, 39, of Hull, was jailed for two years three months for Stormer and a further three months for distributing a DVD of a performance by a race hate band called Skrewdriver. Steven Bostock, 27, of Urmston, Manchester, was jailed for two years and three months for Stormer and a further three months for the RVF website. Polish-born Michael Denis, 30, of Tooting, south London, was jailed for a year for Stormer. A sixth defendant, Kevin Quinn, 40, of Bedford, pleaded guilty to possessing a Nazi booklet by the extremist November 9th Society, and was given a nine month sentence suspended for two years. Atkinson's girlfriend, Elizabeth Hunt, 36, of Southport, Merseyside, was discharged after the prosecution offered no evidence. The court heard that Atkinson, a former dustman, had previously been jailed for 21 months in 1997 for publishing a magazine for the violent and racist group Combat 18. The magazine had targeted personalities such as Vanessa Redgrave and Anna Ford, and had forced Frank Bruno's mother to move after printing her address.Speaking after today's case, Peter Davies, the assistant chief constable of Lincolnshire police, said: "It is difficult to imagine more extreme race hatred than was contained in the material which was seized during this meticulous inquiry. "The conclusion of this case sends a clear message to anyone inclined to stir up race hatred that they will be tracked down and brought before the courts." Carmen Dowd, head of special crimes at the Crown Prosecution Service, said: "You only need to look at the detail of these magazines to show how despicable and heinous the material is."