Some of the victims of the 7/7 attacks may have died in agony because restrictive protocols delayed the arrival of the emergency services, a survivor told the inquests into the victims today.Michael Henning, a broker who lived in Kensington, was in the carriage behind bomber Shehzad Tanweer when he detonated his device on the Circle line train at Aldgate on 7 July 2005, killing seven people. Though flung to the ground by the force of the explosion, he escaped serious injury and, after some time, was able to make his own way along the tunnel to safety. He said what he believed were overly restrictive emergency services protocols had left some victims in great pain for up to 40 minutes before firefighters and paramedics arrived.Henning told the coroner, Lady Justice Hallett, that he and fellow passengers had waited for "a very long time" after the explosion before being able to evacuate the train. On seeing the forlorn and desperate look of another survivor who was sitting on the trackside cradling a badly injured fellow passenger, he had decided it was his job to hurry along the emergency services.When he made his way to the platform at Aldgate, he found a group of eight to 10 firemen standing in a huddle, their equipment at their feet. "I went up to them and asked them why weren't they down there? There were people dying down there. I know I looked a mess but they wouldn't look at me." He said they had seemed embarrassed not to be helping. He asked the same angry question of a second group of firefighters, and a third, before he was eventually told they were concerned about secondary devices."I thought of the people sat in the carriages. If there had been a secondary device, why leave 500 people just sitting there to take the full brunt of that?"My view is that even if those who were too severely wounded to survive, some of them died in agony for 20, 30, 40 minutes. At least they should have had the dignity of having some morphine or something of that nature."Struggling to control his voice, Henning said that before leaving the train, he had looked into the carriage in front, the site of the explosion. "I could see people moving and in pain. It's a very difficult image to hold." He has since had counselling for post-traumatic stress, he said.Steven Desborough, a commuter who was travelling four carriages behind the bombed second carriage, told the inquest that he had been uninjured in the blast and was one of the first to evacuate the train. As he was trained in first aid, he paused while passing the scene of the blast to ask whether anyone needed help.When a female voice answered, he peered into the carriage. What he saw there, he said, was very hard to comprehend. "I saw a set of legs standing upright that appeared to be just cut off below the knee." He tried not to look too closely into some other parts of the carriage, he said.Choosing his words carefully and at times struggling with emotion, Desborough described a young man who was writhing and crying out in great pain. Unable to climb from the tracks into the carriage, he reached in and stroked the young man's back to comfort him.Some time later, Desborough said, he had been able to climb through a different set of doors, where he found a young woman "bent around a pole" and partly lying on top of two other passengers. A female doctor told him that the woman had severe internal injuries so he cradled her head and upper body to help her to breathe while the doctor searched the rest of the carriage.Pressed by Hugo Keith, QC, counsel to the inquests, and by representatives of the bereaved families, Desborough said it had been about 20 minutes before two firefighters arrived, followed by paramedics. The young woman, who Desborough later learned was Carrie Taylor, an arts administrator, died before she could be evacuated.Earlier, the inquests at the high court in London had heard statements from family members about each of the seven people who died at Aldgate. Denise Baisden, the mother of Lee Baisden, said her "one of a kind" son had been planning to marry his boyfriend and that his death had left "a massive hole" in their lives.Benedetta Ciaccia's father, Roberto, described her as "a beautiful, sweet, Italian girl who greatly loved life", and who was also only weeks away from marrying her fiance. Chris Moffat, brother of Anne Moffat, described her as a candle who "shed so much light on so many other people's lives". She was the head of marketing for Girl Guiding UK and was 48 when she died.Carrie Taylor's father, John, chose to give evidence in person, speaking in a trembling voice about his daughter, who just three days before she died had been appointed full-time to a dream job at the Royal Society of Arts. "It was devastating that she had only just started to reap the benefits of all her hard work when she died so tragically on 7 July," he said.