Two months after setting the wheels in motion, Theresa May is still searching for the right person to head her inquiry into institutional failure to investigate child abuse. She needs to hurry up. The longer the delay in starting, the longer the time until it reports. There is a real risk that all the useful work that’s been set in motion by Rotherham, Rochdale and Oxford, Operation Yewtree and the Savile inquiry is being left on hold.It is going to be a very big job, all the more exposed after the false start when Lady Elizabeth Butler-Sloss took on the challenge and then put it down again a few days later. That was a brutal indication of how far the official mindset still is from understanding the experience of being abused. The system thought what was needed was what had always worked in the past: an eminent lawyer with wide experience of the law. But in fact the first condition was a figure whom the victims, the anonymous figures who should haunt this inquiry, could trust. They want someone who can speak their language.Lady Butler-Sloss fitted the establishment bill perfectly. But the one thing this must not be is an inquiry for the benefit of the establishment. Far from it. It should leave them shaking in their boots. The home secretary met Professor Alexis Jay, the author of last week’s report into child sexual exploitation in Rotherham, yesterday afternoon. Maybe she should look no further.Clarity of vision, intensity of focus and courage: not an easy mix, and hard to demonstrate to a sceptical audience. Then there are the more practical considerations of time, insight, experience and preferably being previously unknown to government. And then there must be a panel that will provide the essential perspective. It has to represent the powerless – the victims and the families, whose voices have been so absent in the past.At the end of her own grim story of abuse, Ruzwana Bashir told the Guardian  there was no need for another inquiry. And, in a way, she is right. The route out of failure is already well-charted territory: it is about putting the victim at the heart of the system, instead of the system itself. The Crown Prosecution Service has already made important changes to the way prosecutions should be assessed. There needs to be a designated court in each court centre. The recommendation made 14 years ago to protect victims during cross examination needs to be enacted.Long-term support for those who have been abused must be prioritised. This might include making it obligatory to report suspicions of abuse, so that there can never be an excuse for ignoring it. It might entail a change in language, so that it is accepted that a child can never again be considered a prostitute. Sexual exploitation is invariably a reflection of an imbalance of power. Changes in law and practice can help to redress that. But change doesn’t stick unless it leads to, or is led by, a change in culture. That cannot be the aim of the inquiry, but it must be its result.That means the inquiry has to imagine itself as a kind of national forum where the institutions that have failed their obligation to protect are obliged to confront the consequences. It has to be a place of education so that no person in authority can ever again use as an excuse the idea that a victim of abuse or exploitation is a collaborator in her or his own predicament. It has to be so explicit that every victim believes it. Never again will the idea of protecting community cohesion come before protecting victims. Never again can the difficulty of securing convictions be a reason for turning a blind eye.It has to be not a show trial but an opportunity for the truth – and possibly for some reconciliation, too.Twitter: @perkinscomment