A car will pass through the gates of Wymott prison in Lancashire on Friday and collect a convicted rapist before speeding him off to an undisclosed location.Normally inmates walk out through the front gate of the prison, but such is the media interest in the release of the former Welsh international footballer Ched Evans, who was jailed in 2012 for raping a 19-year-old woman, that he is being allowed a more discreet exit.Also in the car will be Russ Whitfield, a former detective who runs Liberton, a private investigations firm working on behalf of the former Sheffield United player and his supporters as they seek to have his conviction overturned.Victim support campaigners will be incensed that Evans will be continuing to protest his innocence after his release. Many will view it as a cynical PR strategy to muddy the waters as Evans seeks a return to professional football. The prospect has outraged some fans. More than 90,000 have signed a petition calling for United not to re-employ the 25-year-old.He has been keeping fit while inside, despite being confined to a cell for 20 hours a day. The money he has earned as a painter and decorator in prison has been used to buy fruit and nuts to help him to maintain a healthy diet. Even if he is fit, there is no guarantee that any club will take him on. However, the chief executive of the Professional Footballers’ Association, Gordon Taylor, has said that Evans should be allowed to return to football. “I didn’t know there was a law that said once you come out of prison you still can’t do anything,” Taylor said.His comments will have been welcomed by the third occupant in the car collecting Evans on Friday. Natasha Massey, 25, had been going out with Evans for two years when he was charged with rape in the summer of 2011 and, to the astonishment of many, stood by him after his conviction. Her decision has made her a pariah on social media, with some expressing the hope that she herself is raped. A common view is that Massey is a gold-digger who believes that Evans, who scored 35 goals in the season he was awaiting his trial, can still have a successful career in football.The gold-digger claim has little foundation. Massey is one of four daughters of Karl Massey, a millionaire businessman spearheading Evans’s appeal. He has poured large amounts of time and money into the forthcoming case, hiring Whitfield and building a well-resourced website that proclaims Evans’s innocence. Visited by some 260,000 people so far, it offers a considerable reward for any new information that would lead to Evans’s acquittal. Massey has also hired a formidable legal team, including David Emmanuel, a specialist appeals barrister.Massey believes that new evidence handed to the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) in summer will compel it to re-examine Evans’s conviction, but his unwavering support for a convicted rapist with whom his daughter hopes to share her future remains shocking for many.Massey says he understands the concerns, but feels compelled to fight Evans’s case. “This is not about my daughter; this is not about them as a couple; this is about Ched. If Natasha and Ched finished with each other tomorrow, I would still carry on.”It is an extraordinary claim given Evans’s irrefutably sordid actions. On the night of the rape, Evans and his friend, Clayton McDonald, had been in a club in Rhyl, north Wales. Evans had booked a room at the local Premier Inn and the two men, who lodged together when they were playing for Manchester City’s youth team, became separated in the early hours.At around 3am McDonald picked up a woman in a kebab shop after she stumbled into him. CCTV footage shows the woman, who had consumed wine, vodka and sambuca, getting out of a taxi and walking arm-in-arm with McDonald into the hotel. Evans joined them shortly afterwards. His brother and a friend waited outside the room, apparently trying to film through a window. The next morning the woman woke up with no memory of what had happened. The two footballers had left hours before, Evans via the fire exit.Alarmed that her drink had been spiked, the woman asked the hotel to view its CCTV footage. When this request was refused, she went to police who traced the room to Evans and McDonald. Both claimed that they had had sex with the woman but that it was consensual. However, the Crown Prosecution Service took a different view. It was the prosecution’s case that the woman was too drunk to consent to sex with either man. At the conclusion to the trial, McDonald was acquitted, while Evans was convicted of rape. The judge told him: “As the jury have found, she was in no condition to have sexual intercourse. When you arrived at the hotel, you must have realised that.”Throughout the trial the woman insisted that she did not remember what had happened. Evans’s attempts to clear his name are unlikely to jog her memory. Rather they may force her to endure the trial a second time and risk exposing her further. In 2012 nine people pleaded guilty to revealing her name on Twitter.Whitfield anticipates the backlash when Evans comes out. “People have the right to say what they will. But people also have the right to get on with their lives.”