Rose West, Ian Huntley and others who are convicted of heinous offences are to be excluded from the new right of sentenced prisoners to have the vote after a ruling yesterday from the European court of human rights.In a landmark judgment the Strasbourg judges ruled by 12 to five that the denial of the right to vote to 48,000 sentenced prisoners in Britain amounted to an abuse of the right to free elections.Penal reformers, including the former Conservative home secretary Lord Hurd, celebrated the victory, saying it finally scrapped a 135-year-old legal relic from the 1870 Forfeiture Act, which introduced the Victorian punishment of "civic death."The Strasbourg ruling was also a personal victory for John Hirst, a self-taught lawyer and ex-prisoner, who launched the legal challenge while serving a life sentence for manslaughter in Rye Hill prison, Warwickshire. He said: "The European convention allows everyone to vote. It does not say 'everyone bar prisoners'. It's always been the law. What we've had in this country is successive governments refusing to implement it. It doesn't matter how heinous the crime, everyone is entitled to the basic human right to vote."He had brought the case to ensure that MPs took an interest in what happened in their local prisons: "Until now there have been no votes in jails and so MPs did nothing about penal reform."The Strasbourg judges ruled that voting was a right and not a privilege, and awarded Mr Hirst £8,000 in costs and expenses. But the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, insisted that the European judges had not said all prisoners must now be given the right to vote. The judges had ruled that the government was wrong not to have considered fully the legal basis of the ban, and whether it applied regardless of the gravity of the offence."We need to look and see whether there are any categories that should be given the right to vote. This is not a wholesale change."The shadow attorney general, Dominic Grieve, said that giving prisoners the vote would be ludicrous. "If convicted rapists and murderers are given the vote, it will bring the law into disrepute and many people will see it as making a mockery of justice." But Mark Oaten of the Liberal Democrats welcomed the decision.The Prison Reform Trust and Unlock, the ex-prisoners' organisation which formed the Barred From Voting campaign, said the ruling confirmed that people were sent to prison to lose their liberty, not their citizenship. The Prison Officers' Association said: "A lot of prisons are in marginal seats and 600 or 700 votes from prisoners could swing the result."