A teenager whose father died after confronting a gang of drunk youths today told a court how the group had kicked his head "like a football".Zoe Newlove, 18, wept as she described seeing her 47-year-old father attacked and beaten in the street.Garry Newlove, from Warrington, Cheshire, was beaten outside his home after questioning the group over who had been vandalising his wife's car.The gang then turned on the sales manager, punching him to the ground and kicking him in the head as his daughter looked on."Dad was asking if they had done any damage to the car and if they had, would they show him what they had done," Newlove said."When one of the lads punched him from behind, my dad started to fall backwards and he received another hit."The lads started to kick him. About five of them. They were kicking him like they would kick a football. They were laughing at him and then they started to run off."Newlove was giving evidence at the trial of five teenagers charged with the murder of her father.She told Chester crown court that the gang was well known for causing trouble in the area late at night.She said on the evening of the attack she remembered hearing her sister shout that her mother's car was being vandalised. Her father then left the house to confront the gang, and soon after the teenager witnessed the teenagers surrounding him.She said: "I heard my sister, Amy, shout that she'd heard a noise outside and heard someone smashing my mum's car."Dad got up from the lounge and went outside to see what was going on. I could hear kids laughing and shouting. I looked up the street and I could see my father, he had his back to me. There was a group of lads surrounding him. They were like a semicircle."In tears, Newlove told how her father had curled up on the ground during the attack and put his hands over his head.She revealed how one attacker "lifted up his left arm and hit my dad on the left side of his face". Another then "went behind him to hit him also".Garry Newlove never regained consciousness following the incident on August 10 this year, and died of his injuries at Warrington General hospital two days later.Four teenagers, aged 15, 16 and two aged 17, none of whom can be named for legal reasons, deny murder.A fifth teenager, Adam Swellings, 19, of Crewe, Cheshire, also denies murder but has admitted manslaughter.The trial continues.