Your headline (Torture of children was 'driven by boredom', 22 January) reported what the court was told, dealing with the violent behaviour of two 10- and 11-year-old brothers against two other similarly aged children. They had had apparently "nowt to do".The sheer banality of such an idea is of course absurd. That it should even be aired in court and headlined as you have done is beyond belief. Yet another instance of the trivialisation of abhorrent behaviour and the denial of the sheer torment that afflicts the minds of so many young people. Let's just face it: these young people violated others as they had themselves been violated. They were brought up in a home atmosphere of "routine aggression, violence and chaos". They had been helpless prey to the monstrosity of their parents, not least a "heavy-drinking, obsessively jealous father [who] hit and kicked their mother", let alone what he did to them.If we are really concerned for the mental health of our children, we have to do so much more to properly train and back up the social workers who are left to deal with the awfulness of this kind of case, which most of us would rather avoid. And we have to do so much more to prevent it from happening in the first place, through concentrated family assistance during early childhood and emotional support and understanding provided in primary schools.Peter WilsonClinical adviser, The Place2Be • It is perfectly acceptable after a period of time has passed – to allow for victim recovery and family mourning – for a senior politician to look at a case of violence and argue that it represents a metaphor for rottenness in society. David Cameron's verdict upon the Edlington case, however, lacks:(1) A considered appraisal of what multiple causes and circumstances might lead to such an evil event. (2) A moral theory of the nature of evil and its relation to social history. (3) Political nous, in that it looks opportunistic. (4) any consciousness of the hypocrisy of trying to blame such a complex case on Labour, when Conservative governments presided over a multitude of social horrors, and will do again if we are not careful.Peter HigginsonWolverhampton• Edlington was, until 1985, a mining village. If, as David Cameron says, the case is a symptom of a "broken society" (Report, 23 January), who broke that society? And of which party was she the leader?Nick LewisEynsham, Oxfordshire• The terrible and horrific crime in Edlington shocked the whole community, but the media are in real danger of exaggerating the situation, because thankfully such crimes are very, very rare. Soon-to-be-published research by me and my colleague Richard Williams shows that, in Britain, every form of violent death of children (aged 0-14) has never been lower since records began. Between 1974 and 2006, the latest dates for which we have confirmed data, homicides have fallen by more than 60% and all forms of violent death have almost halved over the period.Evidence should inform public discussion and policy development, not sensational journalism.Professor Colin PritchardSouthampton• I read with interest your leader (22 January) and Alan Travis's report (Labour challenges 'broken Britain' claims as murder, theft and robbery figures fall, 22 January). According to the Home Office's quarterly figures there have been reductions in the numbers of reported crimes over the past year, in spite of the recession and against predictions.The majority of crime is committed by young males in the 12-20 age group, with peak offending occurring at about 14 years. The causes of this behaviour are many and complex.Sure Start was an early foresightful project of the 1997 Labour government and Jack Straw, its first home secretary, specifically targeting the parents of under-fives in deprived areas to promote their children's chances of secure early emotional attachment, with the aim of reducing later anti­social and criminal behaviour in teenagers. Secure attachment underlies all our social development, learning and subsequent relationships.Is it coincidence that the current figures come 11 years after Sure Start began? The children who benefited from the first wave of Sure Start projects are now 12-14 years old. I hope the government has no plans to reduce the funding of Sure Start, though I fear that it may already have been reorganised and watered down out of all recognition from its original services and aims.Christine RaafatKendal, Cumbria• Yesterday we had some extraordinarily good news on crime. Rates for burglary and robbery were down 8% and 9% on last year, drugs and violence down 4%. Murder is the lowest for 20 years, knife crime also down. Surveys show that risk of being a victim of crime is at a historic low. A remarkable story, which you covered at length.Here's how other papers covered it. The Times had a news in brief item on page 9, the Telegraph a few column inches positioned within a story about Munir Hussain. Both linked it to a cut in funding for a (very small) community safety programme. The Telegraph ­happily found rises in some rural areas. The Sun and Mail decided to spare their readers this upsetting news altogether, while devoting pages to stories of ­violent crimes.Crime remains, of course, a huge and worrying problem. But what chance can there be of tackling it rationally, if as a society we have become so addicted to fear that we are simply unable to pro­cess positive news?Julian Le VayOxford