A law student escaped a speeding conviction yesterday by the novel method of proving that his modest hatchback could not get anywhere near the 115mph claimed by police.Steve Lucas was astonished when traffic officers on the M62 trans-Pennine motorway told him that he had hit the figure - so far over the 70mph limit that he risked a heavy fine and disqualification. "I was happy to put my hands up and admit that I was driving at 85mph," he said, "but the idea that my little Fiat Punto 1.2 litre could manage 115mph was laughable. I decided to fight it on principle." Mr Lucas, 20, from St Helens, Merseyside, used his legal connections to find an independent traffic consultant who was prepared to test the Punto on a private racecourse. The car was driven to its limits at Bruntingthorpe test centre in Leicestershire last month and the evidence was just what Mr Lucas wanted. Mr Lucas told Crown Prosecution Service lawyers at Pontefract magistrates court, West Yorkshire, that every possible encouragement had failed to get the Punto beyond 104mph. Technical evidence backing the claim convinced the lawyers and the speeding charge was dropped. Mr Lucas, who could have been fined £2,500 and given a six month ban had he been convicted, pleaded guilty to a second charge of driving without due care and attention. He was fined £40 and said after the hearing that he was relieved at the way things had gone. His solicitor, Sean Joyce, called on other motorists to use similar legal defences if they felt that they had been unfairly charged by police. He said: "There are hundreds of thousands of speeding tickets issued every year in this country and the vast majority of motorists simply lie down and accept it. "This case shows that if people feel strongly as Mr Lucas did that the police are wrong, they should stand up and challenge them in the courts. If they are successful, they can also make an application for their defence costs to be reimbursed." Mr Lucas's benchmark case took place within miles of another speeding milestone, in 1990 on the A1M. Traffic patrols were outrun at speeds well over 104mph by a Lada. When stopped, the driver turned out to be a Russian rally ace.