Lord Irvine, the lord chancellor, insisted this weekend that he was not "being in the least patronising about juries", when suggesting that complex fraud cases "are really beyond their technical competence". Well, in our humble opinion, by your leave etc, etc, Lord Irvine's opinions are not just patronising - they are plain wrong. The government, it seems, is about to cave in to pleas from the serious fraud office to do away with juries, complex fraud trials being decided instead by a judged aided by two expert assessors. Yet it is difficult to find a case in the past 10 or 15 years where the jury has, in the lord chancellor's words, let "serious fraudsters go free". In fact, the exact opposite has, on occasion, been true. His lordship could refer to R v NatWest Bank and umpteen others. During that spectacular trial in the early 1990s the jury learnt more about rights issues, stock placings and investment bank trading books than the average stockbroker - and they demonstrated their knowledge by asking (through written questions passed to the judge) the most technical and probing questions imaginable. The judge in that case decided the evidence didn't stack up and instructed the jury to acquit - a move that enraged certain members of the jury, who complained that they had been minded to convict some of the defendants. In fact, where juries have been allowed to make a decision they have tended to be hard - only to see the presiding judge (as in the case of Roger Levitt) hand down puny sentences, such as community service. The Morgan Grenfell case failed because Peter Young, the main accused, was so mentally disturbed that he removed one of his own testicles. Just about every insider dealing case has collapsed not because of juries, but because of flawed legislation, with judges ruling time and again that the prosecution had not made their case. On the insider dealing front, the response was to widen the goalposts, so the financial services authority has the civil authority to impose crippling fines. Now with complex fraud, the idea is to abolish the traditional referees. Rosalind Wright, the boss of the SFO has lots of relevant grievances over the unwieldy and time-consuming prosecution process. It is important to remember that many of the judges her prosecutors address have precious little understanding of financial affairs - never mind the jury. But it is the investigation of fraud and other financial crime which needs attention; not the IQ ratings of jurors. The SFO is chronically underfunded. Until recently the City of London police had only one officer dedicated to money laundering. The DTI company inspectorate doesn't seem to do anything at all, while the FSA is just - the FSA. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the level of communication between all these bodies charged with chasing financial crooks is close to non-existent. Here's a live example. Yesterday, this office received a phone call from the extradition unit at Scotland Yard. A police officer wanted to know whether we had some documents relating to a plan by Interbrew to initiate a bid for South African Breweries, and whether we would pass them over. Now, if Scotland Yard is going to crack the Interbrew case they might have been expected to know that the documents are subject to a radioactive legal battle involving Interbrew, the FSA and five media organisations, which, post-court of appeal, looks to be on its way to the House of Lords. The answer on handing over documents, of course, will always be "no". The point we would make is that fraud cases do not fail because of dozy jurors; they fail because of incompetent preparation by the prosecution.  Czechs and balances  Sooner or later the European Union and The European Central Bank will have to grasp the nettle of reforming the bank's governing council - that mixture of the executive board and eurozone central bankers which determines monetary policy for 300m people. Bet on later. Consider the problem. The executive committee has six members. The central bank governors add 12 votes - but with more to come as the eurozone expands. An overmanned body is doomed to become ever more unwieldy. Yet the appetite for reform looks weak. The first fresh face on the executive since the ECB was set up is being chosen. The job looks likely to go to Lucas Papademos, head of the Greek central bank. Mr Papademos looks well qualified for the job of ECB vice president, but already the Belgians are suggesting that they, in company with Holland and Luxembourg, will be pitching in another candidate when a vacancy comes up next year. Their grounds? Regional balance should play a part in selection alongside individual ability. Translation: we want our place at the top table. The Austrians, meanwhile, have their eyes on the same prize. They would like the vice governor of their central bank, Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell, to succeed Finland's Sirkka Hamalainen - helping to maintain the gender balance as well. Balance is all very well, but what happens when it comes to the Czechs - and the rest?