The comic actor Chris Langham won the praise of his peers when he was given a Bafta for best comedy performance in the BBC's The Thick Of It on Sunday. Yesterday Kent police revealed that he will appear in court accused of child pornography offences.The accusations have hung over Langham, 57, of Cranbrook in Kent, since his arrest last December as part of Operation Ore, the nationwide investigation into child porn on the internet. On Wednesday night the actor answered police bail and was formally charged with 15 counts of making indecent images of children.In a statement released by his solicitors, Kingsley Napley, he said: "I am devastated to have been charged. I am anxious to clear my name. Although there is a great deal I would like to say, I am unable to do so as a result of the legal proceedings."Langham's performance as a hopeless and hapless minister in the comedy, written by Armando Iannucci, received widespread critical praise. The programme also picked up best sitcom, while BBC2's Help, which Langham co-wrote and acts in as a psychotherapist, won best comedy. Last year he also won two gongs at the British Comedy Awards.Collecting his individual award on Sunday, Langham, a father of five, made special mention of his second wife, Christine Cartwright, a musical director. He said: "If it wasn't for the fact that she hates having attention drawn to her, I would like to thank my wife for being the most loyal, constant and honourable friend a person could have."He has been in showbusiness for more than 30 years and began his career writing sketches for Spike Milligan and The Muppets. He became famous as part of the Not The Nine O'Clock News team, but was dropped in favour of Griff Rhys Jones.One of his best received roles before The Thick Of It was in 1999 as a film-maker, Roy Mallard, in the spoof documentary series People Like Us.Langham has battled alcoholism. He once said: "My career was being a drunk and work was something I did if I had a spare five minutes."He is due to appear before Sevenoaks magistrates on May 17.