Winston Silcott, who was wrongly convicted and then cleared on appeal of hacking PC Keith Blakelock to death during the Broadwater Farm riot, today reveals for the first time what he was doing on the night of the killing - dozing in a flat in the block which overlooks the scene of the murder.Silcott, 44, was convicted on the sole basis of a disputed confession in 1987, and was cleared four years later when the Court of Appeal heard that Detective Chief Superintendent Graham Melvin, the detective in charge of the vast murder inquiry, had fabricated his statement. At the time of the riot and his arrest a few days later, Silcott was on bail for the earlier murder of a boxer and gangster, Anthony Smith, for which he was released from prison last October after serving 18 years. In an exclusive interview with The Observer, Silcott - who did not give evidence during the Blakelock murder trial - declares that he knew nothing of the event which triggered the riot, the death from a heart attack of a black mother, Cynthia Jarrett, during an unlawful police raid. Silcott, who lived on the estate and had a greengrocer's shop in the block known as Tangmere, says he asked his girlfriend to drive him there. On arrival, he says, 'I could see a lot of people running about, wearing masks and everything. And look: I'm on bail for a murder. I know I'm stupid, but I'm not that stupid. There's helicopters, police photographers everywhere. All I could think about was that I didn't want to lose my bail. I saw Pam, a friend who had a flat there. She said, "You'd better come up. You know the police don't like you".' Silcott says he spent the rest of the night in the flat, where Pam lived with her sister. For most of the evening there was little sign of disturbance until a fire was started in another of the shops on the block's open first floor 'deck'. PC Blakelock's unit, serial 502, was asked to go on to the deck, but once there they came under attack from a mob wielding knives, machetes and iron bars. As they tried to escape, Blakelock was overwhelmed. He was stabbed 54 times. There was no forensic evidence against Silcott or two other men convicted in the Old Bailey trial, Engin Raghip and Mark Braith waite. Their convictions were quashed when scientific tests on the record of Silcott's supposed confession revealed that all the incriminating sections had been added after his interrogation, not written contemporaneously as Melvin and a colleague, Detective Inspector Maxwell Dingle, claimed under oath. In 1999 the Metropolitan Police paid Silcott £50,000 damages and issued a statement saying there was no evidence he committed the murder. He continues to protest his innocence of murdering Anthony Smith, saying that he acted in self-defence when Smith tried to stab him at a party. Last November the Metropolitan Police announced a fresh investigation into the Blakelock murder - the third to date - and Silcott says he remains a victim of innuendo in association with Blakelock's murder. 'They created something out of nothing: Winston Silcott, the monster, the beast of Broadwater Farm,' Silcott tells The Observer. 'And still they won't let this creation lie down and die. The system conspires to uphold itself. They should have done things properly in the first place, but they still don't want to take any blame. They'd rather put my name back in the firing line.'