As the sun fell behind rocky Stepper Point on the coast of north Cornwall last night, Operation Border swung into action.At Daymer Bay, a spot beloved of the poet John Betjeman, security men slipped into place. A mile away at Polzeath, the sometime holiday destination of princes William and Harry, police officers took up their positions.Their mission? Not to crack a smuggling ring, despite the operation's name, but to stop youngsters, mainly public school pupils, congregating in their hundreds and causing havoc on Daymer Bay beach.Wealthy residents have become so concerned at the damage and at violence between the public school clique and local youths that they have clubbed together to hire security guards to patrol Daymer.Any teenagers found there after dark are being escorted off and directed up the road to the surfing beach of Polzeath.There police have set up a "dispersal zone", again paid for partly by local people and businesses, which gives them the power to force troublemakers away.The police have also launched a publicity campaign urging youngsters to stay away from Daymer after dark and have written to every public school spelling out what is happening.Over the next few weeks, as more youngsters come to the area, a game of cat and mouse is expected to develop between the teenagers and the police and security guards.Ed Womersley, 15, a public school pupil and Daymer Bay regular, said: "I think it's a real shame. Daymer Bay was great last year. There was some trouble but not much. A lot of people are not happy that they are being controlled and will try to get back to Daymer. It will be a challenge."The problem has escalated over the past few years. Daymer Bay and the chic sailing resort of Rock, around the headland, have long attracted the wealthy and their offspring, earning the area the nickname Knightsbridge-on-Sea.But when the princes began taking surfing breaks there, it became an irresistible draw for the public school set. This week 15- and 16-year-olds who have just finished their GCSEs headed for the beaches. Over the coming weeks their numbers will be swelled as schools close for the summer.The main hotspot used to be Polzeath, until residents and businesses clubbed together to pay for extra police in one of the first such schemes in the country.But the problem moved to Daymer. Last summer up to 600 young people were gathering on the sandy beach at night, drinking, lighting fires, pairing off and heading into the sand dunes, damaging the precious environment.Towards the end of the summer there were fights between the holiday-makers and local youths.One local entrepreneur said: "Nobody wants to stop their fun but it has gone too far. It's got like Ibiza without the sun. Every morning the beach was covered in empty bottles and rubbish and fences were ripped up for their fires. We had to do something."Happily for the local people, something could be done. The beach is privately owned by, among others, the St Enodoc golf club and the Duchy of Cornwall, and so it can be closed off. The Trebetherick Residents Association, whose lane runs down to the bay, raised £11,000 to pay for beach patrols and at 10pm last night the guards moved in, ready to remove anyone who tried to get on to the beach.The police were also waiting outside the two pubs most popular with the youngsters and directing them towards Polzeath rather than Daymer. There the dispersal area, set up under the Anti-Social Behaviour Act 2003, came into force last night. Such areas are usually associated with town centre trouble spots but in Polzeath it takes in the beach, a few streets and two pubs.Throughout the summer at least four officers, again partly paid for by the local people, will be on duty, allowing youngsters on to the beach but making sure there is no trouble. If people are asked to leave but refuse or return within 24 hours they face a £2,500 fine or three months in jail. Sergeant Robin Hogg, who is in charge of the operation, said: "We're not into spoiling anyone's fun but we want to make sure everyone can have a good, safe time."Not all the youngsters are convinced. Expeditions across the golf links and dunes to dodge the security guards have been considered, and it has been hinted that a landing by boat might be attempted.One 16-year-old from a famous public school in the south of England, who was swigging vodka from a bottle, said: "Cornwall is all about sitting on the beach at night with friends, having a good time, maybe getting wrecked. It will lose its spark if there is too much control."Some adults sympathise. Pete Craske, the owner of Surf 's Up surf school, run from a former RAF ambulance on Polzeath beach, said: "This is a tourist area. We can't expect the kids to be around all day spending money and then disappear at night. We've got to cater for them." Others are worried that the problems will shift back to Polzeath. Up to 1,000 people could be partying on the beach on a particularly busy night."I'm worried that the police won't be able to control such a big number," said the owner of Polzeath post office, James Yoki.Some of the teenagers expressed concern that people who had enjoyed themselves on Daymer beach would now find themselves hanging around street corners."If that happens it will be just like Guildford on a Saturday night," said Rob Schlee, 16. "Where's the fun in that?"