Sir Ian Blair yesterday said he had survived the numerous calls for his resignation over the shooting dead of Jean Charles de Menezes because he is "quite tough".In his first interview since the Metropolitan police was found guilty of catastrophic failings that led to the innocent Brazilian being mistaken for a terrorist, Blair said he had not considered resigning as commissioner, and unlike cabinet ministers could withstand negative publicity.His comments came on the day it was announced no police officer would face disciplinary charges over the case, a decision that angered the Menezes family. Blair faced calls from both the Tories and the Liberal Democrats to resign after his force was found guilty of breaking health and safety laws over the shooting, and he also received a vote of no confidence from the London Assembly.But he hung on to office after retaining the backing of the government.In a BBC interview yesterday, Blair was asked, had he been a cabinet minister, if he would have had to resign. He replied: "Cabinet ministers can't stand the negative publicity. I can in the end just sit there and get on with the job. I'm not thick skinned, I'm just quite tough."He said the improved performance of his force under his leadership had also made him determined to stay and implement long-term reform: "The only issue about it was the sheer pressure."Asked how close to quitting he had come, Blair said: "Quite a way off. I'm a bit of a limpet really. I did not at any stage consider resigning."Menezes was shot dead in a tube carriage at Stockwell station on July 22 2005 after police mistook him for a would-be suicide bomber the day after a series of failed explosions across London.The Menezes family attacked the IPCC's decision to absolve all officers of personal blame ahead of an inquest expected next year. The IPCC considered disciplinary charges against 15 officers, and had already ruled out action against 11.It was announced yesterday that no action would be taken against the officer in overall charge of the operation, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick. The jury at the Old Bailey trial attached a rider to its guilty verdict saying she was not to be personally blamed for the failings. The IPCC reasoned if Dick was not to be blamed, then neither could the senior officers under her command, who advised her on tactics and firearms options.The IPCC said: "The trial jury's ... rider was unequivocal: they attached 'no personal culpability to Dick'."Menezes' cousin Vivian Figuierdo called the IPCC decision a scandal and said it was "entirely premature" to have made the announcement before an inquest.The Menezes family's solicitor, Harriet Wistrich, added: "If new evidence emerges at the inquest it may be harder to bring disciplinary decisions in the future as officers could argue abuse of process."Scotland Yard welcomed the decision as a "move forward", adding that the officers involved had faced "much uncertainty".The former Metropolitan police commander Brian Paddick, now the Lib Dem candidate for London mayor, repeated his call for Blair to resign."This leaves us in the entirely unsatisfactory position ... where no one has been held to account for what happened," he said. "Sir Ian Blair's claim ... that he never even considered resigning demonstrates breathtaking arrogance. I repeat what I have said all along: if no individual officer is to be held to account, the commissioner must accept responsibility on behalf of the Met and resign."