A factory worker who murdered a colleague after lying in wait for him in the dark has been sentenced to a minimum of 28 years in jail.Shaun Wainwright, 47, who was described as a violent bully with a history of holding grudges, had denied killing 36-year-old Simon Holdsworth.A jury took just two hours to convict him of the murder after they heard how he attacked his victim following a minor grievance.Sentencing him to life in prison, Mr Justice Globe described how, having left his wallet at Fluorocarbon Bakeware Systems (FBS) in Sheffield, Wainwright had returned to retrieve it.But Holdsworth, who was described as “shy and retiring” and the “kindest, friendliest, most loving and caring young man”, had already locked up and was waiting at a bus stop to go home to his fiancee.Teesside crown court heard how Holdsworth refused to open up again so Wainwright drove ahead and waited for him before beating him to death with a metal bar he had taken from work and kept in his car.His victim suffered severe skull fractures and lacerations to the scalp. There were no signs of any defence injuries after his body was found on playing fields at Rainbow Forge primary school.During the trial, Wainwright had claimed Holdsworth was a “very good friend and a workmate” and said they had a shared interest in fishing and had often spoken about going on a trip together.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Holdsworth was described as the ‘kindest, friendliest, most loving and caring young man’. Photograph: South Yorkshire police/PAWainwright had told the court that on the night of the attack in December 2013, he had sat his in car after work, listening to CDs and drinking lager before going home. But the jury dismissed his story and convicted him of murder.Globe said he had taken into account “the severity of the attack and the fact he [Holdsworth] was left alone with no prospect of help”.He also paid tribute to the dignity of Holdworth’s family during the trial and the work of the police investigating the crime. Speaking after the verdict, Holdsworth’s family said: “Simon was a much loved son, brother, fiance, father and uncle.“Our family have been totally devastated by what has happened to Simon. His life was brutally ended in the most horrific circumstances. Our lives will never be the same again. We miss Simon every day. He will be forever in our hearts.”DCI Phil Etheridge, of South Yorkshire police, said: “We know that Shaun Wainwright has a history of holding grudges against people for relatively minor things.“He’s had workplace disputes before where he has physically assaulted people. He was physically much bigger than the victim and overpowered him, leaving him for dead - all of this points to the actions of a violent bully.“He knew where Simon would be that night and he drove to the scene intent on revenge for a dispute he had with him. The defendant has a short fuse and responded with maximum force over a minor grievance.“Simon’s family have lost someone they loved dearly and Shaun Wainwright’s family have lost someone, too – there are no winners here.”