Twin brothers who killed their step-grandmother after leaving their 18th birthday party to steal her life savings were today jailed for nine years.Robert and Jonathan Maskell and their friend Dwane Johnston, all aged 19, were each jailed for nine years for the manslaughter of 74-year-old Anjelica Hallwood in January 2005. Judge Gerald Gordon at the Old Bailey also ordered that the men serve a further three years on extended licence in the community, which means they could be sent back to prison if they break the conditions of their parole during that period.He also gave them a seven-year sentence with a two-and-a-half year extended licence for robbery. The sentences, which are concurrent, will be served at a young offenders institute. The judge told them: "It is difficult to imagine a more despicable crime."The twins and Johnston, all of Edmonton, north London, were cleared of Mrs Hallwood's murder following their trial last month.The 1.47 metre (4ft 10in) pensioner died after being beaten and strangled while the three men robbed her of more than £1,000 at her home in Granville Avenue, Edmonton.The twins were the sons of the ex-wife of Mrs Hallwood's son and, although not blood relatives, had been treated as grandsons. They called her nana and saw her regularly with their half-sister Anna, who was Mrs Hallwood's granddaughter in a closely-knit extended family. Mrs Hallwood had allowed Johnston, Anna's boyfriend, to stay at her home after his release from prison two days earlier where he had been serving a sentence for motoring offences. The family were particularly upset by CCTV pictures after the killing, showing the Maskells smiling as though they did not have a care in the world while spending the stolen cash on new mobile phones.Judge Gordon told them: "For reasons of pure greed and regardless of the effect on her, you set out to rob her. You could so easily have arranged to steal while she was out and safe." He said Mrs Hallwood had treated the Maskells as her grandsons and had given Johnston a home when no one else would. The judge said the "thuggery" was "mindless" and had devastated Mrs Hallwood's family. As the three were being led away, Mrs Hallwood's son Peter shouted: "Bye, scumbags."