During the winter of 2006, Alecky Blythe was in a brothel in Bournemouth, interviewing prostitutes for a new play she was creating called The Girlfriend Experience, when a horrifying story began to unfold on the news. Police in Ipswich were searching for a serial killer after discovering the bodies of five murdered women. Although an actor by training, Blythe is something of a newshound: her first play, 2003's Come Out Eli, was based on interviews she conducted on the streets of east London while police held gunman Eli Hall under siege. So Blythe joined the hordes of journalists in Ipswich and began interviewing people, with no real thought to where the recordings might lead.A few months later, she was invited to take part in a workshop at the National to experiment with creating a new piece of musical theatre. Blythe was paired with Adam Cork, a composer and sound designer, and both were a bit befuddled at first. Cork "hadn't really heard of verbatim theatre": plays made from edited interviews with real people. Blythe didn't watch musicals – "I'm probably a bit of a snob about them." Yet when she played some of her Ipswich interviews to Cork, he was intrigued by the notion that they could be transformed into song. What they produced over the next few days led the National to commission the work. To which Blythe responded: "Wow, so we're actually going to make something about this subject?"Blythe returned again and again to Ipswich to gather more material: "I was so excited about having a commission, I went in every direction possible and could have made six different plays." Eventually, the people she and Cork felt most drawn to were the inhabitants of London Road, once part of Ipswich's red light district and, crucially, the street where the murderer, Steve Wright, had lived. In particular, Blythe and Cork decided to focus on the street's subsequent transformation, not least by the "London Road in bloom" competition – part of the community's attempt to rejuvenate the area. Helpfully, says Blythe, the residents "were really happy to tell their story, to say, 'Yes, we were blighted with prostitution and then the murderer living here, but look what we've done.'" The play follows the residents' experiences, during the murders and afterwards; Wright and the women he killed do not appear on stage.The resulting piece was titled London Road, but what is it? "It's not a musical," says Cork. Nor is it a classical piece or an opera; stylistically, the music takes in everything from percussive piano to commercial pop. The show's director, Rufus Norris, says he was attracted to the project precisely because it's hard to categorise: "It's exploring the huge area that falls between normal theatre and opera and musicals, pushing the boundaries of the form."Cork's score, says Norris, is "much more difficult than anything I've been involved with before" because it follows Blythe's recorded material exactly. And Blythe's fidelity to the way people speak is absolute: she doesn't polish their words, but retains every hesitation, deviation and repetition, from a sequence of ums to the incessant interjection of "you know". "The way that people speak is so rooted in who we are, where we are, what we're doing in that moment – that's what makes it so truthful," says Blythe.Cork wanted to maintain that truthfulness, drawing out the music buried in each ruptured sentence, enjoying how "the rhythms of spontaneous speech are so anarchic". What made the endeavour worthwhile for him was the feeling that music creates "a difference to the quality of listening: it makes something of the ritual of storytelling".Blythe, meanwhile, found that working with music gave her a new freedom. Previously, she has adhered so strictly to her self-imposed rules – which include not attributing the words of one person to another, and not inventing a single word – that she sometimes felt hobbled, unable to make a point clearly because her speakers had failed to do so. Cork's music, however, has "given me more power to shape the words emotionally and narratively", to bring out the inferred, and amplify a point through repetition.It's clear that Blythe feels a touch guilty about this, and for any "cheating" she has done (with her interviewees' blessing): even apparently trivial matters such as presenting the second London Road in bloom competition as the first. Norris compares her to the Dogme film-makers in her insistence on honesty, which she applies as stringently to her actors as she does to herself. In previous productions of her work, actors have performed while listening to the original recordings through an earpiece, never learning the lines. The advantage, says Blythe, is that they are so busy listening to the words, "there's less room in their heads for actor's thoughts. I know the temptations – I was the biggest mugger as an actor, and it's natural to play up a performance a bit." But for London Road, the National insisted that she remove the earpieces, deeming them too much of a distraction for audience and performers alike. Blythe admits she was apprehensive about this, but kept the earpiece on herself during rehearsals, and relaxed when what she heard from the actors began to mirror her recordings exactly.Getting to that stage, says the actor Kate Fleetwood, has been "incredibly challenging". Having real people to imitate makes life more, rather than less, difficult: "You can end up not being specific," she says, even parroting the characters rather than inhabiting them. Plus, the recordings put the actor on fast-forward: instead of slowly exploring a speech, teasing out the character's thoughts and motivations, "you've got the finished product straight away in your head – it's so much to take in all in one go".For Blythe, it's crucial that the actors don't stray from that finished product because she feels immense responsibility towards the people who gave her the material in the first place. She has double-checked that all her interviewees – many of whom will be coming to see the show – are happy with the quotes she is using, fearing that "people say things in the heat of the moment which they might forget", and not wanting anyone to feel misrepresented. One section had to be rewritten in the third week of rehearsals because one of the interviewees no longer wanted to revisit that time.Blythe is well aware that many people might think she is being sensationalist in putting London Road on stage at all. "I have faith that it's telling an important story," she says, "about how the community have, through what's happened, pulled together." Norris agrees. "It's not about prostitution, it's not about serial killers," he argues. "It's about England now, and how there is a yearning for community, however dissipated and fragmented modern society has made us be."London Road opens at the National theatre, London SE1, 14 April. Box office: 020-7452 3000.• This article was amended on 11 April 2011. The original caption referred to Kate Fleetwood as second from left instead of second from right. This has been corrected. Steven Wright's forename has also been changed to Steve, the name he always went by.