For David and Patricia Taylor, enjoying a break from the British winter in the resort of Los Cristianos, Tenerife, the offer of the tanned and enthusiastic sales reps seemed too good to miss.All they had to do to get massive discounts for years to come on an enticing range of sunshine holidays was to make a 'holiday club' down payment of £4,500. In three years, they would get their money back again, plus a guaranteed bonus of £3,000. Like thousands of other victims, the Taylors, a couple from Gloucester at the start of retirement, had been conned. They never received a single holiday discount - nor a penny of the money they were owed. But behind the fraud was no ordinary criminal. The holiday club lay on the fringe of a web of shell companies, offshore funds and protection rackets. And at the web's centre was Lebanese mafioso Mohamed Derbah - a self-confessed enforcer for the notorious British criminals John Palmer and Kenneth Noye. Derbah's murky connections do not stop there. He has been accused of laundering up to £500 million in Tenerife for gangs from Britain, Russia and South America. He is also said to have supplied weapons and money to the Amal and Hizbollah militias in Lebanon, and to have been involved in the theft of 1,300 French passports on behalf of al-Qaeda. International police sources have told The Observer that further inquiries into Derbah are being carried out by police from France and Italy. They are investigating evidence that millions of pounds in profits from money-laundering operations controlled by Derbah were also channelled to Hizbollah and Amal. Derbah's own assets in Lebanon, worth at least £10m, have been frozen, but in a pending court case he is seeking to have this action reversed. The investigating judge leading the case against him is Baltazar Garzon, who was responsible for attempts to prosecute the former Chilean leader Augusto Pinochet and a Spanish al-Qaeda cell said to be linked to the 9/11 hijackers. Garzon is working with a unit from the Madrid headquarters of the Spanish equivalent of MI5, and security around the case is intense. One of Tenerife's most senior police officers, whose relationship with Derbah is said to have been corrupt, has also been arrested. The Spanish authorities finally moved in November 2001. A British businessman, to whom Derbah owed £200,000, came forward with a dossier containing details of Derbah's companies and criminal connections after the Lebanese had tried to have him framed on trumped-up charges. The man - who spoke to The Observer on condition of anonymity - received death threats after Derbah's arrest: 'Although Derbah was in jail on remand, I was told that if I set foot in Tenerife again, I would be dead within the hour.' The Observer has obtained a tape of an interview Derbah gave to a writer, whom he had planned to commission to compose a 'vanity publishing' account of his life - partly because he harboured ambitions of running for political office in Lebanon. On the tape, Derbah describes how he helped hide Noye after he murdered Stephen Cameron on the M25 in a 'road rage' stabbing in 1996, for which Noye is now serving life. Kenny Noye, he liked me a lot,' Derbah says. 'He was very quiet, he came to see me, he is just a man for business.' Derbah says Noye told him how, in 1986, he had got away with killing a police officer who was watching his house, by persuading an Old Bailey jury he was acting in self-defence. He also claims to have knowledge that Noye was behind the fatal shooting of a witness to Cameron's murder, Alan Decabral. In one tapped phone call, according to Spanish police sources, Derbah discusses a delivery of 'chairs' with the Amal leader Nabih Berry. This, it is claimed, was a reference to arms. These and other charges against Derbah are set out in an indictment filed against him in a court in Madrid, for which he is to face trial next year. He is out on bail and denies all the charges. Mohamed Derbah was born in a village near Tyre, in south Lebanon, in 1964. After trying to find work in Germany and Czechoslovakia, the turning point in Derbah's life came in 1988, when he went to Liberia and Sierra Leone, and there met John Palmer - nicknamed Goldfinger after he admitted helping Noye melt down gold after the £26m Brink's-Mat robbery in 1983. Palmer was, however, acquitted of handling stolen goods from the bullion heist. Palmer, whose fortune is estimated to exceed £300m, was, like Derbah, in West Africa seeking a slice of the diamond trade. Derbah told Palmer he was looking for a job. Palmer suggested he join him at his base in Tenerife, and appointed him head of security. For most of the 1990s, Derbah helped Palmer run his criminal empire based on massive holiday timeshare frauds, for which Palmer is now serving eight years. The key to this enterprise was the 'representatives,' sent each day into the streets of resorts such as Los Cristianos, to lure tourists into parting with thousands of pounds. From time to time, reps would grow uneasy, and try to resign. A woman, who worked as an administrator for one of Derbah's companies, described his role in such cases: 'All Palmer had to say was "I'm calling security". That meant Derbah. I remember one guy who tried to leave was beaten up so badly, he didn't come back to work for a month.' At the same time, according to the Spanish case against him, Derbah was developing his own criminal enterprises: money laundering, on behalf of the international mafias, and protection rackets. The woman adds: 'This British couple who wanted to open a bar came into Mohamed's office. He was surrounded by four or five bodyguards: he looked like Don Corleone. He said he wanted six million pesetas (£24,000) to arrange all the licences, and then another 50,000 a month. For that, he told them, "you only have to pick up the phone if you need help. If there's a fight in your bar, whatever, we will make it disappear. Then again, if not..."' 'He knew everyone,' the former administrator continued. 'He used to refer to Tenerife as "my island", claiming nothing could happen without his say-so. And it was true.' Some of his closest friendships, she said, were with the police. He even paid for the police basketball team's strip, she said. By 1999, Derbah's relationship with Palmer was over. On the tape, he says the reason was 'I see things that were incorrect'. The real reason may have been he was encroaching on his former mentor's territory with a more lucrative activity - his 'holiday club' and cashback scams. The months before Palmer's arrest and extradition in 2001 were marked by escalating gang warfare, which the police and media blamed on the two men's enmity. The Observer has seen parts of the dossier supplied by the British businessman which triggered Derbah's arrest. It reveals companies registered in Gibraltar, Senegal, Tenerife, the Turks and Caicos Islands, Lebanon and Belize. It discloses how tourists were sold worthless 'club cards' in the name of outfits such as the Millennium Club or Romo Dream Holidays. Retired engineer David Taylor said that in March 2000 reps showed him brochures from top holiday firms such as Kuoni and Simply Travel: 'They said the way it worked was that when you showed them the card, it gave you access to unsold holidays at huge discounts.' The Taylors also signed up for his 'cashback' scheme - supposedly a means of benefiting from a huge investment portfolio controlled by a firm called 'Hyprafund,' which within three years would pay back all the costs of the club membership plus a big profit. Told of the other allegations facing Derbah, Taylor said: 'I had no idea about this. Perhaps we've had a lucky escape.'