Since Madeleine's disappearance, Kate McCann has been under intense scrutiny and pressure; her every move, her every look captured by a battery of cameras, every remark jotted down by reporters. But friends said yesterday her poise and control should not be misinterpreted, or held against her."She may seem focused in public," her old friend Jill Renwick said. "But in private she is a broken woman. She is devastated by what has happened, can't speak about it sometimes. In public she is able to keep it together as she believes that is what is best for Madeleine."SilenceIt was inevitable the media would focus mostly on Mrs McCann - the mother's story. For the first few days she let her husband Gerry, who is more used to speaking in public, do the talking, but she broke her silence after attending Sunday morning mass in Praia da Luz three days after Madeleine disappeared.Clutching "Cuddle Cat", Madeleine's old cuddly toy, she stood at her husband's side while he thanked local people for their support and appealed for help in finding their daughter. Then she spoke up: "Please continue to pray for Madeleine," she said. Her voice cracked as she added: "She's lovely."Since then she has been in the media glare, answering ever more intrusive questions about the May night Madeleine vanished, her feelings and the guilt she might feel for leaving her alone in an unlocked room as they dined at a nearby restaurant. In some interviews Mrs McCann risked censure for insisting the children were safe.Of course, she wished she was with Madeleine at the moment she was taken. But asked in her first solo broadcast interview, on Radio 4's Women's Hour, whether she felt guilty, she said: "I have come to terms a little bit with that ... I didn't feel I was taking a risk."Subsequently she has been quicker to express regret. "I just felt I had let her down and I was desperately sorry we weren't there," she told the Guardian last month. The McCanns have also been criticised for the slickness of their publicity campaign. But friends say the couple believe it is the best way to find the truth about what happened.Perhaps significantly, Mrs McCann has also started to give more details about what happened on the night, spelling out in the same Guardian interview that someone "broke in" and took Madeleine. Earlier in the summer she and Gerry danced round this detail.An extraordinary aspect has been the McCanns' strong faith. There have been times of doubt - Mrs McCann admitted on the BBC that she had asked God: "Why do this to Madeleine? Why have you let this happen?" But their faith has remained solid. Besides, Mrs McCann has had to concentrate on the twins. Work on the campaign has been fitted around trying to look after them.Nothing in her background - or her husband's - could have helped them prepare for the onslaught they have faced. From a working class family in Liverpool, she had, from an early age, set her sights on a career in medicine.Mrs McCann studied medicine at Dundee University and initially trained as a gynaecologist, passing her exams with flying colours. Then she changed tack, becoming an anaesthetist.She met Gerry McCann while they were junior doctors at Western Infirmary, Glasgow. When she went to New Zealand to work he followed her and they fell in love. The couple married in 1998 and moved to the Midlands two years later when Mr McCann became a cardiologist at Glenfield hospital in Leicester. Mrs McCann decided to become a GP so she could have more time with her husband and with the family they hoped for.PregnantIt was not until late 2002 that Mrs McCann became pregnant with Madeleine after IVF treatment. The pregnancy was smooth and she swam every day to keep her and the child fit. They did not know they were expecting a girl until Madeleine was born.In 2004 she became pregnant again, with twins, Sean and Amelie. Life seemed perfect. Mr McCann's job took him briefly to Amsterdam. The family went too and when they returned moved into a large house in the village of Rothley near Leicester.Mrs McCann spent a day and a half working as a GP in Melton Mowbray. Friends say they are a good team - Gerry more intent on furthering his career, Kate focused on the family.After more than four months in Portugal the family were planning to return home and she was considering giving up her job to campaign against child trafficking. Yesterday's developments have thrown it all back into chaos.The speculationThe McCanns' story is that they were dining at a tapas bar close to the holiday flat where their three children had been left asleep. They were checked on regularly until, at some time after 10pm, Mrs McCann went into the ground floor flat and discovered that her daughter had vanishedHas the arrival of fresh forensic evidence this week shown up some inconsistency in the McCanns' story? Does it support theories broadcast by the Portuguese press that police believe Madeleine may have died on the night she disappeared, possibly in the holiday apartment itself?In her own wordsI think at worst we were naive. I mean we're very responsible parents. We love our children very much and I don't think any parent could imagine or consider anything like this ever happening.Interview with Sky News, May 25It's important not to lose sight of the fact we haven't committed a crime. Somebody has. Somebody's been there. Somebody's been watching. They took our daughter away and we can't lose sight of that. How can someone do that to a child? I've just got to keep focused and positive."Interview with the News of the World, August 5The criticism is very hard and very hurtful. Considering what we are going through already, it seems very cruel. I know this is a small group of people. Most have been very supportive. We have had thousands and thousands of letters from people and every line of every letter they have written has helped us get through another day. I have had hundreds of people get in touch and say, 'We do exactly what you have done. Don't ever blame yourself, you have to remember here who has committed the crime. It was someone who broke in and took Madeleine from the bed.'"Interview with the Guardian, August 10In our heart of hearts we'd both rather know - even if that means we have to face the terrible truth that Madeleine might be dead. But I can't prepare myself for bad news. I simply don't know how ... until you're in that situation you can't even begin to imagine what it is that gets you out of bed. You just have to go on. And it doesn't take the guilt away ... I ask myself 'Why did I think it was safe?' But it felt safe. You don't expect a predator to break in and take your daughter ...Interview with Woman's Own, August 14Everyone I know who had been to Portugal with their children said it was very family friendly, and it did feel like that. If I'd had to think for one second about it, it wouldn't have happened. I never even had to think like that, to make the decision.Interview with the Times, September 4