Back in July, east Londoners were all ready to welcome a museum dedicated to the history of the area’s women. What they got instead was a museum “exploring” the life of one of the UK’s most notorious killers of women – Jack the Ripper.In what can only be described as a grotesque subversion, the museum went from being one that celebrates what women do, to a reminder of the horrifying things some men choose to do to women.Today, on Twitter, the museum’s PR representative attempted to defend the tourist attraction from charges that Jack the Ripper’s murders were sexually violent. In a clumsy attempt to prove that the museum was not condoning sexual violence, he instead denied that the murders had anything to do with sexual violence at all.Iain Aitch (@iainaitch)PR hired to defend Ripper museum. Decides to also defend Ripper’s reputation. pic.twitter.com/cbTdWRibWuSeptember 30, 2015Rather than defending the museum from accusations that its existence celebrated or commemorated Jack’s vile crimes, the PR (probably unintentionally) came across as defending the reputation of a man who killed women.When I suggested that he was wrong to ignore the sexually violent aspect of these murders, he accused me of “sensationalising” – arguing that it isn’t known what Jack the Ripper’s motives were.Joshua Walker PR (@JoshuaWalkerPR)@sianushka sensationalising - we have no idea what the motives were.Cld have been racially driven-cld be said we promote racial violence?September 30, 2015It’s true that there are many things we don’t know about Jack the Ripper. We don’t know his name and, on some level, we don’t know his reasons for killing women. However, the one thing we do know is that he targeted women in prostitution and that after he cut their throats he deliberately ripped out their wombs. From those facts, we can make a pretty good guess at at least one of his motivations. He was a man who hated women. He was a misogynistic killer who targeted women’s bodies in a highly gendered way.These were acts of fatal sexual violence – of fatal male violence against women.The Ripper Museum, and the defence of its existence, would perhaps matter less if such crimes were confined to the past. But the simple truth is that male violence against women is not a historical curiosity. It is not a mystery to be explored via an audio tour and a few exhibition boards. It is happening to women today all over the UK and all over the world.In the UK, between January and August this year, an estimated 85 women have been killed by men. That’s one woman every 2.8 days. Many of these women will have been killed by current or former partners – in fact, on average, two every week. At the same time as the Ripper museum opens its doors, government cuts mean the refuges which save women’s lives are closing theirs.Jack the Ripper is an invented villain but his victims were real. A museum to these crimes is a disgrace | Deborah Orr The museum’s PR is not alone in trying to ignore or diminish the gendered nature of fatal male violence against women. Today, headlines report on a man who killed his “nagging” wife – placing the blame for his murder on her behaviour. We hear about family annihilators who are “heartbroken” after divorce – implying that if the woman stayed, she’d still be alive.Over and over again we hear excuses that attempt to shift the blame from the violent perpetrator on to the woman. Even during the press furore over the museum’s opening, its founder, Mark Palmer-Edgecumbe, wrote: “[the museum] is absolutely not celebrating the crime of Jack the Ripper but looking at why and how the women got in that situation in the first place.”Because that’s how fatal male violence works, apparently. Women simply get themselves into these situations where men kill us.When the museum’s PR tries to deny that sexual violence had a part to play in these murders, when newspapers look to the nagging or cheating wife in spousal homicide cases, they are ignoring the stark and frightening reality of male violence against women. As a society we are all too quick to ignore the fact that Jack the Ripper, and violent men throughout history, choose to abuse and kill women. In Jack’s case, our decision to ignore that has led to him becoming a cult figure who exerts a grotesque fascination over the public imagination.On the museum’s merchandise, Jack the Cult Figure stands tall and menacing under the lamppost.The women he killed are reduced to a smudge of blood at his feet.