Chief constables from across England and Wales were told today there will be new "far-reaching" reforms of the way police operate.The home secretary, David Blunkett, told a summit in London of all 43 chief constables that he wanted forces to strike up better relationships with their communities and increase local accountability. Senior police officers raised concerns about some of the plans outlined by the government earlier this year, such as changes to the way chief constables are appointed. Today Mr Blunkett said the reforms would come from grassroots level rather than being imposed by Whitehall. "The police reform programme is being implemented with good results," said Mr Blunkett. "We want to build a bolder and more ambitious framework to tackle crime and the fear of crime in our communities. I want to explore with community representatives, police, crime and disorder reduction partnerships and police authorities how we achieve greater delegation to deliver a flexible police service able to respond to local needs." "We can only grow if we challenge existing barriers to fighting crime by ensuring that local people have a greater say in how their communities are policed and engage fully with the police," he said. Last year Mr Blunkett imposed a radical set of reforms of the way rank-and-file officers operate, including massive changes to pay structures. He admitted at the police federation annual conference last year that he had made mistakes in the way the reforms were forced through, and today's conciliatory stance may be an attempt to avoid repeating those mistakes with the senior ranks. "There are already excellent examples of community-based policing, but more can be done to better connect local policing to local areas," said Mr Blunkett. "This is particularly true in tackling antisocial behaviour and low-level crime. "But serving the community cannot be at the expense of tackling the terror threat and fighting organised crime," he added. The meeting came the day after the Home Office revealed that an American police chief would be the new head of a unit which has powers to take over failing British police forces. The Association of Police Authorities has been handed £1m by the home office to examine how forces can strengthen local links. Options could include giving police chiefs a higher public profile in their communities and giving local police commanders more power to prioritise the type of crime or antisocial behaviour which most concerns residents.