A partially sighted student whose family had been repeatedly harassed by a "racist" gang was yesterday cleared of attacking one of the youths with a samurai sword.Shamraiz Ali, 26, was accused of causing grievous bodily harm after Shane Stringer, 22, lost the use of two fingers when his hand was nearly severed as a drunken group gathered outside Mr Ali's family home in Peterborough. In a case that exposed how a gang called "the Orton posse" ran amok in the city's estates, King's Lynn crown court heard that seven white youths, including Mr Stringer, had more than 100 previous convictions between them, including actual bodily harm and racially motivated offences. As the only Asian family on the estate in Orton Goldhay, Mr Ali and his family had been beaten up in their own home, threatened with petrol bombs and had eggs thrown at their door. In July last year, Mr Ali, his sister-in-law and father were attacked in their council house by another member of the gang, Shane Farrington. Farrington was jailed for 27 months in May for the attack. A week later seven drunken youths, including Farrington and his friend, Mr Stringer, were "play fighting" outside Mr Ali's home when they said there was a "sudden flash of violence in the dark", and Mr Stringer's hand was nearly severed by a samurai sword. He needed a five-and-a-half hour operation and lost much of the use of two fingers. Despite no weapon ever being found and no blood or forensic evidence linking Mr Ali to the crime, Jeremy Benson, QC, for the defence, said the youths had conspired to accuse the student of maiming Mr Stringer, who described Mr Ali to police as a "white Paki". Mr Ali, who is studying history and politics at Anglia Polytechnic University, was born with a pigmentation disorder and has white skin. He was described as "frail" in court and his sight is severely impaired. While the prosecution argued that the gang was not made up of "criminal geniuses" and said three youths could not have quickly concocted a similar account of a samurai attack, Mr Benson said they were "streetwise" with experience of dealing with the police and courts. "When things get difficult they always blame somebody else," he said. "All they had to make up was that the injury was caused by the 'white Paki with the samurai sword'." Farrington had once stabbed himself with a samurai sword, while a similar sword was also found in the home of a relative of Mr Stringer, who had convictions for actual bodily harm, affray and other offences, the court heard. Mr Stringer denied he was racist or a member of "the Orton posse". His friend, Luke Brazil, admitted in court he was part of "the Orton boys". After assaulting Mr Ali's family in their home last year, Farrington told police: "We were just walking past when the Asians came out and attacked us for no reason." Mr Benson said the three prosecution witnesses, Mr Stringer, Mr Brazil and Natasha Robinson, had concocted the same story again . Phone records showed Mr Ali had called the police three times as the gang gathered outside, unlike the youths, who did not phone for help even after Mr Stringer was badly injured. Outside the court, Mr Ali, who denied the charge, said of the verdict: "I'm pleased because I have a future ahead of me and some people tried to jeopardise it for no reason."