It's a typical messy teenager's bedroom. There are photographs strewn across the floor, scattered clothes, books, newspapers, paintings, make-up, clutter. It looks as if someone has left for school in the middle of a spring clean. In fact, Sarah Campbell died after taking a drug overdose while in prison three years ago. She was 18.Her mother Pauline says she's not been in the room for a long time because it is too upsetting. She seems shocked by everything she comes across, as if seeing it for the first time. The room could be a memorial to Sarah's chaotic and desperately short life: her passport, her children's first dictionary, a shelf full of Sweet Valley Twins books propped up by the heavyweight Story Of Art by Ernst Gombrich. On the wall is a National Drugs Helpline number. "Call us free for advice. Calls are confidential."The jury at Sarah Campbell's inquest concluded that she died as a result of taking a lethal quantity of dothiepin tablets, but that it wasn't suicide - her death, it found, was a cry for help that went unheeded. It also said that a failure in the duty of care by the prison had contributed to her death. Sarah was the youngest of six women to die from self-inflicted injuries in a 12-month period at Styal women's prison in Wilmslow, Cheshire. In April last year, the inquest into the death of Julie Walsh, the sixth of the women, again found that the prison had been negligent - Walsh, who was awaiting sentencing for theft, overdosed on dothiepin left unattended on a trolley. Four other women who also drank the medicine survived. The coroner, Nicholas Rheinberg, who presided over all six inquests, said it was a "tragedy" that it had taken six deaths before life-saving reforms, including a drug detoxification unit, were introduced at the prison (all six women had drug problems).The number of women in prison has increased from 2,600 in 1997 to 4,413 today. There are only 17 women's prisons in the country, so families often have to travel long distances to visit, and women can feel very isolated. A Prison Reform Trust report reveals that 40% of women prisoners have attempted suicide at some time.Some might say there was a tragic inevitability about the miserable end to Sarah Campbell's life. At every stage, barriers were thrown in front of her. Her father left home to start another family just before her first birthday - she last saw him when she was four. She was sexually abused; she had learning difficulties; at six she was found to be on the autism spectrum. She got pneumonia when she was 14 and was held back a year at school. She was introduced to cannabis by an adult friend and diagnosed with depression at 15. She was a heroin addict at 16 and had an abortion just before her 17th birthday. When she was 18, she was convicted of manslaughter after a pensioner she hassled for money in the streets of Chester collapsed from a heart attack. Three days before her 19th birthday, on January 18 2003, she was dying in a segregated cell, having swallowed 120 antidepressants.Pauline Campbell, a former college lecturer in NHS administration, thinks that the odds were heavily stacked against her daughter, but she is equally sure that Sarah could and should have been saved. If the system had been working properly - if the health service and the justice system and, ultimately, the prison service had alerted each other to Sarah's vulnerability - she is convinced that her daughter would be alive today. Even at 18 months, Pauline says, Sarah wasn't like other babies. She was late walking and talking, and avoided the gaze of other people. As she grew older, she was often unhappy and grieved for her absent father. "When she was around 13, she was in bed and we were talking, and she said - I'll never forget this conversation because I didn't know whether to laugh or cry - she said to me, 'Oh Mummy, why haven't you ever married again?' All her friends had brothers and sisters and a dad. Some of her friends' parents were divorced, but they were all in touch with their dad, and Sarah felt different. She felt a profound sense of loss."Nevertheless, Sarah settled down at school. Her IQ was above average, she excelled in art and was the best tennis player in her year. On the cabinet is a glistening trophy engraved "1999 Congleton Junior LTA Tournament Girls Open Winner"."Sarah was the best friend I've ever had," Georgina Griffiths says. Georgina is 22 now and works as a carer for the elderly. "She was always up for a laugh, and she'd always put you and your feelings first. Sarah helped me get a C in my art GCSE. I know she'd been depressed a long time, but she didn't want me to see that side of her."Despite helping her friend, Sarah left school without qualifications. She was desperate to go to art college in Chester, and Pauline agreed so long as she continued with her GCSEs. By this time, she was already smoking a lot of dope and her moods were swinging like a metronome.It was at college that Sarah really went off the rails. She started to miss her classes and stay out at night, lying to her mother as to her whereabouts. Just before Sarah's 17th birthday, Pauline got a phone call from the police: Sarah had been arrested along with two men who were accused of trying to steal a sports jacket. When Pauline collected her from the station, the police surgeon took her to one side. "He said to me, 'Did you not know she was addicted to heroin and methadone? Unless you can get her to somewhere like a deserted castle in a country without drugs, she'll be dead in five years.' I nearly collapsed."Pauline describes the last two years of her daughter's life as hell for both of them. Sarah had begun to self-harm, cutting her arms. On one occasion she was found in the public toilets in Chester, unconscious after drinking her way through a bottle of methadone. She told her mother that she thought a methadone overdose was the perfect way to go - drifting off into sleepy oblivion. She stayed out most nights with friends. Pauline says she doesn't know what she did for money, but she has her suspicions. She came home for the odd meal or to sleep. Pauline took her to a drug addiction unit, but Sarah felt out of place - a vulnerable girl among all the seasoned smackheads. There was no facility dedicated to teenagers with drug problems.At 16, she found herself pregnant. Pauline never asked who the father was, fearing her daughter might not know. After her abortion Sarah would talk to her mother about the double loss of her father and her baby. Then, three days before her 18th birthday, Sarah announced she was going to live in London with a boyfriend. By the end of February 2002 she was back in Chester, living in a women's hostel - she had told her mother she didn't want to burden her by living at home.Georgina Griffiths says Sarah became a different person under the influence of drugs. "She was so angry - angry about being abandoned by her dad, angry about being abused. She even injected herself in front of me. I tried to make her promise not to do it any more, and she did - but she didn't stop."On Saturday May 18 2002, Pauline came home from an evening out to find her phone flashing with messages. They were from Ellesmere Port police station asking her to come and collect Sarah. Pauline arrived at the police station at 2am on the Sunday morning. She couldn't take in what the officers were telling her - a man had died outside the Odeon cinema, Sarah had been arrested, she'd been charged with theft of a credit card. "I was out of my mind with worry and I couldn't really get through to Sarah because of drugs and stuff." Despite her worst fears, the police released Sarah, but the hostel where she was staying refused to take her back - they said she was too much trouble.At 5am, mother and daughter arrived home. Sarah went straight to her bedroom. Within half an hour she had tried to suffocate herself with a plastic bag over her head. Pauline breaks down as she recounts what happened. "It was horrendous, just horrendous. I needed help, and there was none here. So what else could I do but phone for an ambulance, hoping to get her admitted under the Mental Health Act - she had, after all, just tried to kill herself."But the doctors said they couldn't admit Sarah because she was classified as having a borderline personality disorder, which was considered untreatable. Pauline still finds it hard to believe. "If you're attempting to kill yourself and you can't get admitted to a psychiatric ward, you might as well shut the psychiatric wards down," she says.Back at home, Sarah tried to explain what had happened. She told her mother she'd been one of a group of four (two men, two women) and the men had told the women to hassle a man, Amrit Bhandari, for money. When Bhandari, 72 and a retired civil servant, refused, Kim Woolley, Sarah's accomplice, shouted "rape". Bhandari collapsed outside the Odeon cinema. He had suffered a fatal heart attack. The two male accomplices were never charged.Pauline makes no attempt to exonerate her daughter - Sarah should not have been hassling a stranger in the street, and it is a tragedy that he died. But she believes that no humane court would have found her guilty of manslaughter. "Whether they hassled him a bit or a lot, aggressively or non-aggressively, I don't know, but it was a non-violent offence," Pauline says. "Sarah said they just thought he had fainted and they skedaddled with his briefcase. If there's a non-violent confrontation and the person goes down, you wouldn't normally think my God they're dead or they are dying."Pauline took Sarah to court on the Monday for her committal. Sarah had already been charged with the theft of credit cards, but the minute she walked out of court she was re-arrested and rushed into a side room. She was charged with murder and sent to Styal where she spent six months on remand.In many ways, Sarah's experience reflects that of other women in British jails - especially those who have killed themselves (or attempted to). She had a history of depression and drug problems, and was imprisoned for a non-violent offence; it was her first conviction. Nine out of 10 women are jailed for non-violent offences, mostly for crimes such as shoplifting, handling stolen goods, credit card fraud and minor drug offences. About 80% of women in prison have drug, alcohol and/or mental health problems, and even more have a personality disorder; most of them are under 25. There were more than 21,000 incidents of self-harm in 2003. That same year, a record 14 women died at their own hands; 13 died in 2004.All six women who died at Styal were in the first month of their sentence or were on remand. The two-day inquest into the first death - of Nissa Anne Smith, a 20-year-old mother, in August 2002 - returned an open verdict; the cause of death was hanging. In November 2002, Anna Claire Baker, a 29-year-old mother, was found hanging in her cell. Both women were on remand. Sarah Campbell died of an overdose in January 2003. Hayley Dawn Williams, 41, was awaiting sentencing when she hanged herself in June 2003. Jolene Willis, who hanged herself in April 2003, aged 24, was serving four months for shoplifting. As with Sarah, staff had been told that she was a suicide risk but, the inquest jury decided, had failed to take proper action.Prison ombudsman Stephen Shaw, speaking at Sarah's inquest, said, "I have no doubt that many of the women could have been more adequately and sensitively cared for outside a penal environment." It costs £38,000 to keep one person in prison for a year. Anne, chief inspector of prisons, has argued that non-violent women offenders should receive non-custodial sentences and that those with mental health problems should be receiving help in the form of therapy rather than being sent to jail.In one way, Sarah had an advantage over many women prisoners - she didn't have children. Two-thirds of women in jail are the primary carers for children, who will have to be farmed out to family or taken into care. So it is not only the women who are being punished, but their children, too. Perhaps not surprisingly, women are 14 times more likely than men to self-harm.Sarah went into a state of shock when she was charged with murder. "All she said to me from the beginning to the end was, 'I only asked him for money, Mummy.' She said it was never intended that Mr Bhandari suffer any harm."In Styal prison, Sarah's heroin and methadone were stopped, her mother says. Her withdrawal symptoms were dramatic. One day when she was taken to a video identity parade, she collapsed and an ambulance had to be called. During her time in custody, most days she was locked in her cell for 23 hours a day.It would be wrong to suggest that Sarah was a well-balanced teenager before she was sent to Styal - she had already harmed herself three times, cutting herself on her arms with scissors - but during her time in custody there was a horrendous increase in both the regularity and degree of self-abuse. There were 27 incidents of self-harm, including seven attempted hangings. After a few months she was put on anti-psychotic drugs on top of her antidepressants.In November, after six months in Styal and two months before her trial date, Sarah was released on bail. "They released her with no medication, no access to her GP in Chester because her bail conditions forbade entry into the city of Chester where her doctor was based, no psychiatric cover. But they did discharge her with headlice," Pauline says.The one plus - and it was a huge plus - was that Sarah remained clean of methadone and heroin. Pauline and Georgina Griffiths went to collect her from Styal. "There was Sarah, waiting on her own in the visitors' centre, which was like a deserted bus shelter, and then she saw Georgina and I walking towards the main gate and all of a sudden I heard her voice shouting..."Pauline's voice cracks. She stops to gather herself. "And she came running out of this grotty building with a black bin bag in each hand, that's what her belongings were in, and she dropped the bin bags, and she ran towards us and she was shouting, 'Mummy, Mummy, Mummy, Mummy', and she opened her arms and ran towards me, and my only regret now is that Georgina didn't have her camcorder with her. Somebody asked me recently, can you think of something happy about Sarah, and I said, 'Yes, the day they let her out of Styal prison.' "Pauline says for most of those last two months it was like having the old Sarah back. "She was intelligent, reasonable, perceptive." She joined a health club, started beating her mum at chess again, and playing the piano. Georgina visited her often and they talked about what they would do when Sarah came out of prison.By the time she went to trial, Sarah had been clean for eight months and was beginning to feel she could make something of her life. In her heart, she hoped she wouldn't have to return to prison - by now, the murder charge had been dropped to manslaughter, she thought it unlikely she'd be convicted, and anyway, she had already served six months, and back in August she had been told by a psychiatrist that if she was found guilty, she would be sent to a secure psychiatric hospital.But a few days before the trial, she began to panic. What if she was convicted? And what if she was sent back to Styal? And what if Kim Woolley, a woman in her 30s, was also sent back to Styal, despite the fact that Sarah was going to give evidence against her - she had already made statements saying that it was Woolley who had shouted "rape" and not her. She did not eat for three days before her trial.At Mold crown court, Sarah pleaded guilty to taking the credit cards but not to manslaughter. It was accepted at court that Woolley, not Sarah, had shouted "rape" at Amrit Bhandari. It emerged in court that Bhandari had just left a meeting because he was feeling unwell. One of the two postmortems revealed that his heart was in poor condition, that he had probably had a previous heart attack and that he could have begun the heart attack that killed him as he was walking up the road.After two weeks, both women were found guilty of manslaughter. Pauline says, "The courts do tend to come down very hard on women... And here you have these two women, drug addicts, dare I say, and a man had died. I think the judge made an example of them."Newspapers reported that it was the first time a case of harassment had resulted in manslaughter convictions. Sarah pleaded with the judge not to be sent to prison for the night, before sentencing, in the same vehicle as Kim Woolley. After all, she had just given evidence against her and feared reprisals. The judge allowed her to return home for the night."It was a nightmare," Pauline says, so quietly that she could be talking to herself. "There were bloody journalists banging on the front door. She put on a brave face, but she was in a state of terror. She hoped she would be taken to the secure psychiatric hospital, but her barrister had told her to prepare for either way." She had now gone four days without food.On Friday January 17 2003, Sarah received a three-year jail sentence and was sent back to Styal. "Sarah's last words to me when we parted company on the Friday were, 'Mummy, why aren't they taking me to hospital?' And I didn't know what to say, did I? The answer is, 'It's the bloody system, Sarah, it doesn't accommodate people like you.' "Sarah, still fearing she might be attacked by Woolley, asked to be sent to Butler House, a unit for vulnerable prisoners at Styal; she was put in the segregation unit instead. On the Friday and Saturday she refused all food. She had been stockpiling her antidepressant drug, dothiepin, and smuggled it into the prison. On the Friday night she was strip-searched twice, but somehow nothing was found. She took 120 tablets on the Saturday and was dead by the evening."In the end she was vomiting and fitting," Pauline says. "When she actually died, she was bleeding from the nose and mouth. What a way to go. And I'm supposed to come to terms with that?"At the inquest, Jean Craven, then duty governor at Styal, said she had gone into Sarah's cell to assess her on the Saturday but had not read the F2052SH, the document warning that she was at risk of harming herself. She also admitted that she had done the assessment without seeing Sarah's face - Sarah had been lying on the bed with her back to her.Many errors were made in Sarah's final 24 hours in the care of Styal prison. A card outside her cell said R53 (Rule 53: awaiting adjudication), which implied an offence against prison discipline - but Sarah was in the segregation unit on Rule 45, for her own protection. After Sarah had told a nurse that she had taken an overdose (by which time her eyes were dilated and she looked vacant), she was left by herself and vomited. There was then a delay of between 20 and 40 minutes in calling an ambulance."There was a general mix-up about who should call the ambulance," the nurse said. The then suicide prevention coordinator at Styal told the inquest that some staff were "not interested" in suicide-prevention training - that they felt that if women wanted to kill themselves, what right had they to stop them?The jury said a number of factors had contributed to Sarah's death, including a lack of urgency in formulating care plans, a lack of communication between the healthcare professionals and the disciplinary staff, and her ability to smuggle in drugs undetected.The prisons ombudsman, Stephen Shaw, brought in to investigate after Julie Walsh died, told the inquest he was "shocked" that three women had been placed in the segregation unit at Styal at the time Sarah died when it was known that they were at risk of self-harm. One of the vulnerable prisoners had been on the segregation unit at Styal for nine months. Shaw's report on the deaths at Styal was handed into the Home Office in October 2003, but it took two years for it to be published. In the report, he said that the use of imprisonment for mentally ill and drug-dependent women is "disproportionate, ineffective and unkind'."By January 2005, when he was giving evidence at Sarah's inquest, Shaw said that after a visit to Styal the previous month he judged the relationship between staff and prisoners "extremely healthy, whereas it was anything but healthy eight months after Sarah's death".Last year four women died from self-inflicted injuries in prisons - the campaigning organisation Inquest points out that this figure does not take into account unclassified deaths. No women have died from self-inflicted injuries at Styal since the series of six deaths. However, last year Styal governor Steve Hall revealed that 41 women at his prison had tried to kill themselves over the Mother's Day weekend.The prison's suicide-prevention strategies may be working more effectively, but it does not mean that fewer women are trying to harm themselves. And although Styal may finally be beginning to get itself in order - it looks set to be expanded into Europe's biggest jail for women - the same cannot be said for the prison service at large.In June last year, Anne Owers reported that prison governors were only "on the edge of coping" because there were so many people with mental health and drug problems behind bars who should not be in prison in the first place.Meanwhile, those closest to Sarah Campbell are still suffering the fallout from her death. Georgina Griffiths is devastated. She tries to think of the young, selfless Sarah, or the Sarah who ran out to meet them the day she was released from prison, but the image that keeps coming into her head is the desperate, angry Sarah she visited in Styal. "She was pale and grey-looking and depressed, and she had cuts all over her. She looked awful."As for Pauline, her life has been shattered by her daughter's death. Today, she spends most of her time campaigning against unjust sentencing and inhumane conditions in prisons; last year she won the Emma Humphreys Memorial Prize for her work. She apologises for the state of her house. Every floor is carpeted with press releases and cuttings and data relating to Sarah. She says she used to be a bit of a cleanliness obsessive, but it's no longer a priority and there simply isn't time to tidy up these days.She shows me some more of Sarah's possessions - the piano she played a couple of days before she died, a clock with the inscription "Sarah Elizabeth Campbell, five pounds 13 ounces. 21/1/84", a picture Sarah drew in prison with toothpaste on the back which she used to stick it to the wall.Pauline suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder. Most of the time, she says she can put a lid on it, but sometimes it all just boils over. "When I see an ambulance, I break down in tears and the heart rate goes up. I can still laugh, but by golly you should hear me when I'm grieving. I wake my neighbours up in the middle of the night sometimes, screaming and shouting."She looks to the floor. "I can't quite believe Sarah's dead," she says.