Police were today questioning a man in connection with a Hampshire bank raid that left one of the robbers shot dead at the scene and the other dying in hospital two hours later.A gang is believed to have been surprised by police when it was targeting a security van as it called at an HSBC branch in Chandler's Ford, north of Southampton, yesterday morning.Scotland Yard said officers arrested a man in the Raynes Park area of south-west London yesterday.Witnesses described one of the robbers being shot by police while he was holding a gun to the head of a security guard. Passers-by said they heard several shots being fired before up to 30 plain-clothes officers wearing Metropolitan police caps rushed into the area.Attempts were made to resuscitate the two men, who were lying in the street in pools of blood, according to witnesses. One man died at the scene and the other in hospital, police said.Police want to trace a blue Volvo estate car, registration OY05 WDU. Anybody with any information can call 0207 230 8666.Eyewitnesses claimed they saw a third man fleeing the scene, which one described as a "bloodbath".A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "The object of the operation was to prevent and apprehend those believed to be involved in an attempted armed robbery of a premises in Chandler's Ford."At approximately 10.05am, shots were fired and two men were shot. One was pronounced dead at the scene, the other was taken to a local hospital but died at approximately midday."Residents described their shock at the dramatic scenes.Lynn Ward, who works at the Alexander Keen real estate agency next door to the bank, said she heard a loud bang and then shouts of "Get down"."I heard a loud bang ring out and initially thought it must be a traffic accident," she said. "But when I looked out of the window I saw a security van and two people on the floor with armed police stood over them. It was chaos and there was lots of shouting and screaming. It was then I realised it must have been gunshots."Chandler's Ford is a rural town and you certainly do not expect this kind of thing to happen. We are all very shocked."Melanie Chase, who lives above the bank, said: "I was in the bath when I heard someone shouting 'Get down, get down' and then I heard three shots. I looked out the window and saw blood everywhere on the floor. It was horrible."A spokesman for HSBC confirmed no customers or staff were hurt.He said: "We are obviously very grateful because this violent incident appears to have had the potential to have been much worse."The Independent Police Complaints Commission said it was investigating the shooting.