The last remaining kingpin of an international network of organised criminal gangs that flooded the UK with £300m worth of illegal drugs has been brought to justice.At Liverpool crown court on Tuesday Philip Baron, 57, pleaded guilty to drug trafficking and money laundering, which had funded a lavish lifestyle for 15 years in his adopted home of Co Kildare, Ireland.The case is the final piece in the jigsaw of Operation Beath; a five-year investigation by the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) that spanned 22 UK and international police forces. Police said the smuggling operation was among the 10 biggest ever uncovered in the UK.Irish authorities believed Baron ran a company that rented out deckchairs in Spain. But the former HGV driver from Salford was actually at the helm of a smuggling operation that imported more than 52 tonnes of cocaine and cannabis into the UK.The gang labelled the drugs with the logos of well-known international companies – such as the construction company Taylor Woodrow – and disguised them in machinery and the back of a safe. They then used the details of legitimate companies and stolen identities to rent virtual offices in the UK.Baron was arrested at his home near the five -star golf resort the K Club in 2011 and was extradited to Britain two years later. Twenty-eight other gang members have been sentenced so far and will be in prison for a combined total of 189 years.Paul Hewett, 55, from Hampshire, owned a 64ft yacht and a Porsche; and Walter Callinan, 60, from Stoke, had amassed a £5m fortune. Both arranged the importation of drugs from Spain and were jailed for 20 years and 11 years respectively.Ex-council worker Paul Yearsley, 44, was sentenced to five years in 2011. He owned a seven-bedroom manor house in Heaton, Bolton, worth around £4m, that was featured in Lancashire Life magazine, despite his only legitimate income coming from a council disability pension.Baron has two children with his second wife in Ireland who enjoyed luxurious upbringings. Both went to boarding school and owned a horse. But his first daughter, Rachel, 30, lived in poverty in Bolton. Baron was accused of manipulating her into moving £1m in drugs money. She was subsequently jailed for three years for money laundering.Steve Baldwin, head of investigations in the north-west for Soca, said: "There's no doubt Baron and his associates were operating at the top end of organised crime."There is clear evidence that [Baron's] criminal activity was having a direct impact on communities in many of our towns and cities. He recruited people whom he could trust to perform specific roles and moved drugs and cash around in a business-like fashion"Baron will be sentenced later this month.