There was one thing on which prosecution and defence could agree at the opening of the murder trial of Neil Entwistle - that the Briton appeared to have a loving and stable relationship with his American wife Rachel and nine-month-old baby Lillian, who he is accused of murdering in cold blood in January 2006.Defence lawyer Elliot Weinstein said: "Neil loved his wife, and he loved his daughter ... everyone who knew Rachel and Neil will tell you they were a loving couple. They were soulmates."The chief prosecutor, Michael Fabbri, concurred. "By every outward appearance the relationship between Neil and Rachel was nothing but loving and stable." Then he added to the jury: "But you will also learn there was another side of Neil Entwistle."The prosecution yesterday began laying out its case of Entwistle's "other side" at the start of a trial that is expected to last several weeks. Entwistle, 29, sat silently in court, his parents Clifford and Yvonne from Worksop, Nottinghamshire, and brother Russell behind him on the public benches. Rachel's stepfather, Joseph Matterazzo, sat three metres away on the other side of the court.Entwistle had met his wife in 1999 on the rowing team of York university where he was studying electronic engineering with business management and she was on an overseas placement. They married in 2003 and two years later moved to America to be near her family, moving into a home surrounded by woods in Hopkinton outside Boston just eight days before the murders.On January 20 2006 Rachel, then 27, and her baby daughter were shot at their home. Entwistle claims he was out at the time and returned to find them dead in the master bedroom. He covered them up and the next morning flew on a one-way ticket and with no luggage to the UK to his parents' home. He was subsequently extradited back to the US.The prosecution alleged that Entwistle was trapped in financial difficulties and in the days leading up to the murder displayed an obsession with sex that saw him scout escort agency websites. Fabbri told the jury: "He didn't even call 911 or call for help for his wife and his baby, who he claimed to have found lying there." Fabbri said Entwistle told US detectives: "My first thought was to go down the stairs and get a knife from the kitchen [to kill himself] but I knew that would hurt."Entwistle told officers he then drove 50 miles to acquire a gun from his father-in-law, Joseph Matterazzo, with which to kill himself, but the house was locked, Fabbri said, adding that Entwistle had the keys to the house. DNA evidence would show that Matterazzo's .22 calibre Colt revolver was used to commit the murders, the jury heard. When Entwistle was arrested in London detectives found on him a scrap of newspaper which advertised escort services, and a notebook on which he had written on one side of the page how he deeply loved Rachel and Lillian, and on the other how he wanted to sell his story to the media.In the days before the murder he had been exchanging emails with women discussing the possibility of opening discreet relationships, Fabbri said. Entwistle had also viewed websites that described methods of killing and committing suicide. Entwistle, who has pleaded not guilty, faces life without parole if convicted. There is no death penalty in Massachusetts.Setting out his defence, Weinstein warned the jury that the evidence they would hear was going to be "sordid, gruesome and graphic". He urged the eight men and eight women to guard against quick conclusions, commenting on the prosecution that: "it's not that clear and it's not that easy. Things are not the way at first they appear to be ... There's nothing typical about the evidence you are going to hear."Rachel's mother, Priscilla Matterazzo, was the first witness called. She said that the couple "seemed to get along very well. They seemed to have a friendship as well as seem to love and respect each other."Under cross-examination she said, as far as she had known, Entwistle had been a loving husband, a caring father and a trusted son-in-law. There had been no history of violence.The court heard that autopsies on the two bodies found that Rachel died from a single bullet hole above her hairline and Lillian from a shot to her chest.