Families of 55 victims of the serial killer Harold Shipman went to the high court yesterday to try to force the health secretary, Alan Milburn, to hold a public inquiry into how Shipman was able to evade notice for so long.QCs for 113 relatives and for eight national newspaper groups and the BBC branded as "irrational" the decision by Mr Milburn to hold the inquiry behind closed doors. Thirty relatives were in court to hear their QC, Augustus Ullstein, tell Lord Justice Kennedy and Mr Justice Jackson that an inquiry open to the public and the press was vital "to restore faith and confidence in general practitioners and the NHS". It was not enough, he said, that the report would be published along with any evidence the inquiry team deemed "appropriate." For the media, Desmond Browne QC said: "It is not just the confidence of the families who have been bereaved which has been undermined." He said Mr Milburn appeared to have ignored the need to restore public confidence generally in the NHS, which was a function of the media, and instead regarded news organisations as intrusive and took the view there was a need to protect the families from their "malign attentions". But the families had made it clear they themselves wanted a full and open inquiry. It was the "vital role of the press as public watchdog" to report the proceedings and assure the public "that nothing is being swept under the carpet", said Mr Browne. Shipman, 54, of Mottram in Longendale, Greater Manchester, was convicted at Preston crown court of murdering 15 patients, but he is suspected of killing nearly 200. Mr Ullstein said the relatives had been led to believe the inquiry would be in public because Mr Milburn had referred to a "public inquiry" in statements in the House of Commons. But he had decided the inquiry, chaired by Lord Laming, a former head of the social services inspectorate, should be in private. Mr Ullstein argued that those statements had given the relatives a "legitimate expectation" that the inquiry would be public. Had the inquiry been set up under the Tribunals and Inquiries (Evidence) Act 1921, it would have been public, with power for the relatives to have legal representation paid from public funds and to cross-examine witnesses. But because Mr Milburn had established it up under the National Health Service Act 1977, it could be held in private, with no legal representation for relatives, and they would have no right to see statements submitted by witnesses or to cross-examine witnesses.Mr Ullstein said Mr Milburn had no power to use the NHS Act model, because the inquiry's terms of reference covered not only health service matters but also the roles of the coroner and police, death certification and controls on drugs - all matters outside the remit of the act. Backing the relatives' application for judicial review are Associated Newspapers, Express Newspapers, Guardian Media Group, Guardian Newspapers, MGN Ltd, News Group Newspapers, Telegraph Group, Times Newspapers and the BBC. The hearing continues.