What do a Japanese speaker, a molecular biologist and a hypnotist have in common? They are all Metropolitan police officers offering their skills to solve crime.The cultural and communities resource unit, headed by Detective Chief Inspector Keith Fraser, is an internal database which taps into the range of backgrounds, lifestyles and specialisms in the Met. The catalysts for setting up the unit were the Soho nail bombing in 1999 and the murder of Damilola Taylor in Peckham, south-east London, in 2000, where police used gay and black officers respectively in their inquiries within those two communities. Police chiefs realised they could benefit from a more formalised system to use their staff's knowledge, so they launched the unit last year. There are 800 officers and civilian staff from the Yard and City of London police on its books and the unit has dealt with almost 700 inquiries, from murder and kidnap investigations to community relations and missing persons appeals as well as helping other police forces around the country. "It might seem obvious given the diverse bunch of people within the Met, but we really had no idea of the wealth of talent and skills we would find or how helpful it would prove," said Det Ch Insp Fraser. "For instance, the inquiry into the murder of the little boy whose torso was found in the Thames had been looking for someone with knowledge of an obscure African dialect for two years when we discovered the perfect person. Another time, we had a hostage situation which had been going on for 20 hours. The kidnap unit asked for a person with knowledge of a particular religion, autism and mental health. We got someone within half an hour and the situation was resolved with no one being harmed." The unit is often asked to provide officers from a particular cultural or ethnic background. But Det Ch Insp Fraser says it is not about pandering to minorities, but good operational policing and getting results. "It just makes good sense to use someone who speaks the same language and or recognises the cultural nuances as a victim's family, the suspects, or community where the inquiry is centred," he said. Muslim officers are involved in anti-terrorism operations, something Det Ch Insp Fraser is reluctant to discuss because of the sensitivities, but he gives other examples. "In one case, the murder of an elderly Bengali woman, we had a very hostile environment. Police had their car windows smashed and a lot of abuse from local youths, but we sent over five Bengali officers and we immediately got cooperation we just wouldn't have got otherwise. "On another occasion, we had a call from a police force up north who were trying to find a missing person in the Chinese community. "He had been gone for two weeks and there were fears for his life. We sent a Chinese officer up and he was found a day and half later." Tamil officers are also helping out in Operation Enver, investigating violence involving rival Tamil gangs, while a specialist in Cant, the Irish Travellers' language, is assisting with an inquiry into the Travelling community. But it is not about putting people in boxes. The unit takes great pride in finding the right individual for the job, irrespective of their race or lifestyle. "Just because you're a black officer doesn't mean you relate to every black person," Det Ch Insp Fraser said. "A middle-aged Cambridge-educated black officer will have less in common with young black guys on a south London estate than a young white officer who was brought up there." Many investigations require lateral thinking, and getting knowledge in-house helps safeguard confidentiality. There is no telling when unusual skills and hobbies come in useful. "We've called in an officer who is a qualified hypnotist for advice, and we also got a voodoo expert to interpret the meaning of seemingly innocuous objects sent to a Bangladeshi man but which turned out to have a sinister significance. "Involvement can range from giving a bit of advice on the phone to six months' undercover work," said Det Ch Insp Fraser. "Obviously, we carry out risk assessments and take appropriate precautions. "But those whose services we've called on get great personal satisfaction from the experience. One minute, you're a beat bobby on the street or a civilian clerical worker at your desk, and the next you're giving crucial advice in a murder investigation. "The unit highlights the true meaning of diversity and the fantastic opportunities and benefits it gives policing."