A woman accused of suffocating her daughter with her husband's help in a so-called honour killing has changed her defence and now says her partner did attack the 17-year-old, but acted alone.Henry Riding, prosecuting, told the jury at Chester crown court on Monday that a new defence case statement contained an admission from Farzana Ahmed that an "incident of violence" did occur towards her daughter Shafilea in the family home on 11 September 2003 – a claim she had previously denied.The new statement alleges that she came downstairs to discover her husband, Iftikhar, attacking Shafilea at their home in Warrington, Cheshire. She claims she tried to intervene but was "punched with a clenched fist".It says she went upstairs with the other children as she was scared, and when she went back downstairs 20 minutes later, Shafilea and her husband were gone.When he returned she claims she asked her husband where their daughter was, and he responded: "If you care for your dear life and that of your children don't ever ask me this question again."Farzana Ahmed says she asked the same question of her husband "one or two days later". She says he responded: "I have already told you once before, I don't know where she is. I have also told you not to ask me that question again."She alleges that her husband told her that if she spoke to anyone or told anyone anything that he would "do the same to our other children and to you". She ends the statement by saying she believed her husband had taken Shafilea "somewhere" and that "she was safe".Farzana Ahmed, 49, is jointly accused with Iftikhar Ahmed, 52, of murdering Shafilea. They deny the charges and have been on trial for eight weeks. Yesterday, the judge, Mr Justice Roderick, told jurors Farzana had changed her defence. The jury will return to court for the opening of the defence case tomorrow.Five months after her disappearance, Shafilea's body was found concealed on the banks of the River Kent in Sedgwick, Cumbria.The prosecution claims that she was killed because of her westernised lifestyle and her resistance to an arranged marriage with a suitor in Pakistan.The main prosecution witness has been Shafilea's younger sister Alesha Ahmed, who said she and her siblings watched as her parents jointly held her sister down on a settee, forced a carrier bag into her mouth and suffocated her. She claimed her mother said in Urdu: "Let's finish it here," shortly before the murder.The murder was carried out, she said, after an argument with their mother about Shafilea's clothing and boyfriends. She said she later saw her mother with sheets, binbags and rolls of black and brown tape in the kitchen.The court heard that Alesha agreed to give evidence after staging an armed robbery at the family's house in 2010. When questioned by police, she gave an account of what happened to her sister. The defence claim she made up the story to try to get herself out of trouble – a claim she denies.Shafilea's younger sister Mevish, who was called as a witness by the judge, told the court that letters in which she apparently described "how her parents killed the teenager" were fictional free-writing.She wrote them four years ago and gave them to her friend, Shahin Munir, who handed them to police and was a prosecution witness.Mevish denied witness intimidation but admitted making silent calls to her friend during the trial and trying to discourage her from giving evidence.A teacher, Joanne Code, who taught Shafilea at Great Sankey high school in Warrington, told the trial the student told her that her parents were "going to marry me off in Pakistan".When Shafilea was absent from school, Code said they she spoke to her on the telephone and told her to answer her questions yes or no. "I asked whether or not I needed to be worried about her welfare. She replied 'yes'."The next day the teenager returned to school and went to see her teacher. "She had bruising to her neck and a cut on her lip," Code said.The trial continues.