An undercover reporter with a history of violence who worked for the BBC and Channel 4 was yesterday found guilty of torturing a man to death in front of the victim's family. James Raven, 44, worked on more than 50 television programmes including the BBC's MacIntyre Uncovered and Crooked Britain and Channel 4's Sleepers. When they employed Raven, television bosses knew he had served 14 months in jail for a road rage attack. Producers thought he was a changed man whose background had made him ideal for investigating crime gangs. But Raven, who has an array of tattoos including "approach with extreme caution" and "psychopath", was not a reformed character. Chester crown court heard how he subjected Brian Waters to "systematic and barbaric torture" at a farm in Tabley, Cheshire, in June last year. The farm's cowshed was "turned into a torture chamber" during the killing which was linked to a dispute over drugs. With his adult son and daughter tied up and forced to watch, Waters was beaten, whipped, burned and attacked with an industrial staple gun by a gang believed to have been led by Raven.Waters was hung upside down and his attackers tried to sexually assault him with an iron bar, causing fatal internal injuries. The savage attack left him with 123 different injuries including 24 individual rib fractures. The court heard that the man was killed in a revenge attack ordered by Raven's co-defendant, John Wilson, 55, allegedly after falling out about a large debt with Waters, who had convictions for drug dealing, and had a cannabis farm. As well as Waters being killed, 21-year-old Suleman Razak, a stepson of one of Waters' business partners, was also assaulted. Raven had denied murder, saying he had gone along with a scheme to steal equipment from the cannabis farm while working for an undercover TV programme. He said it was called Reefer Madness, which was looking into drug dealing and the reclassification of cannabis. He said he witnessed the attacks but had nothing to do with them. "I was horrified," said Raven. "I tried to get them to stop but they ignored me." But after 16 hours of deliberation a jury found Raven, of Bolton, Greater Manchester, and Wilson, of Glossop, Derbyshire, both guilty of murder and two counts of conspiracy to commit grievous bodily harm. "Raven was plainly the ringleader," Patrick Harrington QC, prosecuting, told the court. "Brian Waters was the victim of systematic and barbaric torture. The injuries and the manner of their infliction is, to say the least, chilling." Ashley Guishard, 30, of Sale, Greater Manchester, was cleared of all charges. The jury was sent home for the night after failing to reach a verdict on Otis Matthews, 27, of Manchester, who is charged with the same offences. During the eight-week trial it emerged that Raven and his cousin Christopher More, 26, who is still wanted by police in connection with Waters' death, earned up to £500 a day working on undercover assignments for the BBC and Channel 4. Raven ran a bed linen company before he found greater rewards working in television. The court heard that a surveillance company run by Raven and Mr More earned £80,000 a year. Raven drove an expensive soft-top Mercedes with personalised plates; Mr More had a Porsche and would boast of his undercover work to impress women, the court heard. In a statement last night, the BBC said: "From time to time in cases of overriding public interest, the BBC, like other media organisations, works with people who have had criminal convictions in order to expose criminality or serious wrongdoing. At the time of these offences James Raven was no longer working for the BBC." The court heard how the killers had broken into the farmhouse and destroyed the cannabis farm. They attacked Mr Razak and hung him from his ankles with his face and head submerged in a barrel of water. He was burned with chemicals, and a pillowcase covering his head was set on fire. Waters arrived later at the farm and was also suspended upside down and used as a "human punchbag", the court heard. A bin bag was set alight and the molten plastic was allowed to drip on to him. When Waters' son and daughter arrived at the farm they were abducted at gunpoint and tied up. Waters' wife, Julie, was also abducted from the family home in nearby Nantwich, Cheshire, and taken prisoner. She was driven in the family car to the scene of the attack and found her murdered husband. During the trial, several television executives for BBC and Channel 4 went into the witness box to admit they had employed Raven. Gregor Stewart, a radio and television producer for the BBC and companies supplying Channel 4, said he met Raven in autumn 2002 when he was researching a film about cannabis. "James Raven fitted in very well with other criminals. He was described to me as looking particularly aggressive, but I find his appearance to be deceptive. I knew that he had a conviction in the past but I understood him to be a reformed man." Fiona Campbell, commissioning editor for Channel 4 and a former BBC series producer, employed the pair to work on investigations about car crime and the illegal meat trade. "I was aware that [Raven] had convictions for violence," she told the court, adding that he was "organised ... reliable" and a good employee. Freelance producer and director Tom Anstis, who has worked for the BBC and Channel 4, told the court that there was a lengthy process before he was hired. He said: "I knew that he had previous convictions. I had no idea that there was so many ... I have not seen him use or offer violence to anyone."