On a road close to where Tariq has lived all his life lies the remains of his car. The 18-year-old found its charred chassis at the kerb where he had parked it the night before. Keeping his eyes down, and his arms firmly folded, he nods slowly that, yes, he knows who did this. "It's them down the other end," he says. He means a rival gang - one of the many based only a twist and turn away in the King's Cross area of north London - that he and his friends have fought since they were 11. At first, it was Bangladeshi boys against white boys, but these days allegiance is more likely to be defined by the streets in which they live. Tariq's friend, Nazrul, wants no retaliation. The culprit has been caught on CCTV, he says. The police can sort it out; deal with it through legal channels, he advises. "I'm trying to move away from all of this, to get a life," Nazrul says. His family needs him to be working. He is studying for an NVQ. Two of his friends are in prison because of fighting. "We have to avoid all of that," he says. "There's no point anymore." Nazrul joined the gang because he was bullied and threatened by other youths. "People used to see me as a nerd," he recalls. "I used to get attacked in the clubs and parks. People used to take advantage, so I thought I should get on with the people bullying me. I ended up having to bully other people. But I felt safe." By the time he was 13, the group was using bottles, knives and baseball bats in fights with neighbouring youths who came into "our area" - or over girlfriends who "switch lanes" and go out with a rival. But the group is not a gang, argues another friend. Shalim first fought when he was 14; he could not just stand by and watch his cousins and friends being racially abused by white boys. "If you don't stand up for yourself, you'll keep getting bashed," he says. "People were hungry for respect. You wanted to be known. You wanted to be a somebody. But a gang would be like the mafia - they'd have a strong leader and a power struggle. But we're just friends." Perceptions of gangs are central to the rising public fear of crime. Young people congregating on the streets is increasingly identified, both by local residents and the media, as a cause of community degeneration. Such anxiety has stepped up expectations on frontline staff to intervene in what is, at the softer end, anti-social behaviour and, at the sharper end, is crime, violence and guns. Until now, intervention methods used in Britain have been borrowed largely from the US, where gang conflict is as old as the nation. But the biggest piece of research into why young people join gangs in Britain - to be unveiled tomorrow at a conference in London - finds crucial distinctions between British gangs and their US counterparts, highlighting the need for homegrown responses. Conducted by leading experts in youth conflict in Britain, Leap Confronting Conflict, the research gauged the views of more than 200 young people aged 11 to 25 through questionnaires and workshops in 26 youth organisations in five cities. The average age of the sample was 15 and almost three-quarters were male. Respondents were reached through youth clubs, youth offending teams, peer leadership groups and a school. Financed by the Diana, Princess of Wales Memorial Fund, the research was one element of a three-year initiative to develop and test new, practical ways of reintegrating into society young people involved in street gangs. Project workers also travelled to New York, Los Angeles, Northern Ireland and Norway to search for new methods that could be applied to groups in Britain. Just under half of the young people questioned classified their group as a gang. The rest considered it to be a peer group. Of all the reasons young people gave for why they were part of a gang, "protection" was the most common, with 31% considering it to be a benefit. The second most common factor was enjoyment, followed by friendship. Notably, status emerged as less important than these three. Themes of respect, reputation and power combined were rated as a benefit only by 26% of those surveyed. The types of offences perpetrated by gangs and peer groups were found to differ. Most common for gangs were violent offences, with 26% of crimes falling into this category, compared to 24% among non-gangs. But among non-gangs, theft was a far more common offence (29%) than among gangs (14%). Helen Carmichael, executive director of Leap, says British gangs are tamer than those in the US, which are more likely to have distinct identities, hierarchies and a greater focus on crime. "In the States, gangs have been developed around initiation ceremonies and certain styles of clothing. That's not the type of groups we've been finding in Britain." Specialist skills in resolving conflict among British youth workers are limited, Carmichael says. In addition, fear about the levels of violence among some frontline staff is increasing. "That's decreased the willingness to intervene, which leaves young people to themselves to deal with conflict in their own way." Tom Wylie, chief executive of the National Youth Agency, which promotes youth work, says there is a need to develop interventions that do not criminalise young people. "They need to ask why they're getting into gangs, what is it that draws young people into conflict?" he says. "Though it still has its place, there's no way we can simply return to cosy chats in a youth club." What makes Leap's methods different, he says, is that they work with the whole dynamic of a gang, rather than focusing on individuals within a group. Wylie is optimistic that the government's blueprint to modernise youth services, which requires all local authorities to meet particular standards by 2005, will provide the impetus and money to reverse an 18% reduction in youth services over the past 20 years. Under the blueprint, councils are expected to identify and analyse the youth service needs in their area. They must adopt a "pledge" to young people to provide not only the traditional safe meeting place for personal and social developlment, and a range of clubs and activities, but also programmes related to peer education and ways of ensuring their views are heard. The government has promised £83m to the reform programme over five years. On a housing scheme in Castlemilk, near Glasgow - where Leap first trialled new interventions last summer - youngsters of 10 and 11 are involved in conflicts born decades before they were. Territorial strife between families living in Glasgow's slums simply transferred to the estate when they were moved in the 1970s. Young people considered it so dangerous to travel into another gang's area that they took taxis to cross the estate. Trips to the doctor's surgery were being made first thing in the morning, before rivals were on the streets, and a minibus was used by the youth service to transport young people, often short distances, to reach services. According to one local youth worker, a previous attempt to bring peace, in the form of a friendly foot ball tournament, had ended up as "a huge boxing match". Leap's two project staff and local youth workers spent six weeks last summer getting four different gangs to talk about and consider the cost and consequences of their membership. "Some young people fear they will lose their security by a conflict being resolved," says Jessie Feinstein, who ran the project together with Nia Imani Kuumba, a fellow gangs and territorialism development worker.  "We don't expect young people to leave the gang - we acknowledge that friendship," says Feinstein. "We're saying that, in some situations, because of the group identity, there are negative consequences." Members from three of the gangs went away together on a residential course at the end of the period. One group picked its "best fighter" and "best negotiator". But there were no fights and none when they returned to Castlemilk - nor when they began the new school term. For the first time, young people from one area attended a community festival they had previously considered too risky. Vicki Burns, youth voice development worker at Castlemilk youth services group, says that while conflict among young people is still a big issue in the community, the project has left workers with a "tool bag" to continue tackling it. "None of us here had training in conflict resolution," says Burns. "We've done small pieces of work, but it has been short-lived and wasn't part of our core business so ended up being pushed out." Having Leap workers, who were perceived by the young people to be neutral, added to the project's success. "We work in this community and perhaps you begin to take the causes of the conflict for granted and aren't constantly asking 'why?'." The Castlemilk service has secured funding to continue the work, and progress has also been made in King's Cross, where Leap has worked with 16 young men in two rival groups. Project workers have tested a leadership scheme to encourage 17- and 18-year-olds to take responsibility for their actions and make their own decisions. But a plan to bring the two groups together at a residential course in February became impossible when, at the end of last year, members of the groups clashed and left one youth with serious injuries and his attackers on remand. Tariq and his friends say that, despite the incident, Leap's work has boosted their confidence and made them consider the consequences of violence. They are helping to organise sports events to tackle conflict and are training to be peer motivators. "Some nine-year-olds are already choosing which side of a gang they're on," says Shalim. "We're trying to stop all the trouble - for the little ones." Tariq, Nazrul and Shalim are pseudonyms. Leap Confonting Conflict is at: www.Leaplinx.com Peace talks More than one in four gang members thinks they have a lifetime bond, the Leap research suggests, with 27% of those surveyed believing the gang would last "forever". Of those in groups not considered to be gangs, about half as many (14%) believed the group would endure. But 78% nevertheless saw themselves staying with the group "a long time". More than half the gangs indentified by the research had a name. However, this was not a trait exclusive to gangs, as 16% of other groups carried a name also. Young people in gangs will tomorrow tell Leap's conference on working with antagonistic groups - Gangs! What Gangs? at Imperial College in London - that useful interventions should include more opportunities to talk about group identity and violence.Gang members are planning to say that adults are not helping them develop skills to stop the spiral of retaliation. Conflicts could be curtailed if interventions focused on resolving root causes of disputes. Alternative sources of excitement and entertainment are needed to replace fighting, the gang members argue. Parents should be involved in intervention work so they better understand why conflict is taking place. Leadership skills should be developed and steps taken to build confidence among young people so that they reject invitations to join in with violence.