Two men have been found guilty of money laundering over a dating website scam that targeted single women looking for love online.The victims were duped after they responded to a false profile of an "attractive middle-aged man" on the match.com website.They fell for the conman's story that he was due to receive a £100m inheritance from his father but that it was tied up by red tape in India.Once the relationship had developed with the fake man, normally called James Richards, the conspirators started requesting cash. At first the women were asked for a £700 legal fee by a fake solicitor but then the sums requested rose to up to £100,000, Winchester crown court heard.The trial was told that vulnerable women were conned out of £220,000, with one victim, Suzanne Hardman, handing over £174,000. Some realised it was a scam and did not pay any cash.Following the three-week trial, Monty Emu, 28, of Frencham Road, Southsea, Hampshire, and Adewunmi Nusi, 27, of Bomford Close, Hermitage, Berkshire, were convicted of money laundering.Brooke Boston, 28, of Chelsea Road, Southsea, was cleared of charges of conspiracy to defraud and money laundering.On the first day of the trial, Emmanuel Oko, 29, of Waverley Grove, Southsea, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to defraud and money laundering and Chukwuka Ugwu, 28, of Somers Road, Southsea, admitted money laundering.A sixth person, Eberechi Ekpo, 26, of Adair Road, Southsea, was cleared of money laundering and fraud by false representation part way through the trial.Simon Edwards, prosecuting, told jurors that messages of love and "overblown affection" were sent to the victims through the match.com website before the conmen moved on to emails and text messages.Examples of the messages included: "You make me feel loved, you make me feel safe, most importantly you make me feel wanted. I knew our friendship would grow from the first day we spoke but neither one of us could imagine the love exploding, no thundering into our hearts."Another read: "Honey, seriously I love you because I have never been loved by anyone like you loved me. I feel like a complete man. The thought of your hands on my body, particularly when you hold me when I am sleeping. I love your generous kindness to me. I love your eye and lips, your sense of self-love. I want to be with you now."Hardman, from Basingstoke, sobbed as she told the court how she was duped by "James Richards" who told her his mother had also died recently.She said: "He was very sociable, we got on, like a friendship. I learnt a bit about his background, I told him a bit about mine."She said that after they had been communicating for about 11 months, "James Richards" told her that his dead father had a frozen account in India with £1.5m in it. He also told her that he intended to sell a number of properties owned by his father.All four face sentencing in the week of 13 October.