The mother of a post office owner who was murdered today appealed for help in catching her daughter's killer, saying that her own life had been destroyed too.Diana Garbutt, 40, died of severe head injuries in the upstairs living area of the shop and post office in Melsonby, near Richmond, North Yorkshire, on Tuesday.Her husband, Robin, 44, found her body after an armed robbery in which, he told police, a gunman demanded money and told him "We've got your wife" before escaping with about £10,000 in cash.At a news conference today, Mrs Garbutt's mother, 60-year-old Agnes Gaylor, said her daughter was content and loved life, adding: "She didn't deserve to be taken like this. The person who has taken my Diana's life has also destroyed my life, her husband Robin's life and the lives of so many other people who adored Diana."I'm here today to appeal to anyone watching, reading or listening: if you have any information which may help the police catch the person who brutally murdered my wonderful daughter Diana, please come forward with that information."Someone knows the person who did this. Someone you know may have Diana's blood on their clothes, may be behaving oddly or spending more money than usual."She said the past few years living in the village and being married to Robin had been the happiest of Diana's life. She was "very thoughtful – just a lovely girl".Her daughter had dual nationality, as her father is American. She had been due to visit her family in the United States on an extended holiday this weekend as the couple had never had a honeymoon. She had planned to visit her sister Victoria in California, before travelling to see her 94-year-old grandmother, Rose, in Virginia, her mother said.Gaylor said she had to break the news to the elderly grandmother by telephone. "She rang me a couple of days ago and Rose is just an amazing person. She held it together to speak to me; she didn't lose control. I know how much that is hurting her."She added that everybody in the village had liked her daughter and her husband. Following an earlier robbery at the post office, in March 2009, she said Mr Garbutt was upset and frightened.Underwater search teams have been focusing on a beck and gullies for evidence of a discarded weapon and bin collections have been suspended in the village. Other searches have been taking place in the area and motorists are being stopped and questioned by officers.Police said Mr Garbutt had been working in the shop from 4.30am on Tuesday. The robber entered from the living quarters at about 8.30am and stole cash from the safe before fleeing. It is not clear how the robber was able to slip into the living quarters unnoticed. The postmaster then found his wife upstairs and called for an ambulance.The robber has been described as 5ft 11in to 6ft (1.8m) tall, wearing a black balaclava, a dark blue, long-sleeved T-shirt and dark blue or black jeans.