Police investigating the murder of a woman in south London began DNA testing men today in one of the biggest screening programmes to be carried out in the UK.Around 4,000 men will be tested as officers continue their hunt for the killer of 18-year-old Sally Anne Bowman, a part-time model who was fatally stabbed near her home in Croydon.They have asked white or light-skinned men aged between 20 and 40 who live or work in the South Croydon area to provide mouth swabs and fingerprint samples.The men, matching the general description of the main suspect in the inquiry, were sent letters asking them to give samples. They were asked to voluntarily attend a screening centre, but detectives said those who did not could expect to be visited by officers at home.Ms Bowman was stabbed, bitten and sexually assaulted in the early hours of September 25 last year. Her killer inflicted several deep stab wounds, probably using a carving knife. The weapon has not been recovered.Detectives believe she was attacked between 4.15am and 4.30am after being dropped home by a former boyfriend, who has been eliminated from the inquiry. Her partially clothed body was found on the driveway of her home.Today, Ms Bowman's mother, Linda, urged men to help police by going to a temporary screening centre at Brighton Road Baptist Church so they could be eliminated from the inquiry."We're hoping people will come in so we can eliminate them and allow more time for the police to get on with things," she said. "We just want them all to come in."She said the family had been devastated by the murder, adding: "We don't cope, we just take one day at a time. I don't think we'll ever cope again."Two of the murdered model's sisters, 24-year-old Danielle and Nicole, 23, were at the church to support their mother. A third, 21-year-old Michelle, was thought to be too upset to attend.Ms Bowman's mother said she was confident the family would see justice done, adding: "You can run, but you can't hide forever."Police have forensically linked the murder to a sexual assault on another woman in nearby Purley in 2001. Officers believe the assailant may have targeted other women.Witnesses described him as white, in his 20s or 30s, 5ft 9in to 6ft tall and clean shaven with short dark hair. Police fear he could strike again.