Gun crime, particulary involving the use of imitation weapons, has risen by 10% in the past year casting a shadow over official figures published yesterday showing continuing falls in the overall crime rate in England and Wales.The use of imitation weapons rose by 66% with a large majority of 3,268 offences recorded by the police involving "BB" guns which fire ball-bearings. The rise in use of imitation weapons was accompanied by a 13% fall in the number incidents involving real handguns. Although that has meant the number of people seriously injured fell slightly those who suffered some injury in situations in which a gun was produced soared by 74% to 3,051. Overall gun crime rose by 10% to 11,082 incidents. Seventy people died in shootings in 2004 compared with 73 the previous year. Ministers last night claimed that the growing use of imitation weapons was due to the introduction of a five-year mandatory sentence for carrying a real gun compared with only six months for an imitation and the increasing perception of them as a fashion accessory in hip-hop gang culture. The home secretary, Charles Clarke, promised to introduce a "flagship violent crime reduction bill" within weeks of the general election which would tackle the ownership and use of replica firearms and knives. They would consult over a ban on replica and imitation guns - a measure which has been regarded as impractical in the past. Tony Blair promised to reduce crime overall by a further 15% by 2008 and to provide a visible "neighbourhood policing team" for every community. The annual crime figures for 2004 show that crime in England and Wales dropped by 11% according to the authoritative British Crime Survey and by 5% according to the police recorded crime figures.The two measures disagreed over the trend in violent crime with the BCS showing an 11% fall and the police figures indicating a 9% rise. The Home Office said the 9% was largely due to changes in police recording methods. The 11,000 gun crime incidents form only a small part of the 295,000 violent incidents recorded last year. The Conservatives however dismissed this explanation and claimed that violent crime had reached a million offences a year. The shadow home secretary David Davis said: "The government's complacency is breathtaking. Charles Clarke said that violent crime is falling yet recorded statistics - the ones that Labour used in opposition and in their own manifesto - show that violent crime has risen by another 9% in the last quarter." Mark Oaten of the Liberal Democrats said that Labour had failed to mention that the baseline for their promise to cut crime by a further 15% was 2002/03 BCS figures which meant that he already had 5% of the reduction in his pocket. "Labour's promises ring hollow in the light of the latest violent crime figures. The binge drinking culture is to blame, and in eight years Labour has done little about it," said Mr Oaten. The violent crime reduction bill will include tougher sentences for knife and gun crime, raise the age at which a young person can buy a knife from 16 to 18 and make it illegal to buy an imitation firearm below the age of 18. Ministers also plan to make it illegal to convert an imitation weapon into a real gun, make it an aggravated offence to use children to hide guns and to set up a gun crime hotline for people to raise worries about gangs using guns to intimidate communities. Mr Blair got into trouble yesterday when he appeared to be waxing nostalgic for the era of the Kray twins when he compared the brutality of today's drug gangs with the kind of criminal that featured in 1950s films. He implied there was less violence then and that criminals seemed to operate by some more ethical code. He swiftly issued a correction.