Today in Brixton's Windrush Square, it is difficult to see signs of the disturbance that spread from Tottenham to the area. Locals and visitors pass by on the way to the many bars, restaurants and shops. Young people walking through the square express shock at the rioting that erupted.Anthony, 16, described his sense of Brixton: "We feel as a community, but when you hear things like this then you just feel that your ideas are wrong." He saw the rioting as "pointless", saying "some people, like, haven't got what they need so they decided to take".Like other young people I interviewed in the town centre, he did not associate the riots with political motivations. Faruq, 17, argued that "there were no connections between what happened here and the shootings in Tottenham." Although concerned about local stores, he had little sympathy for big businesses "like Nike and Adidas". "People don't have money to afford these things, so now it's a chance for them to take it," he said.The perspective on the riots changes as you walk up the high street. Passing the finished repairs to the graffiti-sprayed Barclays, the looted T-Mobile, Vodafone and H&M and vandalised pawnbroker, you can still see the burnt out Footlocker and the local market left curiously untouched by the disturbance. North of the town centre, there were different views: Gerard, 19, saw the riot as "a rebellion" against the government."They've cut down on EMA, colleges and stuff. They're cutting down on benefits," he said. Children as young as 13 connected the uprising to cuts in the Education Maintenance Allowance (EMA).Samuel, from the less affluent Angell Town estate, believed that the death of Mark Duggan became an "excuse" for the rioting in Brixton. But he also knew people who took part who had expressed concerns about the EMA and Duggan's death before violence broke out. He believed there would be many more stops and searches by police as a result: "People have no rights no more."Emma, 15, also worried about relationships between young people and the police in recent years: "This is the modern age, not the middle ages."Catherine, Anniah and Sonia, all 14, were shocked at "pathetic" acts of violence, but Sonia also felt that there were lessons for the authorities to learn. Their friend Matthew, 14, has witnessed about 15 incidents of stop and search by the police that he sees as unfair. "They find an excuse," he said.There was universal concern about the effect of the riots on Brixton's sense of community and among its young people. But further away from the civic and commercial centre, the stronger the expression of a sense of injustice and lack of entitlement. Even those who see the rioting as opportunist feel that the acts it enabled arose from a disconnection between politics and the lives of local people.• Richard Bramwell studied sociology at the London School of Economics and wrote his PhD on London hip-hop and grime culture. He grew up in Brixton and now lives nearby in Tulse Hill