The killer of the headmaster Philip Lawrence has been cleared of using his notoriety to intimidate and rob a young man at a cash machine. Learco Chindamo, 31, was alleged to have accosted David Sexton with the words: "Do you remember about the headteacher in Maida Vale?" as he ordered him to hand over his money.The 31-year-old had only been released from prison for the 1995 murder some four months before the confrontation in north London, jurors were told. But following the collapse of three previous trials, he was acquitted of robbery at Blackfriars crown court, London, on Wednesday.During seven days of evidence, jurors were told Chindamo tried to "intimidate and terrify" Sexton, allegedly demanding cash as he withdrew money outside a Sainsbury's store on 13 November last year. The 20-year-old had been enjoying a work night out which culminated in Camden, north London, at about 3.30am, with his friends James Pearce and Seamus Delahunty.He had planned to withdraw a large amount of money from the cash machine in Chalk Farm Road but became wary and decided to take out only £20 when he noticed Chindamo and two other men. Prosecutor Alison Morgan told the court: "Mr Chindamo came towards Mr Sexton saying words to the effect of, 'Do you know who I am?' and 'Do you remember about the headteacher in Maida Vale?'"The crown say that this was quite plainly and deliberately a reference to his conviction designed to intimidate and threaten Mr Sexton."He became increasingly loud and aggressive and even falsely told Sexton that his co-defendant, Gregory Jananto, had stabbed a witness in his murder trial, it was alleged.Jurors heard how Jananto, 32, – armed with a large empty glass bottle which he waved around by the neck – and Saeed Akhtar, 32, surrounded Sexton in an "intimidating and threatening manner". Chindamo later told police he had been provoked by a man at the cashpoint who branded him a "killer".Sexton, who at the time was working for a construction company in Holborn, central London, did not initially recognise Chindamo but knew about the murder of Lawrence, which had happened near his home.The court heard he had been to the cinema and a bar in Covent Garden before he found himself facing the killer. Giving evidence from behind a screen, he recalled feeling "scared" when Chindamo allegedly referred to the December 1995 murder outside the gates of St George's School in Maida Vale, west London. "He demanded compensation for disrespecting him," Sexton told the court."He was basically saying, 'hand over the money'. I didn't think I had done anything wrong." Terrified, he complied "because he was scared of what would happen to him if he did not", Morgan said.Defence lawyers claimed Sexton in fact handed over £10 as a peace offering following the dispute so Chindamo could buy a drink.In police interviews, Chindamo denied threatening the man, using unlawful violence against him or demanding money from him. Jananto told officers Chindamo wanted to put his past behind him and never reacted when he was recognised and insulted.He admitted he had a bottle of vodka in his hand and accepted his behaviour was "overly aggressive" but said it was to defend himself because he feared there would be a fight. In his police interview, Akhtar denied using any threat or force and claimed the other group of men started the situation.The verdict, at the end of their fourth trial, came after three previous attempts to convict Chindamo fell apart. Chindamo, of Catford, south London, Jananto, of Shepherd's Bush, west London, and Akhtar, of Camden, consistently denied robbery. All were cleared of the charges.Chindamo hugged Jananto, who broke down in tears as the verdicts were read out.He will remain in custody pending a review of his case.