Police officers are set to be paid bonuses of up to £500 for patrolling city centre crime hotspots on Friday and Saturday nights as part of a proposed deal on pay and conditions designed to pave the way for radical police reform.The bonuses will be paid for demanding or unpleasant tasks - which will also include hostage negotiations or dealing with decomposed bodies - and are part of an outline agreement reached this week between the Police Federation and Home Office.The federation had feared that a proposed shake-up would leave officers facing a pay cut. But after intense negotiations the government put in more money up front, including a £400 rise for every officer, ensuring most will not be worse off. The Home Office also agreed to make it clear that savings from one of its most controversial proposals - to reduce overtime rates - would go back into improved pay and other rewards. However, the outline agreement does not settle the most controversial issue in the reform package - the appointment of civilian community support officers with the power to detain suspects. The Police Federation have dubbed these "Blunkett's bouncers". But rank-and-file constables have now shelved a threatened series of protests, including a mass rally in the home secretary's Sheffield constituency. Instead Clint Elliott, the Police Federation's general secretary, yesterday told branches that the package would be put to officers as "the best that can be achieved in negotiation within the timescale". A consultation exercise will establish whether ordinary police officers agree. Mr Blunkett believes the agreement clears the way for the introduction of legislation in February or March for a major overhaul in police working practices, which will see the introduction of civilian patrol officers and a drive to raise standards. He described the package as "rewards in return for reform". On the timing of the legislation, he said: "It is a bit like air traffic control. You get a slot in the legislative programme, if you miss it you have had it for a very long time." Further details of the agreement include the scrapping of the plain clothes allowance and the firearms users standby allowance, both considered anachronistic. More significantly, officers are to be encouraged to remain on community beats, with increased pay and promotion opportunities. An extra £1,000 "pay point" is to be introduced at the top of each rank's salary scale to reward experience and competence. The outline agreement also spells the end of annual duty rotas and the federation's veto over shift patterns. A shake-up in the use of part-time staff has also been agreed in an attempt to persuade experienced officers not to leave the force. There will also be standardised rules across all forces aimed at tackling the large number of retirements on grounds of ill health.