Scotland Yard was coordinating a twin track counter-terrorism strategy nationwide yesterday as tension over possible reprisals for the bombing of Afghanistan led to a rise in the number of armed officers on duty at potential targets.While senior officers believe that high-visibility foot patrols at government buildings and other landmarks are "a must" during the crisis, they concede that monitoring Islamist militants is a greater priority. The anti-terrorist branch has called for intelligence reports from police forces which have large Muslim communities within their boundaries, and is focusing on the activities of up to 200 known supporters of Osama bin Laden, who are believed to be under 24-hour surveillance. The Metropolitan police stressed yesterday that there was "no intelligence to suggest that the country was in danger of an imminent terrorist attack" and urged people not to let events abroad disrupt their lives. But officers admit they dare not be complacent. "In intelligence terms, before September 11, no news was considered good news," said a security source. "Now, no news is considered a reason to be nervous. Nobody knew what was being planned then, so we have to remain constantly vigilant." One cause for concern is the decision by the London-based al-Muharijoun group, set up by the outspoken Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, to hold private rather than public meetings to condemn the military campaign. Al-Muharijoun, which has more than 7,000 members, yesterday described the strikes by US and British forces as "terrorism", and said that large numbers of moderate Muslims were joining its ranks. Bakri said yesterday he did not believe that the UK would be targeted by al-Qaida terrorists, but warned that support here for Bin Laden could only increase. "Opinion is turning against the war. There is support for Bin Laden, because his message, particularly over what is going on in Palestine, seems more rational than what the government is saying." The reaction of the Muslim Council of Britain will also have been noted by officers. The council said: "In these testing times we urge British Muslims to act with utmost patience and not let themselves be provoked. We also urge vigilance against acts of hate and Islamophobia directed at the Muslim community." Police forces are on "amber alert", the second highest. Whitehall raised its security status from "black special" to "amber" over the weekend, which requires automatic baggage searches and identity checks for staff. Firm intelligence of an intended terrorist strike would lead to a "red" alert. Armed police were stationed at high risk buildings yesterday, including the US embassy in London, Buckingham Palace, main rail and underground stations, the Houses of Parliament and airports. More than 1,500 extra officers were on the streets of the capital yesterday - back to levels introduced in the immediate aftermath of the attacks on America. The deployment is likely to continue for the coming weeks, with more officers being asked to work 12-hour rather than eight-hour shifts. "We recognise this is a difficult and uncertain time for everyone and we encourage members of all communities to go about their daily business as normal," said a Met spokesman. British Transport police have curtailed undercover operations to increase the number of officers in uniform to 1,700. Eurotunnel, operator of the Channel tunnel, said it would continue to run its high-level security that has been in place since last month's suicide hijacks. The so-called "ring of steel" around the City - introduced to minimise the threat of Irish republican attacks - has been reinforced with extra security checks at US-owned banks. The cost of heightened security in London alone is estimated at £1m a week, and the Met is lobbying for extra funds. Yesterday the Met's commissioner, Sir John Stevens, and the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority, Toby Harris, met the home secretary, David Blunkett. Though the risk of biological or chemical attack is considered low, the public health laboratory service has reportedly increased the number of air samples taken by its 49 laboratories to provide an early warning.