 The panel: Gary Younge (chair); John Grieve, deputy assistant commissioner, metropolitan police force; Paul Charlton, race and violent crimes task force, metropolitan police; Cristina Odone, deputy editor, New Statesman; Lola Young, school of humanities and cultural studies, Middlesex University; Stephen Thompson, author; Faisal Bodi, news editor of UK Muslim magazine, Q news; Indhu Rubasingham, associate director, Birmingham Rep  Gary Younge: It seems like it's been quite a difficult year for the police, balancing some of the recommendations Macpherson report with what you would call effective policing. Is that a fair assessment?   John Grieve: No, that wouldn't be my position. The debate in the police is about effectiveness, about how you get stop-and-search better, what is an acceptable hit rate, what does proportionality mean out on the streets? We must get better at it if we want to keep the power.   GY:  When the crime figures came out it was hinted that one of the reasons certain crimes were not being detected was because there is a sense of self-consciousness among the police when they stop-and-search.   JG: There are issues about how the police feel about being convicted of institutional racism. But it has never been part of the strategy to have stop-and-search as a tactic.   Cristina Odone: But the feeling was much more verbalised than that wasn't it? I remember a piece by Tom Utlee saying that Macpherson had blood on his hands because they had demoralised the police force to such an extent that stop-and-search had decreased and the logical consequence of that decrease was an increase in street crime.   JG:  That's an outrageous thing for anybody to say about Sir William Macpherson.   Lola Young: But there seemed to be a concerted campaign after the report to make a causal link between the diminution of the amount of stop-and-search going on with fears of being accused of racism, and black people being implicated in the majority of street crime. What do you feel about the extent to which that kind of media frenzy plus public awareness folds back into how the police feel about themselves and their role?   JG:  What people expect has shifted quite substantially and the police didn't keep up with that. Is that a reasonable and non-defensive answer to the point you were making?   LY: Yes, sort of. There is an interesting relationship between how different groups of people see themselves, the way they perceive how other people perceive them and how all that gets played out through the media.   Stephen Thompson: It's a myth that the black community closes ranks when it comes to stop-and-search. We want to catch criminals like everybody else, but at the same time we don't want a disproportionate level of stopping and searching.   GY: Is there anyone here who would challenge the right of the police to stop someone in the street and ask them questions?   LY:  I wouldn't - but there's an assumption that black youths are up to no good, which is bad.   CO: Black men are five times as likely to be stopped and searched. In that context, where is the Asian community?   Faisal Bodi: I don't belong to the Asian community as such. I classify myself as a Muslim; it just happens that the majority of Muslims in this country are of an Asian background.   GY: Is it your feeling that by dwelling on young black men, Macpherson pushes other experiences to the margins?  Indhu Rubisingham: The report was in specific relation to the Stephen Lawrence inquiry, so in that sense I didn't feel marginalised. But there are lots of other issues that other communities experience that are different from the the Afro-Caribbean community.  ST:  I think it's important to put things in an historical context. One of the perceptions of the police is that they're unaccountable, and when it's time for them to be held to account they close ranks. I don't think Macpherson dealt with that.   GY: One of the solutions that was suggested in the first report was recruitment of more non-white officers. Why do you think young black and Asian people have not gone into the police in the past and what would have to be done to turn that around?   LY:  It's seen as a hostile environment.   GY: Black people generally are twice as likely to be unemployed. There are jobs there, one wonders why they're not taking them. What's stopping them? Perception? Paul, as a black police officer, what do you think?   Paul Charlton: It's either perception or what they've heard from other people, it's not necessarily something they've experienced themselves. The police have got to be seen by their own actions to be a non-racist service.   LY:  What we have to realise is all services will benefit from equal opportunities. These policies are for everybody, so it's not just about benefits that accrue to black people. We want a police service that solves crime, we want an education system that educates people. You talk about employment, but what employment prospects are there for black boys who are excluded from classrooms across the country?   ST:  The thing is, positive discrimination doesn't work in the end because we become stigmatised as not worthy and are told we are only there because of the colour of our skin. There's a lot of tokenism involved that only serves to make those people who implement those policies feel better about themselves.   LY: Somebody has to open the door for you slightly, but once you're in it comes down to merit. But we must recognise that there are glass ceilings.   FB: Yes, but we've got to be wary about playing the colours game. Having the right colours in the relevant place in the higher positions doesn't achieve anything. All you're going to get is recriminations and a possible backlash.   GY: Yes, but black people do want jobs and they aren't getting them in larger numbers than white people, which would suggest that there is some mismatch between aspiration and attainment.   LY: It's very easy for us to make generalisations, but we need to think about these things not only in terms of race but class and gender as well. Let's not also forget about the dire performance in schools of white working class boys.   GY: One of the ways in which current debates on race are interestingly skewed is that black people talk about their experiences of being black, white people never talk about their experiences of being white.   JG:  In terms of being a white, middle class, middle aged cop, Macpherson was a deeply shocking and shaming experience.   GY: Paul, were you shocked when they came up with institutional racism?   PC:  No, I can't say I was.   GY: So what have your experiences been in the police service?   PC:  You do have things happen to you from time to time, but it's not a huge catalogue. I've been stopped in my own station before and asked for ID in uniform. I've been stopped driving an unmarked police car and had the keys taken out of the ignition by a police officer who asked me to get out of the car, knowing that no radio check had been done on the car. One of the most embarrassing incidents was when I went to Wormwood Scrubs to take a prisoner out to an ID parade. I was driving an unmarked police car, with a white colleague in the back who was handcuffed to a black prisoner. We drove into the back of the station and all of a sudden a rapid response car drove right across my path. A WPC got out and banged on the window shouting, "Do you mind telling me who you are?"   GY: Did you complain about any of these things?   PC:  No. I've dealt with these things myself, approaching people on a one-to-one basis.   GY: Lets talk about the differences within races and also between communities. Faizal, is this is an issue?   FB:  We've got to accept that there are people who perhaps don't want to be labelled in ethnic or racial terms.   GY: What would you call yourself?   FB:  British Muslim. My roots are here, I was born here. My parents come from the subcontinent but my connections are very tenuous. I've never been there, but at the same time I have an identity that transcends race or anything else, something that comes from within, and that's Muslim.   GY:  We're all several things at the same time and different identities will come to the fore at different moments. The issue is whether there is ever a time when Asian is a relevant thing to call someone whose ancestors come from the subcontinent.   CO: Absolutely. I think one of the reasons we're all so exercised about this particular issue is because it is visible. It is like gender - the kind of prejudice that we all know about because it is worn outside. The fact that you're Muslim may be the most important thing to you, but to somebody from the outside it is not the most evident.   IR: The only useful terminology is the phrase British Asian. That's the only thing that actually connects this Asian community. Faizal and my parents would have nothing in common with each other culturally. But in the context of being British Asian they would.   LY:  The historical thing is important and interesting if we think about naming and categorising people. We describe black people as black and very often we don't describe white people as white, which shows the necessity to develop a more sophisticated language, understanding and analysis of what is going on.   GY: But because of the tension between a sense of race and a sense of place this is something that ethnic minorities have to think about and deal with on a daily basis. And now, for the first time, white people are engaged in it as well.   CO: But I don't think John would even have announced the fact that he was a white middle-class man 10 years ago. People weren't doing that. There has been a raising of consciousness about how white people are perceived.   GY: Is there a crisis in Englishness and whiteness? There's devolution, there's Europe, and there's William Hague on his truck saying, "Save our pound." Do you think that feeds into the debate?   LY: Some of the reactions to the Macpherson report should be seen in that context.   IR: I was gobsmacked to be hearing radio programmes and reading articles saying that the Brixton and Brick Lane bombs were a result of "the English being denied their culture" and "being swamped by having to be multicultural".   CO: There is very strong evidence of insecurity. The white British male sees himself as being put upon, in terms of relinquishing the notion of empire and specialness, contemporaneously with a stronger female workforce and more emancipated female partner, not to mention all these special issues that concern people other than himself. Hear the debate:• Paul Charlton talks about his experiences as a black policeman • Stephen Thomas and Gary Younge discuss postive discrimination • Indhu Rubisingham describes the British Asian experience • Lola Young asks the panel to think about race and class • Faisal Bodi, Gary Younge and Cristina Odone debate multiple identities • John Grieve discusses the Metropolitan police and how he feels to be white