A prisoner shouted "Don't let them take me away!" as three men armed with large kitchen knives snatched him from a prison van as it arrived at a magistrates' court yesterday.Detectives from Greater Manchester police are investigating whether Aaron Williams, 21, was kidnapped by criminals anxious that he should have no contact with police.The gang launched their attack as the Mercedes van arrived at Salford magistrates for the day's hearings and the driver waited for a barrier to be raised after leaving the cab to press a security button. They slashed the vehicle's tyres, punched the driver in the face and threatened a woman security guard.They then grabbed Mr Williams, one of three prisoners in the van, dragged him away and bundled him into a silver Vauxhall Zafira .All four men left in the car, which was reported stolen last month and was later found abandoned nearby in the Lower Broughton district of Salford.Mr Williams was on his way to court after being arrested on Wednesday for failing to appear at court on a theft charge last month. He had been held overnight at Swinton police station.Detectives are now trying to discover why the gang went to so much trouble and used such force to grab a man facing a charge for a minor offence."Kidnapping is at the forefront of my mind," said Detective Inspector Danny Woodward of Greater Manchester police."Security guards told us he was struggling when he was taken to the Vauxhall and bundled in.""He was bundled into the car and driven away and was heard by the security guards twice saying: 'Don't let them take me away'. The vehicle was found not too far away from where he lives. Why they would want to spring him when he had a realistic prospect of bail I don't know. We don't know for certain whether Aaron is in danger and we are keeping an open mind about exactly what has happened. But the guards had no option but to comply with the demands of the men. I would encourage anyone who has seen him to contact us immediately at the CID office at Salford as it is imperative that he is found."The detective said officers wanted to speak to anyone who saw anyone acting suspiciously in the area around the court or in the area of Chatford Close, where the Zafira was found.The driver of the van suffered swelling and bruising to his face.The three offenders are described as white, between 5 ft 6 in to 5 ft 7 in tall and of an athletic build. They are believed to be in their early 20s and spoke with local accents. They were wearing dark clothing and black balaclavas.A spokesman for the security firm GSL, which was responsible for the transfer of the prisoners, said: "This is a very serious incident. Our prisoner custody officers have been threatened with violence and one has received injuries which we think are as a result of being punched.""This is a very unusual incident. When this level of extreme violence is offered or used there is very little that we can do. Obviously we are assisting the police in every way."Forensic teams examined the van before towing it away for further tests. Police made house-to-house inquiries in the estates near the court as they launched the hunt for Mr Williams and the gang that snatched him.A resident said: "The police are knocking on all the doors in our street to see if anyone has seen anything. It is amazing to think that anyone could pull this off in broad daylight."