A deranged scientist branded by police as Britain's most prolific stalker was facing life imprisonment yestereday after being found guilty of targeting 200 victims.Richard Jan, 37, carried out a seven-year campaign of "violence and terror" against health officials, solicitors and many others he had wrongly regarded as part of a "grand coalition" desperate to section him under the Mental Health Act. He divided them into what he called the "first" and "second order of culpability". Among those at the top of his hate list was a local councillor, Liz Brookes. She and her family were lucky to escape alive when he firebombed their home. Another of his victims, a social worker he detested, was twice taken to hospital after late night attacks. Shauna Bailey, who had already had her car "trashed" by him, first suffered severe injuries when a "hooded figure" jumped out on her and smashed a brick in her face. A few months later her tormentor, this time wearing a crash helmet, struck her repeatedly with a baseball bat. Later, as doctors treated her for her bruises and cuts, Jan returned to her home and burned her car. Others found themselves on the receiving end of his "trademark" car tyre slashing, as well as round the clock barrages of silent and threatening phone calls. Some of the bio-chemist's victims were either followed home or found themselves answering the door to unwanted pizzas and taxis, and, on one occasion, a pest control officer. Middlesex Guildhall crown court heard he had been linked to 4,500 crank calls, but that figure was regarded by police officers as "only the tip of the iceberg". Despite injunctions, arrests and jail sentences, a lack of joined-up police thinking initially enabled him to repeatedly take up where he left off. By the time a coordinated inquiry finally pulled the "terrifying" picture together, people had left their jobs, fled their homes never to return and changed their identities. One was so worried he felt forced to make special arrangements to ferry his children to and from school. A search of his two homes revealed a library of incriminating evidence, including a loaded air gun and a chilling pictorial document entitled The Fascist Horde. Judge Henry Blacksell adjourned sentencing for a month after agreeing to defence requests for a psychiatric report. He told the defendant, who divided his time between two addresses - in Streatham, south London and in Paddington, west London that he regarded him as "mentally unstable".