The onward march of the anti-social behaviour order was halted yesterday by a judge who threw out an attempt by the Ministry of Defence to use an asbo against a Quaker peace campaigner.A packed courtroom broke into prolonged applause when the ploy was dismissed as an attempt "to use a club to beat down the expression of legitimate comment and the expression of views on matters of public concern". But district judge Roy Anderson imposed an eight-week curfew and electronic tag instead on Yorkshire grandmother Lindis Percy, the first time tagging has been ordered on a British peace campaigner. Her solicitor Richard Reed lodged an immediate appeal against the new way of trying to tackle the 63-year-old health visitor's implacable campaign of non-violent protest. Judge Anderson left the court to shouts of "shame", ignoring Mrs Percy's attempt to address him, but 15 minutes earlier he was scathing in his dismissal of the attempt to get an asbo. He told Harrogate magistrates' court that the law clearly intended the orders to be used against "oafish and intimidating" behaviour which bore no resemblance to the long and dogged activities of Percy. After the hearing was moved to a larger court, the judge said that five recent protests by Mrs Percy - the latest in over 150 arrests outside US bases for three decades - had not met any of the asbo requirements. He told the court: "None of the incidents was accompanied by any aggressive behaviour, abusive language or any threats of violence. Her convictions all seem to stem from her activities as a peace campaigner. "She may, in her relentless expression of her views, be thought by many to be a fanatic and, I suspect, by some to be a crank. Nevertheless she is entitled to express these views unless she breaks the criminal law of this country. That is not a revolutionary idea." Judge Anderson commented drily after the applause: "Thank you for your encouragement," but then left the courtroom to protests after ordering an eight- week, 8pm-6am curfew on Mrs Percy at her home in Hull. The campaigner was convicted at an earlier hearing of five offences of obstructing traffic outside the US National Security Agency's electronic eavesdropping base at Menwith Hill, on moorland between Harrogate and Skipton. Before passing sentence, Judge Anderson warned that the right to protest did not override the right of others to use the highway, or of police officers to carry out their duties. He added that "there could be circumstances where anti-social behaviour orders may be used against those engaging in political or other protests, if they indulged in intimidating behaviour". Outside the court, Mrs Percy promised an appeal against the sentence, using the words of the anthem "You can't kill the spirit," made famous at Greenham Common where she was among the peace women in the late 1970s. She said: "You can't suppress the human spirit. If any good comes from this case, I hope that it's that people will hear and read about it and more of them will get involved with protesting about what's happening at Menwith Hill. "This is political. This is all about the American bases in this country and what the Americans are doing here." She added that she would continue to protest at Menwith Hill and the RAF Fylingdales, which is becoming part of the US "star wars" defence system. Martin Schweiger, public health consultant for Leeds Health Authority and a Quaker who regularly joins the Menwith Hill protest, said that campaigners were determined to make the work of the base properly accountable to parliament. Doug Jewell, campaigns co-ordinator for Liberty, said: "An asbo would have been a unacceptable restriction on the right to protest. This case has shown the dangers we can face from overly broad powers and in light of the Queen's speech the government should take this into account."A life of protestLindis Percy has been arrested more than 150 times and served five jail terms.·  1979 Joins Cruisewatch anti-missile campaign.·  1982-84 Joins protests at USAF's proposed Greenham Common base. Regularly detained.·  1992 Switches focus to US eavesdropping base at Menwith Hill, setting up Campaign for the Accountability of American Bases.· 1 997 Freed by high court from nine-month sentence for repeated trespass on US bases.·  2001 Charges of racist abuse by dragging a US flag along the ground at Menwith Hill dropped by magistrates.·  2003 Spends two hours sitting undetected under a B-52 bomber being prepared for Gulf war at RAF Fairford. Climbs gates of Buckingham Palace on eve of George Bush's visit.