The peaceful demonstration mounted last week-end by the Anti-Racist Alliance is a healthy sign of growing impatience with the message of hatred and violence peddled by the British National Party and other neo-fascist or neo-Nazi groups. At the same time, the public disorder which such events often generate - like the simultaneous Anti-Nazi League march in South London - cannot be tolerated. Nor can the protests of anti-racists of themselves curb racist violence and harassment. That is a task which only the Government can tackle, by promoting effective legislation and committing itself to effective enforcement measures.Against a background of escalating racially-motivated attacks, in which innocent teenagers like Stephen Lawrence , Rolan Adams and Ashiq Hussain have been murdered - and this very week a notably vicious and disgraceful assault on a black man has been reported, apparently provoked merely by the fact that he was with a white woman - the fear and frustration of the victims and their supporters approaches breaking-point. Yet the Home Secretary, in a speech reported in the Guardian last Thursday, refused to endorse new offences of racial violence and harassment nor did he propose any other measures to strengthen the law.  This is an abdication of responsibility. It is also bewilderingly inconsistent with his proposals for tougher measures against crime in general. While simultaneously declaring his particular adhorrence of racially-motivated crime, which he rightly condemns as harmful to the wider community as well as to the individual victim, he rejects the pleas of many expert and experienced bodies such as the Commission for Racial Equality, the Jewish Board of Deputies and the Anti-Racist Alliance for the strengthening of currently inadequate legal powers.  None of Mr Howard's three arguments for opposing tougher anti-racist laws hold water.  First, he repeats the familiar claim that criminalising racists is counter-productive because it creates 'martyrs.' This is a counsel of despair and a surrender to bigotry. Nor is there any parallel with the similar argument against internment in Northern Ireland, where suspects were detained for long periods without trial. No one has ever suggested that those accused of racially-motivated harassment or violence should be punished without trial and conviction or denied normal safeguards. The over-riding principle is surely that every member of the community is entitled to be protected from unwarranted attack. Fear of arousing support for the attackers cannot ever justify taking away that right.  Secondly, Mr Howard says that a specific criminal offence of racial violence would require proof of a racial motivation in addition to proof of assault, making it more difficult to secure a conviction. It is of course true that racial motivation has to be proved but that is nothing new: the courts have been familiar with the task since the first Race Relations Acts in the 1960s. Where racial motivation is not proved an act of violence remains an offence and can still be punished accordingly.  Mr Howard's third argument for leaving the law alone is that sufficient legal remedies are already in place to deal with most cases of racial harassment and attack.  In fact, there is no existing law making racial harassment or racial violence a specific offence. What he means is that most cases are offences under the ordinary law whether racially motivated or not.  That is literally true but misses the crucial point that racially motivated violence is much more serious than any comparable isolated or random act of violence.  Why? Mr Howard gives the reason himself: racially-motivated crime is an attack on the whole community. It is an attack on the fundamental right to equal treatment possessed by all citizens, regardless of colour, race, nationality or ethnic or national origins (to use the formula of the Race Relations Act). It undermines the security of whole communities. It threatens ethnic division and strife which can engulf a whole society, as we have seen so painfully in what was once Yugoslavia.  Obviously any violence should lead to conviction if the evidence is there to prove it, but we cannot afford to ignore racial motivation, which must therefore always be investigated. The Metropolitan Police, by setting up special racial attack units, already acknowledges this.  If there is evidence of racial motivation the court must be told. Proof of it should then trigger more severe punishment. This is now the rule, laid down by statute, in several United States jurisdictions.  Furthermore, it is not true that all cases of racial harassment are already crimes. Incitement to racial hatred is an offence under the Public Order Act 1986 but prosecutions require the authorisation of the Attorney-General. The present incumbent, like most of his predecessors, has shown a marked reluctance to prosecute. The bogey of 'martyrdom' has inhibited action against those who purvey blatantly racist propaganda. However, even if vigorously enforced, this measure falls far short of confronting the many cases where the problem is direct harassment rather than inciting others to harass.  What is needed is a new offence of racial harassment to confront the growing scourge of racially-motivated intimidation and abuse aimed at people in their homes, shops and on the street, sometimes by fellow-tenants or landlords. Every tenancy must contain a condition prohibiting racial harassment, binding on landlords as well as tenants.  The victims of racial violence and harassment should also have a civil remedy against those who attack or threaten them. Claims for damages might be uncertain and difficult to enforce but the creation of a civil wrong would facilitate injunctions to bring an end to persistent harassment. The CRE and local authorities need the power to seek injunctions on behalf of individuals or groups who are too frightened or lack the resources to take action themselves.  Practical changes in the law along these lines, coupled with a commitment by the Government to monitor centrally the action taken by police and other authorities to implement them, would do far more to re-assure the targeted minorities and deter their aggressors than any amount of pious but empty condemnation.  They could be enacted in a short statute - the Racial Violence and Harassment Act - or the necessary clauses (which are already drafted in anticipation) could be included in Mr Howard's next Criminal Justice Bill. Several MPs are willing to introduce a Private Members' Bill if the Government still refuses to act.  · Geoffrey Bindman is a solicitor