The weekend's riots and looting may have serious repercussions on long-term efforts to regenerate some of London's struggling high streets, business leaders have warned.As businesses begin to tally the cost of stolen goods and damaged stores the British Retail Consortium (BRC) has warned that many of the shops affected may never reopen, while other firms may rethink their investment plans for areas such as Tottenham and Wood Green.Stella Creasy, Labour MP for Walthamstow, which was affected by widespread looting, said Tesco reported damage in the region of £100,000 to one store in the area."Tesco were up and running by Monday morning – you can see the damage but they're determined to keep trading," she said. "It's difficult to tell what the longer term situation is because last night was so unusual. The looting was co-ordinated and organised. This is a type of organised crime we've never seen before. Businesses are angry as their property has been damaged, but people seem calmer today."Lord Harris of Peckham, owner of the Carpetright chain, an outlet of which was burned down in Saturday's Tottenham riots, told an interviewer: "It has damaged my business but big companies can withstand it. It's the little entrepreneurs, people who have greengrocers and clothes shops I really do feel sorry for. Who is going to shop there now?"This view was echoed by the BRC, which said rioters had defeated any objective they could have hoped to accomplish."In the short term this is bad for the locals who work in or rely on the services of the businesses that have been affected," said spokesman Richard Dodd."Longer term a proportion of these stores were struggling already. They will have to look at their future in the area – many will reopen but some won't, which will harm the areas' prospects."It's the opposite effect to what anyone there would want, assuming such acts were thought through beyond the level of free TVs and jewellery. No grievance, however genuine, is helped by burning down shops."Other targeted outlets including Currys and Foot Locker in Brixton said their assessors were examining the damage but declined to disclose estimates of the cost to their businesses. The Metropolitan police said it would be weeks before the cost of the extensive policing operation to the capital was known.In Wood Green, where Saturday night's Tottenham riots spilled over, some small retailers were already returning to normality."We're quite resilient, especially the independent stores," said Simon Key, co-owner of the Big Green Bookshop. "Hopefully everyone thinks 'we can't let this kind of thing stop us doing what's important'."Looking around today it doesn't seem to be affecting the number of customers – and not everyone's a rubbernecker."There are still a few shops shut. HMV was totally ransacked and the Body Shop and two or three others are still shut but other stores have managed to open up, including the shopping centre which was looted. Even H&M managed to reopen by noon today."Several bigger chains have left Wood Green high street in recent years but some have been coming back, and not all bookies and pound shops. There's not a lot of empty units."