We can be reasonably certain that Harold Shipman would have been unhappy at his move from Frankland prison to Wakefield - and absolutely certain that the move would have been a sudden one, without so much as a moment's notice.They would have opened his door, probably very early, before normal unlock, and said, something like: "Pack your kit, the van's waiting."Then he would have had minutes to wrap his life up. No goodbyes to friends he would have made (and he certainly made friends in Frankland), no finishing of any projects he may have started. Simply gone: "ghosted" in the parlance. Nor would he have known until he got there where he was going. As a category A man, notice, or the opportunity to observe the normal niceties of departure would have been considered a security risk too far. We have no idea, of course, why Shipman ended his life, any more than we know why he ended so many other lives. However, if prisons were rated on the same lines as hotels, Frankland would warrant at least three stars, whereas Wakefield, the oldest of the six current dispersals, would struggle to gain one-star status. But they are not hotels, are they? On the face of it you wouldn't imagine there to be much of a difference between the two nicks. Both are long-term, high-security northern jails of approximately the same size. There is, though, a huge gap between the regimes and atmosphere of the two. Frankland is a "normal" dispersal nick, the population is made up of the normal mix; anybody doing over five years whom the authorities regard as a security risk. There will be drug dealers, armed robbers, serious thieves along with a sprinkling of lifers. The existence here would usually be fairly relaxed; the unwritten rule being that staff don't come down too heavy and prisoners don't take the piss. Shipman, it seems, got on well at Frankland. Although reserved, he was not unpopular, nor did he have any disciplinary problems. A wife of a serving prisoner that I know, who was with Shipman in Frankland and is now in open conditions, said he had been popular and would not have wanted the move. Wakefield, 70 miles or so down the road, is a specialised lifer nick, with that category of con making up the bulk of the population. That statistic alone tells you a lot. Most lifers are first offenders, making it that much easier for staff to persuade them to toe the line. Life sentences are served on a string, their keepers alone deciding if and when they get out. Not unnaturally, this tends to make lifers more compliant. Wakefield's main stated focus is on serious sex offenders and, given the strict pecking order that runs through prison life, this means that most conventional cons would shun the majority in the West Yorkshire jail. And in this odd scheme of things - and however bizarre it may sound - Shipman would most likely have considered himself a cut above your average sex offender. We know that Shipman did fall foul of the rules in Wakefield. We are told that he had been reduced from an enhanced status to basic regime, before moving back up to standard some time before his death. This movement between different standards of living is a highly contentious part of the relatively new earnings and incentives scheme within prisons. Prior to the introduction of this system, prisoners could only have their standards reduced by committing a named offence and going on adjudication before a governor. At that hearing the prisoner would hear the evidence against him and be given the opportunity to respond. It was far from a perfect procedure (minute acquittal rate) but at least it had a framework of fairness. According to the new way, all that is required to drastically curtail a prisoner's day-to-day existence is the word of a single member of staff, who says, for example, that the con is not cooperating. Furthermore, the prisoner cannot directly challenge the ruling. Clearly there is scope for abuse. It is inconceivable that Shipman did not resent the lowering of his standards. · Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent e.allison@theguardian.com