Ellie Butler, the six-year-old who was beaten to death by her father, had begged social workers not to force her to move home and live with him a few months before her death, according to her aunt.Emails from Julie Gray to the court-appointed social workers reveal Ellie had said she wanted to stay living with her grandparents “for one hundred million years” and was frightened about the prospect of moving in with Ben Butler.“She [Ellie] has started asking why does she have to go to live with mummy because she does not want to,” Julie Gray wrote in an email in October 2012 obtained by the Guardian. “She wants to stay with Nana and Granddad forever and ever. She is very clear that she does not want to go to live with Ben and Jennie but she would like to visit and return to her home after.”“She has recently got into the habit of not wanting to go to sleep in case she is taken away, having nightmares about waking up somewhere else, getting in bed with mum and dad and myself when I stay over so she cannot be taken away and has also wet herself on several occasions – which I am informed is a sign of stress in a child who does not usually have this problem.”On Tuesday Ben Butler was found guilty at the Old Bailey of killing his daughter after a “brutal assault” on Ellie in October 2013 while minding her at home in south London. She had been returned to his care just 11 months earlier, after a family court judge ruled it was appropriate to be taken from her grandparents to be returned to Butler’s care.He was jailed for a minimum of 23 years for her murder. His partner Jennie Gray – Julie’s sister – was given a 42-month sentence for child cruelty and for her part in a “cynical” and “calculated” cover-up of their daughter’s death and their fake 999 call two hours after she had died. Ellie’s grandfather Neal Gray, 70, called on David Cameron to order a public inquiry into what went wrong in his family’s case. He has also written to children’s minister Edward Timpson to raise his concerns about what he believes was a failure of the judiciary to protect his granddaughter from her abusive and violent father.High court refuses to publish Ben Butler judgment from 2014 The wider Gray family say they repeatedly warned of the dangers of returning Ellie to her parents, but complain that they were ignored. In another email exchange on 29 October 2012 with Julie Gray, one of the social workers – who worked for Services for Children (S4C) – admitted knowing Ellie did not want to return to her parents and said for that reason the handover was going to be speeded up.“Effectively she does not have a choice in this, as we would expect her to say she does not want to go. The decision taken to move her sooner is due to a belief that she is unlikely to choose this,” the email states.Ellie’s grandfather Neal Gray also said that he alerted S4C to her fears. “When the independent social workers came round Ellie hid under the table and said: ‘don’t let them take me away, Nana’,” said Neal Gray.Asked if they were aware of the bed wetting, S4C has accepted that Ellie’s family had alerted them to the issue. It also said: “No one in private law or public law would give the full choice to a five year old of where they live. Their views are listened to, but to give a burden of a choice is not appropriate.”Ellie had lived with her maternal grandparents, Neal and Linda Gray, since she was 10 weeks old. At five years old the girl was reunited with her parents following a bitter battle over her living arrangements, which began when Butler was convicted of assaulting her at seven weeks old.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Ellie Butler’s grandfather: ‘She told us that she loved us. That was the last time we saw her’That conviction was quashed and in November 2012 Mrs Justice Hogg in the family court ruled that Ellie should be returned to her parents by the end of the year.Hogg removed the local council from the case on the grounds that Butler no longer trusted them and engaged S4C to oversee the transition in Ellie’s living arrangements. S4C moved her to her parents on 9 November 2012, even though Hogg had allowed for more time. S4C was also criticised by the author of a Serious Case Review investigating what went wrong with Ellie’s care, Marion Davis CBE, for not listening enough to Ellie’s views and wishes. S4C denies this and said they had done one-to-one work with Ellie allowing her to express her views.Davis said it was “surprising that there was not a pause for reflection” in relation to Ellie’s living arrangements. “Arguably in any introductory programme … there might have to be a slowing of the pace in order to be sure that everyone is comfortable and committed to the placement,” she said in the report.The Serious Case Review also states that Ellie asked to speak to Hogg about the move but this request was not granted. When Ellie returned from a contact visit with her parents just days before she went to live with them she had a bruise on her head. Her grandparents raised this with S4C and reported it to Ellie’s doctor and her school.A spokeswoman for S4C said: “No injuries were seen by or reported to S4C.”Although there were photos of Ellie with bruises on her face in the last months of her life S4C has said that it saw no bruises on her during the time that it worked with her.Neal Gray said he repeatedly left messages for S4C expressing concern about Ellie’s welfare after she went to live with her parents.A spokeswoman for S4C said it did not have any recollection of not responding to contact made by Mr Gray during its work with the family. However the spokeswoman admitted that S4C should have made further contact with Ellie’s grandparents to tell them its work with Ellie was concluding.• This article was amended on 23 June 2016 to add a response from S4C about an email exchange in which it stated that “effectively” Ellie Butler did not have a choice about where she lived.