  Antoni Robinson, 61, who died after he was stabbed 15 times as he slept in bed. Photograph: PATwo teenage sisters described by a judge as "Judas-like and wicked" have been given lengthy jail sentences for the brutal murder of their father.Retired antiques dealer, Antoni Robinson 61, from Old Colwyn, north Wales, was repeatedly stabbed with a kitchen knife and commando-style army knife as he slept, when his daughters and their boyfriends tried to get their hands on the contents of a safe. He bled to death minutes after his jugular veins were severed.Mold crown court heard that Ashleigh Robinson, 19, and her 16-year-old sister Holly "supported and encouraged" the frenzied late-night attack on their father in July last year.They were convicted of murder following a month-long trial along with Gordon Harding, 20, and Sacha Roberts, 19. Ashleigh Robinson wept on Friday as she was found guilty of murder. She lived with her father, boyfriend and newborn baby, the court heard.Her younger sister was later convicted of murder along with Roberts on Monday. The trial judge, Mr Justice Griffith-Williams, lifted reporting restrictions preventing her identification because of her age.Ashleigh Robinson and Harding, were told they must serve at least 22 years before they are eligible for parole. Neither showed any emotion as they were taken down to the cells.Holly Robinson, who lived with her boyfriend, in Colwyn Bay, sobbed as she was ordered to be detained for at least 18 years. Roberts nodded at the judge as he was ordered to serve 20 years.Sentencing them, the judge said: "Antoni Robinson was murdered in his own bedroom, stabbed 15 times. You were after the jewellery in the safe."It is to be hoped that in his dying moments he was at least spared the awful realisation that it was his own two daughters who were party to his murder."Two daughters who were, in fact, scornful of him. Two daughters who had appealed for his kindness."Two daughters who, Judas-like, wormed their way back into his affections."During the trial, Andrew Thomas QC, for the prosecution, said their father suffered stab wounds to the face, neck and upper body, including four injuries to his back.He said Ashleigh Robinson encouraged and supported Harding as he carried out the murder and added: "This killing was the tragic result of family disputes over money, jewellery and property."The murder followed the breakdown of Robinson's 25-year relationship with the sisters' mother, Joanne Barr.In his bedroom, Robinson kept a safe in which valuables and £900 in cash were stored, including jewellery belonging to Barr. He told her he had sold her jewellery.Shortly after the murder, Ashleigh Robinson sent her mother a text message that said: "Things happened, he is no more. Sorry Mum xxxx."Harding admitted stabbing Antoni Robinson but claimed he had acted in self-defence. This version was rejected by the jury after they heard that he must have been completely overpowered by his attackers.After the murder, Harding left his bloodstained clothes on the floor of the bedroom and showered.Barr, her daughters and Roberts pleaded guilty to conspiracy to pervert the course of justice after they gave a false account to police. Harding was convicted of perverting the course of justice.