Ken Clarke, the justice secretary, today insisted that his proposals to reform prison sentencing had all been cleared by the Tory leadership, telling MPs "there is no dissent".Giving evidence to the Commons justice committee, Clarke joked that he had never implemented a popular policy in his life, but said he did have particular support for these plans."There is no dissent," the justice secretary said, insisting that the policy was the result of "a collective approach". He said most MPs supported his plans, and that opposition had come only from "sections of the press".Yesterday Michael Howard, the former Tory leader, said that Clarke's plans for sentencing reform were "fatally flawed" and Theresa May told a Commons committee that "prison works".While May praised Clarke's sentencing green paper for extending the use of alternative schemes such as restorative justice, she added: "I think we must all recognise that, in looking at the wider issue of sentencing, prison works but it must be made to work better."She told MPs: "The key for members of the public is that they want criminals to be punished. They want them taken off the streets. They also want criminals who come out of prison to go straight."What our system is failing to do at the moment is to deliver that for the public. And that's what we want to do."Her comments appeared sharply at odds with Clarke's criticism last week that prison could not continue simply to be "an expensive way of giving communities a break".Clarke's policies are unpopular with the Tory right and the Sun is campaigning hard against them, carrying an editorial today calling him "potty".Today Clarke told MPs: "Prison works as a place for sentencing people. It saves people from crime whilst they are inside. Where it is failing is that … too many people released from prison are reoffending."That has been my mantra all the way through. When I heard this morning that the home secretary had apparently disagreed with me, I looked at what she had said and she said exactly the same thing."Clarke said that he did not expect to be able to stop all prisoners from reoffending. Reducing the reoffending rate from 50% to 40% would be "quite challenging", he said, but that would bring "considerable public benefit".Even that reduction would leave 40% of prisoners going back to crime. These people are "villains", who need to keep being sent to prison.This morning rightwing Tory discontent with the coalition surfaced when two disgruntled Tory backbenchers spoke out against the tie-up with the Liberal Democrats. Nadine Dorries said "there are Conservative issues that we see being subsumed by the coalition".Peter Bone said: "I accept we need a coalition government until the economic crisis is over and we have dealt with it, but that might be done within the next two years. Then I see no point in the coalition government at all."