Michael Howard promised yesterday to tackle so-called yob culture at grassroots level by introducing directly elected police chiefs and by making the police publish weekly local crime statistics on the internet - to show voters just how well they are doing.Although the proposals triggered an immediate Labour attack on Mr Howard's record as home secretary, when police numbers fell, he declared that "this election is going to be as much about crime as anything else", and said that Tony Blair had "lost the plot". In a solo press conference at party HQ in London, the Conservative leader offered a five- point plan to reverse what he denounced as Labour's politically correct culture, which was leading to "defensive policing" which helped criminals, instead of effective crime-fighting. Citing instances where "youngsters, mere teenagers, get away with terrorising our communities", Mr Howard focused on the urgent need to "make yobs afraid of the police [instead of] ordinary folk afraid of the yobs". His five points were: 5,000 extra police a year; scrapping government targets; making UK forces follow the practice pioneered in New York and copied by Middlesbrough's elected mayor, former policeman Ray Mallon, of publishing weekly crime statistics for each division; curbing police paperwork; and giving voters "people power" muscle to state their priorities, not least by letting them elect commissioners for all UK forces, except London where the elected mayor would fulfil the role. What was striking about Mr Howard's remarks was his repeated and, he said, deliberate use of the word "fear" and the need "to make the yobs fear the police". They coincided with a row over the Conservatives' European policy, in which Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, sought to link Mr Howard's demand for a sweeping renegotiation of the EU treaties with the Tory leader's abrupt dismissal of Howard Flight as a candidate after his taped remarks on sweeping spending cuts. "The connection is what each says about Mr Howard's character. He is clever, fluent and practical, but he is not wise. He lacks strategy and good judgment, and his quick temper and impetuosity too often get the better of him," Mr Straw said. That claim will be central to Labour's campaign. But it was triggered by an interview that John Redwood, the Tory deregulation spokesman, gave to the Financial Times in which he refused to rule out leaving the EU if the Howard package failed.Tory HQ said Mr Redwood was misquoted.