The 16-year-old aunt of a baby boy mauled to death by a rottweiler tried desperately to rescue him from the jaws of the 10-stone family pet, it emerged yesterday.Police paid tribute to the bravery of the teenager as they revealed how Archie-Lee Andrew Hirst, aged 13 months, was snatched from the arms of a seven-year-old girl in the backyard of his grandparents' Wakefield home.The aunt was upstairs when, it is thought, the seven-year-old carried Archie-Lee into the yard to stroke the two-year-old female rottweiler.The terrified girl alerted the aunt, who battled with the dog before calling the emergency services.Detective Superintendent Steve Payne, leading the investigation, said: 'I have to pay tribute to the auntie. She struck the rottweiler a number of times, but it wouldn't let go of the child.'She then returned to the premises and got her mobile phone and alerted the emergency services. She did her best to recover Archie from the dog, but unfortunately that was in vain. It is a full-sized rottweiler. Clearly we're talking about powerful dogs here.'Archie-Lee's mother, thought to be in her late teens, and father, who both live in Wakefield, were said to have been on the scene within minutes. Archie-Lee had been spending Christmas with his grandparents, who have five children. The aunt was looking after the seven-year-old and a six-year-old girl at the time. A 14-year-old son was not at home.Paramedics scaled a 7ft fence around the yard to attend to Archie-Lee after the attack on Thursday. He had suffered severe injuries and died later in Pinderfields General Hospital.Det Supt Payne said that the dog, which the grandparents had owned for six months, had not behaved aggressively before. The police shot the rottweiler dead immediately after the attack.'It has mixed with the family. While it lives in the yard it is a pet, it is in no way a guard dog, and there have been no previous signs of any aggression from this dog. It was completely unpredictable.'Clearly the death of any young child is a tragedy - in these circumstances it is even more of a tragedy. It is nobody's fault,' he said.A post mortem examination showed that Archie-Lee died from injuries consistent with a dog attack.Neighbours Adelaide and Andy Foster, who live a few doors from where the attack happened, said that they often saw the dog barking in the yard. 'I was really surprised and shocked. It was a very loud barking dog in a small yard,' said Mrs Foster. The couple heard it being destroyed. 'We heard a shot and it echoed round the house.'Chris Window, from the Rottweiler Club, said young children should never be left alone with large breeds of dog.'It doesn't matter whether it's a rottweiler or any other dog; you have got to be really careful about leaving young kids and dogs together. All breeds of dogs are animals. They do revert to animal instincts.'If a dog is confronted with a situation that it is not used to, it can react unexpectedly.'