The man killed when his van exploded after a police chase reportedly shouted "she's dead, she's dead" just after the vehicle blew up, onlookers have claimed.Police are said to be looking elsewhere in Liverpool for a female body related to the death of Terry Langrell, 42, on Wednesday night following a police pursuit in the Toxteth area of Merseyside.Mr Langrell, a driving instructor and unmarried, was reported missing in March after having given his work car back to the BSM school in Liverpool. His mother and father, with whom he lived at their home on the Wirral, had not seen him since.But on Wednesday a white Ford van driving erratically was followed by police cars. When it pulled over in Toxteth, Mr Langrell got out, triggering a massive explosion which killed him and injured five police officers.It was found that the van had been packed with gas cylinders. Residents who saw the incident, which was also caught on amateur video, told the Liverpool Daily Post that Mr Langrell had emerged from the van engulfed in flames and shouted: "She's dead, she's dead." Other reports suggested he added: "I deserve to die."The newspaper quoted police sources saying officers were looking elsewhere for a second body. However a spokesman for Merseyside police refused to confirm or deny the claims. He said the idea the explosion had been an elaborate arrangement was "pure speculation"."We are not looking for a body at the moment," he said. "The witnesses are the police officers, but because of their condition we have not been able to interview them yet. We know the driver of the van said something when he got out - but there is still confusion about exactly what he said."Yesterday, neighbours of Mr Langrell's parents expressed shock at the bizarre circumstances surrounding his death. Barbara Tate, 62, who lives a few yards away from the family home at Leasowe on the Wirral, said the family were very private.She added: "The family have always kept themselves to themselves ... They are known as the quiet ones of the close."Terry as a child never really socialised with the other kids in the street. He was a bit of a loner."Another neighbour, Mary Butterworth, 57, said that Terry had been the youngest of three children, and still lived at home though his brother and sister had moved out to live with their respective partners. "I really feel for the family, I know Terry was very close to his mum and dad, which is why I was so shocked when he disappeared."Detective chief inspector Dave Kelly yesterday appealed for help with the police investigation: "Mr Langrell has been living somewhere since 12 March this year, and we would like to speak to anyone who may have seen him"."We would also like to speak to anyone who may have seen the white Ford Transit van that he was driving on the night."A postmortem examination found Mr Langrell died from massive burns.Merseyside police said three of the five officers involved were still in hospital with serious injuries.