Police have arrested a man in connection with the 1985 murder of PC Keith Blakelock and the attempted murder of PC Richard Coombes, it emerged today.The suspect, from Enfield, north London, was released on bail pending inquiries into the Broadwater Farm killing which took place during a clash between police and an angry mob two decades ago.The arrest came only five days after detectives launched a fresh appeal on the 20th anniversary of his murder and released graphic images of the dead officer's blood-stained overalls.PC Blakelock, 40, was hacked to death during the riots in Tottenham, north London, on October 6, 1985.The father-of-three was attacked with a number of weapons, including knives and machetes.The images of his riot gear showed the dark blue uniform marked up in masking tape, highlighting the dozens of injuries he sustained.Today, a spokeswoman from Scotland Yard refused to say how long the suspect was held or give any further details about him.Detective Superintendent John Sweeney, in charge of the re-investigation, said the most recent appeal had thrown up some helpful leads."Since our appeal last week on the 20th anniversary of the murder, we have had a number of valuable calls from the public that have identified useful lines of inquiry," he said. "We remain committed to dealing with this investigation as sensitively as possible."Winston Silcott was convicted of PC Blakelock's murder in 1987 but was cleared on appeal four years later because "unsafe" evidence had been used against him.During the fresh appeal last Thursday, Mr Sweeney said he hoped youngsters who were among the crowds on that night would "do the right thing"."Twenty years on may work to our advantage because many of the people there on the night were young and some of them will have memories," he said. "If they were 15 at the time, now they will be 35. "There was all sorts of pressure and mistrust of police at the time. But I appeal to them now that they may be married - maybe with kids themselves - you might want to start doing the right thing. In 20 years I cannot believe that people have not talked about it. It is a different landscape now and people can approach us confidentially."He insisted police were only concerned with solving the murder, not re-investigating the riots.PC Blakelock's widow, Elizabeth Johnson, said her family was still waiting to see justice done."For years we have lived with uncertainty of not knowing who is responsible for what happened. ... Not knowing the truth about the circumstances that led to Keith's murder just makes it all the more difficult. All the family has ever wanted is to see justice done," she said.As part of the re-investigation, detectives excavated the rear garden of an address in Tottenham in September last year, believing crucial evidence was buried there. Items found are still under forensic examination.Mr Sweeney said the 6.5 tonnes of earth removed had been sifted through and one exhibit could turn out to be a weapon.During last week's press conference, Mr Sweeny was asked if he was confident that the killer or killers would be caught."I am very much a pragmatist," he replied. "I have absolute confidence that we can solve this. This is one case that is clearly solvable. Obviously it makes it a lot easier if there are people that are willing to come forward, otherwise it just takes a lot longer."