Jo Phillips, a 52-year-old journalist, describes the ordeal she underwent last year when she was stabbed after being mugged near her north London home. It was a Tuesday night around 11pm in January last year. I was about five minutes from my home when a boy approached me and said: 'Give me your handbag.' At first I thought it was a joke, because he wasn't aggressive. But then another boy appeared. Both looked about 16. The first boy then said, 'Stab her, stab her', so I gave him my handbag. There was no struggle. Then he said, 'Stab her, stab her' again to his accomplice, who then hit me in the face. Then they ran off. I made my way to a pub and only then realised I was bleeding quite heavily from my neck. They called the police and ambulance.The next two minutes were a blur of activity with the police and paramedics, and the shock set in as I realised I had actually been stabbed in the neck.I have never felt more desolate in all my life than when I was lying in the back of the ambulance with nothing but my elder son's phone number scribbled on a piece of paper. I had no money, phone or glasses and was covered in blood. I ended up in the specialist maxillofacial injuries unit of Royal London Hospital. It seemed that I'd been stabbed with a sharpened screwdriver and had a wound about an inch deep. Doctors said that another centimetre would have hit the main artery, and I would have died from chronic blood loss. The police were brilliant - efficient and sympathetic. Plain clothes officers took me out several times in an unmarked police car late at night to see if I could spot my attackers. But I never did. No one has ever been charged.I was lucky. I could have died or had a permanent injury. But being stabbed has changed me. I have sobbed running home the few hundred yards from the bus stop, out of sheer terror. I know that's irrational, but those boys infected me with fear, which will never go away. I know the scale of the trauma I've experienced, so God knows how someone who's really badly hurt will ever manage to walk the streets again.What I still can't understand is this: why, when they had my bag, and I hadn't put up a fight, did they still need to stab me?