Too many men are getting away with rape, the Solicitor General said last night. Mike O'Brien said he was gravely perturbed that even serial sex offenders were escaping conviction. The government is now looking at measures which could increase the conviction rate.'Some rapists, indeed repeat rapists, are getting away with it,' O'Brien told The Observer, which has been campaigning for justice for rape victims.'The defendant has the benefit and the Crown Prosecution Service has to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. This means the CPS is often in the position of not prosecuting a case which they believe, on the balance of probability, was likely to be a rape but which will not reach the standard of proof required in a criminal case.'Recent government figures found that convictions are at an all-time low despite complaints rising. Measures being investigated include allowing a conviction for rape in cases where a woman was drugged or unconscious and cannot recall the attack taking place, but there is other evidence of it occurring, such as DNA.'We are looking at a series of ways in which we are trying to assist the victims. There are cases where clearly someone is raped,' said O'Brien. However he ruled out changing the criminal standard of proof in rape cases from 'beyond reasonable doubt' to the balance of probability.It is estimated that in 2003 about 50,000 women were raped in the UK, although of these just 11,867 reported the incident to the police.Of those cases, 1,649 went to trial with only 629 resulting in successful prosecutions. During the 1970s a person reporting a rape had a 33 per cent chance of getting a conviction. In 1985 that figure had fallen to 24 per cent. In 2003 it had dropped much further to just 5.3 per cent.Following Home Office analysis of rape prosecutions in 2003, the CPS began appointing specialist rape prosecutors, numbering 520 out of a total of 3,000 CPS lawyers. However, campaigners argue that such steps do not go far enough.O'Brien condemned one of Britain's senior judges over observations he had made in the Old Bailey following a rape case on Friday.Judge Jeremy Roberts QC, said the charges should never have come to court and that the CPS insisted 'on prosecuting cases where there is no realistic prospect of conviction.' His remarks followed the acquittal of 24-year-old Wilson Hurtado-Recalde following an 11-month police investigation.However, O'Brien countered that the CPS pursued all cases they felt they had sufficient evidence for.'The CPS have a difficult case on the evidence of individual cases but I would not want the comments by John Roberts QC to lead to a reluctance by the prosecution to bring cases which they believe to be rape and which should be properly put before a jury.'During The Observer's campaign to highlight the difficulties in securing rape convictions, a number of victims said their treatment by the police had been good but the CPS had refused to take on their cases, owing to lack of scientific evidence.