Sion Jenkins, who served six years in jail after being accused of murdering his foster daughter Billie-Jo before being acquitted, has been refused compensation for his time in prison, according to reports.The former deputy headmaster had sought up to £500,000 in damages for the prison term he served, but the Ministry of Justice has rejected his request after his case was assessed.Jenkins believed he fitted the criteria for a payout, but compensation rules state that applicants for miscarriage of justice compensation must demonstrate that they are "clearly innocent". Jenkins, who was found guilty in 1998 of killing 13-year-old Billie-Jo, has always protested his innocence but his repeated calls for compensation have been rejected, a source told the Daily Mail.Billie-Jo was found battered to death with a metal tent peg on the patio of her foster family's home in February 1997. In the days after her death, Jenkins was arrested for her murder although he claimed he found her body when he returned from a trip to a DIY store.After six years in jail, he won an appeal and was released on bail pending a new trial. When neither jury could reach a verdict in two subsequent retrials, he was formally acquitted in February 2006.After his acquittal and following the publication of his book, The Murder of Billie-Jo, Jenkins said: "I believe the government should compensate me for taking away my liberty for six years which also meant I lost the childhood of my daughters."Family members have died while I was inside. I had a kicking … I have raged inside because I have not been able to cope. I believe the government should pay for that … I fulfil all the criteria. The amount is not the important thing."Jenkins was divorced by his wife, Lois, following his original conviction. She severed all contact with her former husband and moved with their four daughters to Tasmania. After he was acquitted, she alleged that Jenkins had beaten her and her children. He denied the accusations.In February 2005, while waiting for the first of his two retrials to begin, he wed Tina Ferneyhough, a 58-year-old millionaire art dealer. Sussex police carried out a review of Billie-Jo's murder following Jenkins's acquittal, but identified no new leads or suspects.A police spokesman said yesterday: "The murder of Billie-Jo Jenkins remains an unresolved case and is therefore subject to review in the event of any new and compelling evidence coming to light."Jenkins, 52, refused to comment on his failed bid for compensation.