Two weeks ago, Andrew Regan surprised the jury at Snaresbrook crown court in east London by refusing to enter the witness box and defend himself against rumours and allegations that have circled around him for the past eight years, concerning his links to two Co-op executives. Days before he first appeared before a jury, two years ago, Mr Regan was nevertheless happy to give the Guardian an interview - though it has not been possible to print it until today. In the opulent surroundings of the Capital Club in the heart of the City, Mr Regan said he was convinced he was being persecuted by a Labour government because he had "taken a pop at the Co-op" - shorthand for his £1.2bn hostile takeover bid in 1997 for the largest cooperative empire in Europe. "They give £1.2m a year to the Labour party," he said. "Of course it's political." The corporate raider denied that the £2.4m paid to Dutch businessman Ronald Zimet was intended as a bribe to secure a lucrative supply deal between his food company, Hobson, and the Co-op. He claimed Mr Zimet had approached him, claiming to have contacts within the cooperative movement that could help secure the deal. "I had misgivings," he said, "but we couldn't ring the CWS up and say, 'Excuse me, but has anyone at your end taken a bung?' It was all open and above board. We had done nothing wrong. It was not something that was grubby and underhand." Equally Regan denied underhand behaviour at a pub car park meeting, secretly filmed in 1997. Senior Co-op executive Allan Green was caught handing him sensitive internal Co-op documents to further his takeover plans. "In any bid situation there is an amount of information that flows," Mr Regan said. "You interview previous employees. You talk to people." He said Mr Green had been "passed over for a job" and was "a little bit disgruntled". The two men met and information changed hands on at least seven occasions. Mr Regan said there was "a massive open circle" of advisers and interested potential Co-op predators who regularly met to "produce a wishlist" of Co-op information. "Then we would go and get that information." Asked why the filmed meeting had taken place in Green's red Jaguar in a car park, Regan said: "We normally went into a pub for a cup of tea, but he was in a rush so we sat in his car." The full list of Regan's "massive open circle" of bid conspirators is unlikely ever to emerge, but somewhere in the Bank of England is a 147-page report cataloguing the extensive network of City and industry interests working behind the scenes to raid the Co-op and strip its assets at a colossal profit.