The 999 call of a teenager that was cut off shortly before she was raped and murdered was played to a jury yesterday. Hannah Foster secretly called emergency services after she was abducted following a night out with friends. The teenager could be heard on the enhanced 50-second recording played to Winchester crown court giving a false name to a man who asked her questions.The jury heard how an automated response warned that if the caller did not speak or key in a number on the handset, her call would be disconnected. After no response an automated message said: "Nothing has been heard from the caller. Exchange please disconnect line." Maninder Pal Singh Kohli, a 40-year-old sandwich delivery van driver who denies abducting, raping and murdering Hannah in March 2003, listened to the recording of the two voices on headphones. Hannah's parents, Hilary, 51, and Trevor, 57, and her sister, Sarah, 20, left the public gallery while the tape was played.During the 999 call Hannah answers a man's questions, apparently from a moving vehicle. A man could be heard asking the student: "You belong this country?" "Yeah," responded Hannah. "England," said the male voice. "Yeah I'm English. Yeah. My name [...] My name is Sarah," she answered. The court earlier heard that Sarah is the name of Hannah's sister. The 17-year-old could also be heard giving her age as 15, and then said: "That's my, my road ... that was where I live."The voice then told the teenager to keep her head down before he asked: "Where you live? Which number you live?"Towards the end of the call an automated message stated that the line would be disconnected. Hannah's voice could be heard saying: "Huh ... listen ... anything." The call was then finished.Helen Wilkinson, Hannah's childhood friend, earlier told the jury that she had waved to Hannah moments before she was abducted on March 14 2003. Wiping away tears, she said the pair had been friends since they were 11, and studied A levels together at Barton Peveril College.On the night of Hannah's abduction the two girls, then 17, had been to several pubs in the Portswood area of Southampton and had just one alcoholic drink, the PhD student said. The two girls had decided against going on to another bar, and began walking back into Portswood so Miss Wilkinson could catch her bus home. The jury was shown CCTV footage of the two girls walking past a bank captured at 10.43pm. As Miss Wilkinson's bus arrived, Hannah started to walk towards her home. Asked by Nicholas Haggan QC, prosecuting, if she had seen Hannah as the bus moved down Portswood Road, Miss Wilkinson replied: "She was walking down Highfield Lane, and she turned and waved. I waved." It was the last time Hannah was seen alive, the jury were told. Her body was found two days later, at a roadside in West End, near Southampton. Mrs Foster's statement to police, made before her daughter's body was found, was heard. She had said: "If Hannah decided to stay overnight with a girlfriend, she would always let me know by text."Mr and Mrs Foster reported their daughter missing at 10.30am, the morning after her disappearance. On Tuesday the jury was told that Kohli's van had been captured on film travelling on motorways between Southampton and Portsmouth on the night. Police analysis of Hannah's mobile phone data placed her handset along the roads during the same period of time. Kohli fled to India, but was arrested by Indian authorities in 2004 and extradited to Britain in 2007, the jury was told. The trial continues.The callExcerpts from the 50-second recording of Hannah Foster's 999 call played yesterday at Winchester crown court. Male voice You belong this country? Hannah Yeah Male voice England? Hannah Yeah I'm English. Yeah. My name. Male voice Huh Hannah My name is Sarah (the name of Hannah's younger sister). Male voice Sarah. Hannah: Yeah. Male voice I want (there is then inaudible speech which is disputed by the prosecution and defence). Hannah 15. Male voice 15. Hannah That's my, my road ... that was where I live. Male voice: Held (unclear) your head down please. Hannah Sorry ... no. Male voice Where you live? Which number you live? Hannah Huh ... listen ... anything ...