For the guards at Whitworth Art Gallery in Manchester it was just another quiet Sunday morning. While locals strolled through the leafy park outside, the wide galleries were silent and still.But as they prepared to unlock the doors and let in the afternoon visitors, staff realised with horror that three of their most prized pictures had vanished from the collection.   The Gauguin painting stolen from the Whitworth gallery, Manchester. Photograph: PAWith no noise, no fuss and no suspicion, thieves had entered overnight and coolly strolled out with £1m worth of work. The only sign of the drawings by Gauguin, Picasso and Van Gogh were the blank spaces left on the white wall of a ground-floor gallery, where the frames had hung side by side. The Whitworth, founded in 1889 with a bequest left by the Stockport-born engineer Sir Joseph Whitworth, is internationally renowned for its 40,000-strong permanent collection, which is packed with superb watercolours, prints, drawings, textiles and sculpture. But the three pieces that vanished on Saturday night were particular highlights. They are so highly valued that they are frequently borrowed by major museums around the world. Although they were all donated to the gallery in the late 1920s and early 30s, in recent years the three have rarely been on show together. The timing of the raid, and the care with which it appears to have been carried out, indicates the foresight and organisation of the thieves who snatched the picture. By the time the theft was discovered the pictures were probably miles away; possibly even out of the country. While the police refuse to give details of the theft, they have described it as "well-planned", and damage to the building is thought to be minimal. Experts say it is likely to be the work of the gangs of professional art thieves behind a spate of raids on British collections, and who have stolen art and antiques worth between £300m and £500m each year. "It isn't usually an inside job in these cases," said Alexandra Smith, operations manager at the Art Loss Register, which monitors stolen works. "It is often done by outsiders who have worked out the security system, identified the most valuable paintings and planned an entry and escape route meticulously." Their methods may be as simple as hiding inside at closing time, when other people are leaving, said Dick Ellis, an art risk consultant and director of Trace, a service helping to recover stolen works through its magazine and website.   The Van Gogh painting stolen from the Whitworth. Photograph: PAMr Ellis, a former detective sergeant on Scotland Yard's art and antiquities squad, said most public galleries have reasonably good security, but cannot necessarily afford to upgrade it further. "If someone is determined to steal something they will," he added. "The problem with security is that it's expensive with no obvious financial return...Currently there is not a great deal of money available to most galleries." The Whitworth has been particularly busy recently thanks to the success of its exhibition of Lee Miller photographs, and the hordes of visitors would have provided plenty of cover for thieves who wanted to reconnoitre before launching their raid. The efficiency of their action is typical of modern art thefts. Ms Smith compared the raid to the last high-profile case, on millennium eve, when a Cézanne was stolen from the Ashmolean in Oxford. "The thieves cut a hole in the skylight, threw in a smoke bomb to stop the CCTV cameras picking up any images, and the picture disappeared. It has never been traced." When thieves stole Munch's The Scream from Oslo's National Gallery in 1994, it took them just 50 seconds. They used a ladder to gain access to a window, which they then smashed to gain access to the gallery and stole the painting. The theft was captured on security footage. Thankfully the £37m painting was recovered three months later by Norwegian and British police, after a Scotland Yard detective posed as a Getty representative and persuaded the thieves he was ready to pay their £300,000 ransom for the painting. The Munch case stood out because the picture was world famous, but the criminals' methods and plan were entirely typical. While art lovers often imagine that paintings are stolen to order for unscrupulous collectors, experts say most art thefts are carried out for ransoms or so that the works can be used as collateral for criminal deals. "The pictures are so high profile that it is unlikely those who have stolen them will go anywhere near the legitimate market," Ms Smith said, adding that they would be registered as stolen on the Art Loss Register's database - the largest privately owned international register in the world - as soon as specific details had been gleaned from police and the gallery. Poverty, by Picasso, is perhaps the most distinctive. The pen, ink and watercolour work dates from 1903 and is typical of his "blue period", showing a family group of man, woman, small child and baby. Experts say it has a hint of a religious parallel with suggestions of the traditional depictions of the holy family. But Van Gogh's The Fortifications of Paris with Houses, from 1887, is so significant that it was borrowed for the artist's centenary exhibition in Amsterdam. The picture, in watercolour and gouache on paper, depicts an area of Paris which had a reputation for vice and violence.  Outside view One catalogue note on the picture says: "This is a city life shorn of all its consolation and excitement, portrayed by an outsider who was just passing through and is uncertain of his position in the vast sprawling, impersonal city." Gauguin's Tahitian Landscape, executed in watercolour and pencil, dates from the 1890s and offers viewers twin joys: the artist has used both sides of the paper, sketching a second scene on the reverse. "[If] people have stolen them for ransom...it is very likely that in a few months' time the people who have the pictures will contact the police, insurance company or the gallery itself and say they can get access to the art and get it back if someone is willing to pay money," Ms Smith said. "[Or] they are more likely to trade on the black market where the paintings can be used instead of money in drug deals and for gun running. Money is traceable but pictures can change hands much more easily and can cross over borders without being detected." But the art historian Andrew Graham-Dixon offered a chilling alternative to Ms Smith's theory. "The paintings could have been stolen by naive thieves who will now probably destroy them when they realise that they can't sell them on because it's on every newspaper's front page," he said. "I don't know whether it's best for the police to announce the robbery or to keep it quiet in the hope that they will be able to intercept the pieces when the thieves try to sell them on." But even if the Whitworth manages to recover the pieces, the sad truth is that the works returned to it may bear little resemblance to the works it lost. "One of the big concerns in this case must be that because these are watercolours they need to be looked after rather more than oils," Mr Ellis said. "If the recovery takes some time - which is quite likely, because statistics show that the peak period of recovery is seven years after the time of theft - and you have a watercolour which has been looked after incorrectly, there's a great danger of the thing being destroyed." Art's catalogue of stolen masterpieces· JMW Turner's Shade and Darkness - the Evening of the Deluge was stolen, along with its companion picture  Light and Colour - the Morning after the Deluge , while on loan to the Schirn Kunsthalle in Frankfurt in July 1994. They were recovered in December 2002 after the Tate handed over a sizeable sum to the German authorities to pay for "information" about the paintings, which are worth around £50m. The Tate insists that no ransom was paid, nor were criminals rewarded. · Rembrandt's  The Storm on the Sea of Galilee, and Vermeer's  The Concert were stolen on March 17 1990 from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, Massachusetts, in one of the biggest art thefts of century. The thieves were dressed as policemen and convinced the security guard that they were checking the museum in connection with an earlier incident. Both paintings are still missing. They are regarded as priceless. · Munch's 1893 work  The Scream, worth an estimated £37m, was stolen from the National Gallery in Olso in February 1994. The thieves climbed a ladder, broke a window and took the painting while a security camera filmed them.  They left a postcard of a modern Norwegian work called  A Good Story by Marit Walle with a message of thanks for the poor security. It shows three man laughing uproariously. The Munch work was recovered three months later. · Gustav Klimt's  Portrait of a Woman was stolen from a gallery in Piacenza, Italy, in February 1997 by a thief who got in through a skylight. The police think the thief used a fishing rod to hook and reel in the picture. It has not been recovered.