Witty variations on Britain's wartime slogan "Keep Calm and Carry On" are very popular these days. But it's not the message we send each other through hyperactive 24/7 rolling TV news and online rolling newspapers, let alone on frenetic social media. Just look at the wall-to-wall coverage of yesterday's brutal killing in Woolwich, London, nothing too unpleasant to be left to the imagination.Well within living memory this sort of coverage would not only have been impossible – the technology simply didn't exist – but it would have been deemed indecent. Rusty knives and meat cleavers? After all, doesn't the victim, believed to be a soldier, have next of kin, a family in shock to which we owe consideration?Successive wartime generations thought like that. They had seen too much bloodshed at first hand, civilians who picked bits of their neighbours out of blitzed homes as well as soldiers who saw their mates blown to pieces by shrapnel and shell. They got the official "missing in action" telegrams and the gruesome reality of it all without being invited to inspect the details.With every year that passes fewer of those who had that life-changing experience are around to remind us. Instead our own lives are saturated with violent images at second or third hand, the gore laid on by the bucketload, but the reality sanitised. The images come from the usual suspects, film and – nowadays – mainstream TV drama, the criminal courts, video games and footage of conflict and disaster from around the world.Camera phones whose ubiquity is both a blessing and curse, have expanded the market exponentially. Yesterday's psychotic violence in Woolwich was recorded and quickly broadcast on ITV. The two suspected murderers appear to have been keen to see their crime recorded for YouTube consumption, it's all in the Amateur Jihadi's DIY Handbook which they had obviously downloaded.But do we really want to see a bloodstained man waving a meat cleaver as he spouts wearily familiar nonsense about eye for eye, Muslims dying every day (we all die every day) and how David Cameron will be quite safe – but the rest of us won't? Leaving aside the point that prime ministers get protection because they are more at risk from violent attacks than the rest of us, TV coverage is clearly what the perpetrators of this crime wanted.So let's give them what they want. That seems to be our collective answer. The alleged killers, shot but still alive (no street executions please, officers), are in custody and will stand trial. Whatever their religious beliefs, they are modern and secular enough to have decided to defer the fruits of martyrdom and carnal rewards in paradise. That makes sense to most of us, though it is another selfishly expensive decision for the taxpayer.Preoccupied elsewhere yesterday afternoon, I became aware of a "terrorist incident at Woolwich" quite late in the cycle. When I checked the BBC's News channel – Sky gets far too excited too quickly for my taste – I quickly decided that this ugly crime was likely to be a one-off by a couple of disturbed young men who joined a jihadi website class rather than one of south-east London's gangs. They might have murdered a gang rival or a shopkeeper, instead they channelled their testosterone bloodlust elsewhere. I switched the TV off, watching the endless recycling of this voyeuristic stuff is bad for us all, even at my age.That instant assessment – a "lone wolf" attack, not part of an orchestrated onslaught directed by sinister forces abroad – may prove to be wrong, but nothing I have read or heard since then yet changes my mind. Sad, bad and pointless, it is a commonplace of most times and places, though some experts tell us – here's a smart little film from clever Charlie Booker – that saturation coverage of mass murder tends to spawn copycat crime.Amid the familiar vox pop interviews among Woolwich locals ("people born and bred here have got less rights than anyone else"), complaints against Muslims, against "Little Somalia" and drugs, the decline of the community, there are positive features, generosity of spirit and some heroism. Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, who got off a bus to help in what she thought was a road accident and tried to protect the victim, was one of several women who showed courage. The wartime generation would have applauded – but also expected as much. "London can take it," as they used to say. So could Berlin.But the only visibly organised conspiracy in the frame is the English Defence League (EDL) which turned up to exploit the crime, followed by the much-fragmented BNP. If such people got anywhere near the levers of law and order policy there would be much more mayhem on our streets. The desire to provoke retaliation and damage inter-communal relations is part of the propaganda war the perpetrators seek to incite.So the fact that Muslim leaders have condemned the attack and there have been no reprisals – touch wood – reflects credit on all concerned. It's not as if soldiers are never attacked on British streets – even occasionally murdered – by their drunken co-religionists, is it?Joseph Conrad described the introverted, narcissistic mentality of plotters involved in his 1907 novel, The Secret Agent, depicting an anarchist gang targeting the Greenwich Observatory – not far from Woolwich – in another jittery phase of public life when Germans and Russians, not jihadis, were the enemy. Not much changes.Obviously we can never pretend nothing happened yesterday, not should we. Twitter and the blogosphere wouldn't let us anyway. This was a shocking event.Yet there is little the police and security authorities – never slow to demand extra powers and resources – can do to protect us from lone wolfs. They do pretty well against organised conspiracies, but we should also bring perspective to such events and consult expert opinion which will calm things down rather than hype them up. The BBC's estimable security man, Frank Gardner struggled to sound as excited as he was meant to be on air today. Good man.And do we need David Cameron to chair a meeting of Cobra (all it stands for is Cabinet Office Briefing Room A) to decide whether or not to raise the national terrorist threat level – probably not, Dave – when he has much more important things to worry about?We'll be seeing him on TV again later. He wouldn't do it if a knife gang had carved up its rivals. Yet gangs are a greater problem for life in our big cities than wannabe jihadis with rusty knives and a pistol which blows a thumb off the hand that fires it.By the same token there was some important news yesterday that got squashed. The IMF's shot across George Osborne's austerity-facing bows ended up on page 4 of today's Guardian. The Rendition Project's interesting findings on the UK's involvement in illegal US rendition of suspects was on page 17. The unemployed were rioting again in Sweden last night – a nib (news in brief) on page 38.Such stories have a direct bearing on the lives and action of what will probably prove to be ill-educated and unemployed young men in Woolwich who have been watching jihadi video nasties on the internet. Even if they haven't, there is plenty of home-grown fake violence on mainstream telly as well as the net to help them through the day.I watched half an hour of a well-regarded but sadistic BBC two-parter called The Fall the other evening, one in which women get strangled and senior police officers played by Gillian Anderson try to pick up hunky constables on the street. Confusing, eh? After switching off Woolwich last night I later stumbled on BBC3's the Cleveland Captives: What Really Happened. It was as dumb a bit of voyeuristic trailerpark TV as you could hope to avoid. So I did.Today's Guardian carries a comic controversy over Only God Forgives, Nicholas Winding Refn's new highbrow film whose violent content is dividing critics at Cannes. As a bunch, film critics must be almost as desensitised to violence as the average Syrian jihadi, so the movie must be quite something. The director's quotes do not inspire confidence.I know, I know, it's meant to be cathartic, not voyeuristic. That's the theory, but is it working? My kids laugh when I protest, but I worry for their kids – more indoors than on the street too.