 Ashley Johnson, 34 Sentence: series of short terms Crimes: deception and fraud The first time I got sentenced, it was three months in a detention centre for theft. I was 17 and the discipline did me good. I really felt when I came out I was going to make a go of it without crime. I took up a degree, but dropped out after two years because I didn't have the funds. The next time I got caught I was 21 and went to a young offenders institute for 12 months. Again, when I came out there was no support network. There was less incentive to really change. Probation monitored but didn't help me. This time I was more clued up, more prepared. I'm a bit of a communicator and a thinker and I used the time to plan ahead what were near-enough fool-proof crimes. You realise certain systems are easy to break through or break into. I was working out how I was going to survive, where there were softer bear traps - less police and lower punishments, so less risk. My knowledge and connections increased while I was inside. People they tell you what they've done and how they've done it, and what the downsides are so you can calculate whether the risk is worth taking. You realise that if you deal in drugs, you get longer punishments. I went into deception because the sentences were small and the money was big. Drugs worth £10,000 means five years. With deception, you get six months. I earned hundreds of thousands of pounds that way. I spent most of it gambling, travelling and living the playboy lifestyle, but being into deception, I also knew ways of hiding money away. My opinion is prison really only works for people who have done several sentences. There comes a time when you think: "Bloody hell, what's happening here? I don't want to spend my life going in and out of jail." You become an old lag and start telling the young jack-the-lads about how it was for you when you were young and in jail. It hit me how much money I have spent and how much I was losing by being in prison. I had repayments and overheads I couldn't keep up. In the end, I bullied probation and counsellors into giving me the help I needed but I think the support needs to be so much better the first time around. That's why organisations like the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders are good. They take a lot of the sweat from the statutory organisations. Confidence has also gone into the voluntary sector because criminals see the statutory services as an extension of the criminal justice system.