Mike Best, the editor of the Voice, says that the use of police stop and search powers should be increased (Voice editor calls for more stop and search, March 5). In reports covering his comments, Mr Best is frequently described by both television and the press as, "a black community leader". While we acknowledge that he might be considered an opinion leader by the declining readership of the paper he edits, we wish to state that we do not consider him a leader of any community to which we belong.While we are all concerned about the present rise in gun crime, we do not support in any way the increased use of stop and search, a tactic described in a study conducted the same year the Macpherson Report was published, as "a massive blunt instrument, costly to maintain and grossly inaccurate in its impact ... counterproductive, its yield largely of minor crimes and its necessity unproven". In retrospect it seems wholly consistent with current reporting trends, that someone not considered a leader by the African-British community itself, is used to rehabilitate a discredited police power, which the law-abiding majority of our community is actually against. We do have a voice, one which works independently of the words frequently placed in our mouths by so-called spokespeople; but one which sadly, is seldom ever heard. Matthew Boucher and eight other members of the Blacknet Community News Forum · No one has pointed out to Metropolitan police commissioner Sir John Stevens that, when it comes to the criminal justice system, magistrates despair at the constant need for adjournments because the police have not provided the CPS with the evidence to enable trials to proceed (Comment, March 8). Witnesses are not warned to attend and do not appear on the day of trial. Advance information and video evidence takes weeks to reach defence lawyers. Committal bundles for the crown court are not ready within agreed timescales. Memoranda from the CPS to the police are ignored. Any magistrate will tell you these are the daily norm. Ron Jeffries JP Ilford, Essex ronjeffries@btinternet.com