Scotland Yard yesterday released the name of a man they want to question about the gruesome murder of two women whose dismembered remains have been found in bin bags in north London.Detective Chief Superintendent David Cook said they were looking for Anthony John Hardy who is in his 50s and has a grey beard. After the initial discovery of body parts on Monday, detectives searching Mr Hardy's flat in Camden yesterday found part of the torso of one of the women, Mr Cook told a press conference. He said there were still a number of body parts missing, including both heads and some limbs. It is understood that Mr Hardy was arrested last January when the body of another woman was found in his flat. He was released without charge after the postmortem examination showed the death was due to natural causes. She died of a heart attack. A blue police tarpaulin was thrown up yesterday at the front and back of the three-storey block of council flats. Police are still trying to establish the identities of the victims, but believe they are not related. One is in her late teens or early 20s and the other is in her 30s or 40s. It is thought they died within the last week, but police found no signs of a violent struggle in the flat. Mr Cook warned: "If you look at the nature of the crime that has taken place clearly the person responsible for this matter must be treated with extreme caution and considered to be dangerous." He said that Mr Hardy had not been seen in the last couple of days. "As much as we would wish to speak to him in connection with the murder, we have also, naturally, because of events that have taken place, to be concerned for his safety and well-being." He added that Mr Hardy was believed to have lived in London for some time and his relatives had been contacted but they had not seen him. "Because of his health he is not currently working and we don't have details of anywhere he was last employed," Mr Cook said. Anyone knowing the whereabouts of Mr Hardy is advised to dial 999 or phone the incident room on 020 8358 0600. The murder inquiry began on Monday after a homeless man found pieces of human legs in a bin liner behind the College Arms pub. He took them to a hospital, which called the police. Later the torso of a young woman was found in a wheelie bin about 100 yards away. Police then found several carrier bags containing other body parts. A pathologist concluded that the legs belonged to a white woman. Pub licensee Rachel Musarati, 35, said: "The body parts were found in my bin, which is very disturbing. It's horrifying."