Police officers are planning to bring Whitehall to a grinding halt with a mass rally, it was reported today.The move comes in conjunction with a planned legal challenge to overturn an 83-year-old ban on police strikes.But the home secretary, David Blunkett, last night dismissed the idea of strike action as "ridiculous". He said: "People want strikes against thugs and criminals not strikes against the public services." Off-duty rank-and-file members of the nationwide Police Federation are planning to march past Downing Street in the near future to hammer home their discontent at the reforms, in a plan leaked to the Daily Mail newspaper.The planned action would see the police follow in the footsteps of anti-globalisation protestors who beseiged Parliament Square on May 1 2000.On Friday, the Police Federation, which represents 126,000 officers in England and Wales, voted by nine to one against changes to basic pay and conditions as part of Mr Blunkett's police reform bill. In a letter sent to chief constables and police authorities in England and Wales after the ballot, Mr Blunkett expressed his disappointment at the vote. "The time has come for the official side - Acpo [association of chief police officers], the police authorities and the government - to ensure that rank-and-file officers understand what a very good deal this is for all concerned." The proposed package would give senior officers the reforms they told the government they wanted, Mr Blunkett added. He said: "A modernised pay and conditions system is an integral part of the overall police reform programme. Indeed the other reforms will not be so effective in tackling crime if we do not get the reforms to pay and conditions as well. "I am firmly on the side of rank-and-file officers, the vast majority of whom do an outstandingly professional job, day in and day out," he said. But Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, accused Mr Blunkett of being a "bully" and said while many rank and file officers welcomed the proposals in the police reform bill, the pay offer was unacceptable. Mr Smyth said of the letter: "He has got a hard job on his hands because all the superintendents I have spoken to don't believe the pay proposals are a good idea. "He tried to do this within the Metropolitan police in the run-up to the ballots and it had completely the opposite effect to the one he desired. Police officers were incandescent at his cheek." Mr Smyth said. "This man is a bully, police officers deal with bullies on a daily basis, they don't scare us, we take them on," he added. A home office spokesman said: "David Blunkett is an elected politician who has a mandate to carry out police reform. "He has the support of the public and much of the police to fight crime. "Mr Blunkett has no intention of getting involved in an unseemly slanging match with Glen Smyth or the Metropolitan Police Federation leadership. "The home secretary believes that rank-and-file officers recognise that the reform measures which are in addition to the general pay increase will benefit the vast majority of officers." 