An emergency reserve of riot officers has been put on standby as police tackle unprecedented challenges over the disorder breaking out in urban centres in England. Six forces are getting reinforcements as part of a national operation set up to deal with the scale of the looting.London, Manchester, the West Midlands, Gloucestershire, Nottinghamshire, and Avon and Somerset have been sent officers. Sir Hugh Orde, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo), said if other forces requested help they would get support.Orde, who has been having regular discussions with the prime minister and the home secretary at Cobra meetings, said: "Clearly these are challenging times. We are in an unprecedented situation but we are determined to do our best to ensure that forces have adequate mutual aid for anyone who requests it."He spoke as Theresa May, the home secretary, said police leave should be cancelled. She does not have the power to order chief constables to stop their officers' breaks but it is understood most police chiefs have decided to do so.After four days of rioting and looting, now happening beyond London and in cities including Birmingham, Manchester, Salford and Nottingham, as well as smaller towns such as Milton Keynes, Orde has responded by setting up a mobile reserve of police support units to provide a rapid response for forces.The unit, made up of public-order officers, will be kept in one or two geographic locations and will be called upon whenever needed."We have learned lessons as this has gone on. It is a unique situation and we are adapting our tactics to deal with it," said an Acpo source.The decision came after a day in which the prime minister promised forces they would have access to water cannons if they needed it, although some senior officers have said that cannons are not the answer to the current disorder. The six water cannon units are based in the Police Service of Northern Ireland and could be deployed in 24 hours.Mutual aid to the Metropolitan police remains the same. The force has been given 50 police service units (PSUs), made up of 1,500 riot officers, to ensure it keeps 16,000 officers on the streets.Stephen Kavanagh, the Met police's deputy assistant commissioner, said the operation was taking a "huge toll".Peter Fahy, chief constable of Greater Manchester police, who has said that organised crime groups were involved in the violence in Salford, has been sent 25 PSUs, with about 625 officers, to boost his force's response after his officers described how they were overwhelmed on Tuesday night.The chief constable of the West Midlands, Chris Sims, who has appealed for calm amid growing tension in the community, has also been sent 625 officers.The Avon and Somerset force, who faced disorder in the city of Bristol on Tuesday, have now been sent reinforcements as have Nottinghamshire and Gloucestershire, but the support there is on a smaller scale.Fahy, whose force sent 100 officers to London and then found itself overstretched on Tuesday, dismissed criticism of the decision. He said: "What is important to us and what is important to all police forces is [that] the situation in London is under control. That is really important to stop the copycat riots and disturbances and calm things down."It is understood that his officers have now returned to Manchester and been replaced in London by other officers from different forces.Fahy said there was a difference between the looting in Salford and other parts of the country. Organised crime gangs made up a key section of the rioters, he said."Sadly they were the sort of characters we deal with day in, day out. They are the sort of people who live on the edge of criminality and who would see organised shoplifting, burglary, as part of their day-to-day occupation," said Fahy. "The 1980s was about attacking police officers. This isn't – this is about attacking shops and trying to get televisions and electrical goods and clothing. There were families turning up in cars and loading stuff into their boots."The Met police, whose tactics of flooding the streets with officers on Tuesday appeared to have worked, will maintain their presence. The sheer scale of arrests carried out in London – now numbering more than 700 – has also done much to reduce the amount of disorder.Some forces have further tactics which they have not yet used. Gloucestershire police is imposing a dispersal order from noon on Thursday. The order, which will now run until 11 February 2012, is being introduced in response to an increase in groups behaving in an anti-social way and intimidating local residents and shoppers."The order allows police or police community support officers to direct any groups of two or more to leave the area for 24 hours when they believe the behaviour of the group is likely to result in members of the public being harassed, alarmed or distressed," a force spokeswoman said. "Dispersal orders provide us with an effective tool which we can use at our discretion to ensure that those who intimidate others can be ordered to leave an area and receive a strong punishment if they ignore the order."Rank and file officers said they would do all they could to help as they responded to the home secretary's order to finish their leave.Simon Reed, of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said: "The dedication and professionalism of police officers shown during this national emergency shows our flexibility and loyalty to protecting the public."Officers will continue to do all they can to ensure the perpetrators are brought to justice. Our priority, as always, is to protect the innocent members of the communities we serve."