Lawyers for a trainee accountant found guilty of causing a menace by sending a Twitter message threatening to blow up Doncaster's Robin Hood airport, today urged an appeal judge to overturn the conviction because the message was "obviously facetious" and "a parody".Paul Chambers, 27, was planning to fly to Belfast to see a woman he had met on the social networking website more than a week after Robin Hood airport was closed amid the chaos caused by January's snow falls.Frustrated that his plans could be thwarted, he tweeted: "Crap! Robin Hood airport is closed. You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high!!"Seven days later he was arrested by anti-terrorist officers at his workplace under a 1977 act which deals with hoaxers who make others believe, beyond reasonable doubt, that bombs or explosives have been set somewhere. He was charged with breaching a communications law which meant the charge related to "menace" in his message rather than inducing a false belief a bomb was about to explode.District judge Jonathan Bennett said at the conclusion of his first trial that although it was "an unusual case" he was satisfied the message was of a "menacing nature in the context of the times we live in" and fined him £1,000.Appearing in Chambers' defence at today's appeal, barrister Stephen Ferguson applied to the judge to rule out the prosecution case as it had not been sufficiently made and said the message could not be proven to be menacing, and there was no intent on Chambers' part to cause menace."This [message] is obviously facetious," Ferguson told Judge Jacqueline Davies at Doncaster crown court. "There are at least three exclamation marks. The first to add to the slightly naughty word 'crap'. The last two to the parody of 'to blow the airport sky high.'"The court earlier heard that a senior airport official, Steve Armson, had "determined it was a non-credible threat".Under cross-examination, the airport duty manager Sean Duffield said the impact after he found Chambers' message was "operationally nothing. It had no impact".The court was also told that a police officer involved in the questioning and processing of Chambers after he was arrested, noted after Chambers was bailed "there is no evidence at this stage this is anything other than a foolish comment posted on Twitter for only his close friends to see".Chambers, who sat largely expressionless during proceedings behind toughened glass with a security guard beside him, had 690 followers when he sent the message openly. Caroline Wiggin, appearing for the prosecution, said Chambers sent earlier direct messages to the woman in Northern Ireland as it appeared possible the airport might close. In one he wrote: "I was thinking if it does I have decided to resort to terrorism." The case continues.