A former refuse collector who killed four people, leading to one of the biggest police manhunts in history, was given four life sentences yesterday and told there was no prospect of him being released.Mark Hobson, 35, had admitted murdering his 27-year-old girlfriend Claire Sanderson and her twin sister Diane last July in Camblesforth, near Selby, North Yorkshire. In a hearing last month at Leeds crown court, Hobson also admitted the murder of an elderly couple, former Spitfire pilot James Britton and his wife Joan, in their home 25 miles away near York. The court heard that after killing Claire with 17 hammer blows and placing a plastic bag over her head, he wrapped her body in binbags. A week later, he phoned her sister Diane claiming Claire was ill with glandular fever. He lured her to her death and subjected her to a macabre sexual attack. Mr Justice Grigson told Hobson: "The enormity of what you have done is beyond words." As the sentence was read out, the twins' mother, Jacqueline Sanderson, stood up in the public gallery and, in tears, shouted: "Rot in hell. You bastard. Rot in there - rot in hell." The killer was on the run for eight days, before being arrested in a field off the A19 after visiting a garage to buy cigarette papers, matches and water. He was found to be armed with a knife stolen from the Brittons' kitchen. Hobson told police he had taken a cocktail of drugs including cannabis, cocaine, ec stasy and alcohol and could remember nothing about his girlfriend's death. He claimed to have lost a day and a half and come round with a bloodstained hammer in his hand. The court had earlier heard that their 18-month relationship was violent and punctuated by arguments. The judge said that Hobson had an abusive relationship with his girlfriend and had transferred his attention to her sister: "As Claire stood in your way, you murdered her. In my opinion, that was a premeditated act." The court had earlier heard that weeks before the killing, he told a workmate he had picked the wrong sister and he was determined to "have" Diane. "On July 18, you succeeded in luring Diane to your home," the judge said. "It is plain at your hands she suffered not only terror and pain but sexual harm before she died. You went on the run armed with a knife and on July 18 you arrived at the village of Strensall and attacked and killed Mr and Mrs Britton. Neither was capable of offering you any resistance." While on remand, Hobson told a prison officer he had "never felt better in my life" and compared his time inside to being on the television programme Big Brother. The court heard that it was the first time anyone who had pleaded guilty had been given a whole life tariff. The judge rejected pleas by defence counsel Jeremy Richardson to give his client credit for admitting the offences. Psychiatrists hadfound Hobson had a history of depression and personality disorders.