A mother who dumped her daughter's body in a canal after her boyfriend had murdered the five-year-old showed no remorse, a court heard yesterday.Tracy Reid, 25, failed to raise the alarm after her daughter Danielle was thrown down the stairs and beaten by her partner, Lee Gaytor, at their home in Inverness last year. When Danielle died in her bed after the attack, Reid helped to put her daughter's body in a weighted suitcase and throw it into the Caledonian canal. At the high court in Edinburgh yesterday, a clinical psychologist, Gary MacPherson, said he found no clinical evidence of any mental condition which would have substantially impaired Reid's behaviour before or during the crime. He was giving evidence at a hearing to establish her state of mind at the time of Danielle's death. In June, Reid pleaded guilty to attempting to defeat the ends of justice, along with Christopher Gaytor, her partner's brother. Lee Gaytor pleaded guilty to Danielle's murder. Sentencing of the three was postponed until a mitigation hearing into differing assessments of Reid's mental state. Mr MacPherson told the first day of the hearing that he spent almost an hour and a quarter at Cornton Vale prison in Stirling interviewing Reid and felt that, while she had not appeared unconcerned, it seemed to him that "Danielle had never existed for her". Mr MacPherson said Reid told him that both she and Danielle had been subjected to threats, violence and physical abuse from Lee Gaytor over a period of months. But he disputed the findings of a fellow psychologist, Mairead Tagg, who concluded that "due to her own psychological damage, she [Reid] could not have acted more effectively to protect her child. She was, in very real terms, as helpless as the child herself." "That's not the view I would take," Mr MacPherson told the court. Reading from his report, he said: "I'm of the overall view that Tracy Reid is not currently experiencing a clinically significant psychological condition or mental disorder." Another report, by Susan Baird, a clinical psychologist, described Reid as a woman suffering "from a life characterised by abuse and neglect" which left her severely psychologically damaged. The hearing continues.