The HMIC report into police failings for domestic abuse victims is a wake-up call to all forces (Report, 27 March). With domestic abuse linked to 8% of crime in the UK, it's shocking that there is such a lack of provision to deal with this violence in some areas. But it's important to recognise that the picture is not universally bleak and there are genuine areas of good practice. Greenwich has implemented a genuine joined-up approach. Housing for Women works alongside police officers there in a designated multi-agency team that provides training to officers as well as support to victims. Police often refer women to this service even when there is insufficient evidence for a prosecution. The home secretary must recognise these models of good practice, and ensure they are implemented across all forces so that effective support is provided to women and their children, and lives can be saved.Jakki MoxhamChief executive, Housing for Women• Tom Winsor is right to say "Domestic abuse is not only about violence. It is about fear, control and secrecy. It is essential that the police make substantial reforms to their handling of domestic abuse including their understanding of the coercive and psychological nature of the crime as well as its physical manifestation." I am a retired police officer who is an authority on the crime of stalking, which is closely connected to domestic abuse. I all too often come across cases where the police have simply failed to understand the devastating effect psychological abuse can have on victims. The fault lies with a lack of leadership and it is high time those responsible are publicly held to account.Hamish BrownEgham, Surrey• It is a supreme irony that, just as the government announces a policy initiative aimed at countering emotional cruelty to children (Parents to face jail for emotional child abuse, 31 March), it is also reported that it had failed in an attempt to jemmy a 16-year-old child away from her family to send her alone to a distant island in the Indian Ocean (Deportation reprieve for Mauritian schoolgirl, 31 March).Barry ButlerBirmingham