Trying to find the truth about group rape in the UK is a frustrating and depressing business. The fact that the police are in the process of reopening 2,000 cases shows the scale of the problem, but it is extremely difficult to find young women who are prepared to talk about it. They are embarrassed, ashamed and reluctant. Some time ago, however, I was able to attend a trial in which three young men were found not guilty of the group rape of two 15-year-old girls, Lucy and Emma.After the trial was over, Lucy's mother, Kathy, got in touch with me. She wanted to talk. She was furious. She wanted her daughter's story to be published, because if the justice system didn't indict her daughter's attackers, maybe the public would. She wanted to use her real name, but Lucy didn't want her father - who didn't live with them - to know what had happened to her. But they would meet me, Kathy said, and talk.It didn't happen for several months. Lucy was involved in another trial, concerning an earlier offence. Victim, again, but this time "only" of sexual assault. But there was a conviction. Having put Lucy through months of anxiety at the thought of having to testify again, her attacker pleaded guilty. He'd figured out, apparently, that his defence - namely, that a 13-year-old legally consented to him kicking in the door of the fast-food restaurant toilets where she was hiding and then willingly performed fellatio on him - was unlikely to convince the court. The day we finally meet, Lucy has just found out that the young man has been sentenced. "Eighty hours' community service!" she says with disgust. "I know someone who got more than that for stealing a moped!"Lucy and Kathy are a striking pair, graceful and thoughtful. Both are rape victims: Kathy was raped and beaten up when she was 14, which her daughters know about. "I'd always say, 'If anyone touches you, come to me and I will always believe you.' Stupidly, I thought they'd do it.""Yeah," says Lucy, "but you still haven't told your Mum, have you?" She tuts, teenage-style. "It's too embarrassing."This is the first time Lucy has talked about what happened to her. She's only one voice, but she's standing in for a lot of other young women. Not just the high-profile ones who reach the papers because they've been murdered, such as Mary-Ann Leneghan in a Reading park, who, according to the police, was sexually assaulted before she was killed. But for all the young women who complain of group rape and are very rarely believed. Statistically, Lucy's case is nothing unusual. But nobody told her that only 7% of rape cases result in a conviction, that she was highly unlikely to win her case. She'd been told the case was strong. She thought she did all right in court, considering. When the officer phoned to tell her the boys had been acquitted, it was an almighty shock. "I really wanted to talk about it, because I'm really angry. This'll sound awful, but it does make you feel better when you know it's happened to other people."It's not clear if talking does make her feel better, though. She finds it hard at times, mortifying at others. Sometimes she's sulky and snaps at Kathy. Sometimes she makes her mother leave the room, at the really nasty bits. Sometimes she laughs, but less than a girl her age should. Her mother looks at her with affection and despair. "You were one of the most placid, laid-back children I ever had the pleasure of being with," she says. "Now you seem to be on edge all the time."When she was orally raped in the fast-food restaurant, Lucy says, "I'd only had my first kiss a few months before." She was good at school, having come out of primary school with top grades. "I have to say," says Lucy, with a rare grin, "I was quite bright."That was until her friend Emma left her alone in the restaurant's baby-changing toilets with a group of boys outside. When Lucy got home that day, she had an oblong bruise across her cheek, a foot-shaped bruise. She told her mother she'd been assaulted, but not about the sexual element of the attack. "She didn't want to report it," says Kathy. "She said it would make things worse."They got worse, anyway. A year later, Lucy didn't come home. It was Kathy's brother's birthday, and Lucy was supposed to be back so they could telephone him. She finally arrived at nearly 1am. "Normally when she comes back late, she tries to brazen it out. But this time was really weird, she just stuck her head round the door and said, 'I've had the worst night of my life, I'm going to bed.'" Kathy and Lucy's sister looked at each other and said, "Is she all right?""I left her 20 minutes," says Kathy, "then I went upstairs to see how she was. I went into the bathroom and she'd taken off her tights and trousers, and thrown them on the floor. There was mud and leaves on the inside of the tights and muddy footprints leading away. I couldn't understand why she'd have mud inside her tights. I stuck my head round the door, and she'd pulled the covers right over her head and she was sobbing so hard the bed was shaking. I said, 'Do you want to talk about it?' and she said no."Kathy left it, thinking Lucy would talk when she wanted to. But she didn't want to. "I would never have told anybody if Emma hadn't asked me to report it. I didn't want anybody to know what had happened to me. I didn't think anyone would believe me. I was just about to go to my new school, and it was just like, why bring it up? You hope it'll go away if you never mention it again. If other people know about it, then it's reality."But Emma forced Lucy's hand. She'd been with Lucy on the night in question, and after 18 months had decided to report what had happened. "She called me and said Lucy had something to tell me," says Kathy. "I asked Lucy when she came in. I was trying to be calm. I could see she didn't want to talk, so I wrote some stupid questions on a scrap of paper, like, 'Who did something to you, where did it happen?' I read her answers after she went to bed. She'd put the names of everyone who was there. I thought, oh my God, it's 15 boys!"Lucy sort of smiles, though it might be more of a grimace. "Yeah, because I thought she meant who was there at the time." In fact, the case that went to trial accused one boy of raping Emma and two of taking it in turns to rape Lucy, late one cold winter night in a grubby park.Lucy has had no counselling since the trial finished. When the not guilty verdicts came in, Kathy thought she might have to have Lucy sectioned. Lucy has recovered her zest and equilibrium, but there's no disguising her disgust and fury. "I knew the boys, I knew they had a reputation for violence, and for jacking [robbing] people. That evening, it built up, all the aggression. They got more and more confident, they were building each other up, saying, 'Yeah, come on, it's my turn.' When they saw the barristers ripping into me at the trial, they must have thought it was even less of a thing than it was. They said I was lying. But you're just not going to go through this whole thing if it isn't true."They make you watch your video statement in court," says Lucy. "Watching yourself crying - it just wrecks you before you've even started." I tell Lucy that I thought the defence arguments had enough holes - one boy said the sex was consensual, his co-defendant said it hadn't happened at all - to give the jury pause. I say I would have convicted them. She seizes on this hungrily. "I had no idea what their defence was, whether they'd say we'd made it up or that it was consensual. No one told us. Even now I don't know why they got not guilty verdicts. I'd like to know."I tell her my theory - that the boys looked too spruced up, too well-behaved, that juries think that nice boys don't rape, that Emma's testimony had been too inconsistent. Lucy understands why that might seem so. In her testimony, she said that she and Emma had been dragged over closed gates into the park. It wasn't true."They jumped over the gates with Emma, but I wouldn't jump over, and one of the boys jumped back and then, just my luck, there was a side entrance that was open. I didn't say that at the trial, because I thought it looked bad. You want so much to be believable. So you try really hard, and it's really stressful. The thing is, you'll do anything because they've got total power over you. We even sat around [with them] for 20 minutes, and all the time I was trying to think how to get away. Even if you tell the truth, they rubbish you. And then to hear these people saying it was consensual, it's really horrible. We didn't know what they were going to say, but they'd had my statement for ages, so they could prepare their case exactly. They knew exactly how to make a story to fit everything. I don't understand why the system's like that. Why can't I meet my barrister? What's up with that?"She's angry with the system, with the boys, but mostly with herself. "I felt I was stupid enough to get into that situation. I think one of the reasons girls don't talk about it is that they feel it reflects on them as a person. Especially if the boys don't use violence, if it's just intimidation, they think it wasn't really rape. The cases that are publicised - like they dragged her here and beat her up - they might get reported, but you don't know about all the ones where they just used threats. [That evening, while it was happening] a man in the window looked out, and they obviously knew they were doing something wrong, because they said, 'Get down! Shut up!' It was dark, I was scared and I felt like I was totally isolated, it felt like the park was massive. I remember the bushes seemed really bushy and I was thinking about all the spiders' webs and the creepy-crawlies. Then the window light came on and the man must have heard stuff. But they still said I was lying."After the (alleged) rape, Lucy started at a new school for a fresh start. "Then the first day, I saw one of the boys. He came up and said, 'Don't worry, I'm not going to say nothing to no one', like he was doing me a favour. And then he had power over me, too! It doesn't get easier."Kathy applied for rehousing, and asked not to be put on an estate, for Lucy's sake. "So they put us on an estate. There's always young men, boys hanging around." Lucy nods. "You can't walk down the street without getting hassled. One afternoon recently, there were three men and one of them grabbed my arm and said, 'Give me head.' He tried to drag me into an alley. I shoved him off, but if it had been a girl who was less aware, she might have got raped. I know what can happen. They pick out the quiet girls. Once you're labelled a sket [slag], that's it. When I see a big group of girls who are 11 or 12, I see the ones who were like me, the quiet ones who go along with what anyone else is saying. I want to say, 'Leave it alone, man, don't go there!' When I see those girls, I think it's going to happen to them."These days, Lucy defends herself as best she can. She doesn't wear short skirts or revealing tops any more. "I always want to be covered up. You get too much attention. Not the kind of attention you get from builders or men in vans - they say stuff, but it's sort of well-meaning. With these boys, it isn't."Kathy mentions that she heard some girls at a bus stop talking about another girl who had been "done up the bum". Lucy nods, with the weary cynicism of a veteran. "If I'd heard that before, I would have just thought that she'd been done up the bum. But after what happened to me, I'd think maybe that wasn't what happened. I've heard about it happening to other girls. You hear them boasting about it, that she wanted it with all their mates. And then she's a sket."Recent press reports have linked gang rapes with street gangs (though the police call gang rapes "group rapes", to make a distinction), but Lucy paints a more alarming picture. "The boys who do it, they're not gangs, as such, they just know each other. They're the ones who push it so far at school but keep on the right side of the teachers." (One boy at the trial had a teacher as a character witness.) "They're one thing at school and another thing at home and another thing outside." They are hard to pin down, hard to understand. "Will he do it again?" Kathy says, talking about the sexual assault. "When you don't know why he's done it in the first place, how can we know? I can't make any sense of it."In response to a parliamentary question last November, inquiring what the home secretary was doing about group rape, Home Office minister Paul Goggins was brief - only 6% of rapes reported in the British Crime Survey involved more than one perpetrator, he said. This figure runs counter to statistics from the Haven rape crisis centre in Camberwell, south London, which found that 25% of under 16-year-old victims reported more than one assailant. "Research published in the near future is expected to throw more light on the prevalence and nature of group rape," said Goggins.For Lucy, the near future isn't near enough. "I start getting angry, and I try not to get angry. I just want someone to do something about it. I don't like to see my mum upset all the time."Kathy looks to the long term. "The jury should be trained better. How can they understand, when they don't know what it's like to be a young girl, walking across an estate? The thing is, the girls who this is happening to, they're our next generation of mothers, and they've been brutalised. They're switched off inside. Where's it going to end? There's a fatalism, and a general misogyny, and the girls are accepting it - they think that's just what things are like."But that's what things are like, says Lucy, who's tired - she's been talking for hours. "We're supposed to have equal rights, but it's only in the eyes of the government. Not on the ground. More and more boys are going to do it, if they know they're going to get away with it. They do it because it's all about power. With boys, they jack them. And they rape the girls."She thinks that the two boys acquitted of raping her may have been scared enough not to do it again. But maybe not. "It's normal to them, what they do," she says. She had a dream recently that she was going into a shop with a boy and she was asking for help, saying he was going to rape her. "It's so vivid in my mind. But at least, with nightmares, you wake up."· Names have been changed.