Coverdale Close, a long street with suspension-shattering humps, was quiet yesterday; few people about in the spring sunshine, its peace disturbed only by the occasional rumble of trains on the Manchester to London mainline.But two years ago two shots rang out on Coverdale Close and 17-year-old Gabriel Eghar-evba was blasted from his bike by a gunman on a motorcycle. Gabriel died almost immediately as neighbours tried to help. His murder came as the number of shootings in Longsight, barely three miles from the centre of Manchester, prompted police to warn that guns were becoming "almost a fashion accessory" in parts of the city. One theory is that villains who were cleaned out of Moss Side and other areas had migrated south. Now Longsight, in which white, Asian and Afro-Caribbean people mingle on council estates and streets of terraced homes, has been promised special help by the home secretary, David Blunkett, in an attempt to crack down on juvenile crime. Good job too, said Rashid Shannan, who lives just off Coverdale Close. "There are many problems here, usually with young guys," he said as he walked with one of his seven children. "There are problems every day. I'm not happy but if I moved I might find myself in a worse area. I think the law is weak in dealing with these problems. A guy attacked a girl inside a house here and I tried my best to keep her alive. If I had not been there, he would have killed her." Dr Shannan welcomes the prospect of more police action in the area. "My feeling is that the police are not strong enough to stop these problems. I have phoned them many times over incidents but they come perhaps 30 minutes later when what was happening had finished." Further down the road, Al bert Kavanagh, father of two, was giving a final wipe to his newly-washed Ford Fiesta. "We've lived here over 20 years and I've never been mugged and neither has my wife," he said. "We've never been burgled or anything like that. If someone gets shot, people round here just say it's another drug dealer gone. That's the general view of most people. It's like the mafia killing each other. Who cares? "They are never going to get rid of drugs, whatever they do. There are too many middle and upper class people taking drugs and making it the norm." A neighbour remembered when there were six shootings in 18 months. "That's worrying," she said. "But generally there's not much of a problem - unless I walk round with my eyes blinkered. I don't feel as if I can't go out or anything." Longsight has a lively centre, with an Asda, a selection of Asian food stores, most of them protected by steel shutters and an informal used car market (£150 for a little red Peugeot). Nafees Din, who owns Mafee's Sweet Centre and ND Sports next door, hopes the area will develop and rival cosmopolitan Rusholme (Manchester's curry mile). Having had a few unwelcome visitors in his shops, he welcomes new police attention. "This is quite a heavy area, with the drugs and the youth," he said. He sat by a photograph of his father Mohammad, a champion wrestler who represented Pakistan at the 1960 Rome Olympics, and described experiences with brazen shoplifters. "We now have a bell system so that if we think a customer in the sports shop is a bit dodgy, we press the button and four guys go in from the sweet store," he said. "We have cameras too and an alarm system linked to the police. But we have built up a reputation for not tolerating thieves. If we have more police around, it will help the community."