Britain has a "very, very small" gun-crime problem but it needs to be "nipped in the bud before it snowballs out of control", a former top US police officer told MPs yesterday.Paul Evans, former Boston police commissioner and now head of the Home Office's police standards unit, said it was essential that those who supplied firearms to young people paid a heavy price. Mr Evans, credited with driving down violent crime in Boston during his 10 years as commissioner, said it was essential to use an "intelligence-led approach" that identified the "impact players" who were carrying guns, as well as enlisting the active support of the community. At the same meeting of the Commons home affairs select committee, the chief inspector of constabulary, Sir Keith Povey, said it was important to remember that gun crime represented 0.02% of overall crime, and that deaths from shootings had fallen from 93 two years ago to 81 last year. "But it is very difficult to overcome a random shooting of the kind that took place in Nottingham that has a very serious impact on people's fear of crime," he told MPs. Mr Evans said there were lessons from his Boston experience: "One thing that is absolutely critical when dealing with gun violence is identifying the source of the firearms, the guns that are coming into play, and making sure there is a heavy price to pay for those individuals who supply firearms to young people." He said there were statutes in Boston that ensured that those who were convicted of selling guns to juveniles faced stiffer penalties. But he argued against blanket stops and searches of young people in high gun-crime areas, saying that it was more important to follow a "national intelligence model" to identify those thought to carry firearms. "It is critical that the police have a pretty good idea who is engaged in dealing in drugs, and you target those people. You really focus on the 'impact players'." Mr Evans added that they were often well known to the criminal justice system. But he also said it was important to adopt a community-based approach - with the police and prosecutors working with street workers, clergy, community workers; and clearly giving them the message that the community would get extra assistance in terms of grants and help - but on the basis that "we will not let you kill each other". Sir Keith Povey said that gun crime was highly concentrated in parts of London, with small pockets in the West Midlands, the Manchester area and in Nottingham.