A nightclub bouncer today denied carrying out a three-year campaign of murder and violence in west London.Levi Bellfield, 39, is accused of murdering 19-year-old Marsha McDonnell and 22-year-old Amelie Delagrange, who both died after being struck with a blunt instrument. He is also on trial for the attempted murder of Irma Dragoshi and Kate Sheedy and the kidnap and false imprisonment of Anna-Marie Rennie. When asked at the Old Bailey if he was present during the alleged offences, Bellfield, from West Drayton, answered: "No, I was not" and "Absolutely not". But when his barrister, William Boyce QC, asked him if he was "in the vicinity" at the time of the incident involving Dragoshi, Bellfield replied: "Yes I was." "Did you yourself have anything to do with the assault on Mrs Dragoshi?" Boyce asked. "No I did not," replied Bellfield.Bellfield said he had been "knocked sideways" by the accusations and that he had never seen 17-year-old Anna-Marie before she appeared in court. He said that on the night of the alleged attack on Anna-Maria he believed he was out having a meal at a Chinese restaurant. And on the night of McDonnell's murder he was "pretty certain" he was at home watching Michael Jackson's interview with Martin Bashir on television. The prosecution claims Bellfield followed buses and watched bus stops for female victims in west London between 2001 and 2004. It alleges his attacks began in October 2001 when he tried to drag Anna-Marie into his car. She escaped without injury. McDonnell was attacked as she approached her house in Hampton, south-west London, in February 2003. She died in hospital from her injuries. In December 2003, Dragoshi, 33, was attacked at a bus stop in the village of Longford, near Heathrow airport. Bellfield allegedly got out of a car and ran over and attacked her with a blunt instrument. Dragoshi recovered but the injury left her with amnesia. Sheedy, 18, was attacked in May 2004 as she was making her way home after an evening out with friends. The prosecution claims Bellfield mowed her down in a people carrier and then reversed over her after she got off a bus in Isleworth. She spent three weeks in hospital, two of them in intensive care. She had to have surgery on her liver and back. Bellfield's final alleged victim was Delagrange, who was found lying face down on the cricket square at Twickenham Green, south-west London, in August 2004. She died from severe head injuries.Bellfield confirmed today that he had made previous court appearances dating back to when he was 13. He had admitted offences ranging from taking a vehicle, having an offensive weapon to assaulting a police officer.Bellfield was jailed for a total of 13 months at Isleworth crown court in 1991 for hitting a constable in the face, common assault on a special constable and failing to surrender. In February 2005, he was jailed for eight months and banned from driving for seven years for dangerous driving after being stopped on a motorway hard shoulder at 70mph.The case was adjourned until tomorrow.