Call it the "that could have been me" news story. One class of tragedy exerts a grisly fascination not for being beyond our purview, but for feeling all too close to home. A child vanishes from a rental apartment on an ordinary holiday abroad. A bridge collapses on a heavy commuter route. A student lives with flatmates she doesn't know very well and ends up with her throat slit.The details of 21-year-old Meredith Kercher's murder in Italy remain hazy. Yet the circumstances in which she put herself are commonplace, and not even exclusive to students studying abroad. All over the UK, young people - and not so young, these days - cobble together transient living arrangements with near strangers. Strangers with keys, who can let in other strangers not even vetted by a hasty five-minute interview.If little remarked upon, one of the dangerous knock-on effects of the current UK property-price spiral is the way in which economic necessity forces students and other parties of limited means to cohabit with flatmates who may or may not be worthy of their trust.I live in a building of three-bedroom flats whose revolving-door inhabitants, usually in their 20s, are constantly changing; I long ago gave up keeping track of their names. Since a single month with one empty room costs the other renters hundreds of pounds, you can be sure that candidates for the keys to my building are not given the third degree. In the preliminary interview, "Do you indulge in violent, coercive sex?" probably doesn't come up.When I was 21, I lived in a two-bedroom flat in Manhattan that I couldn't afford by myself. More than one flatmate came and went, including one young man who sticks in the memory. He seemed pleasant enough when he applied, and the rent was due. During his second week my new flatmate walked into my bedroom at 2am stark naked and asked if I would like company. Well, no, thank you, I didn't. Once he had returned to his room, I dressed, fled, and spent the night with a friend. Thereafter, I slept with a brick at the ready until he moved out.I was lucky. My total-stranger flatmate took no for an answer. But with a slightly different character, I'd have been a headline. Britain is chock-a-block with people such as Meredith Kercher, headlines in the making, who would be well advised not to be too trusting.