A shakeup in police recruitment will lift the ban on anyone joining the force above the rank of constable to boost the numbers of women and ethnic minority officers.Targets to boost the recruitment and promotion of women together with the introduction of more family-friendly hours are also planned. And there will be exercises to encourage people from ethnic minorities with successful careers in other professions to join the senior ranks of the police. But Home Office ministers have rejected demands for positive discrimination, saying this would not increase trust and confidence in any section of the community. These measures are part of the second phase of the government's police reform programme, which will come into law. The package includes a promise to introduce dedicated neighbourhood policing teams across England and Wales and to give councillors powers to trigger police action on local problems such as abandoned cars. A national non-emergency police phone number will be set up and neighbourhood officers will be available by mobile phone and email. But the long-awaited police reform white paper put proposals for the amalgamation of some of the 43 police forces in England and Wales on hold pending a report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary in January. It also disclosed that the government had dropped plans for directly-elected police authorities because of the possibility that the British National party and other far-right groups could be elected. Members of the BNP, Combat 18 and similar groups are to be banned from joining the police. The proposal to introduce "multiple points of entry" to the police will end a tradition whereby all officers start out as beat constables before working their way up. Ministers hope this will also help to end the historical legacy of low levels of female recruitment, as only 20% of police officers are women. Police training is to be made non-residential and available on a part-time basis, and family-friendly flexible working patterns will be introduced to help the process. David Blunkett, the home secretary, said the reforms were needed to improve the way the police dealt with the public through a new "responsive customer service culture" and make the service more accessible, visible and accountable. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said the package was "little more than a taxpayer-funded PR exercise in the run-up to the general election". He said there was little in the white paper to reassure police forces "already buried under Home Office initiatives". Changes ahead:· Multiple points of entry to police recruitment · Ban on British National party members joining police · Less inspection of best-performing forces · National police improvement agency to drive up standards · Dedicated neighbourhood policing teams · Reforming powers and membership of police authorities · Councillors to trigger police action over low level crime · Neighbourhood officers available on mobile phones · National non-emergency telephone number