A database holding the DNA profile of the entire British population could be the fairest way to help solve crime and yet protect civil liberties, according to Sir Alec Jeffreys, the man who discovered genetic fingerprinting.The first national criminal DNA database was established in Britain in 1995. It now holds 1.5m profiles, primarily from convicted criminals but also from ongoing casework and unconvicted suspects.As Sir Alec spoke yesterday, the court of appeal announced a ruling that the police could keep DNA samples and fingerprints taken from people who faced prosecution but were never convicted. Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, said the practice complied with the European convention on human rights, and Lord Justice Waller said it was in the public interest for the police to have as large a database as possible in their fight against crime. "At that point, I become very very uncomfortable," Sir Alec told the British Association festival of science at the University of Leicester, just before the court ruling. "That is discriminatory. You only have to think of the sort of people who will be arriving as suspects on such a database. In London one could imagine a significant over-representation of blacks, and in Birmingham a significant over-representation of Asians. At that point, things become seriously discriminatory." There were three options. The database could contain only criminals' DNA data. But that would deny a lot of potential power in fighting crime. The second option, when there was a crime scene sample but no suspect, was to try to learn something of the suspect from that DNA. "There are tests coming along for hair colour, eye colour; one could imagine skin colour; one could imagine ethnic status or origin of an individual. My view is that that constitutes a significant invasion of genetic privacy. "You are now looking at genetic markers that do not just carry information on identity but are very important to you as an individual. They are markers or genetic variations that help make you what you are. It is none of their business to look at that information." The third way forward was to include absolutely everybody. This was technically possible and, with the right safeguards, he would be in favour. "It would essentially guarantee that if you have biological evidence at the scene of crime, you would be able to track down a prime suspect - not the guilty party, because DNA says nothing about guilt or innocence. What DNA does is establish association." As a safeguard, he suggested three separate secure databases controlled by a separate agency. One would hold DNA profiles. Another would hold names and addresses. A third would contain data that would connect the DNA to the names. Detectives and forensic scientists with a DNA profile from the scene of a crime would be able to use the national collection to look for a match, but would then need authorisation from the courts before they could match the DNA with a name. At that point, they would have a prime suspect. The investigation could then start in earnest, because the database must only be used as an investigation tool. "There is no such thing as an error-free database," said Sir Alec, "so once you get your hit, you have to show that this is reproducible."