New asset-stripping investigators are to clamp down on gangsters by seizing houses, cars, businesses, cash and other goods they suspect have been paid for by crime.Five 30-strong squads, based throughout England and Wales, will target local "Mr Bigs", living lives of luxury on the profits of organised crime, such as money-laundering, drug dealing, people trafficking and car theft. Roger Aldridge, deputy chief constable of Warwickshire police and a spokesman on asset confiscation for the Association of Chief Police Officers, said: "Getting convictions of criminal bosses is good but not good enough if they can delegate or continue to run operations themselves from inside jail. "Now we can take homes, cars, the lot. There is plenty of evidence to suggest a confiscation order is as effective as a prison sentence in stopping these criminals leech off local communities. We have to show people that crime doesn't pay." The police-led regional asset recovery teams (Rarts) will use enhanced powers in the Proceeds of Crime Act introduced in January 2003 to freeze suspects' assets before criminal proceedings have begun, with a view to permanently confiscating them on conviction. They will also investigate assets held in the names of criminals' relatives and friends.The Act tightens the definition of money-laundering, making it more difficult for crime bosses to distance themselves from baseline operations, and courts now need only a civil burden of proof - on the balance of probability - that assets were illegally obtained in order to "restrain" or freeze them at an early stage. Police and Customs can now also seize cash of £5,000 or more on the spot. Previously, the lower limit was £10,000, but criminals were getting round this by dividing up the money. A percentage of forfeited assets will be ploughed back into funding the Rarts, which will be made up of police and Customs officers, the Inland Revenue, Crown Prosecution Service, National Criminal Intelligence Service and the Assets Recovery Agency, the civil body set up a year ago to pursue criminals' cash. The pilot West Midlands Rart, operating for less than a year, has already taken on 37 cases and frozen assets worth £13m, including 14 homes in England (some worth £1m-£2m), five commercial premises, two flats in Marbella and 10 luxury cars (among them several top-of-the-range Mercedes, a Porsche and a Bentley). Mr Aldridge admitted that none of these cases had yet gone through the courts and that they could face stiff legal challenges. But he was confident that the Proceeds of Crime Act, combined with the multi-agency approach, would strengthen the police's hand. Yesterday, Acpo and the Home Office formally announced four more teams, each headed by a detective chief inspector, based in northwest England, the north-east, Wales and London. Since it began work six weeks ago, the London Rart has seized £766,000 in cash and succeeded in getting the courts to freeze a further £1m in assets. "By targeting dirty cash, we are cutting off the financial lifeblood that keeps criminal organisations operating," said DCI Tristram Hicks, head of London Rart. The five teams will complement the Serious Organised Crime Agency, announced recently and aimed at tackling similar problems at national and international level. Over the next three years, the teams will receive total funding of £36m, already confiscated from convicted criminals. Yesterday, Home Office minister Caroline Flint revealed an incentive scheme that will give police a third of all recovered assets above £40m next year, increasing to 50% in 2005-06. "One year on, the tough powers in the Proceeds of Crime Act are hitting criminals where it hurts - in their pockets," she said. "Why should criminals enjoy champagne lifestyles paid for with the money made at the expense of victims of crime?" Mansions, shops and automobiles· Since the Proceeds of Crime Act came into effect January 2003, police and Customs have seized £55m and confiscated £37.6m · Assets Recovery Agency has frozen £12.7m in civil cases and £6.2m under restraint orders in criminal courts · Since start-up last April, West Midlands regional asset recovery team has identified £39m of criminal assets and restrained £13m-worth · This includes 14 homes and five commercial premises in the West Midlands, two Marbella apartments and 10 luxury cars · The West Midlands properties range from a £2m seven-bedroom mansion with games room and heated indoor pool to a £250,000 fish and chip shop and a £100,000 three-bedroom semi · The cars include a Porsche 911 Turbo worth £89,000, a £85,000 Bentley Arnage and a Mercedes CL55 valued at £50,000 · In the past six weeks, the London Rart has seized £766,000 in cash and frozen £1m suspected criminal assets. In the past year, the Scotland Yard-led Operation Payback seized £8m in 149 seizures and secured confiscation orders for £6.5m