Merseyside police have set up a major incident room - normally only used for murders and kidnappings - in an attempt to tackle street robberies and make people aware that they are vulnerable to such crimes.The move comes as a response to the Home Office's robbery reduction initiative after Merseyside was identified by the home secretary, David Blunkett, as one of the 10 areas responsible for 82% of the nation's robberies. As part of the scheme detectives will go out with robbery victims in an unmarked car as soon as possible after they are attacked to track down and identify offenders. They are also continuing to use their neighbourhood policing, which has targeted youth disorder. More than 15,000 mobile phones in Merseyside have been security marked. One victim was 20-year-old student Chris Spencer. He was on his way to meet his girlfriend when he was robbed by two men at 11.30pm near his Liverpool home. Mr Spencer, a second-year geography student at Liverpool University, was pinned down by one of the men who took his mobile phone and wallet, containing £5. "He ran off and nearly got hit by a bus," said Mr Spencer. "When I was being robbed it was weird because it was so quiet. Then all the cars and people came back - it was the perfect opportunity for them to rob me." Four days later, he was in the back of an unmarked police Ford Galaxy with a team of officers hunting for the offenders. He was stunned to recognise one of the men who had attacked him, who was arrested. "It was a shock to find him," he said. "But I felt I had to make the effort, even though I wasn't expecting to see him." In January, he picked out one of the offenders in an identity parade. He was given a two year prison sentence last month. Ian McPherson, the assistant chief constable of Merseyside police, said the force had last year reduced the number of robberies by 10%, but there had been a recent increase. There were 1,986 robberies in Merseyside between April 2000 and January 2001 compared with 2,528 between April 2001 and January this year. He said 73% of victims were youths aged between 15 and 19 and a large number of crimes involved mobile phones. "The majority of people who see themselves as the safest are more likely to be victims of crime," he said "We need to make them aware of their vulnerability. It is essential that we educate them to avoid crime. If they stand on a street corner with a mobile phone, they are advertising that they have a £150 product." He said the force's 40 high visibility mobile CCTV vans were also being used to deter street robbers. Chief Superintendent Paul Forrester said he hoped the major incident room would cut the number of robberies. Over a three-month period, he envisaged a 0.5% reduction of such crimes. The major incident room will be headed by a detective chief inspector, supported by 35 police officers, and it will sift through information. There will also be input from a crown prosecution service lawyer and the probation service to help the police secure convictions. "What galls the public is not just being robbed, but the case never getting to court or for the offender to get some paltry sentence," explained Chief Supt Forrester.