Police have failed to establish a cause of death for a wealthy businessman whose body was found in his luxury home after an apparently bungled burglary.John Luper, whose directorships included an agency fixing spin-off deals for sporting celebrities such as Thierry Henry and Lennox Lewis, may have been the victim of a targeted attack while walking his dog outside the £900,000 mansion in Leeds. Variously described as forceful and colourful, the 57-year-old is believed to have been ambushed late at night by up to four men close to his front gates which are monitored by CCTV. Detectives have been told he was then dragged inside by the gang, who tied up his Turkish-born wife, Iyican, their 20-year-old daughter Liza Rose and a woman friend. The women had all gone to bed before the attack. Mr Luper's body was found by the women after they managed to break free once the intruders had left. Further post-mortem examinations are to be carried out on the body. Police have not yet revealed whether anything was stolen from the house, in the upmarket Alwoodley suburb. Forensic teams were searching the property for evidence yesterday. Mr Luper, who inherited a long-established and profitable textile business, was described by friends as a warm-hearted family man who was generous to charities. But he was also said to be ostentatious about his wealth, and had sometimes given the impression he believed it allowed him to do as he pleased on matters such as smoking cigars in restaurants or parking on double yellow lines. Apart from textiles, Mr Luper had property interests and was part of a consortium involved in last year's £9.4m buyout of the celebrity agency the Sports Entertainment and Media group. His interest in sport, and especially football, dated back to the 1970s, when the family firm kitted out the Leeds United team that won the 1972 FA Cup. He had custom number plates made for his cars: LUPER and 1FXX. Police said they were treating the death as murder. Detective Superintendent Bill Shackleton, who is leading the inquiry, is expected to give further details of the investigation today. A spokeswoman for the Sports Entertainment and Media group said Mr Luper, who was a Freemason and long-standing member of Moor Allerton golf club near his home, would be much missed. Rabbi Daniel Levy of the United Hebrew Congregation synagogue in Leeds said: "It is only now that some of his charity work is coming to light. "He was prepared to do a good turn for anyone. "He was a larger than life character who always had a cheeky grin on his face."