They found the charred remains as night fell upon the Shropshire countryside. For the forensics experts sifting through the shell of millionaire Christopher Foster's mansion, the gruesome discovery confirmed the ferocity of the inferno that had swept through Osbaston House days earlier. All that remained of the two bodies were teeth and blackened bones, the first evidence perhaps that West Mercia Constabulary are facing a full murder investigation. But the facts, as with everything else surrounding the tragedy of Osbaston House, remain as murky as ever. Foster, his wife Jillian, 49, and 15-year-old daughter Kirstie, have been missing since the family went to a friend's barbecue last Monday before returning to the £1.2m family home at Maesbrook, near Oswestry, later that evening. With two bodies now recovered, speculation is rife not only about their identity, but also about the whereabouts of the third member of the family.As the local community gather this morning in nearby Maesbrook Church to pray for the Fosters, many will join West Mercia police in asking what was going on at the big house. Foster was a member of a local clay pigeon shoot and detectives have been questioning the club's owner and other members in an attempt to discover more about the missing man.Police are working on a number of theories; that troubled oil tycoon Foster may have killed his wife and daughter and then ignited the blaze that would obliterate everything he owned. Mired in debt and unable to see a way out, had the failed businessman lost his mind? If so, where is he? Will his teeth also be shortly discovered in the smouldering remains of their rural estate? Or had the 50-year-old and his family been summarily executed by hitmen because of an unsettled debt? Last night police were examining dental records to discover whether the remnants of the two bodies were that of Foster's wife and teenage daughter. Formal identification is not expected for several days, because the intensity of the fire means that forensic experts are having to rely on teeth and DNA samples. Police are refusing to either 'rule in or out' whether their inquiries will evolve into an official murder investigation. The two bodies, found close together in the main house, were found on Friday evening when officers finally entered the burned-out mansion after structural engineers were able to prevent it collapsing. Forensic specialists in white overalls will today continue examining soot-layered debris as part of ongoing attempts to unravel the riddle of Osbaston House. Vast amounts of material have yet to be searched and police stress the situation leaves open the possibility of a third body being discovered on the site. 'Three people were missing and two bodies have been found. That is all we can say at this stage. We will keep an open mind concerning what we may, or may not find,' a West Mercia Constabulary source said.Superintendent Gary Higgins added that the gender or age of the bodies had yet to be established and until tests confirmed otherwise 'the Foster family still remain unaccounted for'. A Home Office pathologist yesterday inspected the two bodies before post-mortem examinations were carried out to establish whether they were killed before the fire was started. A cause of death is expected to be announced tomorrow, although one line of thought suggests they may have been murdered at gunpoint following reports that two horses found in the Fosters' burnt-out stable block were shot. Post-mortems on the horses are also complete, with police currently awaiting the results.Detectives have refused to comment on claims that bullet cartridges and pools of blood were found in the courtyard of the Foster family home. The remains of the family's three pet dogs have also been recovered from the hallway of Osbaston House. Elsewhere, officers were examining Kirstie's computer for evidence of a possible motive after it emerged she may have been chatting on the internet with friends until 1am last Tuesday. Friends say her online discussions ended abruptly. Three hours later the blaze engulfed the house, stable block and garage area. As teams of forensic officers in white overalls continue to sift through what remains of the house and its grounds, detectives are also looking into whether Foster's murky business background may help solve an incident still officially classified by police as arson, but one that the 100 officers involved understand may yet become a full-blown murder inquiry. One theory is that Foster 'flipped' and started the blaze himself after accruing enormous debts following the collapse of his business, Ulva Ltd.His firm, which supplied insulated pipes to the offshore oil industry, went into liquidation last year. Court documents reveal his firm owed debts of more than £1m to a supplier called DRC Distribution and £800,000 to the taxman. Earlier this year a High Court judge branded 50-year-old Foster 'bereft of the basic instincts of commercial morality' after finding the businessman had spent the previous months stripping Ulva of its assets and transferring them to a new firm. Another theory under consideration is that Foster was targeted because of his financial affairs. Neighbours describe his home as a high-security 'fortress'. Terence Baines, a former director of Ulva Ltd, stated: 'It seems that the people he owed money to are big companies and I can't see them behind something like this.' However, one neighbour, who did not wish to be named yesterday, said he expected officers to find a third body. 'I would not be shocked. The police said they had all the ports on alert and nothing came of that, there's been no sighting of them,' he said. 'You tend to think, then, it's a process of elimination.'