The parents of Hannah Foster, the teenager raped and strangled near her home in Southampton three years ago, have spoken for the first time about coming face-to-face with the man suspected of her murder.Maninder Pal Singh Kohli fled to India in 2003 after being identified by British police as the prime suspect in Hannah's abduction. He was arrested after a nationwide hunt and imprisoned in Delhi, but has been fighting extradition ever since.Hilary and Trevor Foster travelled to the Indian prison last week to plead with Kohli to give up his battle against returning to Britain but instead of listening to their pleas, Kohli served the couple with a contempt of court notice.Kohli is suspected of abducting 17-year-old Hannah on 14 March 2003. She vanished five minutes' walk from her home in Southampton after a night out with friends. Her body was found two days later and Kohli, an Indian citizen living near the Fosters, was finally arrested in July 2004 in the Indian state of West Bengal. Since his arrest, Kohli, 35, has had 66 separate extradition court hearings, 32 of which have been adjourned without any business being conducted other than to further remand the prisoner.'We went to Delhi to see him for the first time and understand why it was taking so long,' said Mrs Foster. 'We thought the hearing would be private but it was chaos, with around 30 cases being heard in this overcrowded room. We literally had to elbow our way through the door.'Kohli was led in through a door at the back of the court. 'He wasn't handcuffed,' said Mrs Foster, 48. 'He was simply holding the hand of a guard.' They watched as he stood in a circle of his supporters.'When our case was finally called, he was brought to the front of the queue to face the magistrate and he was suddenly standing there in front of us, close enough for me to touch, which was appalling,' she said. 'He was dressed in Western clothes, shiny shoes. The other prisoners were wearing rags.'She heard her name being shouted and realised that Kohli's lawyers were complaining about comments made at a press conference the couple had held the previous day and accusing them of contempt of court. The claim was dismissed by the magistrate the following day.Before returning to England, Mrs Foster posted a letter to Kohli in prison and a copy to his father. 'It just pointed out from the view of his family and my own why he should face a trial in Britain.'Back in their Southampton home, the Fosters are counting the cost of their visit. 'It is horrible that we had gone over to complain about the delay but it ended up being delayed even further with the contempt of court issue. 'I suppose we raised awareness of the case and hopefully sped things up a little.'The Fosters have been advised that if his appeals fail, Kohli will return to face trial in Britain in a year. 'Our lives are on hold and have been for the past three years. There's nothing to look forward to in the future,' said Mrs Foster.'I have nightmares both day and night in which I replay over and over again what I imagine Hannah going through. In the dreams, I am watching it happen but can't do anything to stop it.'The Fosters continue to agonise over what to do with Hannah's bedroom. 'Our initial thought was that we didn't want to be one of those families who turn a room into a shrine,' she said. 'We were quite brave initially, but now I can't be in there for more than five to 10 minutes without falling apart.'What always makes me smile is a sticker she put on the outside of her door,' Mrs Foster added. 'It was a luggage label she got on a school trip to Iceland and I like to think, Hannah's gone back to Iceland. I quite like to think that.'