Rose Davis, who has died of cancer aged 67, was the figurehead of perhaps the most high-profile miscarriage of justice campaign Britain has ever seen. The fact that slogans proclaiming the innocence of her husband, George, still adorn parts of east London, more than 30 years after the campaign ended, is a testimony to her determination and vigour. By a sad twist of fate, her autobiography has just been published and she was about to remind people of what she and her loyal band of friends and family had achieved all those years ago. Their campaigning style became a template for such protests.Born Rose Dean in Chichester, West Sussex, where her soldier father was stationed during the second world war, she grew up in Hackney, east London, and Debden in Essex, where she had an authoritarian upbringing; her father forbade the children to talk at meals. She met the man who was to become her husband when they were both 14, and they married in 1958, when she was only 17. The first of three children arrived the same year. After Davis lost his job as a lorry driver, following a drink-driving conviction, he drifted into minor crime.In 1974, Davis, by then working as a mini-cab driver, was arrested for a major armed robbery in Ilford. He was convicted on the basis of disputed identification evidence and jailed for 20 years. Rose, their friends and family were all convinced of his innocence and set about drawing people's attention to the case. "George Davis Is Innocent OK", painted in large letters on railway bridges and derelict buildings, became part of the tapestry of London life. Rose and their good friend, Peter Chappell, wasted no time in fighting for her husband's release. Chappell drove his lorry up the steps of, or into the front doors of, half of Fleet Street's newspapers and into the gates of Buckingham Palace to make sure that people knew exactly who George Davis was.When nothing happened, the campaign intensified, with Rose, by now its public face, leading marches to Downing Street; commuters were leafleted and supporters chained themselves together across Fleet Street. "Needs must when the devil drives," became Rose's motto. When it still seemed that the judiciary was not paying attention, Chappell and Rose's brother, Colin, climbed over the wall of Headingley cricket ground in Leeds, dug up part of the pitch and spread oil over it. The third of four 1975 Ashes tests between England and Australia was abandoned and the name of George Davis became known across the world.Eventually, the campaign paid off and Davis was released on the Queen's prerogative in 1976. It was a significant achievement in that there were, at that time, no obvious avenues for victims of miscarriages of justice to explore and this was a completely new, working-class initiative, using publicity techniques that no one could ignore. Two radical organisations, Up Against the Law (Upal) and Justice Against the Identification Laws (Jail), joined the fray and others who had given up on their cases were inspired to re-open them.Davis was treated like a pop star on his release. The picture of a beaming Rose, cheek to cheek with her husband at Waterloo station, became a symbol of their successful battle. Others who had been victims of wrongful convictions were inspired by their example and Rose shared her experience and advice. The law on identification evidence has since been changed, at least in part as a result of the issues highlighted by the case.Then, only 18 months after his release, George, who perhaps imagined that he was now untouchable, was caught red-handed robbing the Bank of Cyprus in Holloway, north London. It was a heavy blow, not only to all those who had campaigned on his behalf, but especially to Rose. As she recounts in The Wars of Rosie (Pennant Books), this time there was no question about his guilt and no campaign. "I was ashamed," Rose wrote. "I felt guilty, like a traitor really ... I felt gutted for all those people who had helped us." When Davis told her once again that he had been fitted up by the police, she replied: "And I'm the Queen of Sheba."They divorced. "I was never a gangster's wife and so I stopped defending him," she said. His cavalier behaviour created a damaging cynicism about miscarriage of justice cases for some years, but Rose continued to help out organisations involved with the issue until ill-health intervened. She leaves a son, four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. A son who died in infancy and a daughter predeceased her.• Rosemary Anne Dean-Davis, campaigner, born 19 May 1941; died 31 January 2009