A man is wanted in connection with an attempted murder in which it is believed the victim was doused with petrol before she was set alight.A 49-year-old woman is in a critical condition after she suffered 70% burns to the body in the incident in Newton Heath, Manchester, on Monday morning.Police are searching for Stephen Archer, 50, of Victoria Street, Openshaw, in connection with the attempted murder. They say he may be carrying several bottles of petrol.Officers attended an address in Surbiton Road shortly before 9.45am on Monday to reports that a man had deliberately set fire to a woman.A 19-year-old woman escaped uninjured from an upstairs window of the house, with help from neighbours, police said.On Tuesday, Supt Arif Nawaz, of Greater Manchester police, said: “First of all, our thoughts are with the victim and her family. This is a horrific incident and I cannot imagine what the victim is going through. We can assure her and the wider public that we are doing all that we can to try and find the person responsible.“We have a large multi-skilled team currently searching for Stephen Archer. We believe Stephen may have links to Openshaw, where he lives, and the Marple and Romiley areas where we know he has connections. Our search, however, is not limited to those areas.“We have reason to believe Stephen could be carrying several bottles of petrol in his backpack and a man was seen fitting his description cycling away from the scene. We are appealing for the public to take a look at his picture and get in touch with us if you see him.“In particular, we are appealing to anyone who may work in a petrol station who may have seen Stephen. Please do not approach Stephen but contact police as a matter of urgency by calling 999. “Stephen, if you should see this appeal, come and talk to police. We can end this situation in a calm manner and find out what led to this tragic situation.”Anyone with information should call the investigation team directly on 0161 856 3891, 999, or the independent charity Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.