Last month Detroit hosted the first International Conference on Theft Addictions and Disorders. The organiser was Terrence Shulman, the best-known "recovering theft addict" on the planet. A recovering theft addict is the postmodern version of a kleptomaniac, known to the police and retailers as a shoplifter. Given the American enthusiasm for attributing misbehaviour to newly coined syndromes and for recasting criminal acts as diseases, the emergence of a field of study surrounding "theft addiction" comes as no surprise.The debate about what shoplifting is has never just been about stealing. It is about duelling ideas of morality in our culture. In the past, our tendency to either dismiss shoplifting as a crime or elevate it as a symptom has muddied our understanding, and today advocates on both sides of the debate risk either demonising or trivialising the subject.Shulman - short, grim and with a monk's hairdo - is a peculiar poster boy for the cause of the "theft addict". In his keynote address, he congratulates the attendees for "making history", but then turns sour, complaining that a Bob Dylan-sized audience has failed to turn out. (Although the conference attracted many fewer participants than the detectives' convention on shoplifting I attended in May, it was an impressive start, drawing about 50 mental health professionals and recovering theft addicts from North America.) But Shulman is only happy when he is simultaneously promoting himself and kvetching, as in his soliloquy about how the conference is helping him to work through his "issues".Shulman's addiction gives him purpose. Fourteen years ago, he gave it a name and since then he has been nudging it into mainstream American life. To him, the itch to steal is as powerful as a fix is to a junkie or a wager to a gambler. And it can only be assuaged by methods that are as homegrown as he is. Shulman's enterprise goes way beyond last month's conference. He has published two books on the subject: Something for Nothing and Biting the Hand that Feeds. His Detroit-based not-for-profit self-help group Casa, which is short for Kleptomaniacs and Shoplifters Anonymous ("the 'c' is there for the Spanish word for home," he explains), now has 10 or so groups across the US. A few months ago, he created the research-focused, not-for-profit Shulman Centre for Theft Addictions and Disorders. But, despite his tireless efforts, one hulking challenge remains: the American legal system, the retail industry and most Americans still treat theft addicts as criminals instead of people who need help.The theft addicts, who have arrived from all over the country, tell moving stories. Talking about their crimes, they pose as superheroes in a minor key. "I was the reason why prepaid phone cards have to be activated at the cashier," brags Dave, a clean-cut young military engineer. At one session, Dave reads a "Dear John" letter in which he bids farewell to his secret "friend", the shoplifter. But is Dave really a "theft addict" - or is he more simply a thief? Shulman likes to compare his mission to that of Alcoholics Anonymous, which persuaded the public and medical authorities that alcoholism was an illness. The differences are plain enough - alcohol is not illegal, nor is it proscribed by one of the Ten Commandments - but our responses to stealing are undoubtedly ambiguous. We are inconsistent in our attitudes to common and white-collar theft. And stealing still retains a certain romance. We are taken in by the Robin Hood myth, the heist movie, the harmless - or politically charged - five-finger discount.You do not have to swallow Shulman's prognosis whole to concede that we may be at a "stealing" tipping point. The National Association for Shoplifting Prevention (NASP) says that one in 11 Americans has admitted to shoplifting in the past year, which amounts to more than 20 million people.US retailers lose $30bn (£17bn) a year to theft, $10bn of it to shoplifting. The average shoplifter steals about two to three times a week, gets caught once in 48 efforts and is turned over to the police 50% of the time. It is a huge, hidden epidemic. Strangely, though, in our tell-all culture, talking about shoplifting as anything but a crime remains taboo. The only books about it are self-help books and a handful of academic studies.This coyness - or shame - has hearty roots: it is a holdover from two centuries ago, the moment kleptomania was born. It was first diagnosed as a disease in France in 1819 and it was observed with some astonishment that these thieves stole not for profit, but impulsively, even insanely. Early writing on kleptomania pegged it as a "female disease" and in the mid 19th century, with the rise of the department store, Freudians agreed that women did it because they were "hysterical", or "sexually repressed", or because objects in the department store had "seduced" them. (A notorious case of kleptomania avant la lettre occurred in 1799, when a shopkeeper accused Jane Leigh Perrot, Jane Austen's aunt, of stealing some lace.)Many stereotypes about shoplifting left over from the 19th century prevent us from seeing stealing as the epidemic it is. To cite just one example, women do not steal more than men - in fact the culpability is about equal (women more often come forward to get help, which in part explains the numbers). Another popular misconception is that theft addicts come from any particular class.Shulman makes these points. But sometimes he seems to want to have it all ways. Theft addicts - our mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, sons and daughters - are "addicted" to getting "something for nothing", he says. This argument manages both to sympathise with the little guy whom the American dream has failed and nod to the Christian right and their obsession with character.To prove his thesis about the spread of theft, Shulman casts his gimlet eye around the room and asks those who have stolen something - "even a pen" - to raise their hands. Everyone's arms go up.To the folks that have made pilgrimages from all over the US and Canada, Shulman is a hero. "It's lonely out there," says Pat Elkington, a short, red-haired registered nurse from Indiana who is here to pitch Stop Shoplifting, a board game she invented that looks like Monopoly, except there is no way to win.One person who thinks that Shulman has something important to say is Elizabeth Corsale, a conference organiser, psychoanalyst, and the director of the Shoplifting Recovery Clinic in San Francisco. In her talk on "cultural considerations of stealing", Corsale takes a hard-line Marxist approach. Corsale, who helped to get Shulman on to Oprah last year, connects the rise in corporate stealing to the rise in theft addiction and then confesses that she doesn't know what to say when her theft addict clients complain that Enron "made them do it". When asked how one might stem the flood of stealing, Corsale mutters something about the French Revolution. Then she goes into high gear, passing around a Dior Addict ad from Vogue, alluding to slavery and Napster, and quoting the Bible, Buddha and Seinfeld.In another session, one therapist raises his hand and observes that, in the recent documentary film March of the Penguins, the penguins steal eggs. Maybe stealing is just part of animal nature? Shulman looks at his watch. Abstract ideas bore him. "We've got to make this addiction real," he says. Making it real is why he championed the phrase "theft addiction" in the first place. The clinical definition of kleptomania, which excludes rage and vengeance as motivations, "doesn't work" for him. Shulman sees that kleptomania, with its rarified connection to Freud, can never be a 21st-century epidemic. Theft addiction, on the other hand, hitched to the emotions of our time - not least rage - offers a better candidate.Noticeably absent from the conference in Detroit, however, are two recognised experts on shoplifting - the Toronto-based forensic psychologist Will Cupchik, and Peter Berlin, the executive director of NASP. It's not just that these individuals question the diagnosis of theft addiction. They are also annoyed by Shulman's apparent obliviousness to social convention. To cite just two examples: about a year ago, Shulman slapped NASP data on his website without attribution (he has since attributed it in some places); and, before Shulman invited Cupchik to attend the conference, he listed him as a presenter.Asked about these incidents, Shulman clenches his teeth. "I could look at this as stealing," he concedes. Rather than dwell on past mistakes, Shulman likes to talk about the fact his personal experience gives him an edge that others lack: compassion. "NASP is too tough on theft," he says, adding that he believes that the toughest punishment that should ever be dealt to a shoplifter is "one night in jail".Shulman is right about one thing: American law is harsh where shoplifters are concerned. Depending on which town you are in, the difference between a felony and a misdemeanour can be $50 (£28). Some repeat offenders do up to five years of hard time. And the most egregious repeat offenders have received life sentences, says Shulman, under California's "three strikes and you're out" law.Legal indifference to theft addiction may explain why Shulman prefers the touchy-feely traditions of the self-help movement to the icy rigour of psychoanalysis. Shulman encourages theft addicts to seek counselling but emphasises it is more important for them to find a group where they can talk to other theft addicts. "Most therapists don't have the assessment tools to deal with this problem," he says.Modern medicine has little to offer. There is no magic pill; there are no significant peer-reviewed studies on the subject. Or not yet, anyway. Jon Grant, a maverick University of Minnesota researcher, consultant for several pharmaceutical companies, and one of the few scientists studying theft as an addiction, plugs anti-opiates. They "bring the pleasure of stealing down to a normal level", he argues. Grant has done studies showing that theft addicts' brain scans lack the connective tissue in their frontal lobes that "normal" people have. And he has done other studies in which drug addicts who are also "addicted" to shoplifting testify that the latter is "as addictive" as the former.The most moving presentation of the weekend, though, came from the panel of theft addicts who paraded to the front of the room as though in a line-up. They spanned all ages, from grandmother on down, and were equally divided between men and women. They were all white, but other than that little united them except that they have ruined their lives by stealing. Once you get a record it is hard to get a job, so recovering theft addicts tend to start their own businesses. ("It's not in your best interest to steal from yourself," Shulman quips.)The variety of stuff stolen is as impressive as the isolation these thieves suffer. Chris stole a $10,000 (£5,700) pen and a $32,000 (£18,000) watch, and hundreds of other items - so much stuff that when it came time to move, he had to rent a trailer, which went unremarked by his wife. Another man confessed to having stolen three snowblowers. Alyssa stole crab meat, gourmet mustard, greeting cards, blue cheese and toy bubbles. Sandy stole face cloths and crystals.The most fascinating revelations, though, occur when the theft addicts describe the trance they enter while stealing. "I experienced a buzz I had not experienced in years," says Alyssa, a housewife from Philadelphia whose face looks like a Modigliani painting. Alyssa, mother of three and married to a criminal lawyer, was the first theft addict to out herself on Oprah, and tells her story as though it were a TV mini-series. The climax is when the cops handcuff her in front of her son.But as startling as the remembrance of crimes past is the degree to which the theft addicts, rushing towards redemption, proclaim their virtue and go to extreme lengths to police themselves. When Alyssa describes what she considers to be "a slip" - returning a book to Barnes and Noble after reading it - I remember that a Detroit airport bookshop encourages the patron to do exactly that and get 50% back."Theft addiction" is an increasingly popular way to describe shoplifting - the impulse to "get something for nothing" - because it can encapsulate the intense craving that these thieves feel in the moment. But the vogue for pathologising stealing does not get us closer to understanding the problem of stealing, much less quash it; it only shifts the blame around in a contemporary and acceptable way.· Rachel Shteir's Striptease: The Untold History of the Girlie Show will be published in Britain by Oxford University Press in February 2006