Paedophiles and rapists are to be subjected to lie detector tests, the first time the Government has officially sanctioned the use of the controversial technology on those convicted of serious crimes.In a series of pilot schemes to be run by the National Probation Service, serious sex offenders released on licence will be subjected to the tests as part of their rehabilitation into the community. Although the initial scheme will be voluntary, Whitehall officials have made it clear that if the new project works it could be made a compulsory part of release programmes. 'Protecting the public is my highest priority,' said Eithne Wallis, director-general of the Probation Service. 'We have a responsibility to keep abreast of modern scientific developments and to test to see how they can help us. 'Previous research suggested that polygraph tests encouraged offenders to disclose offence histories and current behaviours to a much greater degree than other, traditional methods. But the study was too small-scale to draw robust conclusions,' she said. The Government hopes that the new scheme will allay fears that sex offenders are being released only to re-offend. Two weeks ago a survey by the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children found that 17 youngsters had been attacked in the the past 12 months by released offenders.On Friday one of Britain's most senior judges, Lord Justice Kay, criticised lenient sentences given to paedophiles because they had sex with a girl 13 or older. At present the maximum jail term is two years - rather than life if the girl is under 13 - so many offenders are released after 18 months. Polygraph tests detect when people are lying by measuring variations in blood pressure, breathing, heart rate and perspiration. Some experts have criticised their use because people react differently to lying and some may be able to mask their answers. Portsmouth University's Professor Aldert Vrij, an expert in methods for identifying deception, said polygraph tests were 'unreliable' and that spotting when someone was lying was 'much harder than it seems'. But the Home Office is convinced that convicted sex offenders will be less likely to lie under the pressure of the electronic test than under more traditional techniques. The Government has been investigating for a number of months whether it is possible to use polygraph tests in criminal cases. Although the tests will not be used to gather evidence - such material would not be admissible in court - they will be used to test answers given to questions by convicted sex offenders who have been released into the community. Although Home Office officials said that failing a polygraph test would not be sufficient to be sent back to prison, it could be added to a body of evidence that someone is in breach of the terms of his or her release. The polygraph tests will be part of the Multi Agency Public Protection Arrangements (Mappa) set up by the Government in 2001. The Government acted after a series of controversial cases when released paedophiles went on to re-offend. Local communities have also demanded to know the whereabouts of convicted paedophiles in a series of 'name and shame' campaigns. One of the most notorious cases was that of Roy Whiting, 42, the mechanic convicted of kidnapping and murdering eight-year-old Sarah Payne in July 2000. Whiting, who was sentenced to life imprisonment, had previously abducted another girl, aged nine.