Sweeping new powers to allow police to take DNA samples and fingerprints from minor offenders arrested on the street will be tucked away in a battery of law and order bills to be unveiled in today's Queen's speech.What is billed by senior Labour officials as a "security and opportunity" programme for what is all but certain to end in a spring election is dominated by law and order-related legislation. It will be largely left to Gordon Brown's tax-and-spend decisions to address work/life balance and related issues. But senior lawyers and civil liberty campaigners last night launched pre-emptive attacks on the "tidying up" decision by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to extend the power of arrest to all criminal offences. They called it "utterly unacceptable and grossly disproportionate". The measure is hidden among up to nine law and order bills expected to form the core of today's Queen's speech, 20-plus bills unveiled at the state opening at Westminster.Tony Blair will use the theme as a springboard for next year's election campaign, arguing that people need to feel secure before they are willing to vote for the politics of hope and progress. Historically Labour likes to be identified with hope rather than fear. And such more hopeful themes will be evident in bills which reform charity law, require private schools and hospitals to prove they benefit the wider community, clamp down on loan sharks and extend animal welfare. The controversial gambling bill, introduced this month in an accelerated form, and the bill to create a supreme court, fought over by peers for most of this year, will be pushed towards the statute book. A road safety bill will impose tougher penalties on drink-drivers and mobile phone drivers. And the paving bill to permit a referendum on the EU constitution will be introduced, though there is no hurry to risk using it. Mr Blunkett remains determined to dominate the law and order debate, leaving little ground for the Conservatives, Ukip or BNP, even as he risks losing liberal votes to the Lib Dems and micro-parties of the left. His package will feature two bills, one introducing identity cards, the other a new FBI-style serious and organised crime agency which Mr Blair wants to see on the statute book before he calls the likely election for May 5. A second tier of measures that give the appearance of activism but could be jettisoned if time runs out include: · A drugs bill introducing compulsory testing of those who are arrested; · A new incitement to religious hatred law; and · A "safer neighbourhoods" bill which may be designed expressly to tempt the Liberal Democrats to vote against it. Recent Labour byelection campaigns have made much of the "soft on crime" charge against Charles Kennedy's candidates. Mr Blunkett will also reveal plans today for a new management of offenders and sentencing bill which will introduce electronic tagging of people on bail for the first time as well as providing a legal framework for the merger of the prison and probation services. Two further bills - on new anti-terror powers and introducing a new crime of corporate manslaughter - will be published only in draft form for wider debate. Like the plans to reform police structure, they will not be implemented this side of the general election. But the decision to give the police powers of arrest for all criminal offences will introduce "policing by discretion". It will mean that individual officers will apply a "necessity test" as to whether they can arrest someone and take them to the station. Mr Blunkett insists that he has no intention of "lowering the threshold" for somebody to be arrested. An officer will still require "reasonable grounds to suspect an offence has been committed". "We are tidying up the Police and Criminal Evidence Act but actually I think people will find it a benefit rather than some sort of draconian extension," said Mr Blunkett.But Gareth Crossman, spokesman for the civil rights group, Liberty, said: "This is discretion policing. It will be up to the individual officer rather than the law to decide who is going to be arrested."