Scotland Yard detectives conducting a criminal investigation into allegations of a conspiracy to fix an international cricket match are to reinterview three Pakistan players this week, the Guardian has learned.The news comes as Customs officers said Mazhar Majeed, the agent at the centre of the match-fixing allegations which erupted on Sunday, had already been under investigation by UK authorities as part of a money laundering inquiry.The Pakistani players, who were first questioned at their London hotel on Saturday evening, told Pakistani cricket officials they are innocent of the allegations and are ready to face an investigation. Pakistan's captain, Salman Butt, and opening bowlers Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Asif, claim the allegations that have rocked cricket are part of a conspiracy against them.On Saturday, Butt, Asif and Amir handed over their mobile phones to detectives. Police also took away other items for examination including cash, laptops and documents.The players will be questioned again by officers from the economic and specialist crime command before the weekend. Butt, Amir and Asif are expected to attend a meeting in London on Thursday with Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Ejaz Butt, which would mean they miss their side's friendly match with Somerset that day. Legal advisers will also be present at the meeting, which is expected to result in them taking no further part in the tour, which includes two Twenty20 internationals and a series of one-day matches.The PCB had previously insisted there would be no action taken against the players, but it is expected a form of words will be found that will enable the cricket authority to rest the players without implying any guilt.Mazhar Majeed and two others were arrested and bailed on Sunday by Customs officers investigating money laundering. Over the weekend Majeed was also arrested and bailed by Scotland Yard over the match-fixing allegations in a News of the World story.In a statement, Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs said: "Three individuals were arrested on Sunday as part of an ongoing investigation into money laundering. This includes two 35-year-olds (a male and a female) from the Croydon area, and a 49-year-old male from the Wembley area. These individuals were arrested, questioned and have been bailed pending further investigation."HMRC investigations into money laundering are usually conducted when the sums of money involved run into millions, are suspected of being linked to organised crime, and are believed to be an attempt to get money out of UK jurisdiction, said a source familiar with the agency's work.The England and Wales Cricket Board and the ICC had lobbied for the players to be dropped for the rest of the tour to allow it to proceed as planned. ICC chief executive Haroon Lorgat said he hoped there would be "some sort of a conclusion" to the investigation by the weekend, and that "prompt and decisive action" would be taken against anyone who harmed the game's integrity."Make no mistake, once the process is complete, if any players are found to be guilty, the ICC will ensure that the appropriate punishment is handed out. We will not tolerate corruption in this great game." Pakistan Interior Minister Rehman Malik said he would wait for a British police report before sending an investigation team to England.He said the Pakistan inquiry team would comprise two senior Federal Investigation Agency officials and one from the sports ministry. Sports minister Ijaz Jakhrani said there was no need to rush an investigation team to Britain.