'Did Ray Gilbert murder my son? Did John Kamara murder my son? I honestly don't know," says a weary John Suffield. "But what I do know is that there is persuasive evidence that they were wrongly convicted."His son - also called John - was stabbed to death at the age of 23 in the bookmaker's office where he worked in Toxteth, Liverpool. It happened on the morning of Friday March 13 1981. Later that year, Gilbert and Kamara were convicted of the murder.Racial tensions were running high in Toxteth in 1981 - that summer the area was to gain national prominence with nine days of violent race riots - and this particular crime took on racial overtones because the victim was white while one of the accused, Gilbert, was mixed-race, and the other, Kamara, was black. At Liverpool crown court the two were sentenced to life.Both men persistently claimed that they were not guilty of Suffield's murder - and in 2000, Kamara was freed when his conviction was overturned by the court of appeal. Gilbert, however, remains behind bars. Sentenced to a minimum of 15 years, he has now served more than 25 because he refuses to admit to, and take responsibility for, the killing. Prisoner H10111, as he is known, currently resides in Kingston prison, Portsmouth, and is believed to be Britain's longest-serving prisoner claiming a wrongful conviction at the moment. Now a middle-aged man, he has a reputation of being a difficult prisoner, refusing to take part in rehabilitation programmes predicated on admission of guilt. He feels frustrated and forgotten but is dogged in demanding a review of his case, and an inveterate writer of letters to anybody he believes might take up this cause, among them the human rights campaigner Bruce Kent.Twenty-six years on from his son's brutal murder, John Suffield, a retired office manager, finds himself at the centre of a campaign to free the convicted man. "Other than his confession, there was no evidence offered that Gilbert murdered my son - there was no identity or forensic evidence," Suffield says at the terraced house where he and his wife Betty live in Liverpool. In the absence of that sort of evidence, and taking into account the appeal court's rejection of other evidence when it overturned Kamara's convictions, Suffield believes "the initial investigation into both of the accused was flawed".The murder of John Suffield, manager of the Lodge Lane branch of Coral bookmakers, was a particularly violent crime. He was stabbed 19 times in the torso as well as suffering gruesome injuries to his mouth and right eye. The small bookie's office was splattered with blood.As Merseyside detectives launched a murder hunt, eyewitnesses came forward stating that at least two men - both possibly black - had been seen with someone near the shop on the morning of the murder. Statements were taken and more witnesses were tracked down. Within three days police arrested and charged Gilbert, 23, and Kamara, 25. Both men were local, had criminal records, and were known to police investigating the Suffield murder. Local newspapers reported at the time that 70 detectives were working on the case and offers of help from the public were pouring in to the police station where the case was centred.When the case came to court in December 1981 the jury was told that the motive for the crime was robbery and that the thieves attacked Suffield to gain either his keys or the combination to the bookie's safe. In court reports, Gilbert and Kamara were portrayed as violent criminals, though, in reality, their convictions were for lesser crimes such as break-ins and robberies; no violence featured in either's record.In court, both men initially pleaded not guilty to the murder. The prosecution alleged that Gilbert had made a full confession, but had later retracted this and reverted to denying any involvement in the murder by the time the case was heard. Hardly had the case begun, however, than Gilbert jumped to his feet to change his plea to guilty. He now claims he did this because rumours had reached him in prison, where both men were being held on remand awaiting trial, that Kamara was threatening to kill him because he suspected that Gilbert had untruthfully named him to the police as an accomplice in the Suffield crime. By pleading guilty, he says, he thought that he would get Kamara off his back and therefore himself out of danger.To most people, this would make no sense, but it is consistent with the young man Gilbert was then: the product of a troubled upbringing, and only patchily schooled. Logic played little part in his thinking at the time - and in due course the jury found Kamara guilty of robbery and murder. The judge sentenced both men to life, recommending that Kamara serve at least 12 years and Gilbert a minimum of 15.For the next two decades Kamara insisted he was innocent and fought to separate his case from Gilbert's. Finally, after about 200 missing documents turned up, including witness statements given to police during the investigation, the appeal court overturned the conviction and freed Kamara in 2000. These police papers - which included statements from two eyewitnesses in the area at the time of the crime - had never been disclosed to the defence during the original trial, although they were in the hands of the prosecution. But that same year, the Criminal Cases Review Commission turned down Gilbert's request for his conviction to be looked at again, arguing that freeing Kamara had no bearing on the safety of the other verdict.However, information from the victim's own family, and a detailed re-examination of the original case papers, suggests that the detectives involved either ignored, missed or were misled about key clues that would have thrown doubt on Gilbert and Kamara's guilt.The single most damning piece of evidence against Gilbert came from his own mouth - a confession. The police claimed that he cracked during two days of questioning and eventually provided them with a confession that contained "specialist knowledge" which only the real killer could have known. The fact that, after retracting, he then went on to stop the trial and admit guilt appeared to seal his fate.Miscarriages of justice based on false confessions are not unknown in Britain - the Birmingham Six, the Guildford Four and Stephen Downing are among the best known cases later overturned. Britain's previous longest-serving victim of such a miscarriage is Robert Brown, who was convicted in Manchester in 1977 for the murder of a 56-year-old woman named Annie Walsh. Brown, like Gilbert, was said by police to have made a full confession containing specialist knowledge. I worked as an investigative reporter on the Brown case for 11 years and found an array of flaws in this confession document. He was freed in November 2002 when the court of appeal acknowledged that his confession was a patchwork of half-truths and outright lies planted by corrupt detectives. Brown was awarded more than £1m in compensation.Gilbert himself was repeatedly questioned over a period of at least 29 hours, as the police notes show, without a lawyer present. This ran from March 16-17, with the surge of changing confessions coming during a period of seven hours or more - the first session starting at 7pm on March 16 and the final session starting at 2.15 am on March 17, and ending at a time unrecorded in the notes. During this period detectives were in and out of the interrogation room conducting a sequence of at least five sessions with the suspect.Gilbert also alleges that the officers assaulted him: "They grabbed me around the throat in a struggle and we began to wrestle with each other," he wrote, in a letter to me. "During this I was asking them to get off me and I elbowed one of them. From this [action] they decided I was the culprit ... I never raised [the abuse] with the police doctor and no way would he have asked because of the culture at that time. That is why I raised it with my solicitor straight away when I was out of police clutches ..." (This assertion was never tested at trial, because Gilbert's sudden change to a guilty plea eliminated him from the court proceedings. And the lawyer who represented Gilbert after the initial police interviews told the Criminal Cases Review Commission in 1999 that he had no recollection of his client mentioning an assault during their first meeting. He confirmed, however, that Gilbert had been in custody for many hours without a solicitor, and appeared "disorientated".)Crucially, according to Gilbert, the police also told him that his alibi witness - his girlfriend, June Bannan - had changed her story and was now claiming he had left their flat around the time the murder was committed. I wanted to ask Bannan about this change, but when I traced her recently she refused to answer any questions. She never testified in court that she was withdrawing her original alibi for Gilbert, as he says he was told by police.Meanwhile, the typescripts of the police interviews - transcribed mainly from handwritten notes, before the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 required electronic recording of interviews - show various different versions of the confession emerging during Gilbert's interrogation; some elements matched the crime scene and others did not, according to the detectives' comments to the suspect. Gilbert's account kept changing. When was the time of the crime, for instance? Gilbert first told detectives he and Kamara had attacked the victim at 10.10am on January 13, but Suffield was well and truly dead by then. He had arrived at the bookies' around 9.30, and after what was a protracted attack a colleague found him dead before 10am. Only in a later confession - during his fourth session with policemen, after midnight - does Gilbert amend this time to conform with the reality.Testimony from witnesses was also contradictory; none seemed to agree on who they had seen confronting a white male around the bookie's, and when. And inside the shop, a pint of milk and the morning's newspapers were found tidily set on a table, as a police photo of the scene showed. Yet Gilbert's confession (and some witnesses) said the victim had been manhandled through the shop door, making it unlikely that he had been in a position to take his milk and papers indoors and set them down so neatly. This was one of the inconsistences highlighted by the defence at the trial, and the jury came back into court part way through its deliberations to ask the judge for guidance about the apparent paradox of the tidy papers and milk in the prosecution narrative. The transcript shows the judge puzzled by their concerns - "Really, it is so difficult to understand why it matters."Another ever-changing element in the various Gilbert confessions was the location of the murder weapon. Suffield had been stabbed, so where was the knife? The police notes record Gilbert giving the officers several locations, including the kitchen in his flat and a drain near the murder scene. A knife was produced in court, but there was no forensic evidence linking Gilbert to it or to the bloody murder scene.The interrogation records also reveal that Gilbert had no idea how much he was supposed to have stolen that day. The sum taken from Suffield's office that morning was £176 in 10p pieces (at the scene, some £1 notes were also left scattered). Sums mentioned by Gilbert to the police were "about £80", £100, and finally £500, and in no version of his confession did he allude to it being in coins.Liverpool police did not respond to my requests to interview eight officers involved in the case, which a spokeswoman noted involved "horrific injuries as the result of a vicious attack". Referring to previous efforts by Gilbert's lawyers to get the case referred to the court of appeal, she said Merseyside police had "thoroughly investigated claims of new evidence in relation to this case and reported back to the Home Office on our findings". She added that while the review commission rejected Gilbert's requests for leave to appeal, "police will consider any official request to review the case. There is no current direction for such a review. It would, therefore, be inappropriate to comment any further at this time."The records show that Gilbert gave five versions of the "confession" to the detectives questioning him in that 29-hour period. Only in the fourth and fifth versions do his facts start to dovetail with what the police were simultaneously learning from their colleagues carrying on the investigation. There were also five retractions as Gilbert repeatedly "confessed" then immediately told detectives he was lying. So this was either a murderer coldly confessing a bit at a time, then chancing his arm with repeated denials; or an innocent - if foolish and quite possibly slippery - man, exhausted and without legal advice, being broken down by prolonged interviewing.It was a further 36 hours - three days after his arrest - before Gilbert saw a lawyer. Immediately after their meeting, he withdrew his confessions and claimed innocence. But by then, police had his signed statement.Even that final, signed version of his confession contains one big flaw that strongly suggests not only that Gilbert had no specialist know-ledge of the crime but also that the detectives themselves didn't fully understand the intricacies of what really happened when Suffield was murdered.A quite different version of events is suggested by the victim's family, who have silently harboured concerns about the case from the beginning.One of their main worries centred around the fact that Suffield had been threatened by angry customers in the bookie's the night before his death. He had been so upset, he told the family, that he had resigned from his job at that Coral branch and arranged by phone to meet a company manager at 9.30 the next morning to hand over his office keys. Instead of meeting the manager that morning - there was no evidence anybody arrived to keep such an appointment - Suffield was murdered in the betting shop. Coral denied receiving any resignation phone call at the time, or agreeing to meet to retrieve the keys.The family also want to know how the police could have so quickly checked out and dismissed the threats that Suffield reported just before his murder. The threats were made, say relatives, on a Thursday night; by Friday morning Suffield was dead: his family cannot understand how the police managed to check everyone who had been in the bookie's on the Thursday night by the time they were issuing assurances on Saturday evening claiming to have done just that.After the death the family was in shock. "I have to say that we stopped delivery of the press to the house, and we didn't have the TV or the radio on," says Suffield. "So we didn't have news of what the media had. We didn't want reminding because we couldn't really come to terms with it ourselves, never mind getting descriptions of what was going on." Family members say they were also discouraged from attending the trial by police and therefore missed certain details of the case that now bother them.In particular, they believe crucial information was absent both from Gilbert's confessions and from the court proceedings. They always wondered what their son could have done to suffer an attack of such violence. The explanation given by the police and the Crown lawyers was that Suffield had a bad stammer and so, being unable to give the murderers the combination to open the office safe, was beaten and stabbed to death. But the family knew John's stammer was mild; and the safe's outer door was opened, so the thieves had access to the small cash float kept in the outer compartment. The Suffields waited over the years to see if the supposed killers - Gilbert and Kamara - mentioned what the family suspected was behind the torture of John: his inability to open the inner safe, known as an "insert safe".The Suffield family worked in the betting industry and knew that the safes at Coral had two locking mechanisms: an outer door protected by keys or a combination and an inner safe on a timing lock. Opening the outside door was easy but no employees could get to the big cash sums inside the insert safe until it clicked half-open at an appointed time, at which point a key could be used to gain complete access. At John's office, as the family and Coral knew, the insert safe clicked half-open each morning at 11am - well over an hour after the murderers attacked John."To our minds, the use of an insert safe explains the reason why John was subjected to prolonged violence," Suffield tells me slowly. "I was convinced from the moment I was told about his death that the insert safe was to blame."The Suffields also knew that employees hated these devices because if confronted with a robber the chances were they would not be believed when they said they could not open the insert safe. Coral maintained then, and still says now, that warning notices explaining that time-lock safes are in use are displayed on all its premises to ward off robbers. Suffield maintains no such sign existed in his son's shop and he claims that many premises still do not display them clearly. (The Guardian visited half a dozen Coral shops in different London boroughs and found no visible sign in two shops, while in four others an A4 sheet was posted near the door listing the safe and other security devices; in only one case was this notice also visible once inside the main room.)Convinced that the killer or killers must have stabbed their son repeatedly in frustrated disbelief that he could not open the inner door, the family is incredulous at the absence of any reference to the insert safe in Gilbert's confessions, and in the court proceedings. The Suffields now wonder whether this issue of the safe was why police urged them against attending the trial, and why Coral asked if they had any objections to the betting company hiring a barrister to protect its interests at the trial. When a Coral manager first visited their home on March 14, the day after the murder, the parents say he said to them: "I hope to God this had nothing to do with the insert safe!"Later, when the family realised that no one had alluded to the insert safe at the trial, they say they repeatedly asked detectives about it. One officer told them, they say, that Gilbert had indeed never shown any specialist knowledge of insert safes during questioning - and then asked them to draw a diagram explaining what an insert safe was."To be honest with you," Suffield says, "I consider the court to be misled by the withholding of this evidence." For some time, he says, the family suspected that non-disclosure of the insert safe was in the interests of Coral, which might have feared being sued if it were demonstrated that no warning notice to protect staff against attacks had been displayed. In recent years, Suffield has been in contact with the managing director of Coral UK, Wilf Walsh, who wrote a detailed and sympathetic letter to him in January 2004 saying that while police strongly believe insert safes are a deterrent to robbers, this "may not have been the case" in the 1980s when the device was relatively new and less known among the criminal fraternity.In a statement to the Guardian this month that included a tribute to the "great tolerance and dignity" displayed by the Suffield family whenever references to the murder recur, Coral emphasised that as with many high-street traders, time-locked insert safes "are there to protect our staff".But latterly, Suffield's doubts centre more on how the prosecution conducted its case. The evidence it presented in court, he believes, was that which matched Gilbert's confession. "The very fact that no mention was made of the insert safe leads me to believe that Ray Gilbert never mentioned the insert safe."Looking back to the time of the murder, and the ensuing years, Suffield says: "There have been times when our [family's] position has led to us being ridiculed. Prominent barristers have said to me, 'Don't you know of the previous violent record of these men?' I despair of these remarks. Can they not understand that it was possibly because of their 'previous' that both men were ideal characters for fitting up?"Gilbert's current legal team, led by his Wigan-based lawyer Campbell Malone, is preparing a new submission to the Criminal Cases Review Commission. Attempts to have the commission refer the case to the court of appeal failed in 1997 and 2000. New hope was provided late last year when the murder conviction for which a Nottingham man, Patrick Nolan, had served 14 years was overturned by the court of appeal because he had undergone protracted questioning without legal advice. At his trial he said he had been intimidated by a detective. As in the Gilbert case, much of the evidence was circumstantial and there was no forensic element.For the review commission, the litmus test is often whether new evidence has been discovered. In this case, the Suffield family's assertions - about the threats against their son; the complete omission of the insert safe phenomenon at the trial; and the fact that they themselves were not called to testify, and allege they were discouraged from attending the trial - raise two questions. Did the Liverpool court hear all the witness testimony it should have in 1981? And if not, would a court of appeal given access to this material in 2007 arrive at the same guilty verdict?"That evidence should be looked at in detail," says Suffield. "Nobody, least of all my family, wants an innocent man in prison."