A national charity has called for an end to the jailing of children in a report published today. The Children's Society argues that locking up children is expensive and fails the community.In its Tough Justice report, the charity calls for an immediate end to the detention on remand of 15 and 16-year-olds and the phasing out of imprisonment for young people under 18.The report has the backing of the chief inspector of prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham, and the bishop for prisons, the Rev Robert Hardy.But Lord Warner, chairman of the youth justice board, has dismissed the demand as "unrealistic". The board is a government agency set up earlier this year to reform the youth justice system.In the past decade, 18 teenagers aged between 15 and 17 have committed suicide in young offender institutions. The charity said there are about 1,000 incidents of self-harm a year by young people in prison. Sir David said that he had found conditions in young offender institutions so appalling, that if he had been a social services inspector he would have shut them down immediately. "I strongly support the call for the immediate ending of remanding 15 and 16 year olds in prison custody," he said. "Their present treatment and the conditions in which they are held are not acceptable. If we continue to neglect these young people, if we continue to allow these conditions to prevail, we are setting a very, very dangerous trend for the nation as a whole." The government was cautious in its response. Home Office minister Charles Clarke said he would be studying it carefully. He added that the government agreed that it was necessary to tackle the underlying problems which cause crime.The report also calls for the age of criminal responsibility to be raised. Britain has one of the lowest ages in Europe (10 years old). More community alternatives to jail, such as restorative justice projects, should be available. As a last resort, local authority secure accommodation would be preferable to young offender institutions.The authors estimate that most juvenile crime is caused by around 200 persistent young offenders. But the youth justice board rejected this figure, saying it was at least 10 times higher. The board also criticised claims that more young people were being locked up, saying the figure had remained stable. Only about 200 15 and 16-year-olds are currently on remand awaiting sentence, according to the board's figures. Lord Warner agreed that more needed to be done to develop better community alternatives for offenders and improve regimes for those who are locked up. But he said: "Calling for something that cannot be achieved could damage the public credibility of the reforms now being implemented."Mr Hardy said the church and the government had a "difference of focus" over crime and punishment. "The church has to speak for humanity and children, irrespective of the government. That is what I am doing," he said. "Our recommendations are not unrealistic. We need to do all we can on the serious issues of child protection. I am unrepentant about calling for that. "To condemn 15- and 16-year-olds, give them a criminal record and not to do anything for them in a positive way is a disgrace in a society which still claims, in many respects, to be Christian."