The Briton accused of killing his six-year-old son in a fall from a hotel balcony tried to kill himself in prison, his lawyer said yesterday. Businessman John Hogan, 32, is accused of murdering his son Liam, when they fell 50ft from the fourth floor during a family holiday on Crete.The boy and his sister, Mia, two, were allegedly being held by their father when he jumped on August 15. Mr Hogan, from Bradley Stoke, Bristol, cut his wrists with what is believed to be a piece of broken glass in the psychiatric ward of Korydallos prison, Athens, two days after being charged with Liam's murder and the attempted murder of Mia."He is out of danger now, but what has happened is totally unacceptable," his lawyer Dimitris Xiritakis told the Guardian. "We've complained in the strongest of terms to the justice minister and have asked him to not only look into the matter but punish those responsible."It was unclear, the lawyer said, how Mr Hogan had managed to find the glass in what is seen as the most secure prison hospital in the land. Mr Hogan, who has been diagnosed with acute depression after the tragedy three weeks ago, was supposed to be on suicide watch. "All day I have tried through the competent authorities to learn how this happened without luck," said Mr Xiritakis. "It's unclear where Mr Hogan found the glass; whether it was from a window he had smashed or a shard from a broken bottle."The Briton, who was charged with murder and attempted murder by a magistrate on Crete last week, was moved to Korydallos prison on Thursday morning. Psychiatrists who examined Mr Hogan after he underwent surgery for a broken femur and arm, had repeatedly warned that he might attempt to commit suicide.Liam suffered massive head injuries in the fall, but Mia survived with a broken her arm.Mr Hogan claims he has no memory of taking his children and leaping from the balcony. In a statement to Crete's Neapoli district court, Mr Hogan said he was "mentally disorientated" because of stress caused by his deteriorating marriage and his failing tiling business.He said: "All of these things affected my conscience and mental functions, so when my wife indicated to me that she had decided to leave me I was overwhelmed by confusion. I was unable to bear the thought that I would live without my children."The desire to self-destruct which exploded within me all of a sudden overwhelmed my instinct of self-preservation and my sense of respect for other human lives. As I result I lost my ability to distinguish between what is right and what is wrong."Liam's funeral took place earlier this week at the Holy Trinity Church, Bradley Stoke. Mr Hogan was remanded in custody after appearing in court for the first time on Wednesday.His trial is not expected to take place until next year.