The Taxpayers' Alliance's new report on the government's Prevent programmes sheds much-needed light on the cost and effectiveness of the government's counter-terrorism strategy. At first reading of the report, it seems that many Muslim groups are receiving money merely for not being extreme, rather than for actively doing or saying anything to challenge and roll back extremism. This is clearly wrong.Most importantly, however, the report also reveals that many groups that have received handsome grants of taxpayers' funds are groups whose leading members include supporters of hardcore Islamist ideologies. Such organisations include the Islamic Society of Britain (with some exceptions), the UK Islamic Mission, the Islamic Foundation, the London Muslim Centre and Da'watul Islam.All these named groups are directly inspired by Abu Ala Mawdudi, the godfather of Islamism in the Indian subcontinent and the founder of Jamaat-e-Islami. To my knowledge, none of them have explicitly disavowed Mawdudi's ideas. Here is what Mawdudi had to say about the role of jihad in Islam: It must now be obvious that the objective of the Islamic jihad is to eliminate the rule of an un-Islamic system, and establish in its place an Islamic system of state rule. Islam does not intend to confirm this rule to a single state or to a handful of countries. The aim of Islam is to bring about a universal revolution. Although in the initial stages, it is incumbent upon members of the party of Islam to carry out a revolution in the state system of the countries to which they belong; their ultimate objective is none other than a world revolution.(Jihad in Islam by AA Mawdudi, chapter 3, p10)The challenge is simple: do the above organisations, along with the Muslim Council of Britain (MCB), reject this Mawdudite world view, in letter and spirit? If not, why not? And if not, then why are they receiving government funds under the Prevent programme? Surely a minimum criterion of receiving such money should be to be able to disavow the ideas that lead directly to Islamist extremism and violence?On the other hand, if these organisations do reject their ideational inheritance of Mawdudite ideology, and work actively to maintain a secular public space in Britain, then I believe the taxpayer should fund these organisations to challenge the political illiteracy, victimhood and confrontational separatism of some of the young British Muslims who turn violently against Britain. Thus far, however, that public rejection by even the most prominent leaders of such groups – such as Dr Abdul Bari or his assistants at the MCB – is yet to be heard.However, the government also needs to think bigger than funding groups who promise not to support extremism. The government needs to begin working with Muslim partners who will actively contribute towards making British society more cohesive and harmonious – rather than groups that can only promise not to actively sabotage such aims. Quilliam, with the help of Prevent funding, aims to do just this. But where are the government's other Muslim partners that also believe and advocate the need for a secular state? Where are the partners who are unafraid to say that terrorism is driven by an ideology of victimhood and notions of reward in the afterlife, and not only foreign policy? Indeed, if foreign policy was the only driver for suicide bombers then why aren't American Muslims as radicalised as some of their British counterparts? After all, their country is leading wars with two Muslim-majority countries.I disagree, however, with Matthew Sinclair's suggestion that we should abolish the Prevent strand altogether. For me, this is the most important part of the government's counter-terrorism strategy: ending the ready supply of extremists who can be convinced to commit future terrorist outrages. Yes, Prevent has gone terribly wrong in many parts, but reforming it, even renaming it, giving it a sharper focus to win the battle of ideas, is the best way forward.