Tony Blair is to back moves to make forced marriages illegal. The move, a U-turn in government policy, will ensure the introduction of a new law enshrining powerful rights for victims, many of them under age, who have been compelled to marry against their will.The Prime Minister's change of heart, revealed in an exclusive interview with The Observer, means that legislation introduced in the Lords by the Liberal Democratic peer, Lord Lester of Herne Hill, will obtain the government backing it has previously been denied.'We listened to what people were saying,' Blair said. 'I was told we were in the wrong place on this, that the bill should be supported and that we should think again. I reflected and realised that, if you approach the problem through civil law, it's very sensible. It [forced marriage] is a terrible thing.'Calls by Tory leader David Cameron to criminalise forced marriage are at odds with government opinion that it deters young women from reporting those close to them. The government argued young women would not want to see their parents go to jail and the practice could be driven further underground. The government maintained that existing legislation, in conjunction with the Forced Marriage Unit, which deals with between 250 and 300 cases a year, was a sufficient safeguard.However, the Lester bill would make forced marriage a civil rather than criminal offence. Offenders would not go to jail, but victims could sue for damages. Lester's bill also allows for a third party to bring charges.Blair's conversion will be welcomed by many MPs. 'I support the Lester bill in principle,' said Khalid Mahmood, Labour MP for Birmingham Perry Barr. 'There's a real issue that needs to be addressed here. Young people need to be supported on this issue. If they are forced into marriage it breeds resentment and then all sorts of issues that I have to deal with as a constituency MP.'Forced marriages tend to come primarily from Muslim and Sikh communities, and around 30 per cent involve minors. Lord Lester's private member's bill, co-authored by the Southall Black Sisters pressure group, would make it unlawful for people outside the immediate family to aid and abet forced marriage.When he introduced his bill, Lord Lester warned forced marriages result in 'sexual enslavement' linked to honour killings and described them as a 'serious social evil'. The measure, now at the Lords committee stage, received cross-party support, but the lack of government backing meant that it would almost certainly never have become law.Baroness Ashton, the constitutional affairs minister, has been privately championing the Lester bill, but the Home Office minister, Baroness Scotland, who oversees the issue, was against it.