Serious questions were raised last night about staffing levels at the London probation service after it emerged that 15 per cent of its positions are vacant.The Observer has learnt that 400 of the organisation's 3,000 positions are unfilled, raising concern that it is ill-equipped to oversee the supervision of some of the country's most dangerous prisoners released under licence.The shortfall is likely to be examined by the official inquiry into events leading up to the killing of millionaire banker John Monckton. The inquiry will centre on why Monckton's murderer, Damien Hanson, was released after serving seven years of a 12-year sentence for attempted murder, when he was considered to pose a high risk of re-offending. A second man, Elliot White, was last week convicted of manslaughter.The inquiry, to be announced tomorrow by the Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, will examine the role of the probation service in monitoring Hanson when he was out on licence. He is understood to have been supervised by a series of probation officers, something that would have made monitoring his licence more difficult.'It is essential that the investigation focuses on the structural changes to the London probation service, which has seen its workload increase by 15 per cent over the past year,' said Harry Fletcher, deputy general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers.Two years ago, an emergency team was sent in to the London probation service, which was ranked bottom in England and Wales. But insiders say it remains under-resourced and suffers from low morale. Staff turnover is high because of large caseloads.Despite a prison assessment programme suggesting Hanson had a 91 per cent probability of re-offending, he was not deemed a serious enough threat to warrant a multi-agency public protection arrangement, under which police, probation and social workers manage those thought to be the most dangerous offenders.'You have to ask why this happened; why, when studies suggested he was high-risk, he was given low priority,' said one probation expert. 'And were there enough people on the ground to supervise him correctly?'Last night, campaign groups expressed concern that the case would be used to attack the probation service and lead to calls for a clampdown on the release of prisoners under licence.'For people to resettle in the community, release must always be the result of a carefully considered process. Decisions should not be taken on the basis of a single event,' said Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust.Statistics show that, last year, only 79 out of 12,500 high-risk offenders under licence committed a further serious offence. But a series of high-profile failures to adequately monitor some of the most dangerous offenders has led to public concerns about the probation service's ability to monitor their activities and placed pressure on successive home secretaries to overhaul the system.Two years ago, an inquiry was set up into the lack of supervision of David Parfitt, a drug addict who killed a police constable, Ged Walker, while out on parole in Nottingham. At Parfitt's trial, it emerged that Walker had breached his licence up to 13 times. The constable's widow, Tracy, said the revelation showed Parfitt should have been in prison at the time of her husband's murder. The inquiry called for greater communication between the prison and probation services and the police, but the Monckton case suggests little has changed.Further concerns were raised earlier this year following the trial of Peter Williams for the murder of Nottingham jeweller Marian Bates. An official inquiry found that Williams, who was supposed to be tagged, was able to move freely without supervision from his probation officers.Concerns about the role of the probation service have intensified in recent months as the government prepares to integrate it with the prison service under the National Offender Management Service. Under the new system, private firms will be invited to tender bids for probation contracts.But experts on the rehabilitation of prisoners said it would create further levels of bureaucracy and risked outsourcing the job of trained probation officers to private firms. 'It will make life more dangerous,' said Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform. 'It will lead to the abolition of a hundred years of skills and training on how to deal with dangerous offenders.'However, there are signs that the private sector is cooling on the idea of bidding for contracts under the new system, because of fears it might be held liable, were serious offenders to re-offend.At a closed-door conference at think-tank the Social Market Foundation last week, private security firms expressed doubts about whether bidding for the contracts was worth the risk. Those who attended said the firms feared there was not enough money to be made to offset possible problems.