The leaked Lawrence inquiry report consists of a detailed analysis and condemnation of the Metropolitan Police's failure to properly investigate the murder of Stephen Lawrence. It makes 70 recommendations to root out racism in the force and society as a whole. Most damaging of all, Sir William Macpherson's inquiry concludes that London's police service is riven by 'pernicious and institutionalised racism'. The leaked extracts:  Condemnation  • The importance of race relations was constantly 'underplayed or ignored'.  • One senior officer was 'palpably wrong and cannot be telling the truth'.  • 'There was a lack of rigour in the reception of the review document first and foremost by [Dep Asst Commissioner] Mr Osland but also by those above him including the Commissioner himself . . . Without the need for hindsight the review should have generated questions from the senior officers which may have uncovered the difficulties which have substantially been revealed in this investigation.'  • 'The cross-examination was robust and searching but the problems were caused by the failure of police and answers to questions rather than the nature of the questions. It is of central importance that the Commissioner and his officers should recognise and accept this fact.'  • 'The paucity of information' offered to the Lawrence family reflects a lack of 'open and meaningful communication'.  Recommendations  • 'There must be an unequivocal acceptance of the problem of institutionalised racism and its nature before it can be addressed, as it needs to be, in full partnership with minority ethnic communities.'  • 'Any police officer who feels unable to so respond will find it extremely difficult to work in harmony and co-operate with the community in the way that policing by consent demands.'  • Tougher Race Relations Act covering the police, Armed Forces and immigration service.  • Changes to the legal and criminal justice system which could see 'the Court of Appeal being given power to permit prosecutions after an earlier acquittal' when fresh and important evidence is produced.  • Victims' families to be given advance disclosure of evidence at inquests.  • Changes to the National Curriculum to emphasise the value of cultural diversity.  • Expressing racist language to be criminalised.