Police investigating the deaths of 19 cocklers in Morecambe Bay have arrested five people on suspicion of manslaughter.In a brief statement released shortly before 7am today, Lancashire police said three men and two women were being held last night.They were being questioned about any involvement they might have had in organising the trip that led to the tragedy, but so far no charges have been laid.The arrests follow a series of raids over the weekend, in which police seized computers, mobile phones and other documents from houses in Liverpool.Earlier, Detective Chief Inspector Mick Gradwell, who is leading the inquiry, said the raids had unearthed terrible living conditions. He would not elaborate on the exact location of the searches, but said: "We're talking about up to 40 people living in these houses. There are mattresses on the floor, hardly any food and poor heating." He said the inquiry was being hampered by language problems and the fact that many of the survivors were reluctant to talk to the police. DCI Gradwell said many of the deceased may have been in the country only a short time. "Many have paid a lot of money to come over here, were living and working in appalling conditions and should not have been on the bay that night. It paints a tragic picture." Deputy Chief Constable Steve Finnigan said the investigation could extend to other countries: "We must not underestimate the scale of this inquiry. It is truly massive. It could well take us to all corners of the globe."The 19 victims, including two women, are understood to have been young, low-paid Chinese migrant workers. They were trapped by rising tides as they picked cockles on the bay's notoriously dangerous mudflats.The criminal investigation into the incident is likely to focus on unscrupulous gangmasters who exposed them to the dangerous conditions.Sixteen people survived the disaster, including two English people, nine asylum seekers and five people unknown to the immigration service before the tragedy.