"I know something you don't know." Playground taunts are hardly the best way to achieve justice or democracy, but how many times in the past eight years has "secret intelligence" been used as the basis for an ill thought-out authoritarian adventure? From state-sponsored kidnap, internment and torture to the illegal folly of the Iraq war, the cloak and the dagger have played a key part.If the "war on terror" has taught us anything, it is surely the value of dealing with serious crime within the rule of law. That means greater checks on surveillance so that society as a whole (or any group within it) doesn't feel part of a suspect class. That means investigating illegality on the part of governments as well as those they vow to protect. That means charging suspects and bringing them to open and fair trials instead of Kafkaesque secret commissions and punishment without charge.Before you think me naive, let me acknowledge the vital role of lawful proportionate intelligence gathering in law enforcement. I also accept that some preliminary intelligence will never develop beyond the rumours, hunches or material from dubious sources that should never be admitted into a court. But you don't need to be an avid watcher of The Wire to know that intercepted communications can be rather useful evidence, capable both of incriminating the guilty and exculpating the innocent.Why then should Britain be almost alone, even among common law countries, in absolutely banning the use of such evidence in courts? Why shouldn't judges rather than politicians authorise interception warrants as they do with search warrants and as routinely happens elsewhere? If it is lawful and proportionate to intrude upon a dangerous suspect's privacy why on earth would you not use vital evidence gleaned from that intrusion to bring that person to justice? Why is it permissible to use the results of "bugs" or attached listening devices in court but not interception? Why is it lawful to admit interceptions conducted by foreign powers in our courts but not the fruits of British intelligence services' labours?Sadly and despite a gestation period of nearly two years, today's Home Office report into the use of intercept evidence provides no satisfactory answers to any of these questions. Its principal reason for rejecting the recommendation of countless experts, including a former law lord, the former director of public prosecutions and the former head of MI5, seems to be that allowing this type of evidence in court will lead to more complex and costly trials. On this occasion we all know something the Home Office does not know: a complex and costly trial that convicts a dangerous terrorist is better than no trial at all.