A couple accused of torturing and killing a 15-year-old boy were "obsessed" with witchcraft and warned the boy's parents they would kill him, his sister has told a court.Kelly Bamu, 21, struggled to contain her emotions at the Old Bailey as she was shown weapons the court heard had been used to abuse her, her brother and her sister because Eric Bikubi and Magalie Bamu believed they were witches.Kristy Bamu, 15, was found dead in a bath at a blood-covered flat in Forest Gate, east London, on Christmas Day 2010. He had 101 injuries and was covered in deep cuts and bruising, and an "armoury" of weapons was found nearby, the court was told.He and four siblings were visiting their sister Magalie from Paris for the Christmas holidays when Magalie and her partner became convinced they were witches, the court heard.Shown a metal bar, Kelly told the court that during several days of extreme violence Bikubi had used it to hit Kristy about his body and head, and had repeatedly shoved it into his mouth, dislodging a tooth."Eric shoved it as hard as he could, with such force that it broke his tooth," she said. "Eric said, 'Get on your knees. Get on your knees.'"Asked if Kristy had voluntarily opened his mouth, she said: "Kristy had opened his mouth. He said it hurt, but [Bikubi], he didn't care. He did it a number of times. He's sick," she said.Kelly said that during the violence – which was also directed at her and a sister but focused on Kristy – siblings were recruited to harm the 15-year-old.Kelly was told to fetch some pliers and twist Kristy's ear, she told the court. "As if that wasn't enough, all this blood all over the house," she said.Kelly was reprimanded when she did not do enough to hurt her brother, she said. "I couldn't bring myself to do it, but he said if I didn't do it, 'I'm going to do the same thing to you.'"She described her sister Magalie taking control of the pliers. "Then Magalie took the pliers and she twisted the ear as hard as she could."Turning to her sister in the dock, she said: "You're an absolute disgrace."Kelly described how Bikubi had placed a lightbulb in her mouth, held a kitchen knife to her chest and put his hand around her throat, before doing the same thing with Kristy and her sister, who cannot be named for legal reasons. "He was intending to kill us, all of us," she said.She described how bottles were smashed over her brother's head, and how Bikubi headbutted and punched him. "Eric just went for Kristy," she said. "Kristy was a child. He was 15 years old. His face was completely disfigured. Kristy, he suffered. And Magalie did nothing [to stop it] so both of them are guilty."As Kelly told the court that tiles had been smashed repeatedly over her brother's head, Magalie began sobbing loudly in the dock. "Eric took the tiles and then he hit his head again and again. Kristy was already tired by this point and couldn't take any more blows. But that wasn't enough for Eric: he wanted him to die," Kelly told the court.The tiles had been smashed the day before Kristy was found drowned, she said. Kelly told the court the accused pair had phoned the siblings' mother and father, in Paris, repeatedly, and that when Kristy was close to death Bikubi had told the father, Pierre Bamu, that if Kristy was not collected from the house, he would kill him."Kristy was already on the edge. I could see in his eyes that he was already leaving us," she said. Eric had the cheek to call our father and said, 'If you don't come and pick up Kristy and the children, I'm going to kill them.' And that's what he did."During several calls to the siblings' parents, Magalie denied the abuse, said Kelly. "They told me to say to my mother that I confessed I was a witch. I made it all up and they believed it."She added: "My mother didn't even understand anything I was telling her."During one conversation, Bikubi had been sitting next to her on the sofa with his fists clenched, she said. Kristy also spoke to his mother, but he did not tell her about the abuse. She said: "Those blows, he'd accepted them, and when he was on the phone he didn't even say, 'They have been hitting me. 'I've been receiving all these blows.'"All three said they told their mother they had confessed to being witches, she said. "We all made up these stories because these two were obsessed with it," she told the court.Bikubi denies murder but admits manslaughter on grounds of diminished responsibility, and has pleaded guilty to two counts of actual bodily harm. Magalie Bamu, 28, denies murder and two counts of actual bodily harm. The trial continues.