Efforts to drive forward the government's agenda on antisocial behaviour may be compromised because of town halls' statutory responsibilities towards housing homeless families, it was claimed today.The warning from St Helens council on Merseyside came as it defended its decision to house a family of six in a Travelodge at a cost of £630-a-week, after they were evicted from their home for antisocial behaviour.The bill for Sharon Griffiths and her five children has reached more than £8,000 since they were moved to the hotel for temporary bed and breakfast accommodation 13 weeks ago.The authority was forced to re-house the family after a county court judge over ruled its decision that the family had made themselves intentionally homeless because of the bad behaviour of two of the Griffiths boys. A council spokeswoman said today: "Whilst the council accepts the court's decision, it remains concerned that efforts to tackle antisocial behaviour may be compromised by its current responsibilities under homelessness legislation and the impact this will have on the wider community." The decision to re-house the family in a Travelodge came after they were evicted from their St Helens home in March by the housing association Helena Housing because of the two boys' antisocial behaviour. One of them Michael, 15, was made the subject of an antisocial behaviour order last December for spitting and swearing at neighbours. St Helens council initially refused to re-house them, saying Ms Griffiths had made herself "intentionally homeless" by failing to control her children. But a county court judge ruled in the family's favour and the council identified the Travelodge as suitable temporary accommodation. The council spokeswoman said: "Following the court's decision, the council has been looking to secure accommodation for this family but this has proved difficult due to their previous behaviour and the availability of accommodation for a family of this size." However she said the family had recently accepted an offer of accommodation and would be moving to their new home in the near future.St Helens council, she said, "works effectively with its partners" to tackle antisocial behaviour and supports local housing associations which, where necessary, evict tenants for antisocial behaviour. In this case it supported the housing association's decision to evict the family and worked with the organisation and Merseyside police to obtain an Asbo against one of the children. Miss Griffiths, who has never been accused of antisocial behaviour herself, was unavailable for comment today.