Naturally, the Conservatives are not nearly so keen to bang on about Broken Britain now that they are in charge. A snappy phrase that slags off the entire country is all very well when you are in opposition. But when you are in charge, well, cracks you once might have gleefully called attention to start to look like little imperfections that it's best to paper over.The Centre for Social Justice (CSJ), founded by the work and pensions secretary Iain Duncan Smith, provided much of the thinking that backed David Cameron's erstwhile thesis. Duncan Smith is still the thinktank's patron, but the organisation has become much less important to the Conservatives in the past year. Suddenly, all that stuff about family breakdown and welfare dependency being the sources of the nation's woes has subsided. But the CSJ is clearly stung by such rejection.An audit published this week by the group suggests that some government policy in this area has been "a disappointing confirmation of the government's failed approach". (Although Duncan Smith's own welfare reform proposals are warmly praised.) The centre mourns the fact that one of its big ideas, "a transferable tax allowance for four million married couples worth £150 a year", has failed to materialise. It laments that the withdrawal of universal child benefit will, in effect, "penalise mothers who stay at home".These snubs are blamed on the influence of the Liberal Democrats. But, in truth, sweeping statements about family breakdown make eye-catching rhetoric but inspire little in the way of policy. Not that the current opposition can filch even the rhetoric. Having energetically insisted that Britain was not broken at all, not even nearly, they are therefore now slightly hobbled even in pointing out the obvious: that cuts in social services will inflict great pain on many people.The Howard League for Penal Reform is still speaking out, though, its critique of one broken aspect of Britain unchanged by novelty of government. Its director, the redoubtable Frances Crook, points out that a quarter of a million children aged 10-17 were arrested in 2009. Of these, almost 28,000 were aged under 14. Of the 81,500 sentenced by a court, 5,176 were jailed. Compared to the staggering number of arrests, this is a tiny number. Crook asserts that the arrest figure is so high because the police treat children as "low-hanging fruit".Nevertheless, by the standards of a society that considers itself "developed" and "civilised", the number of jailed children is surely pretty hefty all the same. Cameron's speechifying prior to the election hinted at arrest rates that were far too low. He invited the electorate to view the singularly distressing case of Fiona Pilkington, who killed herself and her disabled daughter, Francecca Hardwick, in a burning car, as typical. For seven years, the struggling mother and daughter had been besieged by mocking children, some of them reportedly as young as 10, and had contacted the police on 33 occasions. No one was ever arrested for harassing Pilkington and Hardwick in all the time before that desperate immolation.Chris Grayling, shadow home secretary at the time of the inquest, said: "We need real action to stamp out antisocial behaviour, to get more police out of police stations and on to the streets, and to demonstrate to law-abiding citizens that the criminal justice system really is on their side."But a quarter of a million child arrests suggests that whatever is needed, it is not, in general, police diligence in feeling the collars of juveniles, as promised by the Tories. What, then? It is common for large swaths of the population to come up with a version of the CSJ's thesis and "blame the parents". Even teachers' union Nasuwt, at its conference this year, suggested that parents who "abandon responsibility" for their children at the school gates create a significant problem.Now, I am of the opinion that two loving parents living with their children under one roof is probably best. I also note, with some discomfort, evidence that marriage itself is becoming a choice made more often by the better educated, here and in the US, thus, perhaps, further entrenching class advantage.But I also believe that as society has accelerated in its pace of change, it has simply become harder for one generation to prepare the next for adult life. It is one thing to bring up children in the expectation that their own lives will be quite similar to your own. It is quite another to understand what to do for the best, when the world they will grow into is very different to the one you were prepared for in childhood yourself.Looking back over recent decades, which have seen governments restructuring the economy, rebalancing the jobs market, transforming education, housing and God knows what else, one feels that the role of parents in managing that change has been almost chillingly absent from considerations. This is surely an important oversight.One of the most touchingly sad things that teenage girls who have decided to become parents repeat, is their belief that all their children need is love. Even those initiatives that encourage girls to look after fake babies try to put them off by showing them that parenting will be demanding, but is relatively straightforward, greatly supported by state services and largely unchanged through generations.Last week, Conservative MP Nadine Dorries tried to make it compulsory for women to have counselling before abortion. Frankly, I'd be more inclined to suggest that of all prospective parents, these ones need a bit of a heads-up the least. It's a shame that parents don't really get thought about so very much at all, until someone needs blaming. That so many continue to bring their children up so well is actually pretty heroic.