A GP was accused today of killing a baby in a buggy after a rash attempt to overtake a slower car, and then lying about the cause of the accident by blaming it on faulty tyres.A jury heard that a young mother shrieked "My baby, my baby!" after the hire car swerved on to the pavement in a London suburb and crushed her two-month-old son.Witnesses said Dr Mohammed Hussain, 64, had been driving the unfamiliar Ford Fiesta in too low a gear before pulling out in a 20mph zone and then seeing an approaching car. As he pulled back into his lane he appeared to lose control.  Sacha Mason. Photograph: Metropolitan police/PAThe victim was Sacha Mason, who was being pushed by his mother, Miriana Weston, along Park Avenue in Willesden, north London, in August 2007. The child was taken to the Royal Free hospital in Hampstead, where he died of head injuries soon after admission.Alisdair Smith, prosecuting, rejected defence claims that the tyres were to blame and told Harrow crown court: "The real cause of the crash was the risk Dr Hussain took in steering out in an attempt to overtake the car in front when it was not safe to do so."The hire car had been inspected and passed as roadworthy before it was rented to Hussain, whose own car was being repaired after being damaged while parked.The driver of the car coming the other way, Sharifah Ahmed, who was taking her son to play football, told the jury: "I think he didn't realise I was there, so he swerved then realised I was coming so, to avoid hitting me, swerved back in a rush."She said Hussain had driven "in a hurried way, shocked, surprised, to avert a collision. If he hadn't done that he would have hit me"."It happened in a split second. I heard a female voice screaming and shouting – like when something bad happens – shrieking and sobbing 'My baby, my baby!'" Ahmed said.The doctor, who was on his way home to Pinner, denied that he had been trying to overtake. He said the car suddenly swerved on to the pavement and failed to stop when he tried to brake. Police accident investigators found no sign of emergency braking on the road or pavement.Hussain denies causing death by dangerous driving. The case continues.