In September 1996, some years after he had stepped away from his £25,000-a-year civil service job, Gordon Foxley was declared bankrupt. As luck would have it, the house in which he lived was in his wife's name. Equally happily, that property was an 18th century, creeper-clad, six-bedroom mansion in Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire.Foxley had recently been freed from prison, after being found guilty of accepting £1.3m in kickbacks while he was the Ministry of Defence's head of ammunition procurement in the early 1980s. Even there, it seemed, he had made himself comfortable. A TV documentary at Ford open prison in 1995 showed him dispensing tea and biscuits in a lordly fashion to visitors to his cell, and noted the unrepentant prisoner was regarded as a hero by fellow inmates for having stolen so much money - and got away with it for so long.Now he has managed to avoid paying anything towards a £1.5m confiscation order because the Crown Prosecution Service delayed enforcing it for 11 years. Foxley no longer lives in the Henley mansion, having exchanged it for a detached, modern home in a village north of Basingstoke.Foxley's career as a fraudster and his life subsequently is marked by two striking characteristics: the brazenness he demonstrated in amassing and hanging on to his millions, and the repeated bad luck or incompetence of those trying to bring him to justice. When sentenced in 1994, Foxley was told that his four-year sentence would be extended to seven if he did not pay back the ill-gotten cash. He did not, but was released after two. It was later revealed his £160,000 legal defence had been met by legal aid.Born into a working class family in Liverpool, Foxley qualified as an electrical, mechanical and aeronautical engineer at colleges in Salford and Manchester before starting his career as an ordnance specialist. In 1953 he married Josephine, who would become a consultant haematologist at Reading hospital. By the time of his retirement he had been in the service for 32 years, but had also been conducting what would later be described by the Commons public accounts committee as the worst case of fraud they had ever seen. Under the apparently lazy eye of the MoD, which would later be sharply criticised for not spotting the fraud early, he accepted payments from three foreign manufacturers of fuses and munitions, promising to steer contracts their way in return for large kickbacks, which he funnelled to Swiss bank accounts through three "front" companies.Those, at least, were the bungs the police knew about. Foxley's bank records showed that at least £3.5m had passed through his hands, but most of it could not be accounted for after his son Paul burnt the records. Paul was jailed for six months for this. None of that money has been recovered either.The fruits of Foxley's activities included a portfolio of eight properties - including a Wiltshire cottage that he used for fishing breaks, a Berkshire house with stables and a pet shop in Reading run by one of his daughters - and a clutch of luxury cars. Those were seized, though they can have gone only a very little way towards repaying his debts. A 1994 estimate of the total cost of his activities included almost £30m in losses to a Blackburn factory that might otherwise have won the contract. It was claimed that hundreds of people had also lost their jobs. Jack Dromey, then deputy general secretary of the Transport and General Workers Union, called him "an obscene product of his times".To add insult to injury, in 2000 Foxley was awarded £6,000 in compensation after the European Court ruled his human rights had been violated when investigators continued to open his mail beyond the permitted three-month period. He had to pay it back to court to cover legal aid.However, not even the companies paying his bribes had particular cause to feel happy about Foxley's conduct, according to the MoD. Its chief of procurement said in 1995 that there was no evidence that Foxley had been able to exert any influence at all in the companies' favour. In every regard, this was "one of the biggest stings we have seen in some time", he said.