A science teacher has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder after an alleged classroom assault on a 14-year-old boy who was left with serious head injuries after apparently being struck with a weight.Peter Harvey, 49, is also being questioned about alleged assaults on two other students during a lesson at All Saints' Roman Catholic school in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire.It is believed a weight from a set of scales was used in the alleged assault. The teenager, named by police last night as Jack Waterhouse, was found by paramedics covered in blood at the entrance to a classroom.Harvey became involved in an argument with Waterhouse during the lesson at 11am on Wednesday. Another 14-year-old boy and a girl with minor injuries did not require hospital treatment, but were questioned as witnesses.  Mansfield schoolboy Jack Waterhouse. Photograph: Nottinghamshire Police/PAHarvey, a respected teacher, remains in custody and is being questioned. Waterhouse was taken to a nearby hospital but later transferred to the Queen's Medical Centre in Nottingham amid concern about his condition, which has since stabilised.Detective Superintendent Adrian Pearson, who is leading the police inquiry, said: "A 14-year-old boy was taken to hospital having sustained serious head injuries. A 49-year-old local man is in custody at the moment and it is appropriate to say he has also been arrested on suspicion of assaulting two further children at the time of the incident. He will be questioned about that in the next few hours."Obviously the whole class is traumatised by what has happened. People send their children here from great distances because of its academic record and what happened is very much out of character for the school."I know a number of parents have rung the headteacher about what has happened, but I would appeal for everyone to be calm, particularly in relation to those people involved."He said: "It was a trauma to all those involved. It was a full, lively classroom and I can understand the trauma to all the staff. Something like this is very rare."The headteacher, Maureen Cobbett, sent a letter to parents saying: "I'm writing to let you know that there has been an incident involving a pupil. The student was injured and has been taken to hospital, where he is receiving treatment. The parents of the pupil have been informed." She said it would be inappropriate to comment further. The letter added that counselling had been arranged for pupils and staff. The school is located in a socially deprived area with boarded up houses lining the surrounding streets.Two community support officers and several members of school staff were standing outside the school's gates this morning.All Saints' RC school opened 35 years ago and has 1,170 pupils. It has been a specialist performing arts college since 2002 and describes itself as "a lively Catholic comprehensive school with a very special, warm ethos, which is recognised by all who visit".It was given a satisfactory rating by Ofsted during its last inspection. Among its values are "empowering students to overcome obstacles, no matter how daunting".A 42-year-old parent said: "I had a phone call from my son yesterday telling me a boy had been injured. It is really worrying when things like this happen because you expect your kids to be safe."Another parent said: "It is a total shock and it just seems really sad, obviously for the child and his family involved. But from what I gather the grown-up involved is quite a well respected member of staff not only among the teachers, but among the kids as well."Chris Holmes, 19, a semi-professional wrestler who is a former student, said: "I'm shocked. He was an all-right teacher and a decent guy."Tom Blythe, also 19 and a former student, said: "He was a decent bloke and got involved in school plays. He had this big bushy beard and was a bit of a legend."The mayor of Mansfield, Tony Egginton, sent his daughter to the school. "We don't know the full details, but it does seem bizarre. I feel for the parents of the other pupils."