The father of six children who were killed in a house fire in Derby early on Friday has spoken of his anguish as police revealed that petrol had been poured through the letterbox in an arson attack.Mick Philpott wept as he spoke at a press conference on Wednesday morning with his wife, Mairead, alongside him and said he had been overwhelmed by support from the local community. Five of their children, aged between five and 10, died following the blaze at a house in Victory Road, Allenton, despite his "valiant efforts" to save them. A sixth son, Duwayne Philpott, aged 13, died in hospital overnight on Sunday with his family at his bedside.Derbyshire police said they believe the fire was started when petrol was poured through the letterbox. Assistant chief constable Steve Cotterill said the seat of the fire was below the letterbox at the front door of the house. Investigations showed the accelerant was petrol.Mick Philpott thanked fire crews for their efforts to save his children. He revealed that Duwayne's organs had been donated to save the life of another child.Results of postmortem examinations revealed that the five younger children – Jade Philpott, 10, and brothers John, nine, Jack, seven, Jessie, six and Jayden, five – died as a result of smoke inhalation.Philpott said that donating his son Duwayne's organs to help another child "makes us happy and it takes a bit of the pain away." He said: "We grew up in a community that's been through a lot of problems with violence and to see this community come together like it has, it's too overwhelming. Those poor gentlemen from the fire brigade who saw what we saw – my heart goes out to them. It's not just us that's suffering, it's them."He begged the media to leave his family alone as it is disrupting the inquiry. "Please leave my family alone. If you've got any questions or anything at all please don't come through me or my family, please go to the police. You're disrupting what these officers are trying to do." He urged the media to let them grieve in peace and quiet.On Monday Cotterill said: "After further forensic examination we believe the fire was not accidental, initial indications are that it was deliberately set and, as a result, six children have been unlawfully killed.""I think it was a very difficult thing for them to do," he said of the Philpotts' decision to hold a press conference. "I pay tribute to their courage. The community have really pulled together and that's manifested itself in additional information that's starting to trickle through." Previously, the police had expressed frustration at the lack of intelligence.The forensic examination at the scene is likely to continue for some time. A 28-year-old woman and 38-year-old man, both from Derby, were arrested by officers investigating the deaths but were released without charge.The children were asleep in their beds upstairs when the fire broke out at the semi-detached house in the early hours of the morning. Their parents were asleep downstairs.Mick Philpott became the subject of media attention five years ago after asking for a larger house to share with his wife, his girlfriend and eight of the 17 children he is said to have. He also featured in a documentary with Ann Widdecombe on the issue of welfare culture.