Prison has done little to subdue Jonathan King's rapacious appetite for self-promotion.The disgraced pop mogul spent his first minutes of freedom yesterday protesting his innocence, promoting a new pop single and drawing parallels between himself and Oscar Wilde. "I'm totally, absolutely 100 per cent innocent," he said outside the gates of Maidstone prison in Kent, after serving half his seven-year sentence for abusing young boys in the 1980s. Giving a thumbs-up and his famously lop-sided grin to photographers, King, 60, described his 3 years inside as "brilliant". "You meet fascinating people and get to see the other side of the world, one that you never knew existed," he said. "What remains is that I am innocent and my lawyer assures me my convictions will be quashed." But in a radio interview later he admitted: "The law was in place, and I knew I was breaking it, and I did, knowingly and conscientiously. However, I am not guilty of the convictions against me." There were no victims, he claimed, because everyone involved was "of an age and mental maturity" to make their own decisions". "I am not guilty of ever going with anyone who didn't want to go with me and I am not guilty of going with children. "I used my position as a celebrity. I was famous, I was extremely handsome, I was stunningly talented in every possible way, and that makes me very attractive," he added. King's release on parole did not meet with universal approval. As he posed for the cameras a passerby shouted: "Get back inside." One victim, whose identity was obscured during a BBC TV interview, criticised the decision to release King when he had shown no remorse, saying: "By King's own admission, he has not attended any programmes addressing his behaviour." King left prison wearing a suit and baseball cap and offering his "advice and support" to victims of miscarriages of justice. "I'm not that important," he said. "Think of the people who have been locked up for crimes they did not commit, some of whom have killed themselves. "They're the people I care for and will crusade for." King was convicted at the Old Bailey in September 2001 of sexually abusing five boys aged 13 to 15. His legal team is awaiting a judicial review to challenge the Criminal Cases Review Commission's decision not to refer his case to the court of appeal. As he prepared to board the blue van that would take him to his home in Bayswater, London, he said: "As Oscar Wilde almost said when he was released 100 years ago for very similar crimes, 'On to the next adventure'." According to his lawyer, that "adventure" may include writing a stage musical about Cole Porter or a tell-all book about his life, or publishing his prison diaries. His legal team distributed copies of his new pop single, My Love, My Life, to the media. A flyer accompanying the CD was headed: "Don't Play This Track ..." It continues: "If you don't play Elvis Presley because he slept with a 14-year-old girl ... or the Beatles because they had criminal records or read the work of Oscar Wilde because he liked underage boys or look at Michelangelo statues because he was a homosexual ... then you should go no further than the sleeve of Jonathan King's My Love, My Life." The song is available only as a free download from King's website. His willingness to stage a PR stunt on the day of his release drew a sharp response from charities and support groups. "His actions are tasteless and misguided," a spokeswoman for the charity ChildLine said. "He would do better to spend some time reflecting the revulsion with which society views people who are sexually attracted to children." The Victims of Crime Trust director, Norman Brennan, advised King to "shut up".King said he was popular in prison and had received many letters of support, including one from the Prince of Wales. A Clarence House spokesman said King had written to Prince Charles several years ago, but the reply had been issued from the office, not from the prince.