A court in Japan yesterday found a serial rapist guilty of kidnapping, mutilating and abandoning the body of the Briton Lucie Blackman, in a partial reversal of an earlier ruling which had acquitted him of involvement in her death.Joji Obara, a wealthy Japanese property developer, was acquitted last year of killing the 21-year-old but found guilty of raping nine other women and of killing one of them.Yesterday Obara showed no emotion at Tokyo's high court as the judge, Hiroshi Kadono, described how he had taken the 21-year-old Blackman to his beachside apartment near the city. He later cut her body into 10 pieces with a chainsaw before burying her remains in a nearby cave. "There is no room for any leniency as the defendant trampled on the rights of many victims to fulfil his desires." In April 2007 Obara was jailed for life for the multiple rapes and manslaughter. His life sentence remains unchanged after yesterday's appeal ruling.Kadono said there was still no proof that 56-year-old Obara had killed Blackman, a former British Airways flight attendant from Sevenoaks, Kent. He had never been accused of murdering her but of causing her death after drugging her with chloroform before the rape. In the ruling yesterday on the prosecution's appeal, Kadono said the court could not prove Obara had rendered her unconscious with the chloroform, or raped her.Lucie's mother, Jane Steare, yesterday said justice had now been done. "This has been a harrowing ordeal ... truth, honour and justice have prevailed, not only for Lucie, but for all victims of violence and sexual crime."Blackman's father, Tim, welcomed the ruling. "Although the result is not the absolute decision we had hoped for it is still an obvious recognition of guilt."Blackman, who had worked as a hostess at the Casablanca nightclub in the Roppongi district of Tokyo, disappeared in July 2000 after agreeing to accompany Obara to his flat in Miura, about 35 miles south of Tokyo. Her remains were found in January 2001 in a cave not far away. Yesterday Steare, who saw Obara in person for the first time, said she had been advised by prosecutors to refuse all offers of money from the defendant. "I will continue to refuse any and all condolence payments from Obara," she said.Obara's lawyers are reportedly planning to appeal to the supreme court.