The killer dog at the centre of the Ellie Lawrenson case was among the strongest pit bulls that one police dog handler said he had ever seen.PC Peter Tallack, of the Metropolitan police, said Reuben, routinely described by Ellie's relatives as evil, did not have "a good domestic situation" and had sent warning signals to the family with two previous attacks.The expert told Liverpool crown court last week that Reuben - a banned dog in the UK - was always destined to attack again.He said: "If it has attacked once, then it is not a case of if but when."He described the dog, which was brought home to St Helens at five weeks old the size of a hamster, as "possibly one of the finest examples of a pit bull terrier type that I have ever examined"."The fact that this dog was only 23in [58cm] square and weighed 33.9kg [5st 3lbs] and was in such fine physical condition, with exceptionally well-defined muscles, would have made it an exceptionally powerful dog with immeasurable strength to bite and shake," Mr Tallack said.Family members denied feeding Reuben muscle-building supplements. After he was shot dead, tests on his body showed no signs of steroids or illicit drugs.The court was shown video footage recorded by Ellie's aunt, 20-year-old Kelsey Simpson, of Reuben at home.In one sequence the dog was carrying a ball in his mouth and Ms Simpson was kicking it."My heart was in my mouth watching that video," said Mr Tallack. "It's what's being formulated within the dog. While it has the ball in the mouth, you are in a fairly safe position."Not long afterwards Reuben savaged Ms Simpson, biting her leg and inflicting puncture wounds that needed hospital treatment.Pit bull terriers are famously dangerous. The breed is not thought to be any more unpredictable than other dangerous dogs. But Mr Tallack said they were banned because of the consequences of a pit bull "snapping"."When a pit bull bites, the pressure tends to be much harder," he said. "The sheer poundage of a pit bull, through my experience, is way above the level of any recognised breed in this country."It was for such reasons that the breed was outlawed by the 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act.Discussing the pit bull's strength compared to other vicious breeds, Mr Tallack raised his hand. "German shepherds," he said. His hand went higher. "Rottweilers," he said.Then he raised his hand further. "Pit bulls," he said. "The consequence of when it bites is that much more severe."The consequences were there for the whole Simpson family to see.On the morning of May 29 2006, Reuben allegedly attacked a neighbour and sank his teeth into the man's pet Jack Russell terrier.Reuben was six months old at that point, but had already begun to develop explosive strength. Jurors were shown photographs of a large log that Reuben used to drag around and shake.Ellie's mother, Lindsey, 25, speaking about Reuben and Ellie, said: "It was jealous of her and hated her."I used to look through the windows and say: 'Never let this dog get in the house.' It would look in and I could see it was jealous because it was outside and she was in."