Sir John Stevens made an extraordinary speech this week. It came as a surprise to me, because he has always previously been a serious and respected contributor to the criminal justice debate. But I have little doubt that his speech, like others made recently by members of the Association of Chief Police Officers, is designed to influence the Government as it prepares to introduce legislation later this year to reform the criminal justice system.The Sun is highly influential with the Government, so Sir John really hit the jackpot when The Sun's front page was taken up with the headline "Justice is a Joke: Britain's Top Cop Savages our Soft, Pathetic Courts". But are our courts really so soft and pathetic? The prison population in England and Wales has now reached 70,000 for the first time in our history. We imprison a higher proportion of the population than any other Western European country except Portugal and Turkey. I do not believe that this because the British are more wicked than the French, Germans, Spaniards, Italians and so on. Rather it suggests to me that our judiciary have a relatively stringent sentencing policy.A good example is the recent decision by the Lord Chief Justice about robbery of mobile phones. He laid down that save in quite exceptional circumstances a defendant, even a teenager of previous good character, who takes a mobile phone from someone else by force should receive a sentence of at least 18 months. Nothing soft or pathetic about that. After reading the articles about Sir John's speech I decided to get an up to date report from the battle front. Yesterday I spoke to two Circuit Judges at a busy London Crown Court. Or rather, it is usually a busy Crown Court. In the last three weeks it has not been as busy as usual. Of the 57 cases listed for trial, 11 (that is 1 in 5) have not gone ahead because of some fault on the part of the prosecution. In no less than 4 of these, the Senior Judge at the Court tells me, the reason was that police witnesses failed to turn up. This was presumably because they had not been warned: it can hardly be because they were intimidated. In another 3 cases the prosecution had problems with CCTV recordings. In another 2 the case had to be discontinued because the evidence necessary to sustain the charge had not been served. Moving from London to the Midlands, last month there was the shocking case at Lincoln Crown Court where a very serious charge was thrown out by Mr Justice Newman because of police malpractice. Of course cases can go wrong for many reasons, some of which lie at the door of the defence, but it is quite wrong to overlook failings on the prosecution side.We have heard some extreme claims from police spokesmen in recent days, and in my view it is time to inject some balance into the debate. In any civilised society criminal charges must be proved beyond reasonable doubt for there to be a conviction. This is not a "game", nor is the process an "adventure playground" for lawyers. None of us wants a police state, where the knee jerk response to a crime is, to follow the phrase in the film Casablanca, "round up the usual suspects". We have seen too many miscarriages of justice to allow that. If we did unbalance the scales of justice we would, before long, be on the slippery slope to a police state. Barristers prosecute and defend in equal numbers. They, like anyone else, want to be part of a system that convicts the guilty and acquits the innocent. We should get some facts straight too. Juries and magistrates can already be told about a defendant's previous convictions where these are relevant in law. The Law Commission last year produced some interesting and thoughtful proposals to extend that somewhat but not to allow all previous convictions to be admitted as a matter of course. Sir John complains of intimidation of vulnerable witnesses, and in my view he is right about this. Later this year, after a three year delay, the relevant sections of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 are being brought into force which will allow the courts to take special measures to protect vulnerable witnesses, for example by allowing evidence to be given behind a screen. I do not know whether the blame for the three year delay lies with the Home Office or with the Treasury, but it certainly does not lie with defence lawyers. Court buildings are being adapted to prevent intimidation, though I do share the view that more needs to be done in this respect, especially in Magistrates' Courts. Even some recently built courts do not have adequate facilities to separate prosecution witnesses from the defendant's witnesses, family and friends. Again, this is not the fault of defence lawyers.Many simple cases could be brought to trial more quickly, so that there would be less need for argument about release on bail. The Bar Council also supports the recommendation of Lord Justice Auld that the prosecution should be given the right to appeal against the grant of bail by Magistrates.There are challenges for the police too, not least to investigate crime better, so that the prosecution has reliable evidence to put before the court. Blaming the lawyers is not a sensible answer to the Home Secretary's calls for reform of the working practices of the Metropolitan Police: though it is certainly an ingenious tactic for deflecting his criticism of them.