The lord chancellor and the director of public prosecutions are to be asked to look into a rape case which collapsed yesterday after the alleged victim told the jury she was unconscious from too much drink and could not remember what happened.The prosecution dropped the case after the woman's cross-examination, saying "drunken consent is still consent". The judge directed the jury to find the defendant not guilty "even if you don't agree".Vera Baird QC, Labour MP for Redcar and a leading criminal lawyer, called the prosecution's decision "outrageous". She said the law had been changed to provide that no one can consent to sex except by choice, with "the freedom and capacity to make that choice". The Sexual Offences Act 2003 states that someone who is asleep or otherwise unconscious will not be taken as having consented, and in such cases the onus shifts to the accused to raise evidence of consent.The drama student from Aberystwyth University told Swansea crown court that she had drunk "small vodkas" and a glass of wine while getting ready for a party. After one glass of wine at the party she began to feel unwell and headed for the toilets, where she slipped over. By now she felt "more drunk than ever before in my life".She told the jury: "I went on to a patio for some fresh air. I was losing focus and very dizzy."Ryairi Dougal, 20, a stranger and a student who was working that night as a guard, walked her to her flat. Dougal, from Moville, County Donegal, in the Irish Republic, had sexual intercourse with her on the floor of the corridor.The woman said she passed out but came round briefly to be aware that "something was happening but I didn't know what". The following morning she had a flashback to a scene from the night before and became worried.Two days later she approached the university's student counselling service and the police were called in. They interviewed Mr Dougal, who told them sexual intercourse had taken place."I couldn't believe it," the woman said. "I know I would not have consented. I didn't even know it had happened." She said she still could not remember having sex.After her evidence, the prosecution barrister, Huw Rees, said the prosecution would abandon the case. "Drunken consent is still consent. She said she could not remember giving consent and that is fatal for the prosecution's case."Mr Justice Roderick Evans directed the jury to return a verdict of not guilty.Ms Baird said she would raise the case with the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, and the director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald, and ask the DPP to issue guidance on such cases.The Crown Prosecution Service said: "The judge said he would have stopped the trial if we hadn't. We have called for a report from prosecuting counsel."