Patsy Hopwood has spent eight months hoping that Operation Trident will catch her son's killer.In March, her son Kavian, 21, was gunned down while walking through the Stonebridge estate in north-west London. He was shot six times and died the next day in hospital. Those who have observed Trident's progress so far say the chances of solving murders among the black community seem to rise as time passes; those involved in the shootings fall out and turn on each other. And witnesses may grow to trust the police and offer them information. But nothing has yet emerged to throw light on Kavian's murder, though his killers struck at a spot overlooked by 250 houses. For all the attempts to engage the community, including a £10,000 reward, the police have gathered very little clear information and see no clear motive. Two men were arrested, one on May 12 and one 10 days later, but both were released and the police reportedly do not have any plans to take further action against them. Mrs Hopwood, 43, a nurse and devout Christian, said hope and faith were all that she had. She said: "Before this happened I was living in a kind of comfort zone. Just like everyone else in the community, you would hear about these killings but because it would not involve anyone related to you, it didn't really affect you. "It is only when this kind of tragedy comes to your own house that you feel it. "I felt as if a blade had been thrust into my own heart. I asked to see his body to dress him and because I wanted to be sure it was my child lying there." She said the reward for information had made no difference. "No one has come forward because people are scared." Kavian had been studying on a computer course at college. He also had thoughts about becoming a social worker. "He never would have thought he was in any danger," said Mrs Hopwood. "He was a carefree person who believed in God." Five days after the murder of seven-year-old Toni-Ann Byfield, shot at her father's bedsit in Kilburn, north London, Mrs Hopwood joined the 500 protesters, politicians and dignitaries who staged a vigil outside the property. She stood by the gate, holding a single candle, lost in her thoughts. Mrs Hopwood has also set up a trust to help those whose lives have been devastated by the violence. The Metropolitan police and Operation Trident could only do so much, she believed. "All I can say to people is that it's wake-up time. Enough is enough. These murderers are killing people - for no reason."