The police service, still reeling from the criticisms of its handling of the Stephen Lawrence case, was yesterday dealt another severe blow with the announcement of a major corruption investigation involving the suspension of officers from two of the country's elite squads.The directors-general of the National Crime Squad (NCS) and the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS) have jointly instigated an inquiry by a team from an independent force to look into what are described as very serious allegations. It is understood that the inquiry is to examine a number of claims, including the issue of relations with a key police informant. It is also understood that the inquiries could take the investigating team to Spain and that a number of different strands are been investigated. Part of the investigation will look at payments and the nature of payments to informants. The news comes the day after the revelation that police informants in the Lawrence case had inadvertently had their identities revealed. The head of the NCIS north-east regional office in Wakefield, Tony Blockley, has been suspended and returned to his home force of Derbyshire. It is understood that Mr Blockley's office and home were searched and that the director-general of the NCIS, John Abbott, had visited the headquarters as a mark of the seriousness of the matter. Mr Blockley is the most senior NCIS officer ever to be 'returned to force' and would have had access to top secret information. A detective sergeant from the northern office of the National Crime Squad has also been suspended and returned to his home force, also as a result of serious allegations. A team from Greater Manchester police under a senior ranking officer has been asked by Roy Penrose, director general of the National Crime Squad and Mr Abbott to carry out the investigation. Last night, a spokesman for Greater Manchester police said it was unclear how long the inquiry would take. A spokesman for the NCS confirmed last night that a detective sergeant had been suspended and returned to his force as part of an inquiry into 'serious disciplinary allegations.' This is the first time such action has had to be taken by the National Crime Squad which was set up last year as an elite team of detectives who were to complement the intelligence-gathering work of NCIS. Mr Penrose, who has a history of tackling corruption in the Metropolitan police, where he served previously, made integrity among his officers one of his key platforms. Mr Abbott has also stressed the vital importance of NCIS maintaining the confidence of their many informants. There are 50,000 registered informants in the United Kingdom. The NCIS/NCS investigation, the first of its kind, comes in the midst of attempts to purge the Metropolitan police of corruption. More than 90 criminal charges and suspensions have been instigated as a result of the Met's investigation. A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said last night that so far 57 Met officers had been suspended and 35 charges brought.  In December, the Met launched what they claimed would be the world's toughest policy for testing the integrity of officers and combating corruption. The Met's anti-corruption branch, CIB, has more than 200 officers investigating allegations. Nearly half of the 43 forces in England and Wales have officers facing dishonesty or corruption allegations. Nineteen forces have a total of more than 100 officers suspended or charged over allegations connected with misuse of police information, drug offences or perversion of the course of justice. One of the main side-effects of the corruption inquiries is that dozens of convicted prisoners are now preparing to seek leave to appeal against their convictions if any of the suspended or charged officers were involved in their arrest. News of the investigation has come at a bad time for the police. The failures in the Lawrence inquiry and the findings by Sir William Macpherson of institutional racism within the service have been compounded by the failure to have video film in the security cameras near Stephen Lawrence's memorial in Eltham to record a vandalism attack on Wednesday night, have made the headlines throught the week.  Although both squads have had some recent spectacular successes in arresting career criminals, arms dealers and counterfeiters, they are well aware of the importance of their reputation in terms of their credibility.