   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On a drizzly, north London street last week, two police officers and three investigators from the medicines regulatory agency began ringing doorbells on a large red-brick Victorian house.This was a drugs bust – albeit a good-mannered one. The investigators were not after crack cocaine but illicit supplies of Modafinil, a pill taken by students to help them stay up all night writing their essays.The team from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), accompanied by the Guardian, was mounting the raid as part of a global effort called Operation Pangea, involving 101 different countries.Pangea has seized £6.5m of drugs globally, and more than 18,000 websites have been closed down or had payment facilties removed, while the MHRA has netted more than 2.3m doses of unlicensed medicine worth more than £3.8m, including 68,000 counterfeit pills. The sequence of British raids was each named after a British prime minister, from Eden through to Blair – with the north-west London raid given the moniker Operation Home.This is the fifth year of a co-ordinated action against websites selling illegal and sometimes fake medicines. Most of the haul is Viagra and assorted versions of it; a raid the day before had turned up 13,000 packets, labelled as a Chinese herbal remedy.The investigators, led by Danny Lee-Frost, head of operations at the MHRA, had evidence, they said, that the less well-known Modafinil was being sold in the UK through a website registered to a man living at that address. Although the website was registered in Hong Kong and claimed to be perfectly legal because it was outside British jurisdiction, a packet of pills bought as a test purchase by Lee-Frost's team was postmarked from north-west London. In the UK, Modafinil – also known as Provigil, Modalert and by other names too – can only be sold by a licensed pharmacist, to somebody with a doctor's prescription treating narcolepsy(a medical disorder involving the inability to stay awake) ."The [operation] is to get the message out [to the public] that the internet is not a safe place to buy medicines," said Lee-Frost, whose idea Pangea was. Modafinil, he said, "is a pretty powerful drug. It should only be prescribed by a doctor. It is not to be lightly used." The people running the websites "are not interested in health. They are only interested in making money."The MHRA collaborates with a number of organisations to target illegal websites, from the Metropolitan police e-crimes unit to US homeland security and specialised organisations that identify suspect online activity.This raid was not at the crack of dawn, but at a less hostile 7.30am and there was no question of breaking down the door, although the MHRA officers are permitted to do that if it is proportionate to the offence. The two police officers, said Lee-Frost, were there "to prevent any breach of the peace" and "to deal with the question of who we are".Strict rules around the MHRA's powers of investigation mean there had been limited surveillance of the target. "We're allowed one drive-by at the time we intend to go in, to see if the lights are on and there are kids' toys on the lawn – that sort of thing," said Lee-Frost.The house has been converted to more than a dozen flats, with no certainty any of the lit windows belonged to the target – just a lot of curtain-twitching from houses opposite. With no response to ringing the suspect's doorbell, the team tried all the rest in turn, until a young man in pyjamas was persuaded to come and open the front door. "Golly," he said.Not long after the officers made their way up the stairs, Lee-Frost, on the pavement outside, got a call on his mobile. He looked glum. "It's a one-room bedsit," he said. "He claims he has closed down the website and it all comes from China. He rents a mailbox in the City and says that's where his laptop is." There were no pills and just a small amount of paperwork. They would try to persuade the suspect to hand over his laptop, but this raid was unlikely to lead to a spectacular court case, although they do happen. In April, the MHRA got a confiscation order in Southwark crown court for £14.4m against a fake medicines dealer after tracking down his assets across Europe, which a judge decided were all the proceeds of crime.ModafinilUK, the website registered to the man in north-west London, was closed down on the day of the raid, just one of nearly 9,000 illegal pharmacy websites shut down. Like twigs on the branches of a tree, their URL addresses lead to a few "anchor sites" run, said the MHRA's head of enforcement, Nimo Ahmed, by organised crime networks, often based in Russia.The two biggest are well known – Eva Pharmacy, which makes around £1.4m a month and GlavMed, making £620,000. Investigators spent several years targeting these organisations but, said Ahmed, it proved impossible to pin down evidence as to where and when crimes had taken place, with websites in Russia, medicines supplied from India and offshore bank accounts in which to store the proceeds. The Russian medicines authority went in and managed to rattle GlavMed, however. "The individual who was supposed to be behind the website left the country a couple of weeks before the raids took place," said Ahmed.Unable to stamp out the anchor sites, the MHRA and collaborators still manage to choke off a lot of their trade, closing down linked sites, confiscating and testing suspect packages entering the country and working with Visa, Mastercard, PayPal and other payment organisations to stop the money getting through.