A pathologist who examined the mutilated remains of a British woman murdered in Kenya admitted yesterday that he was intimidated into doctoring his report to suggest she was savaged by wild animals.Almost 16 years after the death of Julie Ward, an inquest heard emotional evidence from her father, who had her killing reinvestigated after alleging that authorities in Africa and Britain conspired to cover up her murder.John Ward told the coroner for Greater Suffolk how he sifted through the ashes of his 28-year-old daughter's burnt body to try to identify her. He showed the inquest graphic pictures of her burnt left leg and lower jaw bone, which were all that was left of her after she disappeared on the Masai Mara game reserve in September 1988.The inquest opened in Ipswich after an inquest in Kenya and two criminal trials failed to establish who murdered her. Her father hopes it could lead to another investigation that will bring her killer or killers to justice.In a written statement, the Egyptian pathologist who first identified the remains in Kenya confessed to signing false postmortem examination reports.Adel Shaker, a pathologist for the Kenyan government, initially concluded that Ms Ward's leg and jaw were dis sected by a clean cut, indicating she had been murdered. But he described how his boss had doctored his first report and he was pressured into signing other false reports.The pathologist later fled Kenya fearing for his life. In his statement, made to Lincolnshire police after they were called in to reinvestigate the murder in 2001, he told of the Kenyan police's determination to portray the murder as an accident or suicide. He said a police inspector told him Julie Ward was a "loose girl" and had slept with two white men during her short stay on the game reserve.Dr Shaker said the inspector "talked of suicide - how she could have cut herself up and the fire spread to her body".As Kenya came under intense media scrutiny, the inquest heard of rumours that the cover-up was arranged because the son of the president at the time was involved in the murder. Dr Shaker said: "People told me this was the fate of one girl balanced by the fate of an entire nation."But the inquest heard it was not only the Kenyan authorities who appeared reluctant to fully investigateJulie's death.Jenny Jenkins, who worked as a consular official for the British high commission in Nairobi, told the inquest that officials warned her to "back off from John Ward" after she supported the father's campaign for a full investigation.She said one senior official working with the high commission propagated the "red herring theory" that Ms Ward was struck by lightning. But Ms Jenkins said she believed the "Kenyan cover-up" was because of police incompetence rather than a conspiracy.Dr Shaker said his boss, Dr Jason Kaviti, came to his office and asked his secretary to hand over his initial post-mortem report. "I heard him say, 'No, no, no', and saw him underline through the words clean cut. I knew he was intent on changing my report by his voice and body language."The words "clean cut" were changed to torn and cracked, and "sharp injuries" became blunt injuries, suggesting that Ms Ward had been killed by wild animals.Dr Shaker said police showed him a skull three weeks later which he believed was Ms Ward's. Like her jaw bone, it was very clean, leading him to conclude it had not been chewed by wild animals. "I suspected it had been chemically cleaned," he said.He was later arrested and charged with taking bribes. The charges were dropped only after he signed another statement about Ms Ward.The hearing continues today.