A fundamental shift in social attitudes towards race has taken place in the last five years according to an exclusive Guardian/ICM opinion poll published today.The results suggest that the undercurrent of 1960s Powellite racism in British public opinion is finally disappearing. It also provides evidence - even if it is only in what people are willing to tell the pollsters - that the Stephen Lawrence case is proving a watershed in British attitudes towards racism.The poll shows that 53% say most whites would not mind if a close relative married a black or Asian and only 36% say they would mind "a little or a lot". In a similar survey in1995, 21% said they "would not mind" and 73% said they would mind "a little or a lot". Repeated surveys by British Social Attitudes throughout the 1980s and 1990s showed similar large majorities uncomfortable about inter-racial marriage. In 1995, 53% felt most white people would mind having a black or Asian boss at work, against 27% now. Some 63% say that most would not mind compared with 41% five years ago. The poll shows that a year after the publication of the Macpherson inquiry into the Stephen Lawrence murder investigation, some 75% believe that the police are learning from their mistakes in investigating the death of the black teenager. There is also growing confidence that most officers are not racist, but one in three of the public still believe that the way the police operate, institutional racism leads them to discriminate against blacks and Asians. In an exclusive interview for the Guardian today, home secretary Jack Straw says he regards tackling racism as "the most important part of my job". He believes that of all the things he has done while home secretary, setting up the Lawrence inquiry will make the greatest difference. He wants the progress of its implementation to be "one of the key things I want to be judged on". He welcomed the poll's results showing that Britain is becoming more relaxed about race but added there was still a long way to go, particularly in employment practices. Surveys by British Social Attitudes in the 1980s and early to mid-1990s repeatedly showed that 75% of the public believed most white people did "mind a lot or a little" if a black or Asian person married into their family. That figure is now 36%. The change has also occurred across all age groups - the figure for the over 65s is 34% who thought most white people would object - and social classes, with similar responses among both men and women and Labour and Conservative voters. The commission for racial equality last night welcomed the poll as confirming a decisive change in public opinion . "There is this sense of a significant and overwhelming shift in public opinion in favour of a diverse society," said a CRE spokesman. He said the results represented "a decisive shift away from the Powellite influence of the 1960s. The cathartic experience of Lawrence has enabled white people to come to terms with living in a multi-racial society. The danger figure is shifting from being a young, black man to the white racist". ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,205 adults aged over 18 by telephone between February 11-13 2000. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.