When WPC Anne Lobb received a phone call from a solicitor telling her she had been left more than £350,000 by a woman who had died the previous month, she saw no reason to celebrate. It wasn't only the fact that the police officer from south London had never heard of her wealthy benefactor, it was also the realisation that she had unwittingly become part of a massive criminal conspiracy.After a two-year investigation by the Metropolitan Police's Anti-Corruption Unit, a web of illegal activity was unravelled last week involving a former police officer, a gay civil servant, an obscure government department and a bizarre attempt to steal more than £1 million from three corpses. The case centred on the work of the little-known Bona Vacantia ('ownerless goods') division of the Treasury. If someone dies without leaving a will and with no next of kin, the 38 staff of the Bona Vacantia division are brought in. They make searches of the deceased's property to find any hidden paperwork and place advertisements in local newspapers in a bid to track down blood relatives. If no beneficiaries can be found, the money goes to the Treasury. Each year more than £20 million is collected in this way. The plot began when a woman called Elizabeth Thompson, who owned an £800,000 house in Chiswick, west London, died without leaving a will. During a search of her home, papers were discovered naming WPC Lobb as one of the beneficiaries. When the call came through, Lobb's heart sank. A few months earlier she had been approached by a former colleague, Sarah Topping, who had suggested a way of making money. Topping said she could arrange for Lobb to be named in the will of a wealthy stranger and they could split the profits. Lobb thought her friend was joking and forgot all about the matter until she got the phone call from the solicitor saying she had inherited a fortune. She immediately called the Met's Anti-Corruption Branch and Detective Sgt Gordon Allison took up the case. 'We got involved because there had been a corrupt approach to a serving officer,' he says, 'but we soon realised that the bulk of our inquiries were being directed outside the force. Topping had made the mistake of thinking that she could trust her former colleague to go along with the conspiracy and arranged for her to be named in a will. That was her mistake.' Topping had spent several years in the force, working alongside PC Lobb in Bexleyheath, then being transferred to the Clubs and Vice Unit before leaving in 1995. Allison and his colleagues began investigating 36-year-old Topping and discovered she had recently been named as sole beneficiary in the will of Lydia Cottington, of Eastbourne, East Sussex, who had died in May 2000. Topping had been given jewellery, access to bank accounts containing more than £40,000 and the deeds of the woman's house, which she immediately sold for £62,000. Topping had begun to invest her money in boats and land. The inquiry soon pointed towards the Bona Vacantia office and the job applications of all those who had been involved in the searches of both properties were examined. Several members of staff had worked on both jobs, but when police examined the CV of 24-year-old Melanie Leighton, they were astonished to see that Topping was listed as her referee. Leighton, 24, had spent most of her life on the wrong side of the law. She had a string of minor convictions stretching back to her teenage years and had previously worked for the Post Office, but left after being suspected of theft. She had managed to get her job with the Treasury by lying about her qualifications. She and Topping had become lovers and it was soon after this that the plot to steal money from the dead was born. Topping wrote the fake 'wills' on her own typewriter. Leighton had been popular in the Bona Vacantia department and none of her colleagues had the slightest inkling she was using her position to plant false wills in the homes she searched. Leighton would ensure that the wills would be positioned in such a way as to ensure that they would be found by one of her colleagues and there would be no reason to think they were not genuine. Topping and Leighton were helped by Andrew Short, 31, a postman who had been involved in various illegal activities while working alongside Leighton. He was attracted to the scheme because he felt there was no way in the world that he and the others would ever be caught. Within a few weeks he had been named as the sole beneficiary of the estate of William Newman, from Canvey Island, Essex, who died in August 2000. Short immediately sold Newman's house for £82,000, sharing the money with the others. In all, the trio had managed to get their hands on cash and property worth around £1m. Allison hoped to catch the gang in the act and began planning a surveillance operation. But when it was discovered that some of the money was already being accessed, the Treasury took out a freezing order. 'That forced our hand,' says Allison. 'The application would have revealed details of the investigation, so we had to act straight away.' In fact, Leighton had already been arrested. Her criminal activities at the Post Office had finally caught up with her and she was being held in prison. Topping and Short were arrested soon afterwards. In a bizarre twist, Leighton died in a motorbike accident earlier this year. 'In the end it was their greed which got them caught,' says Allison. 'Topping felt she could trust her former colleague. She also felt that few questions would be asked - what better person is there to receive money than a police officer? But she was wrong.' Topping, of Horton Kirby, Kent, and Short, of Southend, will both be sentenced next month. The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the Record column, Sunday December 15, 2002An editing error led to our describing Bona Vacantia as an obscure Treasury department in this article. It is actually a department of the Treasury Solicitors, who act for all Government departments and - despite their name - are not actually part of the Treasury.