People who were abroad over the last 10 days will return to a different country from the one they left. England has been changed, perhaps permanently, by what has happened. The confidence we had in the basic success of our society was shattered, together with the idea that we could always muddle through, getting more right than we did wrong – because of our innate decency and tolerance. The riots have delivered as great a shock to England as the home-grown suicide bombers did in 2005. Actually, last week may be even more shocking because we have no one else to blame – no foreign extremist ideology to hand, no external threat of any kind. This was ours to own – a materialist, ugly, violent Olympiad of lawlessness, mortifyingly laid bare for the world to see.We go round in circles obsessively describing it, but there are as yet no completely adequate explanations, nothing that encompasses the whole dreadful episode. However, we can be sure that along with the burning buildings, our self-esteem and the certainty about who we were also went up in smoke.It doesn't matter if you tend towards the school of thought that says this was the result of years of corrosive liberal lassitude, or the opposing view that insists we got here after years of economic neglect and privation – the fact remains that our society produced students, apprentices, school workers, middle-aged men with steady jobs, mothers, fathers and kids as young as 11 who all joined organised gangs to loot and burn down their neighbourhoods.This was us at our very worst, and it is significant that while the riots spread to cathedral cities and market towns, they did not cross England's borders to Wales and Scotland, a fact that will certainly encourage a sense of differentiation in both countries. Nor did they take light in the Muslim community, which in Birmingham produced a heroic self-discipline in the face of a terrible loss, something that should go a long way to redeeming the legacy of 7/7.To be caught up in a riot – as I was in Brixton 30 years ago and in Los Angeles in 1992 – is terrifying. But the fear is soon followed by anger and shame, because one of the key experiences of a riot is that it is demeaning to see people behave so badly. You come to doubt humanity itself, which is especially hard if those you are watching represent a pretty wide demographic of your fellow citizens.We always knew about the English vices – the binge drinking, the cases of child cruelty, the bullying and yobbishness – but somehow we maintained the illusion of a mature English order. That is no longer feasible, and without this important myth, we are going to find it much more difficult to define ourselves and face the world. The riots will be at the back of our minds for years to come and we will wear their shame for a very long time indeed for this reason – quite a lot of what happened was avoidable and specifically not the product of despair and economic hardship.The greed and opportunism on display in Britain will seem incredible to those around the world who have so much less than we do. Imagine the disbelief of the tens of thousands who have risked torture and death by demonstrating every day for freedom in Syria. Our rioters must seem like a lot of spoilt children.It seems extreme to say that we are all implicated, but we elected the politicians who ignored problems such as the growth of gangs, benefit dependency and the pockets of despair in our cities. And we allowed our society to become cynical and contemptuous of old values, a trend which is apparent from the celebrity-obsessed media to the sneering tone in so much of the public discourse.We failed to hold those at the top of the pile to account for the lapse of standards and their hypocrisy – politicians, bankers and journalists have all been guilty of serious abuse, but few have felt the full force of the law in the way that rioters are now. That also applies to the behaviour of the police, which I will come to later, but the general point is that public opinion was lax on some matters and found no way of making itself felt on others. This should change.The choice we have is this: either we do the hard thinking about our society, top to bottom, or we simply limit our understanding of these events to an epidemic of criminality. The latter is easy enough because people's behaviour was utterly inexcusable, and those on the streets looting, terrorising and burning knew perfectly well that they were doing wrong. One only has to look at the sorry procession of rioters going through the courts to know that. There were no clenched fists of defiance, just gormless opportunists who had been caught with a looted TV, power tools, trainers or new electronic keyboard. The ones I saw in Westminster magistrates court could barely articulate their thoughts, let alone any ideological creed.These people are going to be treated much more harshly. Society has lost patience with them and in this "fight back" there will be much that is unfair and indiscriminate.Right or wrong, that impatience is likely to affect attitudes found in police stations, benefit offices, housing departments, social services and the courts. People will be made to take responsibility for the lives and actions, even if that is sometimes unjust and they have not the slightest experience of doing so.This isn't an easy issue – we are pulled first one way, then the other. But the worry must be that we fail to comprehend the intricate causes of this episode – the lack of self worth and hope in the youths who jumped at the opportunity to run riot – and more importantly the behaviour of the police, who rather astonishingly have become the heroes of the hour.There remain serious questions about the killing of Mark Duggan in Tottenham and the investigation by Independent Police Complaints Commission, which leaked that Mr Duggan had fired, when he hadn't. From the point of view of youths, who are routinely harassed by police stop-and-search operations and who know that police evidence presented in inner-city courts is often cooked up, it looked very much like an extra-judicial killing.The police were slow to react and despite the bravery of the available officers, the disturbance got out of control, to the degree that some even believe the Met held back to make their point about the effect of government cuts. This cannot be true but the response was inadequate and the command flawed, and one has to wonder if the reaction had been faster whether this shaming disorder would have spread across the country. In these circumstances, it perhaps behoves the police to display far less indignation when it comes to claiming responsibility for regaining order last week than they have.But we are where we are. There's a long way to go before English society regains its self-respect, and that will only happen if we allow reason to edge out fear.