Police today released video footage of the murdered Hells Angel Gerry Tobin smiling at a security camera minutes before he was shot dead.CCTV cameras at a petrol station in Stratford captured a "completely relaxed" Tobin filling up his Harley Davidson motorbike in what police said was his last known stop before his killing.Tobin, who worked at a Harley Davidson dealership in south London, was shot in the back of his head as he rode along the M40 in Warwickshire on August 12. He was returning with two friends from a motorbike festival.The footage released by police shows Tobin at a Shell petrol station. After filling up his bike Tobin, wearing a black leather Hells Angels waistcoat on top of a blue short-sleeved shirt, smiles as he glances up at a CCTV camera."He does not look wary. He looks completely relaxed, to the point where he is smiling at the camera when he walks in [to the petrol station shop]," Detective Superintendent Ken Lawrence, who is leading the murder inquiry, told a press conference. "He is not a man who feels under imminent threat. The video suggests that he did not know what was coming."Mr Lawrence also confirmed that an examination of Tobin's motorbike revealed damage from a second shot. He said more than 500 calls from members of the public to police had provided "useful information", but he reiterated his frustration at the wall of silence from Hells Angels and other motorbike clubs."It is difficult [to get information from Hells Angels] to be honest," he said. "I would like to enter into a meaningful dialogue with them but they are reluctant to do that."Mr Lawrence said he believed Tobin was targeted by the killers but he still did not know whether it was a personal attack or whether he was killed for being a Hells Angel. Police still want to hear from people who saw the killing or saw a green Rover 620 car that the killers are believed to have used. They also want to talk to motorists who were stuck at the front of the traffic jam caused when Tobin fell from his bike.Many motorists initially stopped before driving on without talking to police, Mr Lawrence said.Tobin, 35, was returning from the Bulldog Bash motorbike festival near Stratford when he was killed. After filling up with petrol he rode north along the A46 to where it meets the M40. He was killed travelling south along the M40 between junctions 13 and 12.Macclesfield-born Tobin emigrated with his family to Canada as a boy. According to the Canadian National Post, he led Bible studies at his home in Calgary and dreamed of becoming a missionary before returning to England 10 years ago.Mr Lawrence said Tobin's mother had flown to Britain from Canada. Although "clearly very upset", she was helping police with background information about her son's life.