Listening to Jack Straw stumbling through an interview on Radio 4's Today programme this morning it became clear what a bind the government is now in. The hope must be that, if he does face charges, Jon Venables will have his day in court like any other defendant. It is difficult to see how this will be possible. But it is necessary if any trial is to be fair.The most disturbing aspect of the grisly and ongoing drama that began back in February 1993 remains the events of that day. The killing of a two year-old child by two troubled 10-year-olds was terrible. As disturbing was the reaction of far too many adults. Tried as Child A and Child B, Robert Thompson and Jon Venables were hounded by adults every day as they entered the court. What exactly would those hammering on the side of their transport vans have done had they managed to get to them? Strung them up from the nearest lamp post? Where would the justice have been in that? The lack of compassion shown towards these two boys, mirroring Thompson and Venables's own lack of compassion towards James Bulger, was striking. It still stalks them.Following the trial the judge, Mr Justice Morland, ruled that they should be publicly identified. To what purpose remains unclear. For, having been unmasked, a veil of secrecy immediately descended on them. New identities were proffered for their families too, who also faced vigilante action, of course. For those who felt that death was too good for them, or nothing less than "life meaning life" would do, this was never going to be enough.Venables's return to prison has opened up all those wounds again. It is as if, nearly 20 years on from the original events, large portions of the British public can not move on. A collective neurosis has descended – though in truth it has always been there. Thompson and Venables served their sentences before being released in 2001. But never mind that, say some. They should be punished again because they were not properly punished the first time round. They should be punished more just for being them. Fuelling this are elements in the media who are exploiting the anger and grief of those families who have endured the trauma of the loss of a loved one.Meanwhile comparisons with notorious serial killers have started. Jon Venables is compared with Peter Sutcliffe; Thompson and Venables with Brady and Hindley. Never mind that they were 10 at the time, not the fully grown adults they now are.If there is to be a resolution it will not come about through the unmasking of Thompson and Venables. Nor will a further conviction of Venables provide any meaningful "justice". The criminal justice process does a passable job at determining guilt and innocence of those who come before the courts. It does little or nothing to resolve the trauma and anger of loss. But then, that is not its purpose.Resolution will come about when Jon Venables and Robert Thompson can get on with their lives without facing the constant fear of exposure and retribution; when they can be treated, as one radio presenter put it this morning, like "normal people"; when they stop being the story. Perhaps then the terrible events that were visited on James Bulger and his family 17 years ago can be accepted for what they are: a very personal tragedy, that for far too long has played out as a public drama.