I am a probation officer in a city in the north of England. I have been qualified for three years now but worked as a trainee for two years before that. As a trainee, you start off with shoplifters and drink drivers, but by the end of the training most work their way up to domestic violence cases and less serious sex offenders.I hold a caseload that varies between 45 and 50 cases, but around 20 of those are in custody. Of the total, usually about 15 are assessed as posing a high risk of serious harm and the rest are assessed as medium risk of serious harm. The idea of a newly qualified officer holding 120+ cases, as in the Sonnex case, just shows you how bad things have got in London. I hold less than half that and I'm relatively experienced. For Jack Straw to say that Sonnex was not a "resource issue" is, in my opinion, an outright lie.Working in probation makes you very aware of the limits of social care and assistance these days. The community mental health teams seem set up to refuse cases rather than help people, but they are very politically correct, which is nice. We regularly tell social services of children living in houses where we know there is domestic violence. Unless it's a baby, they generally write to both parents pointing out that their behaviour may harm the child. It's pathetic – not only does it blame the mother but the idea that a letter from a social worker will stop a domestically violent man is laughable. The job only really shows you "Broken Britain" and you have to remind yourself that it's not the whole story.The high-risk cases are carefully monitored and the work done on these cases is usually excellent. Probation officers go the extra mile every day to protect the public. Putting sex offenders through risk reduction programmes, for example, is difficult and demanding work. Imagine asking a man, "and where did you put your penis? Did she scream? Was there blood? Did you masturbate about it afterwards?" As a man you spend a lot of time working with men's violence and sexual abuse of women and children, which makes you question yourself.But the worst thing about the job is not the offenders; it's the management, locally and nationally. I have no idea what the senior management team of my area do except dream up the next pointless re-organisation and find ways to make frontline workers' lives harder. Nationally, there are clearly powerful people in Whitehall who want to do away with probation officers and privatise the whole system. They want to parcel bits off to third-sector "charities" who will hire cheaper, untrained workers. There are workers from such organisations in my office already and some do good work but many, particularly on the educational side, are useless and put the public at risk by poor practice.Still, aside from the management, it's a great job and never boring. I love getting a new case and finding out what makes them tick. I feel great pride when something I do, recalling someone risky to prison for example, or getting through to an offender, keeps a potential victim safe. There is a great camaraderie among probation staff. We love doing the dirty work, because someone's got to.