Wherever else they may fail, politicians charged with running the criminal justice system seldom fall short of ideas – and most of them are off the wall. For example, we had former home secretary John Reid threatening to build "Titan" jails when, as seasoned prison watchers will tell you, the few jails that do "work" tend to be the smaller ones. Then there was Louise Casey and her high-visibility jackets, intended to be worn by offenders on community service orders and clearly designed to humiliate.Occasionally, though, a good idea emerges from the fog of nonsense, and new justice secretary Chris Grayling may just have come up with one. His "vision", as he calls it, is to have all short-term prisoners (serving 12 months or less) met by a mentor on their discharge. These "wise friends" would include former prisoners in charge of guiding the newly liberated through the many minefields that await them when the prison door closes. They would be paid on results.In an ideal world, people committing the sort of crimes that result in short sentences would not go to prison at all. In the main, they are a nuisance to society, and we should reserve custody only for those who present a danger to us. But we are where we are, and this government is not about to undertake a massive sentencing policy shift. A good idea is better than none.Short-termers exemplify the "revolving door" syndrome: they offend, go to prison, get released and re-offend. They are the group who receive the least support, inside or outside prison. Many have drug and alcohol problems, a good proportion will be homeless and few will have strong family support (which is by far the biggest factor in preventing re-offending). Who better to help them than those who have overcome their own offending behaviour and became law-abiding citizens?The implementation of this plan will not come cheap. Take the numbers involved: last year, half the prison population were serving sentences of 12 months or less, with over 39,000 sentenced to six months or under. Servicing those numbers will require a lot of mentors. But then, leaving aside the cost of crime in both financial and social terms, custody does not come cheap either. If the scheme reduced re-offending by as little as 10%, it would be as cheap as chips whatever the outlay.The idea is still on the ground, so we do not know how many offenders mentors would be required to take on. To burden them with too many would defeat the purpose. All those leaving jail are individuals and require individual attention (one of the many reasons the prison system doesn't work is that, by and large, it dishes out blanket treatment to the 87,000 individuals it holds). But cutting costs and corners will take us nowhere. The man or woman who leaves prison to head for the nearest booze or drug outlet will not be put off doing so by a mentor with a heavy caseload.The notion of ex-prisoners helping each other is not new. Many charities and groups use those who have been down the penal path to help others steer clear of it. The St Giles Trust, for example, employs ex-prisoners to provide post release support. On a different level, the Shannon Trust runs a literacy programme across the penal system which, since it's inception in 1997, has taught tens of thousands of prisoners to read. Who are the teachers? Other prisoners.Many of those who have "gone straight" will be unemployed. In the best of times, it is hard enough to find a job when a criminal record forms part of your CV. Doubly so in a recession. To employ ex-offenders as mentors would be a two-for-the-price-of-one idea: bringing unemployment and re-offending rates down at the same time. I shall watch developments with interest.