Under normal circumstances, Jon Venables might be considered for parole after half his sentence is served, backdated to his remand in custody in February, so he could have been released early next year, possibly with another new identity.But these were not normal circumstances: Venables was recalled on licence for breaching the terms of his earlier release and Mr Justice Bean told him that he would have to serve the full two-year sentence before being considered for release. Even then he may not be set free, depending on whether the parole board considers he poses a continuing risk. When released he will be on the sex offenders register for 10 years.The probation service said today it was not yet clear whether he would need a third new identity, and this would be assessed at a later stage.The circumstance the board will consider is whether Venables at that stage poses more than a minimal risk to life and liberty if he is once more set free. In reaching their decision, the board will bear in mind his previous crime and current psychological condition and also – though this will not be a reason to refuse release – whether the public pose a risk to him.Among the documents before the court were statements posted by bloggers on websites called Don't Give Jon Venables a New Identity and Rot In Hell Jon Venables, threatening his life.The court papers on Venables's behalf spoke of the fear he had faced that his identity would be revealed, how he had been trained by the police in counter-surveillance with his new identity and how he knew he would have to live a lie for the rest of his life, appreciating that if his identity became compromised his life would be at risk. He had been given a new identity – though remaining in contact with his family – and had worked continuously since his release in 2002, paid around the minimum wage and working unsocial hours. A psychiatric report said he had led a restricted life, in constant fear, which would continue after his eventual release to create a mental state characterised by chronic anxiety, irritability, hypervigilance and a marked restriction of activity. Misuse of alcohol or illicit drugs is probable and hopelessness could result in risk-taking behaviour. He was not, at the time of assessment this month, thought to be suffering from a mental disorder.Unable to share his huge secret, Venables fears he will always be alone. Understandably, then, the report said he was relieved to be taken back into custody.Venables will be kept at a close supervision centre, designed for the most disruptive and dangerous inmates, even though he does not meet the criteria for such a unit. He will have no contact with other prisoners and will be kept under 24-hour supervision by prison staff. If eventually it is decided he needs therapy to treat his offending behaviour, he may need to be treated in group sessions, which would have to be carefully managed to reduce the risk he will face.