The government found itself facing familiar accusations of spin this week following the release of some confusing crime statistics. Police figures showed a 22% rise in violent crime and a 27% increase in rapes of women over the past year. But separate figures from the annual British Crime Survey suggested crime had dropped 2% and the risk of being a victim of crime was at a 20-year low."Can anyone have the slightest confidence in any of these results, good or bad?" asked the Daily Mail, which accused the government of falling into "the old Tory habit of recalibrating jobless statistics, in ways which - hey, presto! - almost invariably showed things getting better". It wondered how raw police figures showing a 22% increase in violent crime could be adjusted by the Home Office to give a rise of just 2%. "The public no longer knows what to believe. When this government is so distrusted, can anyone be blamed for the jaundiced view that the confused and confusing crime figures are just another example of lies, damned lies and statistics?" Crime figures do lie, agreed Simon Jenkins in the Times. They had become weapons of mass fear resulting in state scaremongering, and distorted the view of the safety of Britain's cities. "The Home Office should ... stop demanding, adjusting, collating and disseminating 'recorded crime' figures from police forces," he said.Writing in the Sun, Richard Littlejohn certainly wasn't convinced that overall crime was at its lowest level for 20 years. He was also angry that those questioned in the National Crime Survey had been split into tabloid and broadsheet newspapers. "It's so they can prove that tabloid readers are more frightened of crime than those they consider to be better-educated and less impressionable because they read a broadsheet." So was the panic "all the fault of those beastly newspapers, trying to scare you out of your wits"? No, said the columnist. "It's the everyday evidence of their own eyes and ears." The Mirror agreed the government had made a blatant attempt to fiddle the figures but argued that what really mattered was how people felt about crime. The current measures, it said, just weren't working. "Something new is needed - something which is radical, not a knee-jerk reaction and which actually tackles the root causes of crime. If that isn't done, the statistics will continue to climb and the nation will become increasingly lawless."