A solicitor has condemned police for using a "Life on Mars excuse" after they refused to apologise to a man jailed wrongly for 25 years by saying that rules and methods were very different at the time of the original investigation.Glyn Maddocks, who represents Paul Blackburn, jailed for life in 1978 for the attempted murder and sexual assault of a young boy, said he was baffled by Cheshire police's argument, given that the appeal court judges who cleared Blackburn's name ruled that the investigating officers had fabricated evidence and lied on oath."They are being absurd and dishonest. It's trying to defend the indefensible," Maddocks said.Blackburn and Maddocks have been seeking an apology from the Cheshire force since the 2005 appeal concluded that two detectives who interviewed Blackburn – who was then aged 15 – effectively dictated a confession to him and then lied about it in court.After the Guardian's Justice on Trial series featured the case, the newspaper asked Cheshire police whether they were investigating the detectives for suspected perjury and whether an apology to Blackburn was planned.In a brief statement, Detective Chief Inspector Andrew Moss said that since the officers had retired, there was no prospect of their facing disciplinary proceedings.He added: "This case was investigated 31 years ago, when rules relating to the questioning of suspects and the submission of evidence were very different to standards today."Maddocks said he was astounded by the statement. "It seems to be a sort of Life on Mars excuse: 'That's just what we did back then.' But as far as I know, there was never a rule saying two police officers could dictate a statement to a teenage boy."It was also never allowed for them to swear on oath in court that he wrote his statement, when he couldn't possibly have done so. It's a criminal offence. It doesn't matter whether you have retired of not. They should be investigated for perjury."Blackburn believes he was singled out as a known troublemaker from a difficult background when police began investigating the abduction and serious sexual and physical assault of a nine-year-old boy on waste ground in Warrington, Cheshire, in June 1978. He was questioned several times, and a four-hour interrogation by two Cheshire officers resulted in a written confession. This was virtually the only evidence against him.While the officers testified that they had sat in silence while the teenager wrote the confession, Blackburn insisted it had been dictated to him by the officers, and they had helped him to spell some of the words.At Blackburn's 2005 appeal, experts agreed the document could not have been written by a poorly educated teenager. The three-judge panel said the officers' testimony on this "can now be seen to have been untrue".They added: "Once it emerges that these officers did not tell the truth on oath in the witness box in one respect, as must be the case, their whole account of the interview becomes undermined."Cheshire police did not respond to requests for further comment.