The attack by the two masked men was brutal and came out of nowhere. My girlfriend and I had just left my south London home, on our way out to celebrate my birthday. As we walked to the train station, lost in conversation, we didn't hear them behind us until it was too late.One of them, the larger of the two who seemed to be in charge, punched me repeatedly in the face for ten seconds or so, then said calmly to his accomplice: "OK, stab him." The other man did so, in the top of my right thigh. Strangely, it didn't hurt, at least not in the way I thought it would - it was a dull ache, like a kick.Perhaps frustrated by his inability to rip my girlfriend's bag from her shoulder, the apparent ringleader then commanded: "Right, now stab her."At this point I became hysterical. I begged them to just stop, and we'd give them what they wanted. Thankfully, they stopped. They made off with two ten pound notes and a three-year-old mobile phone that wasn't worth the plastic it was made out of.We had to find help; we were in an alleyway, and we had to cross a footbridge to get to the main road. As we struggled up the steps, I had to tell my girlfriend twice that I'd been stabbed before she realised what had happened (in the chaos of the attack she hadn't seen the knife, or heard the man giving commands). I thought of Damilola Taylor - he'd only been stabbed once in the leg, hadn't he? I began to panic, but also remember being engulfed by a sort of resigned fatalism. I wasn't going to get that grand Viking funeral following a long and happy life after all; I was going to die on a crappy Streatham street on a freezing January evening. Bollocks.Our good samaritan that night was a passing cyclist; she phoned the emergency services, who began relating instructions. Was there blood running down to my ankle? It was at this point, brain boiling in adrenalin, that I realised I hadn't even looked at the wound, scared of what I might see. No blood pouring down my leg; just a neat 2-inch slash and a small red patch on my jeans. We could hear sirens wailing, coming closer. I felt the first twinge of relief.The doctor who stitched me up told me I was extremely lucky. If you have to be stabbed, he said, then "this is the perfect place". He thought it unlikely that the knifeman had chosen that spot with surgical accuracy. The wound was deep, but had only cut muscle. Three inches in either direction, he explained, and a major artery would have been severed.Talking to the police that evening was an eye-opener. The officers who took our statements were sympathetic, but spoke of their frustration in dealing with this sort of crime. One told me that a few nights before our attack a woman had been robbed, a knife held to her throat, in the same alleyway; that the police had been "pleading" with the local council to either close the alleyway altogether or provide proper lighting and CCTV, and that the council would do neither; that they had little hope of catching our attackers, but would try their best. But if he had his way, the officer continued, he would put people such as our attackers away for a very, very long time.He told me that they would be increasing car patrols around the area. But cars can't drive up alleyways. In 16 years, I said, I could count on one hand the number of times I'd seen police officers on the beat in our area. Anyway, don't walk that route anymore, I was advised. It's a muggers' paradise.That was five months ago. Ever since, I've been following the media coverage of the "knife epidemic" with morbid curiosity. I've read the reports of the last moments of schoolboy Kiyan Prince, student Thomas Grant, constable Nisha Patel-Nasri, father-of-two Barry Wilson and countless others, and have wondered what their last thoughts were as the life blood poured out of them. I am transported immediately back to the night of our attack, and count my blessings that we are both alive.It may seem daft to treat crimes committed with a knife as a separate category. (I assume the people who attacked us would much rather have been using a gun, if only they could get their hands on one.) But knives are readily available; every kitchen in the land is a potential armoury, and many teens who wouldn't dream of shooting someone think it is OK to carry a knife. They have to be taught, harshly if necessary, that it is not.I agree with David Wilson, who said on these pages recently that we need to invest in good schools, and ensure that young people feel valued and included and have jobs and training when they leave school, if we are to steer teenagers away from a life of violence and crime. But the results of such investment wouldn't be seen for a generation.In the meantime, increase the jail terms for knife crime; lock the bastards up, and lock them up for a long time. There are people out there who will stick a blade into you for £20 and a mobile phone - or because you looked at them in a funny way, or didn't show enough "respect" - and don't care if you live or die. I believe they've forfeited their right to walk the streets as free citizens, at least for a few decades. I would like to see any teenager caught in possession of a knife made to sweep the streets in their neighbourhood while wearing a hot pink jump-suit with the word "LOSER" written on the back. Sadly, there's not much chance of that happening.One last observation. Our good samaritan cyclist wasn't the first person we met immediately after our attack. Before her, we encountered a teenager; at a guess, I'd say he was 16. We asked if he had a phone. He looked suspicious, and said he didn't. I'd been stabbed, we explained, and needed to call an ambulance. "Stabbed, yeah?" he said, his interest picking up a little. He shrugged, grinned, and walked off.