Martin WargeantChief executive, Probation Boards AssociationIn 2007, the Probation Service should be celebrating its centenary. We are recognised as the best probation service in the world. We deal with over 300,000 offenders each year. Baroness Scotland [Home Office minister] says communities lie at the heart of criminal justice. But with this proposal they're not. It's the home secretary taking over the probation service. Despite a very short nine-week consultation period, the government has already made its decision.The 42 local probation boards were only established four years ago. There is a case for developing them further. Crime is a local problem. It should be dealt with locally. We should be involving people more. A survey with the Magistrates' Association shows that when you give people more information, 65% switch from thinking that prison is the best punishment and 89% feel more confident in community sentences.Our relationship with the police is key. Two-thirds of our clients are not prisoners. Very many are not a risk to the public, but a significant minority are. We work with the police to manage that risk. How will they be able to work with a different number of partners? And what about the conflict of interest? Probation officers advise on the sentencing of offenders. What if the officer works for a private company that runs a prison? They will have a duty to the company's shareholders to increase profits by sending more people to prison.Paul CavadinoChief executive, National Association for the Care and Resettlement of OffendersThe voluntary sector is a key provider of services to rehabilitate offenders in areas such as accommodation, education, employment, mentoring, substance abuse, family work and community engagement. These types of work are crucial to reducing reoffending. Voluntary agencies are keen to expand this work, preferably on the basis of a planned strategy rather than an all-out competitive free-for-all.Until a few years ago local probation areas were required to spend 7% of their budget on partnership work with the voluntary sector. Since that requirement was removed, the proportion of probation budgets used to fund such partnerships has fallen to 2.4%. One of the best ways for the Probation Service to retain its position as the provider of services for offenders would be to develop its partnership work with the voluntary sector.Cindy Barnett,Deputy chair, Magistrates' AssociationFrom a magistrate's point of view, we want the best possible impartial advice from a probation officer. We are behind anything that would improve services and reduce reoffending. But the key we believe is local knowledge and local confidence in the criminal justice system. We would be concerned, therefore, if the government's current proposals were to erode the vital local link between the bench and probation, or reduced the confidence that the public or the court has in the criminal justice system. There has been so much change recently. We knew this idea of contestability had been around since the National Offender Management Service (Noms) was introduced, but everyone is rather fed up with change. Consolidation would have been a good idea.Harry FletcherAssistant general secretary, National Association of Probation OfficersThe Probation Service was last reorganised in 2001. To reorganise again before these changes have bedded down and before research as to their effectiveness will, at the minimum, be highly disruptive. It will lead to a fragmented service and competition between a multitude of providers will lead to less information sharing. It will be disastrous. It will lead to a poorer service and more reoffending.We have contracted out many services to the voluntary sector such as literacy, housing and employment and I would be happy for partnership working to be mandatory. But to put us in competition with the voluntary sector will lead to less cooperation. Research into the privatisation of prisons in England and Wales shows that employees' terms and conditions are 70% worse and there is 10 times greater turnover of staff. In the two areas of the probation services that have already been sold off - the cleaning of hostels and cooking, and the management and maintenance of buildings - there has been a 35% and 60% increase in costs respectively in one year. The Home Office is in the process of reviewing the two contracts.Simon GreenLecturer in community justice and criminality, University of HullI think that, as far as I understand it, the Probation Service is one of the best directorates, which suggests that it doesn't need to be put out to competition because it is already doing a very effective job when compared to other directorates.In general, is [competition] a good idea? Well, it would depend on the way it was carried out. The government needs to look carefully at how it is consulting to ensure that areas such as staff safety and rehabilitation are properly met by the private companies which, after all, have profit concerns.It seems to me that this is part of a wider New Labour strategy: handing parts of the public sector over to the private sector. A lot of objections to it are ideological. As citizens we hand over some of our power to the state and, in return, the state agrees to protect us.If the government creates a private market [in some areas] then it can be a bit worrying. Where does the responsibility lie? Where does the buck stop? The government, ultimately, but it could pass on blame. With something as serious as criminal justice can we afford to take chances?Michael ClarkeCommunications manager, home affairs division, Serco (which runs Premier Prisons)I think in general it is something we will want to have a close look at because there may be something we can add to the process. At the moment we run Premier Prisons and we do electronic monitoring.We are doing pastoral care where we can and we do a lot of work to try to resettle prisoners. I think some of the criticisms [of private firms taking over probation services] are not serious. We would not, I should say, try to direct people towards our prisons because it would be unethical, but pre-sentence reports are just that, reports. It is the judge who has the final decision.We are in touch with offenders 24/7, seven days a week. This might provide a springboard to a 24-hour probation service. We have not thought it through fully, but there might be an opportunity to change the way the probation system works - from the nine-to-five model to a 24-hour-a-day system.