A woman jailed for "falsely retracting" allegations that she had been raped six times by her husband is to remain in prison after being refused permission to appeal against her eight-month sentence.The 28-year-old was this month sent to jail for perverting the course of justice for withdrawing the rape allegations. Not because they were false, she said – but because her estranged husband and his sister had "emotionally blackmailed" her into doing so.An application to Judge John Rogers, made in chambers, for permission to appeal was turned down yesterday, ending any hope of bail.Her solicitor, Phil Sherrard, said the case would now go to the Court of Appeal. "The judge decided that his original decision was correct and he wasn't going to change his mind," he said."We will be pushing them to accept a bail application or deal with the issue of bail as soon as possible. If we have to wait for the appeal itself that could take up to four months, in which time she will be coming out of prison and the damage will already have been done," he added.Sherrard said his client, who is in Styal prison, near Manchester, and was not at the hearing, was "crushed" by the process that has incarcerated her and put her children in the care of her husband, who abused her over 10 years, according to her family. "She was distraught and horrified when she discovered her children are now with her husband," he added.According to the woman's sister, her husband attacked his former wife as recently as 28 October this year. Some months after being made to leave the family home, he returned there and pulled his estranged wife out of the house by her hair before ripping off her clothes, said the sister, who cannot be named for legal reasons."One of her older children later told the police he saw her run back into the house with no clothes on," the sister said.He was arrested and the child and mother were interviewed, but no charges were brought. Sherrard said the husband had also been arrested in September, after breaking into the house in the early hours. He was released on conditional bail and banned from going near her or the house, but the Crown Prosecution Service did not press charges. The restraining order was lifted on the day of the latest alleged attack.Campaigners have called for her immediate release, saying the prosecution, which is believed to be a legal first, ignored the pressures placed on abused women by the perpetrators of such crimes. They argue it could make victims less likely to report rape to police if they fear a jail sentence for withdrawing the allegations.The woman, from Powys, rang 999 in November last year and said she had been raped six times by her husband. He was then charged with rape.In January, she told officers she wanted to drop the charges, even though she still maintained they were true, but the next month said she had lied about the rape claims, and that they were untrue.Officers from Dyfed-Powys police arrested her and she was charged with perverting the course of justice. In July, the woman changed her mind once again, saying the rapes had happened.Her solicitor said she had previously lied because she was being "emotionally blackmailed" by her husband – who is much older than her – during the breakdown of their marriage.She told officers she had been persuaded by her husband and his family to drop the charges because he could face a long jail sentence if convicted of rape, while she would be jailed for only a few months.The woman was told by the judge that she had wasted a "substantial amount" of time and money for the CPS and the police. She was sentenced for perverting the course of justice but her husband is unlikely to face trial. All charges against him have been dropped, the CPS said.