A police officer who raped a drunken teenager and then took photographs and video footage of her as she lay unconscious was jailed yesterday for 12 years.PC Ian Tolmaer, 37, a probationary officer from Prescot, Merseyside, had pleaded guilty to rape last month at Preston crown court. He was called to the witness box at a continuation of the hearing at the Royal Courts of Justice in London yesterday to give evidence before a judge who then jailed him. He had denied giving his victim, 18, a date rape drug before attacking her. "I did not administer any drugs to her," he told the court. Mr Justice Mackay said an allegation he had drugged his victim had not been proven. Tolmaer had driven his victim six miles to his home after he met her at a nightclub in Liverpool in April last year. The court had heard that the woman had been "out of it" in the club, but had recovered and left unaided. Other witnesses described her condition as "rotten drunk". Tolmaer's computer was seized and officers found that information about date rape drugs had been downloaded from the internet. He had also visited websites showing sleeping and unconscious women. He denied that he had looked at the websites in preparation for raping someone. "It is just not true," he told the court. There was a round of applause and shouts of: "Thank you, your honour," as Tolmaer was jailed. Detective Chief Inspector Bob Marsden, of Merseyside police, said: "It was like he was doing it to a dead body." He said he was shocked and sickened by what he had seen in the video Tolmaer had taken of his victim, who cannot be identified for legal reasons. "He has brought shame to all of us in the force," said Det Ch Insp Marsden. The judge said the victim had been in such a condition that no drug had been needed, as she was virtually anaesthetised by drink. She was approaching toxic levels of alcohol poisoning. Tolmaer had found her in that state and exploited it. "In my judgment it is hard to conceive of a worse example of breach of public trust in a public servant," he said. "She was his to treat as he wanted." Tolmaer had been approached outside the club by a member of the public who was concerned about the condition of the girl. He said he would take her to a police station. But the judge said he did nothing of the sort. He took her to his home "and raped her and subjected her to other sexual indignities". The judge said Tolmaer had "an unhealthy fascination with women in a vulnerable state". He said: "In general when a police officer commits a crime he breaches the trust that the public and his fellow officers place in him: the trust that he will deal properly and fairly, particularly with vulnerable members of the public. "When this is breached it brings with it a high level of culpability on the shoulders of the offender and it shakes public confidence in all honest policemen. "That general breach of a policeman's trust is, of course, present in this case, but this case goes further than that. This young woman was in a very exposed and dangerous position because of her condition." Tolmaer was dismissed from Merseyside police in December 2003.