Police yesterday began the delicate process of interviewing a four-year-old boy who was said to have been found in a pool of blood near his home following an attack in which he was hit over the head with a brick.Officers expect it could take several days to secure a statement from Charlie Davis, who suffered a fracture at the base of his skull and had to have an ear reconstructed after part of it was torn and cartilage damaged in the attack last Thursday. He was discharged from hospital at the weekend.As confusion surrounded the circumstances of the attack, detectives released on bail until mid-September an 11-year-old boy they had earlier arrested on suspicion of assault.Family members told the Yorkshire Post that Charlie had been dragged away from friends while out playing and had been found lying in a pool of blood by a passing couple, who brought him home.But yesterday police said there was as yet no evidence to support claims that he had been dragged 200 metres by his attacker and then tied to a tree."It is currently unclear how the child got to the area," a police spokeswoman said. "He may have gone of his own accord, he might have been chased there or he may have been taken by someone against his will. At this stage police do not know what happened and are keeping an open mind."Yesterday the curtains were drawn at Charlie's home on an estate in Hessle, near Hull, and it was not certain whether the boy, his parents and 18-year-old sister were at home.Neighbours in Danes Drive, a circle of homes with well-tended gardens and views of the Humber bridge, reacted with shock and anger to the incident yesterday."This is a really quiet area and loads of little bairns play around here," said one man, who did not wish to be named. "We've always thought it was safe here."The father of three described Charlie as a "genuine little lad" and said he had been out on his bike and then playing on builder's sand the night before the assault. "For someone to do something like that to a bairn, there has to be something wrong," he said."I know that if it were my lad, I wouldn't be too happy. This is on the lines of the James Bulger case. What brings people to do this kind of thing?" He said the boy alleged to have attacked Charlie was well known on the estate."I didn't know Charlie," said a woman trimming her hedge. "But he's only a year older than my little girl. This has always been a very quiet estate. I suppose whoever did it will get a slap on the wrist, be sent to holiday camp and then come back home."The attack took place at 11.45am on a patch of ground popular with dog walkers behind houses on the estate and close to a railway line and the busy A63 on the north bank of the Humber."It's disgusting what has been done to him. It could have killed him," Charlie's sister Sammy told the Yorkshire Post. "I can't believe this has happened," added his mother, Susan, 35. "The whole family is in shock."Several local people named a boy, said to have behavioural problems, in connection with the attack but accounts of what took place varied.Those living close to the scene of the attack said they had not seen any activity over the last few days and many were surprised to hear about the assault. No police incident tape was visible yesterday and no officers were at the scene."I often walk my dog here and I knew nothing about it," said one man yesterday.