The prosecution outlined its case for a second day.Strands of hair from Ian Huntley were found "mixed up" with the blackened clothes of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, the Old Bailey heard.The clothes, which included their Manchester United shirts, had been cut off the 10-year-old friends' bodies and were found partially burned in a bin at the college where Mr Huntley worked as a caretaker, the prosecution said. Mr Huntley's fingerprints were also found on a binliner found on top of the clothes, the court heard. The prosecution claimed there were numerous links between Mr Huntley, who worked at Soham Village college in Cambridgeshire, his car, his home and the clothes. The court heard that Mr Huntley had tried to "sanitise" his car, thoroughly cleaning it, changing the carpet in the boot and going to a garage in Ely to have the car's tyres changed so the treads could not be linked to those at the scene where the bodies were dumped. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the girls, but the court has heard he is likely to accept he was alone with them in his house when they died and that he disposed of their bodies. He has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Maxine Carr, 26, who was Mr Huntley's girlfriend at the time, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, said Ms Carr had lied by claiming to have been with Mr Huntley on August 4, when the girls disappeared. She had been 110 miles away. It was only after her arrest that she told police that her boyfriend had phoned her in "absolute tears" the following day, because he was the last person to have spoken to the girls. He allegedly told her: "I'm going to get fitted up like I did before." The jury also heard that Ms Carr was seen sobbing as she peered into the boot of Mr Huntley's car two days after the girls vanished. She was also later seen scrubbing the kitchen of the couple's home, the court heard. Police who visited the home on August 5 noticed it smelt of "lemony" cleaning products. Mr Huntley was seen cleaning his car a few hours later, the Old Bailey heard.The jury also heard how Mr Huntley had allegedly tried to lead police away from him by giving them false reports of people acting suspiciously. Mr Huntley also allegedly told lies during TV and radio interviews; in one he said he was upset to be "the last friendly face these two girls have spoken to", the court was told. Mr Latham said that in the days after the girls' vanished Mr Huntley asked a police officer "how long does DNA last?" and how far the search was going outside Soham.Mr Huntley complained of being unwell in the afternoon of day four and did not return to the dock. The trial continues. 