The Stephen Lawrence inquiry took a dramatic turn yesterday when the judge halted proceedings after the murdered teenager's mother complained she was being put "on trial" by a police lawyer.Doreen Lawrence also accused the Metropolitan police of racism and treating her and her husband like "gullible simpletons" during the murder investigation.Mrs Lawrence, under cross-examination by Jeremy Gompertz QC, counsel for the Metropolitan police, was asked about her account of her movements on the night in April 1993, when Stephen, aged 18, was murdered in a racist attack at a bus stop in Eltham, south London.Mr Gompertz asked if she had been to the Welcome Inn pub and she replied: "No, I went past it." He handed her a map and Mrs Lawrence interjected: "Can I ask a question? Am I on trial here or something?"From the time of my son's murder I have not been treated as a victim. I can only tell you what I know of that night. To be questioned in this way, I don't appreciate it."Mr Gompertz declined to ask further questions after the inquiry chairman, Sir William Macpherson, told him: "Your discretion should be exercised in favour of not asking further questions."Mrs Lawrence, aged 45, received a standing ovation from the public gallery as she left the witness box.Earlier, Mrs Lawrence read out a statement to the hearing in which she accused the police of racism in their attitude to her and her husband Neville during the murder investigation."What went wrong? Something did. Their (the police officers') attitude tells me it was racism. The police were not interested in keeping us informed about the investigation. We were simply regarded as irritants."Basically we were seen as gullible simpletons... Presumably there is no possibility of me being an intelligent black woman with thoughts of her own who is able to ask questions for herself. We were patronised and fobbed off."Mrs Lawrence said it was as if black people were universally treated as criminals. "According to my understanding the only regular dealings police have with black families is when they are criminals."So, coming across a black family who have no criminal background is new to them - an alien concept. It was like you have to be a criminal if you are black."Earlier she told the inquiry that she believed police had been protecting the killers. The initial investigation had "gone bad because there was some link between the police and the defendants," she said. "These rumours were everywhere."We were told there was a wall of silence. We couldn't understand this because people were constantly visiting and phoning our own home giving names and information."Speaking afterwards, Mrs Lawrence said she could not believe the manner in which she had been questioned during the cross-examination. "I felt just like I did at the beginning when we were treated as criminals not victims."* The five men summonsed to give evidence to the inquiry on Monday will ask a High Court judge to block the order today. David Norris, 21, Neil Acourt, 22, his brother Jamie, 21, Luke Knight, 20, and Gary Dobson, 22, have all at various times been charged with murdering the teenager.