Two men convicted of the so-called "Essex Boys" murders in which three drug dealers were shot dead in a Range Rover in a country lane yesterday lost their appeal against conviction. One of the men shouted: "You're a corrupt lot - we'll be back!" as he was taken from the court. The case has important implications for the media. The appeal was brought on the grounds that the main witness had negotiated a contract for a book about the case before he gave evidence.Michael Steele, 62, from Great Bentley, Essex, and Jack Whomes, 44, from Brockford, Suffolk, lost their appeals against conviction for the murders of Patrick Tate, Antony Tucker and Craig Rolfe, who were shot dead in their Range Rover in Rettenden, Essex, in 1995. Steele and Whomes were convicted in 1998 and jailed for life.Their case was referred back to the court of appeal by the Criminal Cases Review Commission, partly on the grounds that the main prosecution witness, Darren Nicholls, prior to giving evidence, had entered into a contract for a book to be published after the trial. The case was the basis for a film called Essex Boys, starring Sean Bean, released in 2000.Lord Justice Maurice Kay, who heard the appeal last month with Mr Justice Openshaw and Sir Charles Mantell, said in his judgment that they were not persuaded that the convictions were unsafe. "This is an important case and we have been careful to consider it not only as a series of separate grounds of appeal but also on a holistic basis," he said.Nicholls gave evidence that he had driven Steele and Whomes to the rendezvous with the murdered men and had driven them away afterwards, although he said that he had not known of the plan to kill them. Unknown to the defence, Nicholls, then under police protection, had entered into a contract with the former Observer crime reporter Tony Thompson to collaborate on a book about the case. Lady Kennedy QC, counsel for Steele, had argued that, if the jury had known that Nicholls had a media deal, they might have treated his evidence differently. It was common ground that the jury could not have convicted the men unless they accepted Nicholls's account.Lord Justice Kay said that it was difficult to know how much Nicholls received for the book deal but "the likelihood is that it amounted to between £10,000 and £15,000". He was also presumed to have received money from LWT for participating in a film about the life of a supergrass.The judgment added: "If the jury had known about the media contacts and Nicholls had admitted them ... although those contacts are to be deprecated, it is difficult to see how they could have added significantly to the cross-examination armoury."Lady Kennedy indicated that the two men would seek to take the case further. Steele's solicitor, Chris Bowen, said after the judgment: "We will carry on fighting to prove his innocence."