Maxine Carr feels "very, very guilty" that she could not prevent the deaths of her former pupils, she claimed yesterday, adding that Ian Huntley's account of his meeting with them sounded "appalling".The 26-year-old also accepted that she "lied through her teeth" when she gave the caretaker a false alibi. But she insisted she had no idea that Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were dead when she claimed she had been at home with him on the night they vanished. The prosecution alleges that she must have realised from Mr Huntley's behaviour and the state of their home and car in the context of a huge police inquiry. She choked back tears as she told the court: "I have been feeling very, very guilty for a long, long time that if I had been there, I could have stopped them from dying." Ms Carr maintained that Huntley said the girls had been upstairs in the house because one of them had a nosebleed, and that Holly had sat on their bed, but that they left unharmed. He had "answers for everything" when she asked him about it. Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, asked her: "Are you saying really you didn't question him carefully and didn't think about his answers?" Ms Carr: "I asked, I'm not a police officer or anything, he gave me an answer. I believed his answer. I couldn't make it any better." Mr Latham: "The answer he gave you made it worse." Ms Carr: "It didn't sound very nice, no." Mr Latham: "It sounded absolutely appalling." Ms Carr: "OK, it sounded appalling, yes; it did sound appalling." She also believed he had "had a woman in the house" because a duvet was in the washing machine when she returned and he had never done washing before. But she did not ask him about it. Mr Latham asked: "You immediately thought sex?" Ms Carr: "With an adult, sir." Mr Latham suggested that she must have looked at the bedding in the context of a newly cleaned car, a new boot carpet, Mr Huntley's request for her to return home and his "deeply troubled" state. "You knew the girls had actually been in your house and you knew one of them had been on the very bed where all the linen was now in the washing machine," he said. "Yes," said Ms Carr. "And even though you immediately thought of sex, it never occurred to you the washing could have had something to do with the two girls?" he asked. "No, that's disgusting," she said. Ms Carr admitted that she had left "absolutely crucial" information out of police interviews after her arrest, failing to mention that the girls had been in their home. But she denied trying to pervert the investigation. "Given all the clues that you picked up... there came a point where you believed he killed those girls," said Mr Latham. Ms Carr replied: "I'm sorry, that's wrong, no." Mr Latham: "You were so obsessed by him and so obsessed with preserving your relationship, your home and your future..." Ms Carr: "No." Mr Latham: "...that you made the decision you would tell lies to divert attention, didn't you?" Ms Carr: "Not against him being a murderer, no." Mr Latham: "You knew there was nothing to be done for those girls." Ms Carr: "That's not right sir."