Detectives hunting for a serial rapist targeting young women and schoolgirls in the south-east of England are appealing for a vital witness to come forward after a 13-year-old girl is believed to have become the fifth victim of the violent attacker on Friday night.The schoolgirl was cycling along a track near Woking, Surrey, when she was dragged from her bike and subjected to a "horrendous" attack in nearby woodland. A Surrey police spokesman yesterday appealed for anyone walking in the woods between Pyrford Common Road and Hamilton Avenue in Pyrford at around 6.40pm on Friday to come forward. They would particularly like to speak to a man walking a brown dog who may have seen the attacker. "It is somewhere where people would have been walking at that time of night and would have still been light," the spokesman said. Detectives from Kent and Surrey, who are working together on Operation Orb, said there were similarities linking the rape of the schoolgirl to four other attacks. In all the previous cases the attacker has taken clothing. Police have not revealed whether this happened in the latest incident. In the attack on a 10-year-old in Ashford, Kent, in November, the rapist took a distinctive large orange T-shirt. The girl was leaving a community centre when the rapist ran across the road and carried her into woods where she was raped. He is thought to have struck next on July 11 in Redhill, Surrey, grabbing a 30-year-old woman near a common, taking a top, knickers and socks. The third attack five days later on an 18-year-old woman happened as she was walking through Goldsworth Park, Woking, listening to music on headphones. The fourth rape, of a 26-year-old woman, was on August 7 in a wooded area in Epsom. The offender said he had a knife but no weapon was seen. Clothing was stolen in both incidents. The suspect is white, in his 30s with a muscular build, deep voice and possibly a smoker. The rapist always attacks the victims from behind, and drags them into nearby woodland. He has also threatened to kill them if they resisted. Detective Chief Inspector Bob Crampton, of Surrey police, said the attack on Friday had not yet been formally linked. "Violent assaults of this nature are very unusual in Surrey, but we would urge people to take sensible precautions."