I had the good fortune to be twice shadow home secretary without having to endure the inconvenience of becoming the real thing in between. And I cannot remember during which tour of opposition duty I moved the vote of censure that deplored the "unacceptable increase in the prison population". So I am not sure if it was Willie (subsequently Lord) Whitelaw or Lord (then David) Waddington who replied for the government. But I do recall that, whichever of them it was, he addressed the House of Commons in uncharacteristically emollient language.The emollience was easy to explain. Official statistics had just revealed that the number of men serving custodial sentences in England and Wales had risen above 50,000 for the first time. Everyone agreed that a prison population of that order both confirmed the failure of the criminal justice system and made it impossible for prisons to perform their principal duty of reformation and rehabilitation. Today, the prison population stands at 71,527. That, the unthinking law and order headlines will say, is because the crime rate has increased. The equation can legitimately be reversed. Penal policy is bound to fail if it is based on the primitive notion that prison is a punishment that deters all classes of criminal.David Waddington, whom I thought of as the most reactionary and least imaginative of my opponents, was, during one Home Office question time, unequivocal on the subject. Prisons, he said, were "academies of crime". The phrase was not original. It first appeared in the News of the World. But its genesis only served to confirm that everyone who was either remotely civilised or half-way sensible accepted that obvious truth. I am not sure what that judgment leads us to believe about David Blunkett. Britain has at last begun to build new prisons. But, because of our national obsession with custody as a punishment, 64% of our jails - according to the invariably reliable Howard League - are overcrowded. That means little or no opportunity for all those activities that prepare a prisoner for law-abiding work on the outside. The best way to guarantee that a man offends a second time is to send him to prison for a first offence. The home secretary seems to believe that the "mini-Jobcentres" which he is to establish within prisons will encourage hope of employment in the outside world. But the chances of a decent job depend on the training - technical and social - that a prisoner receives while he is inside. During the summer, the ratio of officers to inmates deteriorated so severely that training was replaced by long hours locked in cells. In Lewes, David Blunkett fanta sised about prisoners examining lists of "situations vacant". In Swaleside, Holme House and Ashfield inmates were rioting in protest against overcrowding. During the days of what now looks like a progressive Tory government, only one minister defended the British enthusiasm for custodial sentences. When, in the House of Commons, I complained that England sent a higher proportion of its population to jail than any other European country, John Patten - then minister of state at the Home Office - immediately corrected me. Wrong again, he said scornfully. The top spot in the custodial league was occupied by Turkey. If, during the last couple of years, we did not wrestle the title away from the heirs to the Ottoman Empire, we certainly came very close. Yet it has done absolutely nothing to reduce the crime rate. The fear of prison does not deter professional criminals who realise that, because clear-up rates remain so low, there is only a minimal chance of an offence leading to a conviction. On the other hand, a couple of months in Wormwood Scrubs does have an effect on impressionable young men. Associating with criminals makes them feel that they are hardened criminals themselves. Were they required to expiate their crimes by service to the community, they might accept that their interest and society's coincided. All the evidence suggests that victims prefer restitution to punishment. Indeed it would be a very foolish old lady who chose to see the youth who stole her TV set sent to prison rather than forced to work at some menial occupation until he had raised enough money to buy her a new one. Yet it is still believed in Whitehall that popularity requires the government to exhibit a brutish enthusiasm for locking people up and filling the new prisons to bursting point as soon as they are built. Twenty years ago penal reformers used to argue that, every time a new prison place was created, an old one should be shut down. The government, they said, would expand the numbers serving custodial sentences until every available cell was filled. That prophecy has proved correct. So we tolerate a criminal justice system that, instead of reducing crime, breeds hardened criminals. comment@theguardian.com