The new research by the Poppy Project, Big Brothel, a survey of the off-street sex industry in Lodon, has generated shock and headlines that sex can be purchased in London for as little as £15 and highlighted the fact that sex without condoms is available.However, closer inspection of the data reveals that only 2% of brothels contacted by phone by researchers offer sex without condoms. This leaves a very impressive 98% of establishments insisting on condom use. Many brothels charge for the amount of time a customer spends with a sex worker and the £15 fee quoted does not specify whether or not this is for a 10- or 15-minute appointment. Certainly, according to the research, the average fee is more than £60, with some charging up to £250 for sex. The survey found no concrete evidence of girls under 18 working in brothels – the average age was 21.The research states that there is an absolute minimum of 1,933 women working in London brothels. This figure is likely to be inaccurate. The researchers have not allowed for the fact that many women work in different flats on different days of the week, so many of the same women may have been double, triple or even quadruple counted. It is also common for one woman to advertise using several different names, with several different phone numbers, so again Poppy may well have over-counted the subjects of their research.The government-funded Poppy Project has views on prostitution that chime with those of key government figures such as Harriet Harman, Denis MacShane and Fiona Mactaggart. They oppose prostitution in general, not just trafficking. The Poppy report was released at the same time as a government poll on prostitution, that found that 58% of men and women would support making it illegal to pay for sex if it helped reduce the number of women and children trafficked into the UK for prostitution.The government and the Poppy Project conflate the horrors of trafficking with prostitution in general. Yet the scenario of a woman being forced into prostitution, treated abysmally and denied access to her earnings is very different from that of a woman who works in one of the establishments surveyed by Poppy of her own free will, chooses her clients and working hours, insists on condom use and earns £1,000-£1,500 per week. Many women in the latter situation would prefer not to be selling sex but cannot find other "unskilled", flexible work which pays at the same rate.Those who are ideologically opposed to prostitution in all its manifestations may not like the fact that tens of thousands of women working in the industry have made a choice to take up sex work because of the money they can earn. Nonetheless this is the reality. These women who work in flats and saunas are not addicted to Class A drugs – indoor establishments do not generally tolerate such addictions.The government poll asks if people are prepared to criminalise the buyers of sex (from all sex workers, not just those who are trafficked) in order to protect the most exploited. But evidence from the recent police and Home Office joint operation – Pentameter Two – a comprehensive and intelligence-led sweep of brothels across the land, netted only double figures of suspected trafficking victims. Denis MacShane has quoted a figure of 25,000 trafficked women and children in this country. Where are the others? Either the police are doing a lousy job at flushing them out or more likely, they're not here in the numbers quoted.The government is conducting a review and is considering criminalising men who pay for sex. It is vital that before any decision is made, there is an honest debate about the entire spectrum of prostitution in which facts are presented, stripped of the ideological spin that has obscured them in recent years. Victims of trafficking need all available help to get out of prostitution. On the basis of the evidence provided by operations like Pentameter 2 they are a minority of those involved in prostitution rather than the norm.Before the government implements a ban, they should consider carefully that whatever laws they pass, women who have made a choice to sell sex to earn a living rather than to support a drug habit, or because they have been coerced into it, are likely to continue to do so. If men are criminalised for buying sex, the women selling it will be driven underground, making them more vulnerable to violence, with less control over what they do. For a government that has pledged to protect women in prostitution from exploitation, this could be a spectacular own goal.