Police yesterday said that the murdered teenager Jeshma Raithatha was the victim of a random attack by her killer as she walked home from college.The 17-year old A-level student was plucked from a footpath and taken 20 metres (70ft) to a secluded woodland den where she was raped and stabbed three times through the heart. Jeshma's body was found last Tuesday on woodland near her family home in Greenford, west London. Detectives say their prime suspect is a man who lived five minutes' walk from the murder scene and who has not been seen at his address since just after Jeshma's disappearance. The man is believed to be middle-aged, of east European origin, and to have been working as a car wash attendant. Detectives have discounted theories that her killer may have been someone she met in an internet chatroom. There was also speculation that her romantic or family life in some way played a part, but yesterday police denied this. Detective Chief Superintendent Andy Murphy said: "She did not have a complicated life in any way, shape or form. It appears she was the victim of a random attack. "She was just an ordinary 17-year-old child." Jeshma was reported missing by her parents on May 16 after she failed to return home from college. Police speculated that she may have been killed elsewhere before her body was dumped, and that she may even have been abducted and held captive before her death. Police reached that view after a pathologist estimated she had died three days before her body was found. But further tests indicate she died on the day she was reported missing, three days before her 18th birthday. Detectives now believe she was stabbed as she lay on the ground in a den believed to be used by local drinkers. Bottles and cans have been recovered. Chris Milroy, professor of forensic pathology at the University of Sheffield, said determining time of death from an initial examination of a corpse is difficult: "The time estimate one may give on first observation can be somewhat out. "When you've gone past 36 hours after death and the body has fallen to environmental temperature, then it can be difficult to be certain about timing." The theory that the A-level student was killed on the day she disappeared followed entomological tests. "The insect activity can allow time of death to be arrived at more accurately than simple observation," Prof Milroy said. Police yesterday also gave details of Jeshma's last movements. The student was a music fan who had been accepted to read an arts degree. She left her college in Kenton, north-west London, just after 1pm dressed in jeans, T-shirt and a cardigan. She caught a bus and went to Wembley High Road, and visited a Primark store where she bought a top, then a Poundcity, where she bought a candle. Then she caught a 92 bus, getting off at Sudbury Hill tube station at around 3pm, close to where her body was found. She then headed home, walking down a road alongside a park towards the David Lloyd Sports Centre. She then took a footpath through a wooded area towards her home. Police said there were no signs she had been dragged from the footpath to the spot she was murdered.