A police officer who was seriously injured during a raid on a travel agency tearfully described today how an armed robber shot and killed her colleague and then shot her in the chest.PC Teresa Milburn, 37, was giving evidence at the trial of the men accused of murdering PC Sharon Beshenivsky.PC Beshenivsky was fatally injured when the pair responded to an alarm at the Universal Express travel agency in Bradford last year.After taking a sip of water, PC Milburn described to the jury at Newcastle crown court the moment PC Beshenivsky, 38, was shot: "We were a stride apart. Sharon walked in front of me."I went immediately after her, then she stopped. She stopped dead - she stopped that quickly that I overstepped."I heard a bang and Sharon fell to the ground," she said.PC Milburn described the gunman as an Asian male, between 1.73 metres (5ft 8in) and 1.78 metres (5ft 10in) with "wavy hair". She told the jury she got a "clear view of the Asian male" for about four seconds.She fought back tears as she recalled being shot herself."The Asian male moved his arm from right to left and I saw a hole at the end of the gun and I heard a bang."Asked where the gun was pointed when she heard the bang, PC Milburn said: "Directly at me."She went on: "I felt immense pain ... I realised I had been shot. It spun me around to my left."PC Milburn said the two shots were moments apart."I was lying on the floor. I was coughing up blood. I could feel blood running down my nose and blood over my face, and I was gasping for breath."PC Milburn said she had had difficulty pressing the panic button on her radio, but when she managed it she told the control room: "Great Horton Road, code zero. Great Horton Road."She said she had remained conscious throughout the ordeal and told the jury that as soon as other officers arrived she had asked them to take down her description of the gunman.Yusuf Abdillh Jamma, 20, of Whitmore Road, Small Heath, Birmingham, Raza Ul-Haq Aslam, 25, of St Pancras Way, Kentish Town, north London, Faisal Razzaq, 25, and his 26-year-old brother, Hassan, both of Sebert Road, Forest Gate, east London, all deny murdering PC Beshenivsky on November 18. Muzzaker Shah, 25, of no fixed address, has pleaded guilty to murdering PC Beshenivsky but denies the attempted murder of PC Milburn.Mr Justice Andrew Smith adjourned the trial early for lunch, to enable PC Milburn, who was in tears in the witness box, to compose herself, after her description of her colleague's murder was read to her by Diana Ellis QC, defending Muzzaker Shah.The court heard that PC Milburn told police just days after the incident: "I didn't even have time to say anything... I followed her. She blocked my view. I can't see. She stopped. There was an almighty bang."I can see her head. It goes to the right, then to the left, and flops. Her arms flop to the side. Her body drops in front of me. Her knees go to the left and she goes straight down and collapses."The court heard PC Milburn gave the same description of events 15 times during eight hours of police interviews in the aftermath of the shootings.Yesterday, the jury heard street warden Adam Faulkener describe the aftermath of the shooting.After hearing up to three loud bangs, he saw PC Beshenivsky slumped on the ground, while her colleague struggled to get up off the pavement.He said: "Teresa was trying to get up."She was curled up in a ball face down, as if she was trying to get up off the floor, to stand up. She was coughing something out of her mouth."The trial continues.