Those familiar with Tom Wolfe's novel The Bonfire of the Vanities will recognise Judge Robert Keating's picture of lawless New York in the late 80s: a city where 2,000 people were murdered each year and the courts worked 24/7 to keep up with an 85% rise in low-level crime such as prostitution and drug dealing.Keating was chief administrative judge for the city's criminal courts at the time. "There was no space in the jails and [low-level offenders] didn't show up for community service, so we didn't see them again until they were rearrested for another crime," he explains. "Judges were intensely frustrated with the situation, police were making all these arrests and the community were seeing the same people on the streets day in day out."It was against this backdrop in 1993 that Keating founded Midtown Community Court, situated on a busy side street near Times Square. The first of its kind in the US, it was quickly successful, says Keating: a 56% reduction in the numbers of prostitutes arrested in its first 18 months; a 29% fall in illegal street selling; and an offender completing a mandatory drug programme being 71% less likely to become a recidivist. Even allowing for some people plying their wares elsewhere, "the bottom line is that community courts work," he insists. There are now around 36 community courts across the US.Midtown Community Court sentences "misdemeanour" offenders (petty criminals) to perform visible restitution, such as removing graffiti and cleaning parks. It aims to halt the "revolving door" of justice by addressing offenders' underlying problems - three-quarters of people arrested in New York State were testing positive for drug use - then offering them monitored drugs treatment, mental health counselling and job training.Last week, Keating was in Britain to proselytise about the role that US-style community justice can play in tackling "quality of life" crime here - "the things that people in urban areas say destroys their quality of life," Keating explains. Listening intently among an audience packed with senior judicial figures, government ministers and advisers was the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips, and the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer.Bowled overKeating also visited England's first community court experiment in Liverpool, which at its launch in December 2004 the government described as a "one-stop crime-busting centre". Keating seems bowled over by what Liverpool has achieved in its first year. "It has done an extraordinary job in a short time," he enthuses. "It is at a point that took us years to get to; establishing links with the community, having the police as a willing partner and co-locating agencies at the court." Judge David Fletcher, of the Liverpool court, is singled out for doing "an excellent job", but Keating is also "terribly impressed" with the quality of the non-judicial staff.Despite Keating's enthusiasm, the jury is still out on Liverpool's success. Evaluation is expected after completion of the two-year pilot. The word is that there are worries about cost - an assessment team that is based at a court comprising social workers, probation officers and counsellors is more expensive than the traditional set-up.An independent study by the US-based Centre for Court Innovation found that measurable annual cost savings at Midtown were just two-thirds of its estimated additional costs of $2.2m (£1.26m). But the report also highlights a variety of intangible benefits such as improvements to quality of life and increased confidence in the judiciary. In Red Hook, Brooklyn, only 12% of people thought the judiciary was doing a good job before its community centre and court opened in 2000. This compares with 74% after its introduction.Keating is unfazed by the cost worries. "Many of the services provided in community courts are already operating inefficiently."Although Keating is undoubtedly a liberal, appointed as a judge by Democrat mayor Ed Koch, he doesn't sell community justice in do-gooders' parlance. "The English look at me in a strange way when I say you have to be ready - and judges are not good at this - to defend it from a cost effective point of view. I think that's because you tend to be more reticent, but the fact is it's a zero sum gain. If you're spending money on one thing, you're usually taking it from someplace else. You have an obligation as a manager to have the kind of research that will show the reason we're doing this is because the existing process leads to this result, and this new process leads to a better result."Keating is equally unequivocal about the visibility of community services offenders in the community, a practice the UK is keen to adopt as punishment for antisocial behaviour. "We're not putting them in stocks and parading people around the neighbourhood," he says.Longer sentencesTo those who label community justice a "soft option", he points out that in the US, offenders who fail to complete their drug programme or other sanction will serve longer jail sentences, and that if police officers are spending their time arresting low-level drug offenders they are not doing other stuff, like stopping murders.It was an argument accepted by zero-tolerance New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani and his successor mayor Michael Bloomberg, on whose advisory committee on the judiciary Keating is vice-chair. The only opponents in the US are a few defence lawyers, claims Keating. But even they are coming around to the view that it is worth their client pleading guilty in return for the opportunity to change their lives, especially if the case may be dismissed after completion of a treatment programme.Keating says he gets the sense that judges in England share the same frustrations that were evident in New York two decades ago. "You have had that horrific [John Monckton] murder when someone missed 13 probation appointments. That would never happen in a community court. They would have constant supervision and returned to court frequently and probation would have been in constant communication with the court."Although the judiciary is not known for the alacrity at which it embraces change, he adds: "It's easier to change things if you're replacing chaos."So if community courts are so successful, why isn't there one in every bad US neighbourhood? Keating, in his current role as dean of the New York State Judicial Institute - a college for qualified judges - is now working with the Centre for Court Innovation to take the model into the mainstream. The Bronx courthouse, with a jurisdiction of 2 million people, 70,000 criminal cases each year, and 40 judges is the guinea pig. One question it will have to answer is: can any judge be a community court judge, or are only a select few equipped to play this very different role, which involves closely monitoring compliance and engaging with the local community? Some judges will perceive the job as little more than that of a social worker, Keating admits.Meanwhile, arrests for serious crime have halved in New York since 1993 and murders are down by a quarter. Community justice, says Keating, deserves to take some of the credit. "By concentrating on low-level offences, you get to people who might commit more serious crimes." He jokes: "If you had told people in New York city 15 years ago that they would eventually be living in the safest city in the US they would have laughed."Curriculum vitaeAge:  64. Status: Married, two children. Lives:  New York. Education:  Xavier high school, New York; Georgetown University, philosophy degree; Duke University, law degree. Career: 2002-present: dean, New York State Judicial Institute; 2001-02: director, Centre for Judicial Studies, Pace University; 1999-2001: senior executive vice-president, Complete Management and chairman and chief executive officer, Management Techniques Inc; 1996-99: partner, Keating & Klein; 1982-96: judge, New York City criminal court, including chief administrative judge, during this time he developed the Midtown Community Court (1993); 1980-82: criminal justice coordinator for mayor Ed Koch; 1969-80: assistant district attorney, Brooklyn (became chief assistant DA); 1968-69: legal aid trail lawyer, New York City. Public life:  2001-present: vice-chair, mayor Michael Bloomberg's Advisory Committee on the Judiciary; 1999-present: board member, Fund for the City of New York and Citizens Union of the City of New York. Interests: Family and golf.