A teenager who posted a message on Facebook saying he felt "like killin some1", hours before he stabbed a man to death in a crowded bar, was sentenced to a minimum of 17 years in prison today.Leon Craig Ramsden, 19, stabbed 31-year-old Paul Gilligan while he was drinking in The Pepper Alley, in Bolton, Lancashire, six months ago.While in the bar last July Gilligan, of Little Hulton, Salford, was stabbed in his shoulder and chest. He died from his injuries an hour after the attack, Manchester crown court heard.Ramsden, of Turnstone Road, Bolton, had posted a message on his Facebook wall earlier that evening which read: "I'm twisted at home. My head's up my arse. I feel like killin some1 need to stay off the hard stuff ha fuck it it's Saturday ha."Sentencing Ramsden to a minimum of 17 years in prison for the murder, the judge, Justice Teare, said: "Paul Gilligan was 31 years old. He lived with his partner and three children. His death has caused great suffering to them and also to his parents and his two brothers."He added: "This was a senseless and unprovoked murder which has devastated Paul Gilligan's family."The court previously heard that Ramsden went on a three-day alcohol and cocaine-fuelled binge before the attack and had not slept for 36 hours before his attack on Gilligan.Guy Gozem QC, prosecuting, told the jury that several customers in the bar had seen the "unexpected" and "brutal" attack but did not realise that Ramsden had stabbed Gilligan as the knife was concealed in his fist. The two men were thought to be "play fighting" minutes before the incident.Ramsden left the bar, but returned seconds later and stabbed Gilligan, then ran away. He was arrested that evening when a nightclub doorman found him carrying a knife sheath and alerted the police.The judge told Ramsden today: "You left Pepper Alley after the headlock and decided to return. You could simply have left the area of the club but you chose to return and stab Paul Gilligan."He added: "Nothing Paul Gilligan did could justify or excuse your actions. I therefore do not regard provocation as a mitigating factor."Ramsden's entry on the social networking website Facebook was deleted but then recovered in the course of the investigation from a laptop that had been used by a witness to access the site after news of the stabbing.The teenager, who was handcuffed to a prison guard in court today, showed no emotion as the sentence was passed.Outside the court Detective Inspector Mark Roters, from Greater Manchester police, read a statement on behalf of ­Gilligan's partner and family.The statement read: "We worked so hard for justice to get a young, dangerous, lad off the streets for a long time. This youth has never shown remorse and he felt he was untouchable. He knew he had killed a man, one loved by many, in a heartless, shocking, cowardly stabbing."Paul didn't deserve this, nor would he have anticipated such brutality. He is greatly missed and was such a happy, social, family man. We will never get over his death."Roters said: "Ramsden is a pathetic individual who believed he had been slighted by Paul in front of a crowd of people. As revenge for this, Ramsden killed him. This was a needless and extremely violent attack that resulted in the death of a father-of-three."Ramsden's behaviour has resulted in the loss of well-loved father, son, brother and friend. He now has a long time to reflect on what he has done."