Police planned to use anti-terrorism provisions to stop and search people in central London, thereby massaging the figures so that their sweeping powers would not be questioned, a memorandum leaked to the Guardian reveals.The document about security patrols in Westminster said officers should be "encouraged" to use their power to stop and search pedestrians "to support future applications for its continuance". The memorandum, written by a superintendent, was issued a fortnight ago. It also said that officers on security patrols in Westminster, which contains a lot of potential terrorist targets, were poorly briefed. The memo said that the assistant commissioner David Veness, Scotland Yard's head of special operations, had noted that not a single person on foot had been stopped in the area under anti-terror legislation. It then went on: "Please encourage officers to use this power to support future applications for its continuance." Under the Terrorism Act 2000 police have the power to stop and search people to stop terrorist acts. A senior officer can specify an area where the powers apply, but that order has to be renewed after 28 days and confirmed by the home secretary within 48 hours. John Wadham, the director of Liberty, the civil rights group, called for the home secretary to investigate whether police powers were being abused and to report to parliament. "The justification for these draconian powers were that they were crucially necessary in the fight against terrorism. This memo demonstrates what cynics of the police have always believed, which is whatever powers you give the police, they want more." Scotland Yard said it apologised for any inconvenience to the public, but its actions were necessary. In a statement it explained the memo's purpose: "The information was distributed to ensure that all officers are briefed and fully aware as to when and what powers they can use in relation to the stopping and searching of suspects, and that these powers are used appropriately." The memo suggested security patrols since September 11 had been flawed: "There continue to be concerns regarding the standards of briefings for officers performing security duties. Simply posting the officer to his or her beat/vehicle is not sufficient." The memo also appeared to warn against officers using the anti-terrorism powers to stop and search Afro-Caribbean people without just cause. It said there was no intelligence to suggest Afro-Caribbean people posed a terrorist threat. ·  The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, and his deputy, Ian Blair, yesterday told the Commons home affairs committee that it was time for the courts to stop treating mobile phone thieves and other street robbers as though they were shoplifters. They said London was experiencing an explosion of street crime and complained that the courts were bailing those police arrested seven or eight times, allowing them to intimidate witnesses.