The Chinese cocklers who ventured on to the sands of Morecambe Bay on the wild night of February 5 2004 passed teams of more experienced British workers who had decided that the time had come to head for home.Knowing poor weather was forecast and high tides imminent, most British teams had left by 5pm, soon after the Chinese workers arrived. In an attempt to pass on their anxiety about time and tides, some tapped their watches as they passed the Chinese group in the gloom.Many of the Chinese cocklers, living and working far from their homes in Fujian province in southern China, had never seen the sea before and could not have known the dangers ahead of them. That night 21 men and women died when they were trapped by the icy sea rushing across the treacherous sands. Another two cocklers are thought to have drowned but their bodies have never been found.The story of what happened to the cockle pickers was pieced together during the trial in Preston from the accounts of the sole survivor and witnesses who saw or received calls from workers stranded as the tide came in. Li Hua, 26, was the only person to be pulled alive from the water. He had left the cockle beds before the tide turned because he could not bear the cold and dark. When he received a call from Xiao Wenxie, 41, to say he was stranded out on the sands, he swam out to help, crossing one channel and attempting to cross another to save his friend.Video footage taken from a helicopter showed Mr Li frantically waving his arms as the ground around him on a raised area of rocky sand disappeared beneath the rising tide. He was eventually plucked from the sea by a lifeboat, but the man he tried to save drowned.Sobbing as he gave evidence from behind a screen, Mr Li said: "I never expected so many people to die, including Wen. The water was up to my nose and mouth. I tried to swim, but the wave was quite big and I couldn't. I was thrown backwards and forwards in the waves for quite a while. My parents are Christians and I asked God to protect me. I cried quite a few times - I thought at the time I was going to die." Mr Li had been picking cockles for only a fortnight before the tragedy. His mother had paid 190,000 yuan (£13,600) and put her house up as security to snakehead gangs to ensure her son's passage to Europe.Another cockle picker, Zhang Ping, 36, described how she walked back to shore before the tide came in because she felt ill. "It was very, very dark. The tide was rising rapidly. People appeared to be trapped and were trying to swim ashore."She watched the water rush in around her friends and saw some struggling naked, their clothes torn from them by the water. "I was petrified," she added. Guo Jinfu had stayed on shore as his colleagues went out to work because there were not enough waterproofs. He received a call from his friend, Guo Binlong, who implored him to call the police. But Guo Jinfu had only just arrived in the UK and had no idea what number to dial. "He was in great danger," said Guo Jinfu. "He was asking me to save his life. He said the water level was very high and he asked me to phone his parents for him."Guo Binlong also called his wife 5,000 miles away in China. "I am in great danger," he told her. "I am up to my chest in water. Maybe I am going to die. It's a tiny mistake by my boss. He mistook the time. He should have called us back an hour ago ... Tell the family to pray for me. It's too close. I am dying."Another unknown victim made a panicstricken 999 call, desperately shouting "sinking water" down his mobile phone. The court heard that Janie Banister, the Liverpudlian girlfriend and accomplice of Lin Muyong, 31, who was convicted of immigration law offences, called the coastguard to report that a terrible disaster was unfolding. She reported: "I've got a lot of Chinese boys in Morecambe Bay and they are stuck because they are cockle pickers. They have to get out." Five minutes later, she telephoned the coastguard again to say: "The water, it's around their waist."She was shouting into the mobile, struggling to make herself heard above the sound of distressed Chinese voices.Sixteen cocklers escaped death at Morecambe Bay because the ancient van in which they were travelling broke down on the road north from Liverpool. Among them was a man who gave his name only as Mr Wen. He still thinks of the tragedy every day."It was a Yuan Xiao day, a festival day for family reunions. But our boss said we had to go to work on the sands. There was high demand that day, so there [were to] be two teams."I really didn't want to go cockling because you're not supposed to work on Yuan Xiao. I just had no choice because everyone else was going. The journey on the motorway that day seemed particularly long and bleak. Some of us were taking a nap in the van. I just felt exhausted at the thought of raking cockles."Halfway to Morecambe Bay, our driver pulled over and said the van had broken down. Some felt frustrated and still wanted to go cockling and asked about getting a ride with people in the other van. They started to call people by mobile. Ah Hua, a young woman in our team, whose boyfriend was in the other van, was tempted to go with him. But I persuaded her and others not to. 'Let's just go back,' I said. So we returned to Liverpool. Around four hours after we got back, the bad news came. Ah Hua's boyfriend, Lin Zhifang, 19, called her to say that he and others were being trapped and drowned. 'I am going to die,' he said to her. I just sat there, watching Ah Hua in tears, not knowing what to say."There had been warnings of potential disaster before the 23 cocklers drowned. The MP for Morecambe and Lunesdale, Geraldine Smith, wrote to the Home Office in June 2003 expressing concern about the safety of Chinese cocklers. She pointed out: "They are being transported 20 to a boat in waters renowned for their currents and quicksands, where experienced fishermen would not consider carrying more than six." She added that they were unable to speak English, were controlled by a gangmaster and were being paid one-fifth of the rate for their work.At the time, Fiona Mactaggart, the Home Office minister, said the immigration service had too few resources to deal with the problem.An investigation was ruled out, as it would "serve little useful purpose".