Police have seized millions of pounds in cash, drugs, guns and other weapons in an operation targeting thousands of safety deposit boxes used by criminals to store the tools of their trade.The operation involved the opening of deposit boxes at three centres in London, all of which was filmed by the police in case anyone alleged that officers involved had stolen some of the contents. Detective Chief Inspector Mark Ponting said yesterday officers discovered £35m within the boxes, plus firearms, gold, forged passports and child pornography.Ponting said more than 3,500 boxes had been searched after co-ordinated raids by armed police in June last year and more than 40 people were arrested as a result. In addition 700 box holders were being investigated for tax evasion.Safe Deposit Centres Limited premises in Edgware, Park Lane and Hampstead were at the centre of the investigation, which led to more than 1,000 "spin-off" investigations, with 11 people charged and three men jailed, police said. "I think it has had a dramatic impact," said Ponting. "Some of the organised criminal networks that placed their funds in the premises never expected to have them recovered by the police. It's had an impact globally, there's no doubt about that." Police said the boxes were searched after intelligence suggested they were linked to paedophilia, firearms, people trafficking, prostitution and money laundering. Cannabis, cocaine and 9mm firearms were found, along with various denominations of cash, forged passports and illegal elephant tusks worth £40,000. Forged banking material and bonds were also discovered. Detectives are investigating a box - not accessed for more than 10 years - that contained a hammer, chisel and pipe wrench. "There is clearly a story behind these items. To retain it within a secure facility heightens the suspicion," said Ponting. Officers are searching for John Derriviere, 47, who has connections to Tottenham, north London, after a gun, nine rounds of ammunition, heroin, scales and £20,000 in cash was found in a deposit box linked to him. Ponting said the deposited items, some of which were stored by serving prisoners, had been linked to a range of offences, including murder. "There's little in terms of cash that is held genuinely," he added. More than 60 officers are working full-time on the inquiry, expected to cost more than £1m. Ponting said the money discovered would be handed to the Treasury and put back into the public purse.