Prisons are struggling to meet the government's key performance targets to reduce rates of drug abuse and serious assaults due to record levels of overcrowding, according to research published today.The report by the Prison Reform Trust (PRT) uses the Prison Service's own performance targets, published last month, to show that seven out of 18 key measures were not met.The study, A Measure of Success, shows the rate of positive random drug tests in prisons across England and Wales last year rose to 12.3% against a target of 10%. The number of serious assaults was 1.54%, against a 1.25% target, with open young offenders' institutions scoring the highest rate of 4.32%. The PRT also noted that one Prison Service target of purposeful activity is to be dropped after it was only reached once in nine years. It said as the prison population remained at record levels, jails were struggling to provide work, education or offending programmes for inmates.Enver Solomon, the report's author and a senior PRT policy officer, said: "This report demonstrates that overcrowded jails don't work. They are unsafe, inhumane and ineffective. Far too many prisoners are passively serving time when they should be actively paying back the damage they have caused to communities."An average of 16,500 inmates were sharing cells designed for one, having to defecate in front of each other and even eat their meals while sitting on the toilet due to lack of space, according to the report. A Prison Service spokesman said: "I don't think the PRT has recognised the improvements we have made in the last year. In the light of the fact that the prison population has been quite high we believe progress has been good." The PRT report came as unions announced that thousands of prison workers would stage a 48-hour strike later this month in a long running row over pay.From 6am on August 31, 4,000 maintenance staff, plumbers, chefs and electricians will walk out as part of a campaign against a "derisory" pay offer of 1%. The unions predicted disruption to the running of prisons, and said food would have to be brought in from outside because agricultural workers would join the action. John Allot, Amicus' national officer, said the workers wanted a similar rise to the 2.8% awarded to prison officers. "We are no longer going to sit back and be treated unfairly," he said. Neil Moore, national officer of the GMB, whose members will also be on strike, said it was time to "ratchet up" the action following a one-day stoppage in May. George Brumwell, general secretary of construction union Ucatt, said: "The harsh truth is that the Prison Service does not value the skills of industrial and agricultural workers in our prisons, yet they play a vital role. Members are sick and tired of the way they are being treated."