A postmortem examination on a man with learning difficulties who died allegedly after years of baiting by local youths has been unable to establish his cause of death, police said today.Further tests are being carried out on David Askew, 64, who was found dead by officers on Wednesday after they had been called to his home in Greater Manchester after reports of youths "causing annoyance".Neighbours reported that Askew had been "tormented to death – like bear-baiting" and that abuse directed at him by children as young as eight had escalated in recent weeks.Greater Manchester Police have referred the case to the Independent Police Complaints Commission after defending the level of protection they had given Askew. Officers found no youths at Askew's home in Hattersley where he had collapsed. They have renewed an appeal for witnesses. An 18-year-old arrested on suspicion of manslaughter is being questioned.Neighbours claimed Askew was called names by children who threw eggs and bricks at his house, kicked the door, and took his money and cigarettes. A woman who has lived nearby for 39 years wept as she explained how the local gang would come and bait her neighbour: "He was a harmless soul."It is thought Askew became extremely agitated when two youths broke down a gate and entered his garden on Wednesday evening. Police were called at 9.40pm after the youths tampered with his 98-year-old mother's mobility scooter and a bin.Officers arrived within nine minutes but discovered Askew collapsed in the garden. He was pronounced dead by ambulance workers. Police say there is no evidence that he was physically assaulted.Askew lived with his mother, Rose, and younger brother Brian. He had been subjected to verbal taunts over a number of years, and officers had previously hidden in his house in an attempt to witness the youths targeting him, but were unsuccessful. CCTV cameras and a security light are mounted at the rear of the terrace.Earlier, Rose paid tribute to her son: "He was a true gentleman and would often help me around the house and with shopping. He wouldn't hurt a fly and he never saw bad in anyone. He always put others first."Askew's neighbour, Avona Davies, 49, said the harassment had been going on for about 10 years. She said they stopped complaining 12 months ago "because nothing gets done". "They tormented David for money and cigarettes. They harassed him every night without fail," she said."They would torment him all the time. Sometimes it would be two of them, other times it would be six kids or a big gang. David would throw money and cigarettes into our garden to get rid of them, but they would always go back." Windows had been repeatedly smashed.Dean Darkson, 19, said Askew had been banned from a nearby shop and bookmakers "because he always had kids following him". He said the kids "bullied him relentlessly" and took his money.Donna Parsons, 34, claimed the family did not receive the help they needed. "I  asked Rose if they would move, because it was so bad, and Rose said: 'I wouldn't give them the satisfaction of moving.'"Chief Superintendent Zoe Hamilton said Askew was not physically attacked and the police had been in daily contact. "I would like to make clear we don't believe David's death was the result of a physical attack and we would urge anyone who knows what happened and who was involved, to come forward, please," she said.The level of personal involvement her staff and housing officers had with the family "cannot be stressed enough", Hamilton added.Local youths, some of whom have asbos for harassing Askew, had launched a "particular spate" of recent attacks because of his disability."It's a sad fact that if people are different in a community, sometimes they end up being targeted," Hamilton said.Police said today the case had been referred to the IPCC "due to previous police contact with the family".The case has echoes of the death of Fiona Pilkington, 38, who set her car alight with herself and her 18-year-old disabled daughter inside after years of abuse. Their bodies were found in the family's car near the A47 near Earl Shilton, Leicestershire, in October 2007.An inquest into her death heard Leicester police logged 33 complaints from Pilkington about a gang between 2000 and 2007, including 13 in the 10 months before her death.HM Inspectorate of Constabulary criticised police in England and Wales for failing to deal with antisocial behaviour. Greater Manchester was found to be among the three worst-performing forces.