A public inquiry into how serial killer GP Harold Shipman came to murder so many of his patients was vital "to restore faith and confidence in GPs and the NHS", the High Court has been told.The call for an open inquiry came as 113 relatives of those who died began their legal battle for the right to an investigation which was fully open to the press and public. Eight national newspaper and media groups joined them in the action triggered by the decision to hold the inquiry in private. Earlier this year Shipman, 54, was convicted at Preston Crown Court of murdering 15 patients, but he is suspected of killing nearly 200. Augustus Ullstein QC, appearing for the bereaved families, told two judges that throughout the Shipman affair the relatives had co-operated with the police and the coroner "to a very marked degree" despite the tragedy which had befallen them. In many cases, their grief was increased by having to go through the exhumation and re-burial of their loved ones. They had all been led to believe they were to have a public inquiry as a result of statements made in the House of Commons by Health Secretary Alan Milburn in February. He had said the inquiry would be conducted in public.But Mr Milburn had now made it clear he believed the inquiry should be in private, although its report would be made public, along with any evidence the inquiry team "feel appropriate" for publication. Mr Ullstein asked Lord Justice Kennedy, sitting with Mr Justice Jackson, to overturn Mr Milburn's decision. He argued the relatives, some 30 of whom were in court listening, had a "legitimate expectation" that the full inquiry would be in public - "fairness and justice" demanded an open inquiry. He said: "These are the very men and women whose confidence in the NHS and in general practitioners needs to be restored. They represent, not only the families, but also perhaps the ordinary men and women of the general public whose faith and confidence in the NHS needs to be restored as a result of the activities of Dr Shipman."