How ironic. Five years after the nation was shocked by undercover film of Stephen Lawrence's suspected murderers unleashing their racist bile and bragging about killing black people, we now find those of like minds again caught on camera. This time, though, they're in the police force, training to be those cuddly "bobbies" whom everyone wants back on the beat.Now the circle is complete. The grainy video answers the question first raised by Doreen Lawrence 10 years ago - why did the police not investigate my son's death?These officers' attitudes are not new; neither should they come as a surprise to the wider public. During Lord Scarman's investigation into the 1981 riots, senior officers admitted to "a few bad apples" in the force. And the Stephen Lawrence inquiry proved that these "few" have an influence way beyond their numbers. The canteen culture, the atmosphere of tolerance towards bigotry, was pervasive. Sure, there is a small number of wilful racists in all large institutions; but where else would such staff feel secure enough to boast so openly? Could you imagine it among accountants? Or hospital workers? The police is a macho, boys' institution in which crude attitudes to outsiders (including women and gays) have often seemed part of the team-building exercise. This makes it difficult to weed out racists; the problem, though, is that "trying" to do so is not enough. While these people are on the streets, they are making innocent people's lives a misery, intimidating and abusing them. There are 134,000 officers serving nationally; if only one in 100 acts in a racist manner, this creates thousands of incidents. Since the 1999 Macpherson report, senior officers have been trying to rebuild the confidence of minority communities; only yesterday, several leading officers wrote to the Guardian saying: "There is no room in the British police service for anyone with racist attitudes." Up till now, though, they've been insinuating that Britain's ethnic minorities are too slow to respond to their message, and won't give the police a fair hearing. The BBC film shows that they're not getting across to white people either; why else would racists still feel so at home in the force? It was very convenient for the police that five of the trainees resigned; but what will happen to the others still on the payroll (such as Andy Hall: "He's a Paki and I'm stopping him 'cos I'm fucking English"; or Keith Cheshire: "Anyone of an Indian nature, straight away you'd just call them a Paki". Will they be sacked? Cheshire's assistant chief constable David Griffin said there had been strenuous efforts to root out racism. But his force hasn't sacked anyone for this in at least five years. Even in the 30,000-strong Met, only three officers have been kicked out for racism since Macpherson. True, for a long time a high level of proof was required to discipline any officer; but the law's changed, and we've yet to see action. This month, an inquest ruled that black council worker Roger Sylvester had been unlawfully killed: he had stopped breathing after being restrained by up to six officers and held down for 20 minutes. All six are back at work and no disciplinary action has been taken. More shockingly, five officers in a Hull station were captured on CCTV laughing and making monkey noises as Christopher Alder lay handcuffed and choking to death. Again, an inquest jury had returned a verdict of unlawful killing; again, the officers are still in the force. The problem of confidence in the police (lack of it by minorities, excess of it by racists) results directly from events such as these. How can police chiefs who talk about "rooting out racism" tolerate these men? What black person would want to join up and have them as colleagues? The police should be taking tough action and shouting from the rooftops about the numbers of racists they are kicking out. This would send a powerful signal: that even if there's no BBC cameraman around, racism will ruin your career. Once the bigots are silenced, minority recruitment targets may at last be met. Signs are, though, that complacency is already setting in. Clive Wolfendale, acting deputy chief constable of North Wales Police, who said he felt "physically sick" as he watched the programme, was within hours telling Newsnight that signing up young men with racist attitudes was OK, and that it was the police's role to educate them. Are they that desperate for recruits? And the home secretary, David Blunkett, ultimately in charge of Britain's policing, says he still has no regrets about attacking the BBC for screening the programme - a view echoed by the Police Federation, who labelled the corporation "irresponsible". Edmund Burke said: "It is necessary only for the good man to do nothing for evil to triumph." Maybe he should have put it in language police chiefs can understand: your bad apples are infecting the whole barrel. joseph.harker@theguardian.com