 3.05pm BST Afternoon summaryI've got to wrap up early today. Here's an early afternoon summary.• The home affairs committee has announced that Doreen Lawrence will give evidence to it on Wednesday about the revelation that the police tried to smear her family after the murder of her son Stephen.• Lord Prescott, the former deputy prime minister, has suggested that voters are not interested in the row between Labour and Unite over Falkirk. This is what he said when asked about it on the World at One. Well, there’s a row, it’s an argument going on about whether things were done properly. A trade union always will look into a complaint by members – so should a leader of the party. And it’s being built up by other forces, actually, to make it against Labour versus Unite. I came from Seafarers, I came in to change legislation for Seafarers. I’m bound to say, millions of people listening will wonder what the hell this fight’s about. Some of them will even say, ‘where the hell is Falkirk?’• Michael Gove, the education secretary, has published a cultural educational programme for young people.Thanks for the comments. 2.49pm BST Here's an afternoon reading list.• Jeremy Cliffe at the Economist says there are three camps in the Labour party - and that Ed Miliband does not head any of them. Mr Miliband has no power-base on which to fall back, no established network of institutions and outriders to do the heavy-lifting for him. Though most are loyal to him as party leader, no think-tank, pressure group or parliamentary gang is closely aligned with his personal project. Shifting Grounds, a website, is one exception, but is insufficient on its own. Compass, once Progress’s equivalent on the “soft left” of the party, could have provided a gathering-point, but instead neutered its potential influence by offering membership to members of the Green Party and the Lib Dems.Most of Mr Miliband’s problems arise from the absence of such a network. Labourites gripe that his office is aloof, a complaint accentuated by its physical location (high in Norman Shaw, the turreted Victorian office block on the northern extremity of the parliamentary estate). Strategy, communications and policy-making do not join up, they grumble. Those standing up for him in the media receive too little support from their colleagues, the press and Labour’s intellectual superstructure. To the press and voters, Labour thus risks appearing to lack policies, gusto or unity—more this week than at any point since 2010. None of these charges is entirely true. But, if Mr Miliband does not marshal a coherent network of support within the party soon, it may become so.• Paul Goodman at ConservativeHome says Theresa May has tried to change the way the Home Office works. May came to believe that the Home Office took a traditional civil service view of itself as a policy formation department. As her recent speech to Reform indicated, she wants it be a policy delivery department too. The Home Secretary is now at the Francis Maude end of the spectrum when it comes to civil service reform - believing that civil servants should be deployed for the convenience of effective government rather than career development. Her leitmotif in the department, when examining how the staff in each section of it works, has been to pose the uncomfortable question: “What do they do all day?”• Isabel Hardman at Coffee House reports on what Lynton Crosby told Tory MPs about their strategy for tackling Ukip. I am told by a number of MPs who were present that Crosby talked generally about what attracts people to Ukip, rather than the specific problem of next year’s European elections. This was based on polling the party has been carrying out. He told the meeting, which took place while the debate on James Wharton’s EU referendum bill continued, that there were three reasons Conservative voters were turning their backs on the party: immigration, welfare, and the economy. The last reason was the most important driver, but the European Union was not the top reason. It is of course a contributing factor to other problems, particularly immigration.Crosby and the Prime Minister said they were confident that these voters were quite easy to win back because the party is making progress on all three fronts: the green shoots popping up all over the place on the economic front and progress cutting the deficit; the flagship welfare reforms (and the regular hints from the top of the party that it would go much further on welfare without the restraining influence of the Liberal Democrats); and net migration falling by a third. 2.12pm BST Lunchtime summary• Michael Gove, the education secretary, has said that his revised national curriculum for England will help children to compete with the best in the world. This is what Gove said on the World at One. I think that all students should be able to manage what we're asking the National Curriculum to embody. I think it’s a council of despair to say that there are five-year-olds who won’t be able to grapple with fractions. Five year olds can understand and use fractions in other countries. Are we saying that there is something somehow invincibly ignorant about English children that they can’t master and enjoy the sort of education that’s available to children in other countries?• George Osborne has announced that the government will accept the main recommendations from the parliamentary commission on banking standards.• Liam Fox, the Conservative former defence secretary, has said that Britain will face "managed decline" if it does not allow more "economically beneficial" immigrants into the country. (See 1.18pm.)• Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, has used a speech to call for much tougher oversight and scrutiny of the intelligence and security services. (See 12.23pm.)• The Unite union has accused the Conservative party of wasting police time. The union was responding to the news that Bob Neill, a Conservative vice chairman, has written to Scotland Yard asking for a police investigation into the union's role in two London Labour selection contests. (See 12.16pm.) A Unite spokesman issued this statement. The Conservatives are wasting police time and trying to engage the police in a disgraceful political witch hunt. We strenuously reject any suggestion of criminality or that we have broken Labour Party rules. Using the police to score political points and diverting their attentions away from making our communities safer is obscene. The Tories' smear tactics are designed to scare ordinary people away from engaging in politics and ensure it becomes the preserve of an Eton-educated elite.• David Cameron has said that the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority should think "very carefully" before recommending an increase in MPs' pay. Ipsa is expected to propose a hefty increase in a report published later this week. Asked about this on ITV's This Morning, Cameron said: pay I have said very clearly 'look, there is a pay restraint across the public sector, you cannot have one rule for other people and another rule for MPs'. So I hope that the independent body will think very carefully before they make their recommendation.I have said whatever happens it would be unthinkable for the cost of politics to go up. So we have to make sure that we are cutting costs in politics at the same time as they are making whatever recommendation they do make. But I hope they will show some understanding that right now when you are asking people in the public sector to restrict their rises as we are you cannot then recommend something different to members of parliament.• Boris Johnson has has been accused of casual sexism after joking that the increase in the number of women attending university in Malaysia was down to their desire to find a husband.• Johnson has called for the case for HS2 high speed rail to be reconsidered, arguing that it will cost more than £70bn.• The newspaper and magazine industry has announced plans to push ahead with the establishment of a new press regulator despite the continuing political impasse over royal charters.• The British and US spy programmes that allow intelligence agencies to gather, store and share data on millions of people have been challenged in a legal claim brought by privacy campaigners.• Theresa May, the home secretary, has announced that two extremist groups – UK-based Minbar Ansar Deen and Nigeria-based Boko Haram – are to be proscribed in the UK under terrorism laws, making membership and support for them a criminal offence.• Cameron has signalled that he expects Andy Murray to be awarded a knighthood. He has also revealed that Murray is visiting Downing Street this afternoon.David Cameron (@David_Cameron)I'm looking forward to welcoming #Wimbledon Champion @Andy_Murray to No10 this afternoon. Everyone here is excited to meet him.July 8, 2013 1.18pm BST Liam Fox's immigration speech - SummaryAnd while we're on the subject of triangulation, Liam Fox, the former defence secretary, was at it too in his immigration speech to the Centre for Policy Studies. It is necessary not just for intellectual consistency but for social responsibility to have the immigration debate dealt with on an entirely higher plane. It has always been convenient for those on either end of the political spectrum to use immigration as a political football – either for the left to portray any debate as racist or for those on the far right to portray anyone coming to our country as a burden or a threat ...Perhaps with Labour now willing to admit it’s mistakes we can create a new consensus.The full text of the speech is on Fox's website. I'm not sure Fox is going to create a new consensus, not least because of what he says about Labour (see below), but it is an interesting speech which does take the immigration debate slightly into new territory and which does contain some arguments that you would not expect from the Tory right.Here are the main points.• Fox said Britain would face "managed decline" if it did not allow more "economically beneficial" immigrants into the country. Most likely, we will have to take similar actions to Japan if we are to meet this challenge; increasing efficiency and productivity, getting more of the working age population into work and increasing retirement ages too. However, we must accept that we will also have to encourage economically beneficial labour into the country. If we cannot bring ourselves to do that, then the alternative is the managed decline of Britain – not an option we should be willing to contemplate.• He said that in the future Britain would need more skilled labour. In 2010, The UK Commission for Employment and Skills produced a report entitled “Working Futures 2010-2020”, which looked at future worker needs in the UK. According to the report, it is expected that the British economy will generate around 1.25 million more jobs in the decade leading up to 2020. The groups that are expected to show the most significant increase in employment during this time period are the higher level occupations.(In a recent article David Goodhart argued quite persuasively that experts have been saying this for years, and that they have been proved wrong.)• Fox said that Britain should accept more productive immigrants and fewer unproductive ones. If we are going to ensure that those with the necessary skills for the high end of our economy are more able to come to the United Kingdom, then the corollary will be that the numbers of those who come here, as part of our social or cultural migration will need to be curtailed. What I am proposing is in fact an open and shut policy: more open to those who have the skills that we will need to maintain our prosperity and place in the world and more closed to those who, for whatever reason, would end up placing a burden on our welfare system and national infrastructure.He said Australia, Canada and the US adopted this kind of approach.• He accused Labour of promoting mass immigration for electoral reasons. Labour shamefully mismanaged our borders not only out of incompetence but quite deliberately. As Hazel Blears admitted, they went too far making immigration a social policy designed to push the New Labour multiculturalism agenda and in the process they alienated swathes of white working-class people. They were indulging in social engineering for the sake of their own electoral ambitions and slamming those who disagreed with them as ill educated or racist.• He said the government should not just focus on the net migration figure because this was not a helpful statistic when assessing the impact of immigration. In 2011, for example, net migration fell significantly from 252,000 to 215,000 – a reduction of about 15%. However, the number of people coming to this country only fell by 25,000 whilst the number of people leaving increased by 12,000. For most people, it is the actual number coming in that matters, not the net number. When we say net immigration fell by 37,000, it still means that in 2011, 566,000 people came in. I will return to the theme of keeping our workforce in balance later in the speech but I will say now that when we are looking at the cultural and social problems associated with immigration we need to look exclusively at the number of people arriving for it is that volume that has such a pronounced impact on the communities in which such large numbers are settling.Put another way, the people of Boston in Lincolnshire see only the hundreds of new arrivals competing with them for access to a doctor, a school place or social housing. It does not dampen their frustration in the slightest when they hear that a few dozen families in the East Midlands have moved away from the country during the same period. In fact, if amongst those families was a nurse, a couple of teachers and some of the area’s successful businesspeople; they’d probably think that those departures exacerbated the immigration issue rather than helped it.• He said immigration was an essential component of the British national identity. The United Kingdom is both a land of immigration and integration. These forces have made us who and what we are today. Very few of us could claim to be descended exclusively from indigenous British stock, not least because historically there is no such thing.• He said it was important to celebrate "commonality" as well as diversity. Immigrant communities were keen to embrace Britishness, he argued. We’ve been a bit shy about saying to those who come here that we’d like them to consider themselves as British and yet, when we have given immigrant communities the opportunity to share in times of great national celebration; they have shown plenty of appetite for doing so.• He said Theresa May, the home secretary, and Mark Harper, the immigration minister, were "two of the government's most competent ministers".• He said the EU was "paving the way for extremists" because it was refusing to let member states take control of their own borders. So, my message to the commission and their cronies is this: You are the ones who are fanning the flames of frustration in Europe and paving the way for extremists. You are responsible for igniting the continent’s dormant nationalisms. Your disregard for history and identity, and your obsession with ever closer union can lead to the ultimate destruction of the whole EU architecture. If you break it is because you will not bend. When, you are sitting with your fat, tax payer funded pensions, watching the edifice crumble, remember that you are the guilty men.  Liam Fox. Photograph: Steve Back/Barcroft MediaUpdated at 1.27pm BST 12.23pm BST “Triangulation” is the art of placing yourself, politically, between (and also, somehow, above) two opposing ideological viewpoints. The original, Bill Clinton version also involved the former US president defining himself against his own party, as well as against the Republicans. Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, did not quite manage that in her liberty and security speech today, but in other respects it’s a textbook piece of triangulation positioning.For example, here she is on the “liberty v security” issue. For some people the issues are clear cut. At one end there are some who believe any state intervention is something to be minimised and distrusted to protect liberty.At the other, there are some who believe there should be few constraints on what the police or security services can do to protect safety and security.Most of us stand somewhere in between. We want the police and security services to keep us safe from criminals and terrorists and to have the powers they need. And we want them to operate within limits, respect our privacy and dignity, and the rule of law.And, for a more specific example, here she is applying the same approach to the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats over the communications data bill. Theresa May’s draft communications data bill was far too widely drawn, with far too much power concentrated in the hands of the home secretary. It was clearly disproportionate without any proper checks and balances as the joint committee powerfully pointed out.The Home Office has continually refused to set out what powers it believes are really needed and why – making it impossible to have a sensible debate about what is justified and proportionate or what safeguards are needed.However, at the same time Nick Clegg’s apparent refusal to contemplate any change despite rapidly changing technology has raised huge alarm among senior police officers investigating online child abuse, serious crimes and terrorism.Neither approach is helping the police or the public, liberty or security.Labour was in favour of helping the police to keep up with changing technology but thought that the draft communications data bill was “the wrong approach”, Cooper said.This was the overall message in the speech. But there were also some specific proposals, relating mainly to tougher scrutiny of the intelligence and security services and tighter controls on the use of undercover police officers. I won't summarise them again here because Alan Travis has done so comprehensively in his preview story.Updated at 1.14pm BST 12.16pm BST These days the Met seem to spend so much of their time investigating white-collar professionals - journalists, politicians, fellow police officers etc - that it’s a wonder that they have any time left to catch any ordinary crims.Now Bob Neill, the Conservative MP and a party vice-chairman, is trying to add to their workload. He has released a letter he wrote to Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, asking him to set Scotland Yard’s finest on the trail of Unite.I’m not a lawyer, but Neill’s “evidence” does seem rather flimsy. Here’s the key extract from his letter. It is alleged that Unite in Falkirk were signing up their own members to the Labour party without their consent and knowledge.I am concerned that this instance is just the tip of the iceberg, as Unite themselves admit they are targeting another 40 Labour party parliamentary selections for similar treatment. Senior Labour party sources have also confessed that the problems go wider than just Falkirk.In particular there are two London constituencies of particular concern: Ilford North and Lewisham Deptford.In Ilford North, it has been reported that Unite were offering their members free Labour party membership in exchange for attending a meeting with General Secretary Len McCluskey. Given that this constituency appears on a Unite target list along with Falkirk, I believe that the circumstances of this membership recruitment merit investigation.Additionally, a London Labour activist Mandy Richards has alleged that Unite are ‘bankrolling’ a number of ‘orchestrated’ campaigns, and she singles out Lewisham Deptford for special attention. Again, given that this constituency appears on Unite’s secret list I am deeply concerned that Falkirk-style abuses may also have taken place.If the activities in Falkirk have been occurring elsewhere in England, there may have been fraudulent behaviour – a breach of subsection 1, section 2, of the Fraud Act 2006 under the terms of ‘false misrepresentation’, defined in the act as someone who ‘(a) dishonestly makes a false representation, and (b) intends, by making the representation, to gain for himself or another or causes loss to another/exposes another to a risk of loss’.Furthermore, I believe that this may also constitute fraud by abuse of position, breaching section 4 of the Fraud Act 2006, which states, ‘A person is in breach of this section if he: (a) occupies a position in which he is expected to safeguard, or not to act against, the financial interests of another person, (b) dishonestly abuses that position, and (c) intends, by means of the abuse of that position … to make a gain for himself or another’.Anyone know if wasting police time is still an offence?Updated at 1.16pm BST 12.15pm BST I'm sorry for the blog there have not been any new posts for the last hour or so. We had a problem with our blogging tools. But they now seem to be working again. 10.57am BST You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the politics stories published yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.As for the rest of the papers, here's the PoliticsHome list of top 10 must-reads, here's the ConservativeHome roundup of today's political stories, and here's the New Statesman list of top 10 comment articles.As for the rest of the papers, here are four articles I found particularly interesting.• Boris Johnson in his Daily Telegraph says HS2 will eventually cost more than £70bn. As a general principle it is obvious that both London and other cities would benefit from better and faster connections. The problem, as Peter Mandelson has indicated, is cost. This thing isn’t going to cost £42 billion, my friends. The real cost is going to be way north of that (keep going till you reach £70bn, and then keep going). That is why the Treasury is starting to panic, and the word around the campfire is that Lord Mandelson is actually doing the bidding of some fainthearts in Whitehall who want to stop it now – not the first or second Lords of the Treasury, clearly, but the bean-counters.• George Parker in the Financial Times (subscription) says George Osborne will today accept the majority of recommendations from the parliamentary commission on banking standards. George Osborne will announce on Monday the biggest-ever attempt to raise standards in the City when he promises to implement sweeping cultural reforms proposed by a cross-party banking commission.The chancellor will endorse the overwhelming majority of the panel’s proposals – including introducing criminal penalties for “reckless” bankers and tighter control of pay and bonuses – in his formal response to its 571-page report.Mr Osborne will echo the view of the parliamentary commission on banking standards, chaired by Tory MP Andrew Tyrie, which said high standards in banking “should not be a substitute for global success – on the contrary, they can be a stimulus to it”.• Nigel Morris and Andrew Grice in the Independent say the Tories are preparing a new attack on the mansion tax proposal. The Conservatives are preparing an aggressive counterattack against Labour and Liberal Democrats plans for a “mansion tax”, after new Treasury calculations found that wealthy householders would face an average annual demand of more than £35,000 ...Labour adopted the policy this year, saying the revenue raised would be used to restore the 10p bottom rate of tax abolished by the previous Labour government. It also believes that the levy on Britain’s most expensive houses – overwhelmingly in London and the South East – could raise about £2bn.However, a Tory minister disclosed on Sunday that research by the Treasury has established there are 55,000 homes worth more than £2m in Britain, far fewer than the 70,000 – 75,000 figure cited by Labour and the Lib Dems.David Gauke, the exchequer secretary to the Treasury, said: “We’ve got the finest minds in the Treasury working on this and they have divided £2bn by £55,000 – it does not require a huge amount of work – and you end up with an average of £36,000 a year as the annual levy.” This is the first estimate of the scheme’s impact.• Owen Jones in the Independent says Jim Murphy is plotting to become Labour leader if Ed Miliband fails. Now that David Miliband has crossed the Atlantic, Murphy is positioning himself as holder of the Blairite flame, plotting to take the leadership should Ed Miliband ever fall. Murphy’s approach to politics was honed from his days in Labour Students, in practice long a recruiting ground for the sort of desperate political careerist who practises party conference speeches in front of bathroom mirrors from the age of six. It is a murky world where positions of power are decided in bars and through private, secretive conversations. When these student hacks evolve into senior politicians, they debate who should be the candidate in what constituency over Islington dinner parties.Updated at 1.18pm BST 10.27am BST This is a terrific spot from Will Straw.Will Straw (@wdjstraw)UKIP supporters were more pessimistic than any other party's about Murray's chances: http://t.co/BShrve7hfs (p.10)July 8, 2013 10.08am BST YouGov has found that a fifth of Conservative party members are seriously considering voting Ukip. The figures are not up on the YouGov website yet, but here's some copy from the Press Association. Almost a fifth of Conservative party members are considering voting for the UK Independence party, a new poll suggests. And more than half do not believe they are respected by David Cameron and his leadership team.The findings of the research by YouGov for Queen Mary, University of London, Sussex University and the McDougall Trust could give the prime minister pause for thought as he bids to fend off the threat from Ukip.It is unusual to see surveys of party members because lists of names are not released, but the polling firm has identified 852 individuals from its previous work.The polling was carried out between 31 May and 11 June, and they were not able to weight the results to reflect the estimated 100,000 Conservative party members.Respondents were instructed to say whether they would consider voting for Ukip on a scale of one to 10, with the top rating indicating a definite 'yes'.Some 19% gave a score of eight or above, according to results seen by the BBC.Asked about the Tory leadership's respect for ordinary members, 53% either felt they did not have much respect or none at all.Only 19% said they expected the Conservatives to win an overall majority at the general election, while 44% admitted they spend no time on party activity in an average month.Updated at 1.19pm BST 9.37am BST On a lighter note, the Today programme also had an interview with Alex Salmond, Scotland's first minister, who has been criticised for waving a large saltire flag behind David Cameron in the royal box at Wimbledon after Andy Murray's victory in the men's singles final. As the Daily Mail reports, "the vast saltire appeared to far exceed All England Club rules which forbid flags more than 2ft by 2ft. The regulations also ban objects or clothing bearing political statements or commercial identification intended for ‘ambush marketing’."  David Cameron and Alex Salmond cheering Andy Murray at Wimbledon. Photograph: Pool/Getty ImagesSalmond said that the All England Club did not seem to mind and that this was all a fuss about nothing. You’ve just been saying about it’s the first triumph since Fred Perry in 77 years. It’s the first Scot since Harold Mahony in 1896 – it’s not something that happens very often, so I think a few saltires hoisted over Wimbledon doesn’t really harm at all ...[It is] a rule more observed in its breaking than its observation. But can I just point out, the All England Club didn’t mind in the slightest, they’re really nice people, and if the All England Club didn’t mind, I really don’t think anybody else should either.I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome.Updated at 1.20pm BST 9.27am BST Yesterday the Observer carried an article by Tony Blair in which he argued that the army was right to intervene in Egypt because the elected government was not working. Being elected was not the only thing that mattered, he argued. I am a strong supporter of democracy. But democratic government doesn't on its own mean effective government. Today, efficacy is the challenge. When governments don't deliver, people protest. They don't want to wait for an election.You can read the full article here.Blair was on the Today programme this morning and he used his interview to defend his argument. Here is a situation I think is virtually unique – 17 million people out on the street. It’s not really mob rule, it is a huge manifestation of dissatisfaction with the government. And the problem with the government was not simply the ideology – although that, I think, was causing huge tensions within Egypt – but it’s literally the fact that the government was not functioning as a government.But he also talked about Syria, where he said the west should consider arming the rebels and imposing a no-fly zone. Refusing to intervene in Syria had its own consequences, he argued. Personally, I think we should at least consider [arming the opposition] and consider actively a no-fly zone in Syria ... A refusal to engage, as you see from what’s happening in Syria at the moment, where, as a proportion of the population, there’s now been more people that have died in Syria in a civil war that shows absolutely no sign of ending than in the entirety of Iraq since 2003 – so, you know, inaction is also a policy and a decision with consequence.I've taken the quotes from PoliticsHome.  Tony Blair. Photograph: Chris Jackson/PAUpdated at 1.22pm BST 8.43am BST It's a busy day for the home affairs correspondent. Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, is delivering a major speech on liberty and security. Damian Green, the policing minister, as well as the former defence minister Liam Fox are also giving speeches on policing and immigration respectively, Boris Johnson, the London mayor, is opening a policing conference and Theresa May, the home secretary, is expected to make a Commons statement on Abu Qatada at 3.30pm (although I will miss that, because I've got to wrap up early today).There is another slight problem today. At the Guardian we are doing maintenance work on our system and from 9am for about an hour some readers may have problems reading the blog. If that affects you, I'm sorry. It should get back to normal after 10am.Here's the agenda for the day.9.15am: Green gives a speech at a Reform conference. He will say he is ordering all 43 police forces in England and Wales to see if they have misused undercover operations.10.30am: Cooper gives a speech on liberty and security. As Alan Travis reports, she will call for much tougher oversight and scrutiny of the intelligence and security services to restore public confidence.Morning: Fox gives a speech on immigration. As he explains in an article in the Daily Telegraph, he wants Britain to be “more open to those who have the skills that we will need to maintain our prosperity and place in the world and more closed to those who, for whatever reason, would end up placing a burden on our welfare system and national infrastructure”.2pm: Johnson opens the Policing Global Cities conference.2.30pm: Eric Pickles, the communities secretary, takes questions in the Commons.At some point today Michael Gove, the education secretary, will also be publishing the revised national curriculum for England.As usual, I’ll also be covering all the breaking political news as well as looking at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I’ll post a lunchtime summary at about 1pm and another in the afternoon.If you want to follow me on Twitter, I’m on @AndrewSparrow.Updated at 1.25pm BST