It was supposed to be getting so much better. Long gone are the days of the convicted serial killer of gay men, Colin Ireland, when, in 1993, the police would not even acknowledge that his first three victims were homosexual and it took a call to the authorities from the then editor of Gay Times, Colin Richardson, to point out the almost exact similarities between the three murders. There were a further two to come before Ireland was caught and tried.It was supposed to be getting so much better. But the savage battering to death this weekend of 24-year-old Jody Dobrowski, apparently accompanied by a cacophony of homophobic abuse, has provoked a moment of sudden, sober reflection among gay rights campaigners. Dobrowski, a bar manager, was murdered on Clapham Common in London, a popular gay cruising area, on Saturday night in an assault described by police as "frenzied". They are seeking two men in connection with the killing.So how much violence really goes on against gay men and lesbians? Ben Summerskill, chief executive of the gay rights group Stonewall, describes a landscape in which the gay population has to walk a high wire between recognising achievements and efforts made by both the police and society and the vicious intolerance of which this weekend's savagery was an expression.Figures released by the Metropolitan police in 2001 showed that during the first six months of that year, 745 incidents were reported. There has been no statistical detail since. "Hate crime in the capital has decreased by 4.3% over the past year, while homophobic crime has risen by 8.5% over the past year," says Summerskill, which, he emphasises, is "people swinging their fists, not just shouting at people in the streets". And this, he says, "is London, not those places that might be even less tolerant. I don't know the statistics for Grimsby, Kettering or Shrewsbury, but indications are that in some places, people become socially withdrawn; gay people are becoming a social category rather like old people, who prefer not to go out at night out of fear of violence."This climate of fear is in spite of what Summerskill calls "very clear efforts by the police. For instance, they now say that if you are the victim of an attack, you will be interviewed by a gay officer - so, good! You will be spoken to by someone who is friendly! - which in itself shows what they know about many of their own officers."Part of the problem, he says, is that casual homophobia is still acceptable in wider society, "whether it's Richard Littlejohn in the Sun or kids calling each other 'batty boys' in the playground, which teachers do not feel able to challenge. And if these sort of things are happening generally, it validates people who start to swing punches and then the extreme case of those going out to kill people."Colin Richardson has now left Gay Times to work on a health programme in Camden and Islington. "In the 80s and early 90s," he says, "there was a lot of violence. There was a certain political climate, and the rise of HIV Aids. It seems better than 20 years ago - at least, it did until recently - but now there seems to be an upswing again. The word 'gay' is the worst insult in the playground. I think it's because however many laws have been passed, however beneficent and good, they have not been followed through in society. If you don't follow through in schools, in HIV funding, in anti-discriminatory behaviour, you will see these things recurring."In general, though, he admits that this kind of homosexual murder is unusual, and agrees that the police have made much progress, in London at least. Clapham, he says, "is a particularly good local station. I can remember days when if the police were blazing their lights across Clapham Common, it was to intimidate the gay men who gather there. Now, it would be in pursuit of a case of violence against someone." (A spokeswoman for the Metropolitan police stresses that all the force's 32 boroughs have a dedicated community safety unit "made up of officers trained to deal with specific offences such as homophobic crime, racist crime and domestic violence. A lot of energy goes into this training, into sensitivity on the issues."The police officer who now runs the Gay Police Association, Inspector Paul Cahill, was among those who offered to help with the Colin Ireland murders, "because we thought we had something to offer. But they said, 'Oh no, we don't need your kind.' The turning point came after the 1999 nail bomb in Soho, when we from the Lesbian and Gay Police took over street operations from West End Central. The police realised they had been caught back-footed."Cahill sees the current upsurge of violence against gays as a particularly vicious ingredient in the general current mix of menace and antisocial behaviour, "and comes at the point when you manifest yourself. Ninety per cent of attacks happen when there is some physical manifestation; often, if I am with my partner at a bus stop, there'll be occasions when I will not be able to touch him while saying goodbye at a bus stop. I'm afraid to say that I can see a very significant increase in homophobic attacks in the coming years. The legislation is so much better now, yes, but everything is just as unsafe.""We have come a long way," says Joseph Galliano, deputy editor of Gay Times, "Yes, most of us now know someone who has come out of the closet, which makes it difficult to remain ignorant. It's hard to sound positive during the days after a murder, but we cannot be entirely negative. It was only in 1967 that homosexuality was decriminalised. This has been a very fast change in society, and acceptance has built up quite quickly. But it's a very thin veneer of respectability - there will always be people who lag behind, and people out there with violent and irrational hatreds. And in times such as now, who do these people go for? The Other, the minorities, people who are different."Tris Reid-Smith, editor of the Pink Paper, Britain's national gay newspaper, says it remains incredibly hard to gauge the present level of homophobic violence. On one hand, he says: "We have made it easier for people to report hate crime: a lot of people are coming forward who would not have done in the past, anonymously or remotely." On the other, though, "there is a lot of homophobic violence that we don't know about; attacks, even murders, which are homophobic but are not reported as such on Sky News, in the Guardian or even the Pink Paper."The latest national statistics on homophobic crime were released by the Crown Prosecution Service last June. They show that between April 2004 and March 2005, the CPS brought 317 cases which had what it calls a "homophobic element". There were 190 guilty pleas, but only 34 convictions at trial. A quarter of the cases were dropped because the victim refused to testify.All agree, however, that this is likely only to scratch the surface. The London-based Gay and Lesbian charity Galop counsels victims of homophobic harassment or violence; according to Tor Docherty, the organisation's chief executive, "the level of hate crime is high, and the level of reporting is low. Very few homophobic attacks are reported - far lower than the level of reported attacks of general violent crime. People come to Galop about attacks they don't want to go to the police over, and we then refer them to the police."They are frequently told by callers that harassment is just a way of life. "Whether it is being shouted at or pushed - it's almost an expectation of how they live. Someone said the other day that if they reported every incidence, they'd never be out of the police station".