The government's plans to overhaul the police has sparked open warfare with county constabularies.In a letter to be sent to all MPs tomorrow, and obtained by The Observer, the Association of Police Authorities (APA) accuses the Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, of trying to 'bully and bribe' the police into accepting his plans to restructure the country's 43 regional forces, the most radical shake-up of British policing in 30 years.Earlier this month, Clarke made it clear money would be available to the forces that backed his plans to consolidate the regional police forces into 12 'super- forces'.The money would go towards merger costs, but would be available only to those forces that accepted Clarke's proposals by 23 December. However, in a sign of how low relations between the association and the Home Office have sunk, APA chairman Bob Jones warns Clarke his proposal is unacceptable.'The Home Secretary is blatantly trying to bribe and bully us into abolishing local police forces,' Jones writes in his letter to MPs. 'That is disgraceful. Police authorities are outraged by the suggestion that they can be bought off. Policing... is not for sale.'Parliament will debate the consolidation plans tomorrow. The government argues that policing would be more efficient if carried out by fewer forces. Large-scale hunts, such as that for the killer of two girls at Soham, Cambridgeshire, in 2002 can overwhelm smaller constabularies. A consolidated police service would also, it is believed, be more effective in thwarting terrorist attacks.'The changing nature of crime poses significant challenges for the police,' a Home Office spokesman said.'The threats we face from terrorism, and international drug and people traffickers, do not respect local borders. HM Inspectorate of Constabulary made clear in its recent report that the current 43-force structure cannot both provide effective community policing and deal with serious cross-regional crime.'MPs are worried that a forces merger will lead to council tax rises. Although long-term savings are expected through backroom job losses, forces say the short-term costs of redundancy payments, public consultation and reorganisation will be high.Jones said the APA would not back the plans until funding had been agreed. In the meantime, he told Clarke no police authority would meet his 23 December deadline for merger proposals.In its letter to MPs, the APA warns that super-regional forces would further alienate local people from their police forces. 'Our police forces have been in place for 30 years. We should not just abolish them in the space of a few weeks,' he writes.The Observer understands that 25 of the country's 43 forces have already told Clarke they will not meet his deadline. Gloucester, Cleveland and North Wales are considering seeking a judicial review to rule on the plans unless they receive reassurances over funding.The Police Federation, which represents rank-and-file officers, has also warned that rushing restructuring could cause long-term damage. The federation's chairman, Jan Berry, said there were fears the changes were 'not all achievable in one go', and warned that the focus on restructuring was harming the police's ability to do their jobs.'All the time you're doing these changes, you're still having to police. We must have an entire police force devoted to structural changes at the moment. You're taking an awful lot of feet off the street.'