It's hard to know exactly what drives a young woman to threaten a stranger, in the middle of the night, with something "worse than rape". The obvious answer is booze, since Isabella Sorley told police she was "off her face" drunk when she sent menacing tweets to feminist campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez. (Although presumably, still sober enough to type.)But because most 23-year-olds can think of better things to do when plastered than wading aggressively into a row about putting Jane Austen on banknotes, somehow that doesn't feel like the whole answer. Closer to the nub of it is perhaps that Sorley also said she was "bored". Much like her co-defendant John Nimmo, 25, also convicted this week of sending abusive messages to the Labour MP Stella Creasy, and described in court as a recluse with no friends and nothing to do all day. Strip away the understandable shock at what is said and so much online vitriol boils down to nothing more than bored people, disappointed and dissatisfied with their own lives, poking others with sticks.He surely never meant it this way, but Isaac Asimov was right when he predicted in 1964 that boredom would become the great disease of our time, one "spreading more widely each year and growing in intensity", which would eventually have "serious mental, emotional and sociological consequences".What's staggering is that boredom still has such a wholesome, desirable image. It's good for the kiddies, people say: teaches them to make their own entertainment. But while dull times may sometimes spark creative responses, so often they lead to destructive behaviour instead.Boredom is a driving force now in everything from prison riots and problem gambling to divorce and the kind of petty nuisance caused by kids during the long school holidays, when they're released from captivity only to become quickly fed up with all that freedom. (Years ago, working on a local newspaper, I could date the end of the school year with surgical precision by the sudden rush of grass fires turning up in the morning emergency services bulletin. Kids would set blazes on patches of wasteland, just for the thrill of seeing the fire engine arrive.)Boredom is a sickness, a blight on contemporary life, secondary only in its capacity for damage to the self-destructive things we do to relieve it: eating too much, getting hammered, picking fights (virtual or in real life), taking stupid risks, having affairs, mooching mindlessly around the shops buying things we don't really need.And while I salute the honesty of Simon Danczuk, the Labour MP who this week complained about the utter pointlessness of being forced to repeat the words "one nation" in every speech or press release, he arguably pulled his punches by not identifying the hidden culprits. Blaming soundbites and slogans on spin culture conveniently ignores the reason politics started down this road in the first place: bored voters. People quickly tire of watching a politician explain a complicated idea at length, which drives TV producers and reporters to seek ever more digestible nuggets – and politicians anxious not to be thought dull quickly learn to vomit them up. At which point, of course, we announce, seemingly without irony, that we're bored with politics because it's all empty soundbites.Were we always this horribly, destructively bored? It seems not, given the concept is said to have only really emerged in the 18th century, along with the growth of leisure time but also the emergence of a strong sense of self. At its purest, boredom isn't just having nothing to do but being deeply dissatisfied with what there is to do, with your own company and with yourself. To be properly bored you need to think you deserve to be happier than this, at least as happy as all those other people seem to be. It's a short step from there to resenting anyone who, like Criado-Perez, does seem to have meaning and purpose in their lives. And if you had set out to design a way of bringing bored, dissatisfied people up against others flaunting their supposedly more interesting lives, you could hardly have done better than social media – businesses purpose-built for killing time and showing off.As for why malicious tweeters so often home in on female, black or gay targets, dumb prejudice obviously plays a big part, but surprisingly so may boredom. In a fascinating experiment at the University of Limerick a few years ago, participants were first bored witless by being made to do a repetitive task and then asked to suggest punishments for an imaginary Englishman convicted of beating up an Irishman. The longer they'd spent on the dull task, the more likely they became to bay for blood.But crucially, the researchers found tedium seemed to breed not just greater harshness generally but specifically hostility to outsiders. (When the experiment was rejigged to involve judging an Irishman for beating up an Englishman, Irish participants tended to make excuses for him.) When life seems meaningless, they speculated, we may subconsciously cling to a chosen social group – and pick on people outside it – just to try to liven things up a bit.Or to put it another way, your mum was half right: bored people are boring. Right up until the minute they turn nasty.