There are moments when a nation suddenly catches a glimpse of itself in the mirror and sees there not the familiar defects and equally familiar virtues to which it is used but an image altogether more unsettling. Many questions were forced on the collective attention after the recent urban riots. The effectiveness, or otherwise, of police tactics, the failures of educational institutions, the inadequacies of our faltering economy, the quality of family relationships, the mindlessness of consumerism – all these, and many others, were ticked off by politicians, commentators and academics running through their checklists of social ills.But the most striking aspect was that we were surprised and dismayed in a way we have not been after other episodes of urban disorder in our past. The head of the Association of Chief Police Officers, in evidence to the home affairs committee yesterday, spoke of "non-existent pre-intelligence". That goes to the overarching sentiment that this is not the society we thought we were and not the society we wish to be. This is the principal reason why the coalition's announcement yesterday that it will set up an inquiry into the disturbances, although Nick Clegg prefers the word "panel", should be welcomed. Ed Miliband was right to call for such an inquiry, and the coalition was right to establish one. Properly conducted, such an inquiry can and should be part of a national conversation about what has gone wrong – one in which ordinary people from the communities most affected should take a leading role.Most past inquiries have been detective stories and, sometimes quite literally, postmortems, with procedures aimed at establishing facts and apportioning blame in the way particular institutions – such as the army, the police, the social services or the medical profession – have operated. They were about fixing discrete bits of our society. This inquiry is potentially of much broader scope because it addresses a more diffuse problem. To say this is not to subscribe to the "broken Britain" thesis, with its overemphasis on moral decline and welfare dependency, or to any other ready-made formulations. The point about being surprised is that existing analysis is properly thrown into doubt, and must be refreshed.The coalition was therefore also right to accompany the inquiry with the commissioning of academic work about the riots. The combination, with a relatively short reporting period of six to nine months, may bring us some enlightenment. Perhaps not as much as we hope, and perhaps the riots may not loom so large in our minds in six months time. But we need perspective and time, and some honest intellectual work is the best way to acquire it.