A mother who injected her brain-damaged son with a lethal dose of heroin has been jailed for life after being found guilty of his murder today.Frances Inglis, 57, said she killed 22-year-old son, Tom, to end his "living hell" after he suffered severe head injuries when he fell out of a moving ambulance. She was sentenced to life with a minimum term of nine years.During her evidence, Inglis tearfully told jurors she had had "no choice" and had sought, with love, only to end his suffering. But a judge instructed them to put emotion aside, telling them no one had the right to take the law into their own hands.Inglis, of Dagenham, east London, was found guilty today of both murder and attempted murder.She first tried to end his life in September 2007 and was charged with trying to kill him and banned from visiting him in hospital. But she persevered, giving the hospital a false identity and succeeding in her plan in November 2008.During the trial, Inglis wept as she described her despair at the "horror, pain and tragedy" of her son's helpless condition. "For Tom to live that living hell – I couldn't leave my child like that," she told the Old Bailey.Doctors were considering applying to the high court to legally withdraw food and water from Tom. "I couldn't bear the thought of Tom dying of thirst or hunger. To me that would be so cruel: to die slowly like that would be horrible," she said.She admitted ending her son's life but said: "I did it with love in my heart, for Tom, so I don't see it as murder."Miranda Moore QC, prosecuting, said: "It would be a hard-hearted person who didn't have sympathy for her position. It is a tragic case. But it is not a defence to murder to end someone's life to put them out of their misery."The court heard that Inglis had been suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and had a history of depression.Sasha Wass QC, defending, said: "Clearly Mrs Inglis loved her son, she was devoted to her son." She had also spent much of her life in "altruistic employment" as a voluntary carer, Wass said."She was a woman who in her life, until the events of July 7 altered her life completely, showed great compassion for the vulnerable and the disabled."The jury reached their verdicts by a majority of 10 to two, after deliberating for more than six hours.Inglis sat quietly in the dock occasionally looking up and nodding barely perceptibly as the judge outlined the case."However we look at all this, this was a calculated and consistent course of criminal conduct," he said. She believed that her son would not recover following his accident in July 2007, and the judge accepted her view was "sincerely held"."This is a highly unusual and very sad case. What you did was to take upon yourself what you thought your son's wishes would have been, to relieve him from what you described as a living hell."But you cannot take the law into your own hands and you cannot take away life, however compelling you think the reason. You have to take responsibility for what you did."The judge told Inglis she must serve a minimum of nine years in jail, less the 423 days she has already spent in custody.Inglis's son Alex said outside court: "I want to say that all of the family and Tom's girlfriend support my mum 100%. All of those who loved and were close to Tom have never seen this as murder, but as a loving and courageous act."