Hassan Khan could be a free man. Had he admitted committing robbery with an imitation firearm he might, by now, be out on parole. Instead, the 56-year-old lifer is beginning a hunger strike in Gartree prison.For the past week Khan has been refusing food in protest at a decision by the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) to reject his claim that he suffered a miscarriage of justice. His frustration stems from an unusual predicament: a pair of sunglasses that could resolve a long-running investigation by the CCRC into the robbery for which he was convicted has gone missing.The glasses may have been handled by a detective who has since been jailed for stealing from police evidence stores. Their disappearance is a severe setback to Khan, who has been serving a life sentence – with a recommended tariff of seven and a half years – for a robbery in West Wickham, Kent, in 2002.Speaking to the Guardian from Gartree, in Leicestershire, Khan said: "I have decided to go on hunger strike to highlight my situation and to protest against the CCRC ... report."Khan's background and experience of the workings of criminal law is even more extraordinary. He has already suffered one notorious miscarriage of justice. In 1990 the court of appeal quashed a conviction for armed robbery, raising questions about police integrity and contributing to the disbanding of the West Midlands serious crime squad.The evidence against Khan for the West Wickham robbery relied on DNA traces found on a pair of sunglasses that were said by the prosecution to have been found at the scene.Detective Constable Lester Oakley, from the Tower Bridge flying squad in London, was one of the first officers to arrive. In 2008 Oakley was unanimously convicted of six counts of theft involving the disappearance of approximately £5,000 in cash from police evidence stores. He was jailed for three years.During that trial, according to Khan's lawyers, it emerged that Oakley had lied about police exhibit documentation relating to Khan's cases, forged a colleague's signature, and stolen rent money he was supposed to use for a surveillance operation.The CCRC has admitted investigators are unable to retrieve the crucial exhibit. Their letter to his solicitor states: "Unfortunately, our attempts to locate the sunglasses have proved unsuccessful, as have our endeavours to put together an audit trail of their movements over and above that which was known at the trial ... The intention was to ascertain whether there was any evidence of the sunglasses having been handled by DC Oakley."The CCRC has informed Khan it has reached a "provisional view" that his case should not be referred to the appeal court.His solicitor, Nicola Hall, said: "This is a complete shambles. No one is looking at the blindingly obvious. Here is a situation where the jury did not know that the police officer handling the exhibits directly relating to this case was later found guilty of theft. Hassan Khan has a very genuine grievance. Had the jury known about this, the verdict would have been very different."A Prison Service spokesperson said: "We take food refusal extremely seriously. If a prisoner chooses to refuse food for any reason, the Prison Service works with healthcare staff to monitor their physical and mental health. Prisoners who are considered mentally capable are entitled to refuse health interventions like force-feeding, provided they fully understand the consequences of their decision."A spokesman for the parole board declined to comment on Khan's case, but said: "We have a significant number of prisoners who maintain their innocence. That's not a bar to being released. What the parole board has to look at is the risk a prisoner poses to the community and part of that is whether they have addressed their criminal behaviour."If someone maintains their innocence therefore, it will have an impact on that. Denial may preclude them from attending certain [rehabilitation courses]."