lDetectives are investigating why a man went on the rampage in a London suburb, beheading an 82-year-old woman in her back garden and attempting to attack others before being subdued by armed police, but have reiterated they do not believe the incident is terrorism-related.  Palmira Silva. Photograph: Silva familyA 25-year-old man is still receiving treatment for injuries suffered when he was arrested in Edmonton, north London, on Thursday afternoon, after Palmira Silva was found dead. She was reportedly beheaded with a machete.Scotland Yard said the man, who has not been named, remains in hospital. Some neighbours in Nightingale Road, where the attack took place, said they recognised the alleged attacker as someone seen locally. Witnesses reported seeing a man dressed in black waving a long-bladed weapon with a curved edge, and screaming incoherently as he rampaged through back gardens.The nature of the killing, coming 48 hours after the beheading of the US journalist Steven Sotloff by Islamic State militants, led to early speculation. One newspaper report into the attack claimed the man was a "Muslim convert". But police stressed the lack of a terrorist connection in three separate statements.The investigation is being led by specialist murder detectives, not by Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism command. There was no suggestion from witnesses that the attacker said anything related to religion, as happened in the 2013 murder of the soldier Lee Rigby in Woolwich, south-east London.Nonetheless, the group TellMama, which monitors hate crime against Muslims, said threats had been made online after the Edmonton incident, including one threat on social media to firebomb a mosque.Police had been called just after 1pm on Thursday after receiving reports that a man with a knife had attacked a cat. As the man ran through back gardens, police smashed windows to evacuate terrified residents, with senior officers saying some police risked their lives and distracted the man so he did not harm anyone else.After armed officers were sent to the scene, the suspect was cornered in a house, and struck with a Taser before being arrested. One officer's wrist was broken in the struggle.Officers from the Met's homicide and major crime command are investigating an attempted attack on two people at another house in the road before Silva was killed. A spokesman said: "At this stage, we believe they were both able to get out of the house without injury."Tributes were paid to Silva, who was pronounced dead at the scene. She is thought to have been of Italian descent and to have worked in a nearby cafe. A neighbour said the widow was "such a sweet lady" who had lived in the house for more than 25 years and still went to work every day.A neighbour said she believed the apparent attacker, whom she saw carrying a machete-like weapon in a back garden, was a local man. "I've seen him around here a lot. I don't know where he lives but I've seen him here, with what look like family or friends," said Freda Odame.The 30-year-old restaurant worker said she was about to go to sleep after a night shift when she heard shouting and banging. "I opened my curtains and I saw a man with a knife a few gardens down," she said. "He was screaming – I couldn't hear any words – and looked frantic. You could see he seemed aggressive."The man was waving the weapon, which she described as long and curved, around the grass, "as if he was looking for something on the floor"."I was shaking. I drew the curtains straightaway in case he saw me, and called for my husband."Within five minutes, police arrived at the house and evacuated them, she said.Another resident described seeing a man brandishing a machete and shouting about cats.The witness, who did not want to be named, said: "There was a scream so I went to the windows and saw a guy with a machete with blood dripping from it. We saw a cat on the floor without a head."The man then appeared in the witness's garden and began swiping at plants, he said. "He started cutting roses. We were just trying to call the police. You can't think anything in that situation."At one point the man climbed on top of a garage, the witness said.A number of people were quickly evacuated by police. Dennis Lattimor, 78, said: "There was a big knock on the front door with uniformed police standing outside. They as good as dragged me away down the street, saying there was a dangerous man on the loose. I didn't even have time to put a shirt on – I had to borrow one from someone."In a later statement at the scene, Commander Simon Letchford said his officers "did everything they could to evacuate people from those premises and clearly they were aware of what had happened and they put themselves in extreme danger to protect the public".He refused to say whether it was believed the alleged attacker knew his victim, or if the man's mental health was being assessed.