A former policeman who killed his terminally ill wife in a failed suicide pact escaped jail today and a judge described his act as the "last loving thing you could do for her".Brian Blackburn, 62, was given a suspended nine-month sentence at the Old Bailey for killing his wife Margaret, also 62, who was in agonising pain with advanced stomach cancer. He was initially charged with murder but his manslaughter plea was accepted when the Crown Prosecution Service heard evidence of the suicide pact and the extent of her illness.Placing a flannel over her face so she could not see what was happening, Blackburn slit his wife's wrists on the morning of October 15 2004 at their home in Ash, Surrey.She had been in severe pain overnight and the court heard that she had told him to cut her wrists and make sure she was dead before cutting his own. Blackburn said she had told him that they could then "meet again on the other side". It took the former nurse, who was terrified of surgery after her work in a hospice for the terminally ill, around 20 minutes to die. Blackburn then removed the flannel and, as she had asked him to, combed her hair before cutting his own wrists. But, even though the court heard the cuts were all identical on himself and his wife, it was only one on her that severed an artery and proved fatal. Blackburn's blood congealed and later at 7.44pm he dialled 999 and admitted what he had done. Today, Judge Richard Hawkins told Blackburn, who had been in custody since his arrest three months ago: "I am not going to send you to prison."He suspended Blackburn's sentence for two years and made the retired officer, who had an exemplary police record for 30 years and served with Hampshire police, the subject of a supervision order.The case will inevitably be scrutinised for any precedents it might set for "mercy killings" but the judge stressed there were exceptional circumstances in the case and warned that taking someone else's life was a serious matter.The couple had married in 1998 after Blackburn's earlier wife, Angela, died from breast cancer. Mrs Blackburn's two grown-up sons from a previous marriage, Colin and Martin Lawrence, had written to the judge pleading for mercy and describing Blackburn as a "gentleman". Outside court today, standing by Blackburn, the sons called him "dad" and said they were relieved he had been released because he had suffered enough. Martin Lawrence said: "We will be 100% there for him." Colin Lawrence said: "We will help him through these difficult times."The court had heard that their mother had visited them both before her death to "say goodbye".Defence counsel, Peter Binder, had asked the judge for compassion as Blackburn had made a serious attempt to end his life and was now mentally "fragile". The judge said he accepted that Mrs Blackburn had only weeks to live and had asked her husband to cut her wrists as a last loving act.During the trial, an interview between Blackburn and police was relayed to the court. Blackburn told the police: "She said, 'You have got to do something. You have got to cut my wrists and then do yours and we will meet each other on the other side'. "I said, 'I can't'. She said, 'You have got to. I can't go to hospital. It's the last loving thing, it's the last loving thing you can do for me'." Mr Blackburn had told police: "I did what she asked me to do. I failed myself. Now I have to pay the price." Mr Binder said: "Brian Blackburn was utterly devoted to his wife and could not see life without her. He was prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice to be with her. The fact she died and he survived appears to be an accident."Richard Whittam, for the prosecution, told the court it was clear that there was a "loving relationship" between the couple. Judge Hawkins said a postmortem examination had shown Mrs Blackburn had stomach cancer as she had suspected and the prosecution said the rest of her life would likely have been "very short, very poor". Her condition had begun to deteriorate last autumn, said the judge, and a doctor involved in the postmortem examination described the tumour in her stomach as the largest he had seen.Mrs Blackburn's sons said their mother was a "strong-willed woman who did not want her family to suffer by her death from cancer". Blackburn was greeted by friends and family as he left the Old Bailey. His solicitor, Rebecca Shortt, said: "My client is delighted with the outcome of today's hearing. The circumstances in which he found himself were a tragic episode. His actions were those of a man who showed deep love and compassion for his sick wife."