A moody loner was jailed for life yesterday after a chance DNA test proved that he strangled a woman sports student four years ago.Bus driver Michael Robinson, 30, had got away with committing one of the most highly publicised murders in the North of England until he battered a neighbour's door. Arrested for criminal damage, he gave a routine DNA sample which was linked by painstaking police work to semen found on the naked body of Sara Cameron in a muddy field on Tyneside. The 23-year-old sports management student, born in Finland, had been celebrating with friends on Good Friday in April 2000, the day before she was due to fly out to a "dream job" at the Sydney Olympics. Robinson, who will serve a minimum of 17 years in prison, admitted the killing in a series of interviews with a psychiatrist after his arrest. The former soldier, who moved from Tyneside to Newhaven, East Sussex, before his secret was uncovered, was described as "exceptionally dangerous" by Mr Justice Henriques at New castle upon Tyne crown court. The court heard he had followed Ms Cameron off a late night Metro train from Newcastle where she had been enjoying farewell drinks with friends from Northumbria University. He admitted dragging her through a hedge and trying to rape her, before strangling her when he heard someone approaching nearby. Paul Worsley QC, prosecuting, said: "For four years, he showed no remorse and breathed not a word of what he had done and moved from the area. He knew the family of Sara Cameron would not be able to grieve or rest until her killer was brought to justice." Robinson admitted murder and attempted rape, committed after an evening spent drinking with work colleagues. He admitted after his arrest that he had developed fantasies about rape and violence and had previously stalked two other women. The court heard the divorced father-of-one had chatted to friends about the murder hunt and joked with his mother about detectives questioning one of his friends. Robinson's family told police he had drunk heavily and smoked cannabis, suddenly turning on his brothers and sister without provocation. Judge Henriques told him he would have been sentenced to 24 years in jail, but his guilty plea reduced the term by a quarter. A further 249 days were also taken off as time served since his arrest. The judge praised the "exceptional" police work which trapped the killer. He told the court: "This was a massive and comprehensive inquiry and it is plain to me that the police have carried out their work with the very highest standard." After the hearing, the victim's father, Roy Cameron, an architect from Paignton, Devon, said: "We will always have proud memories of our beautiful daughter. Because we are parents, our heart goes out to the family of this man for the stain they will have to bear. May God forgive him."