An NHS junior doctor was convicted today of conspiring to kill hundreds of people in a terrorist car bombing campaign.Bilal Abdulla, 29, targeted late-night revellers in London's West End in the early hours of 29 June last year.When two car bombs failed, Abdulla joined his friend Kafeel Ahmed the next day in an attack on Glasgow airport in a Jeep laden with petrol and gas canisters. After the Jeep became stuck, the two men threw petrol bombs and fought with police before being overpowered.Abdulla was arrested at the scene. Ahmed, 28, an Indian engineering student, died a month after the attack from burns after dousing himself in petrol and setting himself alight at the attack scene.Another NHS doctor, Mohammed Asha, 28, was today cleared of all charges. He was arrested near Manchester as he travelled south on the M6 with his wife a few hours after the Glasgow attack. Asha, a Jordanian born in Saudi Arabia, was not in London or Glasgow when the attacks took place but the prosecution accused him of providing financial support and spiritual guidance.Strathclyde police assistant chief constable, Campbell Corrigan, described the conviction as a "positive result for the population of the United Kingdom"."The greatest achievement undoubtedly is the fact that no innocent lives were lost and the terrorists failed in their attempts to cause mayhem and mass murder at the airport, he said."Deputy assistant commissioner John McDowall, head of the Met's counter-terrorism command said it was "more luck than judgment" that had prevented the bombs detonating in the capital.The attorney general, Baroness Scotland QC, praised the police and legal team that secured the conviction of Abdulla."Crimes of terror are complex, heinous and incredibly damaging to the very fabric of our society," she said."I would like to pay credit to the authorities in both England and Scotland, and commend how hard they have worked to pull this case together, and their efforts to help root out and combat terrorism."Abdulla was convicted of conspiracy to murder and of two charges of conspiring to cause explosions.Just before 1.30am on 29 June, Abdulla left his car outside the Tiger Tiger nightclub in Haymarket. A few minutes earlier, Ahmed left his vehicle in nearby Cockspur Street. Senior prosecutors told Woolwich crown court the vehicle was positioned to kill those fleeing the first explosion.The two Mercedes were packed with more than 2,000 nails, petrol, gas canisters and homemade detonators. They failed because of loose connections in the phone detonators and the smothering effect of petrol and gas fumes.Aware that detectives would soon identify them, the pair drove to Stoke, where they met Asha. It was there that the plot to attack Glasgow airport was hatched, the prosecution claimed. Asha denied any involvement and said of Abdulla: "He used me. He betrayed me and he destroyed my life."Abdulla, who was British-born but returned to Baghdad with his family when he was five, told the court he was angry about brutality by western forces in Iraq, but never intended to injure or kill innocent people. The prosecution said he was motivated by perceived injustices perpetrated against Muslims in the Palestinian territories, Iraq and Afghanistan.He showed no emotion as the guilty verdicts were read out, while Asha smiled as the jury acquitted him.Mr Justice Mackay indicated that he would sentence Abdulla, who faces a life sentence, tomorrow morning. The guilty man's barrister, Jim Sturman QC, said his crimes "were motivated by politics, not religion"."This is not a case where his intention was driven by religious faith but by his frustration with what he saw as an unjust war," said Sturman.It is understood Asha, who faces deportation to his home country Jordan. will be taken from Belmarsh prison to an immigration detention centre. Mackay told him he hoped he would be able to resume his life "as it was before".