Imitation samurai swords are to be banned in the UK following a series of high-profile attacks, the government announced yesterday. The curved, single-edged Japanese blades, available for as little as £35 on UK websites, have been involved in about 80 serious crimes in England and Wales in recent years, including at least five deaths.They will join knuckle-dusters and batons when they are added to the Offensive Weapons Order in April, though martial arts enthusiasts and collectors are expected to be exempt from the ban.The ban follows public consultation with police, victims' groups, traders, collectors and martial arts enthusiasts. Home Office minister Vernon Coaker said: "In the wrong hands, samurai swords are dangerous weapons. It is therefore crucial that we take this action to tackle the menace of violent crime. We recognise it is the cheap, easily available samurai swords which are being used in crime and not the genuine, more expensive samurai swords which are of interest to collectors and martial arts enthusiasts."In February, father-of-four Thomas Roe killed passerby Carl Taylor in Lincoln with a samurai sword he kept in a pot by his door. Jailing Roe this month for a minimum of 18 years, the judge condemned his use of the "fearsome weapon".It was the latest in a series of cases involving samurai swords. The murder of Matt Stiling in 2005 with a single blow to the chest during a petty feud prompted community and local press campaigns against samurai swords.Before the killer was jailed for 17 years, a senior investigating officer, Det Insp Ken Lamont, described the force of the 18in (45cm) weapon used in the attack outside a Sidmouth club: "He was killed by a single stab wound which went through his body cavity, completely severing a rib, and pierced his heart. These swords are designed for one purpose and one purpose only, which is to kill or inflict serious injury. The way they are held and the size of them and their cutting edges mean they are very dangerous weapons."Andrew Pennington, an assistant to former Liberal Democrat MP Nigel Jones, was murdered trying to save the MP when a man attacked both men at a constituency surgery in Cheltenham in 2000. A year earlier, Eden Strang seriously injured 11 people when he went on the rampage with a samurai sword at a Roman Catholic church in Thornton Heath, south London.Under the new rules, anyone importing, selling or hiring out the swords will face up to six months in prison or a £5,000 fine. Carrying a samurai sword in a public place already carries a maximum jail sentence of four years.