A woman who was left blind after her partner gouged her eyes has said she feels "buried alive, claustrophobic and not in control of my life" following the attack.Tina Nash, a 31-year-old mother of two, was set upon by Shane Jenkin at a property in Hayle, Cornwall, on 20 April last year.In an assault described by police as a "premeditated, sustained and vicious attack on a defenceless woman", Jenkin, 33, strangled Nash until she lost consciousness and then gouged her eyes and broke her jaw and nose.Attempts to save the sight in one of her eyes failed and she was left completely blind.Jenkin, of Sea Lane, Hayle, was originally charged with attempted murder but admitted GBH with intent at Truro crown court on Friday morning. He will be sentenced next month.In a statement released following his plea, Nash said that although she had been robbed of "one of the most precious things in life" she was glad that Jenkin had "at least taken responsibility" for changing her life forever."I actually look forward to going to sleep because in my dreams I have sight," she said. "It's when I wake up that the truth hits home."Some days I just don't want to get up but I'm determined to provide a future for my children and this is my motivation."Her sons were aged 13 and three at the time of the attack.In an interview with the BBC, Nash said she thought she could change Jenkin. She warned other victims of domestic violence to get out before it was too late, adding: "It's not going to get better, it's going to get worse."She said the events of last April had left her feeling as though she had been buried alive."That is how I can describe it," she said. "I can hear people around me but I can't even see my own hand in front of my face. When I hear my kids, I can't see their faces. I actually feel that if my kids weren't in the house that night, I actually wish I wasn't still here. I'd rather not be here like this – this isn't me."Asked what she missed the most, she said: "The world. My kids' faces … I just miss everything. I have got nothing now … My confidence has gone now."Nash said she hoped that Jenkin – who blamed her for the attack – would not be "buzzing" over being the last person she ever saw.She said she could not understand why he had not tried to help her. She said Jenkin had held her prisoner for 12 hours after the attack, adding: "He was blaming me saying 'it's all your fault – I am going to do years for this'."If I had seen someone in that much pain, looking like that, then the first thing I'd do is get help and he didn't and I can't forgive him for that," she said.Nash said there had been previous occasions when she had helped Jenkin get out of trouble for hurting her."I have done so much for him and this is how he repaid me."Explaining why she could not walk away from the relationship, she said: "I thought I could change him and help him. I thought he was getting better."Detective Inspector Chris Strickland of Devon and Cornwall police described the attack as the most harrowing case he had been involved in."Our view is that Jenkin deliberately strangled Tina into a state of unconsciousness in order that he could inflict these terrible injuries," he said."Tina's life will never be the same and her lifelong disability will be a constant reminder of the attack."Strickland also paid tribute to Nash's courage in trying to rebuild her life, saying: "Tina has displayed incredible strength, however, and has shown great desire to be able to care for her two children despite not being able to see them as they grow up."