Loyalist killer Michael Stone planned to slit the throats of Sinn Féin's Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness in a televised assassination at the Stormont headquarters of the Northern Ireland assembly on its opening day, a court heard yesterday.Stone, 53, plotted to kill them on the November day in 2006 when McGuinness was designated as deputy first minister, it is claimed. However, his plan to plunge the peace process into crisis ended in failure when he was detained by security staff at the entrance to Parliament Buildings. Stone, a convicted killer and terrorist, intended to kill the two Sinn Féin leaders on the first day of devolution, Belfast crown court heard. The 53-year-old Ulster loyalist is charged with attempted murder, and possessing homemade explosives and an imitation gun with intent. He also faces charges of carrying a garrotte, three knives and an axe and assaulting Stormont staff members.Stone denies the charges, claiming his apparent attack was "performance art".But Charles Adair QC, prosecuting, said that after being arrested by police, Stone said: "My intention was to walk into the debating chamber and look for where Adams, McGuinness and Sinn Féin were sitting. I would have lobbed several nail bombs to cause confusion. I planned to stab Adams and McGuinness and cut their throats." The lawyer said Stone admitted to counting on the fact that any personal protection weapons the assembly members had would not have been carried into the debating chambers.According to the crown lawyer, Stone told police, on the way to hospital after he had complained of chest pains following the alleged botched attack, that he could not "handle" the prospect of McGuinness becoming deputy first minister.Stone, who suffers severe arthritis and walks with a stick, spent two hours working his way through the Stormont grounds to the entrance of Parliament Buildings, Adair said. He was first spotted by a security guard spray-painting on the front of the buildings the words "Sinn Fein IRA war". When the guard challenged Stone he pulled a gun, which later turned out to be a replica, and pointed it into the security man's face, saying: "You had better fucking run or you're a dead man."The security guard ran in a zig-zag fashion to the east end of the building, where he raised the alarm. Stone tried to enter the main revolving door but was trapped by security guard Sue Porter, said Adair.Adair said Stone was kneed in the groin and the imitation firearm wrestled from him by Porter and another security guard. He had a bag with him which he dropped and used a lighter to light what appeared to be a fuse, which started to sparkle, the court heard.He flung the bag into the entrance hall, shouting that a bomb would go off: "Fucking evacuate. It will go off." Porter responded: "You will go up with it." Stone replied: "What the fuck."He told her that his homemade bomb would go off in five minutes, but in fact the device never went off and is believed to have malfunctioned, having got damp during torrential rain that day.Adair praised the security staff at Stormont, saying: "This attack failed because of the bravery of the security staff."He added that Stone insisted he had been acting alone, telling police: "I am a dissident loyalist freelance." He claimed to have left the Ulster Defence Association on the day he was released from the Maze prison under the Good Friday Agreement early release scheme. Stone gained notoriety in 1988 when he launched a gun and grenade attack on the republican funeral of three IRA members shot dead by the SAS in Gibraltar. Three people died and several more were injured before Stone was arrested by police as he fled Milltown cemetery in west Belfast by running on to the M1 motorway.Following his arrest at Stormont he was returned to prison to serve out the balance of his life sentence for the murders.The court heard that evidence including a DVD of events at Stormont had just come to light which both prosecution and defence would be using in the case. Arthur Harvey QC, defending, said it would be used by him to back Stone's assertion that his actions at Stormont were "performance art".The hearing continues.BackstoryMichael Stone has never fitted the stereotypical image of the tattooed, beer-bellied, shaven-headed loyalist. Born on the Cregagh estate in east Belfast, his gun and grenade attack on an IRA funeral in 1988 catapulted him into notoriety. After he was sentenced to life for the three murders at the funeral, Stone was sent to the Maze prison. But unlike most of his fellow loyalists, he explored his artistic side and became a painter and sculptor, making connections with a number of British and Irish artists who championed his work. One of his paintings, Kneeling Nude, sold recently on eBay for almost £10,000.