The widow of a man whose remains were found under a motorway flyover more than eight years after he disappeared, said the uncertainty about what had happened was the toughest part of her life.Police used dental records to identify the remains of Vincent Derrick, then 28, who vanished on a night out with colleagues in Manchester city centre in the early hours of 30 August 2003.His remains were found in an area beneath the flyover near junction three of the M60 in Stockport, Greater Manchester, on Wednesday evening. There were no clothes or paperwork that helped identify the remains, but his family were informed by police, as it was close to where he had been dropped off by taxi.At a press conference on Friday, Vicki Derrick wept as she explained how she could now "rest easy", after campaigning relentlessly for more than eight years to find out what happened to her husband.But she said she still has a lot of questions that need to be answered about his death. He disappeared on a work night out at the Jabez Clegg nightclub in the student district of Manchester. He left the club shortly after midnight and took a taxi, but failed to arrive at his boss's house in Heald Green, Stockport, where he planned to spend the night.Over the past eight years, Greater Manchester police and his family have made numerous appeals to the public for information to help end the uncertainty. "I was never going to be satisfied until Vinny was found," Vicki said at a press conference in Manchester. "I was never going to give up, I always wanted to believe that this day would come.""I keep saying whatever happened, happened on that night, and I can now rest easy with the fact I have always believed that. There are lots of questions that I have and I am waiting to be answered."The past eight years have been the toughest eight years of my life and it hasn't been easy. It is quite ironic that we have now found Vinny and the struggle that I had all last year trying to get the presumption of death certificate … and now he has been found."Derrick's mother, Dawn Kelsall, said: "It is a relief but, as Victoria says, it's very, very hard. "Yes, we have wanted this answer for a long time but it was such a shock. It came out of the blue. You are going about your normal life and it was such a shock."It is just like it was eight years ago. Just as hard. There is not a week that goes by, in the eight years that we have gone through, that you don't think 'Is something going to come up? I wish they'd find him'. And it is just such a shock now at how they have found him."Police said they are still not sure if he died in suspicious circumstances and are continuing to examine the scene, which is likely to be cordoned off over the weekend as forensic examinations take place.Anyone with information is asked to call Stockport CID on 0161 856 9840, or the independent charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.