Police broke into Ian Huntley's car the night before his arrest in the hope of saving the lives of his alleged victims, a jury at the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Evidence from several officers pieced together a picture of the tense hours leading up to his arrest on August 17 last year, just under a fortnight after the disappearance of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the 10-year-old girls, but has admitted conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Acting Chief Inspector George Barr described asking the caretaker for permission to search his house and car on the afternoon of August 16, as suspicion against him had increased over the course of the inquiry. "I explained that the level of suspicion had been raised against him and that as far as we were concerned he was the last person to see Holly and Jessica," Mr Barr told the court. Mr Huntley consented to the search and gave police his car keys before leaving his home. In a statement read to the jury, Detective Constable Alan Gill, exhibits officer for the inquiry, described telling a superintendent that he wanted to search the car that night. "I advised him that to prevent loss of life, I believed it necessary to enter the Ford Fiesta, by force if necessary," he said. DC Gill, who was not in possession of the keys before the search said, "At 21.10 I forced entry to the vehicle... and visually searched the interior, then pulled the rear seats forward and visually checked the boot." By this time, trained officers were conducting a thorough search of the house which the caretaker shared with his then girlfriend, Maxine Carr. Ms Carr, 26, denies two charges of assisting an offender and one of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. In statements read to the court, PC Timothy Wade described being struck by the cleanliness of the couple's home, which was so "sterile" it looked like a showhouse. But it was in searching a hangar at Soham Village College, where Mr Huntley worked, that he made a discovery in the bottom of a rubbish bin, after removing a binbag which had been used to line the bin. "I picked up something that felt like clothing... It was the remains of a red T-shirt. I could see black and white writing and a number," he said. "It was obvious that the letters spelt Beckham and the number seven. I could smell smoke and it was obvious that the T-shirt was scorched. "I again looked into the bin and could see further red material with writing and three small, white training shoes. From the information I had been given about the clothing the missing girls were wearing, I was positive this was their clothes." The discovery was made at around 11pm and Mr Huntley and Ms Carr were arrested at 4.30am next day. Earlier yesterday, one of the inquiry's most senior officers told the court that Mr Huntley had spoken to him at the end of a press conference on August 15, asking about a message that the police had left on Jessica's mobile phone for the girls' abductor. Detective Chief Inspector Andy Hebb told the court: "Mr Huntley asked me how an abductor would be able to get at the message from the police if the phone's battery was dead, and then after a pause, he said 'or if it had been thrown away'." Stephen Coward QC, for Mr Huntley, suggested to Mr Hebb that the caretaker had asked a "basic question" that anyone might have asked. "Yes, but no one else did," Mr Hebb replied. The court also heard that Mr Huntley conceded that he had all four tyres on his car changed the day after the girls disappearance. The case continues on Monday.