One of the surviving alleged victims of the "night stalker" sex attacker described how she formed a "kind of rapport" with him after she fought off his advances.The woman, who was 77 when she was indecently assaulted in October 2002, said she did not know whether she was having an "awful dream" when she found the man in her bedroom.But in footage of a police interview played to Woolwich crown court, she said he gave her what was almost an "affectionate" kiss on the cheek before leaving.The woman, who was living in Croydon, said: "By the time he left we had established a kind of rapport. The kiss on the cheek he gave me was as near as he could manage to being affectionate."It happens, doesn't it, with captors," she added.The woman said she first discovered the man at the end of her bed by a wardrobe when she captured him in her torchlight, as she tried to look at her bedside clock."I was flabbergasted," she said. "I just couldn't understand how he got in and I kept asking him."He was wrestling with me. I kept saying 'get away' and pushing him. I began to think this might be some awful dream."She said he was lying on her bed and pushing her but she was determined not to let it go further and pushed him back.She tried biting his fingers, but said she did not make much of an impression.The court heard that he made an obscene comment but she pretended not to hear and thought he was being "silly".His all-in-one boiler suit made him "look like a kind of funny man" and "didn't seem suited to the job".She continued: "He didn't put his whole heart into it, otherwise he could have overpowered me. I felt he never really used all the strength that he probably had."She said she thought he intended to rape her but she found a hidden strength, adding: "You get a kind of rush of something. I suppose it was all part of the shock. I really never stopped talking. I think he probably got fed up with me. He was sort of battling with me."The woman said afterwards that she thought she had "got away lightly", and that he could have tied her up with her tights or "done me in with a knife if he had wanted to".The woman felt she gained some initiative after asking if he would go if she gave him money. She said they "sort of agreed to that". She gave him £60 in cash but he then went around the house by torchlight searching from room to room.She said: "He was being very stupid. I would say it was a bit random really, but he wasn't in a great hurry."The woman, who is Catholic, showed the man the envelopes she used for her weekly £2 church offering, but he declined.Asked to describe her attacker, she said: "I thought it was a face you could pass in a crowd without remarking, maybe that's how he got away with it."Delroy Grant, 53, of Honor Oak, south-east London, denies 29 charges, including rapes and sex assaults between 1992 and 2009. The trial continues.