The lord chancellor insisted yesterday that Britain will not leave the European convention on human rights or repeal the Human Rights Act and sought to dispel fears that the act protects criminals at the expense of public safety.Britain's commitment to human rights was permanent, Lord Falconer said. "They are the bedrock on which our society has been built. We fought to defend those freedoms in the second world war, we enshrined them in the European convention, and we were among the first signatories of that convention."His defence of the act, in comments to a meeting of the Hansard Society in London, comes after the prime minister called a high court judge's ruling that Afghans who hijacked a plane should be allowed to stay in Britain on human rights grounds "an abuse of common sense". The judgment was branded "inexplicable" by the home secretary, John Reid.Lord Falconer warned that criticism of the judges for their human rights rulings risked undermining judicial independence. "We must be careful, in this debate and in the way we construct a response, to ensure that the independence of the judges is not undermined," he said. "We need to explore how we can provide for informed debate on the issues, without applying pressure on judges in terms of individual decisions or by undermining judicial independence in any way."He pointed out that the decision by Mr Justice Sullivan that the Afghans could not be sent back to face torture in their home country was based on case law from the European court of human rights in Strasbourg which predated the Human Rights Act and even the Labour government.The judge was following a 1996 decision of the Strasbourg court which prevents the deportation of foreigners who would face a real risk of death or torture on their return.The Afghan ruling and the case of the rapist Anthony Rice, who killed 40-year-old Naomi Bryant after he was released from prison on licence, brought widespread calls for repeal of the Human Rights Act.The chief inspector of probation's report into the Rice case highlighted human rights issues in the decision about his release and subsequent management.But Lord Falconer said the report had identified many errors leading to Rice's release and the inadequacy of his supervision. Human rights arguments by Rice's lawyers had distracted the authorities from the public safety arguments, or had undermined those arguments.The problem was not the letter of the law, but the way it was used. "There is no human rights legislation which says Mr Rice should be free even if it meant that the consequence is risking the lives of others. That is a perversion of human rights. It completely undermines the basis of those laws," he said.Lord Falconer said the government needed to act urgently "to stop the Human Rights Act becoming corrupted to produce perverse results. We need to take steps now to ensure that lawyers and public authorities do not misuse human rights or feel intimidated into focusing on the rights of the offender to the detriment of the public."But this should not be used as a prop to argue for withdrawal from the convention," he said. "The convention rights do not remotely reduce the ability of the state to provide proper protection for its citizens. Indeed it imposes an obligation on the state to protect its citizens from death or injury."He said training and guidance were crucial in making sure that the act was applied correctly, and without changing convention rights the government would consider whether legislation was required to underline that public safety comes first.Human rights lawyers point out that public safety is at the heart of the convention, which already requires rights such as the right to liberty to be balanced against any risk to public safety.