A "reclusive" teenager stabbed his mother more than 80 times before dialling 999 to tell emergency services: "I have killed my mum," a court heard today.The jury was played a recording of the emergency call made by Jamie Fort in July 2008. He was heard saying he had killed his mother and describing how his sister and father were still upstairs in bed.Patricia Fort, 57, died because of "a sustained assault" by Jamie in the living room of their home while other family members were asleep, Birmingham crown court heard. The question was not whether Fort, then 18, had killed her but why, prosecutor Christopher Hotten QC told the court.Fort, now 20, who had been awaiting A-level results at the time of the killing, has admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. But a jury must decide whether he is a murderer.Experts had since found Fort was suffering from "dissociative disorder" when he carried out the attack at the house at Castle Bromwich, West Midlands. "Such disorders are said to disrupt awareness and perception and mean the sufferer is not in control of his actions," Hotten said.The jury must consider if Fort was suffering from a mental disorder at the time of the attack and, if so, whether this substantially reduced his mental responsibility. "This is not a case about whether this killing took place or who was responsible for it, the question is why," Hotten said.A 999 operator had received a call at 3.23am on the day in question, Hotten said. "The operator asked the caller for his address. He gave it and he added: 'I have killed my mother.' The operator said: 'What made you do that?' He replied, 'I can't honestly say why I done it. Please just get there and deal with it before I go mad.' "When asked how he killed her, Fort told the operator: "I took the knife from the kitchen, stabbed her multiple times, everywhere." Hotten said: "He said his mother was on the living room floor, that she had been sleeping. He had woken her up and said, 'Hi'."Fort answered the door to police wearing just a pair of tracksuit bottoms with blood on his hands. The officers found Fort's mother lying in the living room.Fort's father, Paul Fort, and younger sister, Petra, 16 at the time, were woken by police as Fort was arrested on suspicion of murder, Hotten said. Mrs Fort, a school catering manager, was pronounced dead in hospital. In all, she was stabbed more than 80 times, including her face, neck, chest and abdomen. She died of blood loss from the multiple wounds, Hotten said.He added: "A picture emerges of a young man, on the one hand bright and intelligent, but on the other hand reclusive and socially isolated. Whereas Jamie Fort appears to have had a particularly difficult relationship with his father, his relationship with his mother was much better."Fort's father, Paul, told the court that his son "was a nice young lad, intelligent, did not mix outside because of anti-social behaviour on the estate. He was just quiet and kept to himself.".after being woken by police, he saw his son in handcuffs at the bottom of the stairs, the teenager looked "quite calm" and said, "You will hate me for this."Mr Fort, a Royal Mail worker, said he once suggested to his wife their son should see a psychiatrist because of his general behaviour and their strained relationship, but nothing came of it.The trial continues.