The director-general of the prison service, Martin Narey, launches a scathing attack today on the Commission for Racial Equality's unfinished two-year-long investigation into prison racism and argues that it has actually hindered efforts to tackle racism behind bars.Mr Narey claims that while the CRE formal investigation has been dragging on, the official race watchdog has failed to provide any help or advice to the prison service in tackling the problems of racism in prisons in England and Wales. In the annual Perrie lecture today at the prison service training college, Mr Narey is expected to claim that the CRE's approach to the investigation is so hostile that the entire exercise has had little to do with getting at the facts. "It's not been about searching for the truth. It's been about pinning you to the wall," the director-general will complain. "Everybody in the prison service is waiting for this report. It should have been brought to a conclusion ages ago and we should have been working with them to put things right." It is feared that the report, when it finally comes out, will be two years out of date and will fail to take account of fundamental changes since. "Basically we were up for change and they did not help us in achieving that change," said a prison service source. The official CRE inquiry was established after the murder of Zahid Mubarek by a racist skinhead, Robert Stewart, in Feltham young offenders' institution in March 2000. At its launch, the CRE promised it would be a "no-holds-barred" inquiry which would produce a report as important for the prison system as the Stephen Lawrence report was for the police. It is looking into claims of racist bullying, harassment and violence not only involving inmates but also staff. Even before the CRE announced its inquiry, Mr Narey openly admitted that not only did the prison service suffer from institutional racism but that it was also clear that a minority of prison staff were blatantly racist. The director-general announced that he would tackle such racism head on. Since then four prison officers, including two at the training school, have been dismissed for overtly racist behaviour. The prison service has become the only public service organisation to sack staff for being members of the British National party and the National Front. Mr Narey is expected to express his disappointment that the CRE has not worked constructively with the prison service to push through improvements but instead adopted a more hostile position. "I have immense respect for Gurbux Singh [the CRE chairman]. I have been promised drafts of this report but there is still no sign of any drafts." The CRE investigation was to focus on Feltham, Brixton and the privately run Parc prison in south Wales, where there were claims of a "Ku Klux Klan wing" and of young English offenders being victimised by Welsh prisoners. It was also looking at practise at prison service headquarters. Mr Narey's speech is expected to provoke a vigorous response from the CRE.