The Conservative party demanded today that the home secretary, Charles Clarke, update MPs as early as tomorrow on how many of the 1000-odd missing foreign criminals have been tracked down.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, called on Charles Clarke, who only issued a written statement on Friday, to give another progress report on attempts to track down the 1,023 offenders released from prison without being considered for deportation.The home secretary faced more calls for him to resign after it was revealed that took him more than three weeks to tell the prime minister that serious offenders were among the foreign convicts released without facing deportation. Mr Clarke is still determined to carry on and sort out the blunder, telling his local newspaper in an interview published today that he still hoped to keep his job. The Home Office confirmed that officials informed Mr Clarke on March 30 that foreigners convicted of serious crimes, including murder and rape, had been released without being considered for deportation.However, Mr Clarke did not pass the information on to Downing Street until April 21. It was then another five days until police were supplied with the list of all 1,023 relevant foreign offenders. It emerged last week that Mr Clarke had also failed to inform Mr Blair until Wednesday that 288 of the offenders had been released after ministers were made aware of the problem. Mr Davis, who has been leading calls for Mr Clarke to resign over the affair, said: "Clearly it is outrageous that he did not tell the prime minister for three weeks. It is even more outrageous that he did not inform the police straight away." A Home Office spokeswoman said the delays - revealed by the Times - occurred while the Home Office was "working hard to clarify the situation". "The prime minister was told as soon as the full extent of the problem was known," she said. Mr Clarke has already faced concerted calls to resign after revealing that at least five of the released convicts have reoffended. Two of the released foreign prisoners have also faced rape claims - one after ministers were told of the problem. Mr Davis predicted that at least another 50 serious crimes would be revealed to have been committed by the released prisoners.A nationwide operation to arrest 79 of the most serious offenders has been going on all weekend, but the degree of its success has been unclear. Mr Clarke said on Friday that deportation action had begun in 63 cases, and that six people were already in custody pending deportation. However, a Home Office spokeswoman would today only repeat comments that, since Friday, more offenders had been detained, without elaborating.This morning the Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Menzies Campbell, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I think the home secretary's position was, to say the least, pretty fragile and I think the news which has emerged overnight has sealed his fate." Mr Clarke was unable to "command public confidence in fulfilling his responsibilities as home secretary", Sir Menzies said. "He ought to resign."Mr Blair refused yesterday to guarantee his home secretary's future in an interview with the News of the World. However, a Downing Street spokesman said today: "The prime minister remains fully supportive of the home secretary as the best person to resolve the issue."There was also a report in the Sun today that Mr Clarke had not offered his resignation to Tony Blair last week, despite claiming he had done so in an interview with the BBC.The newspaper claimed Mr Blair was infuriated and stormed out of the Commons after prime minister's questions on Wednesday when opposition MPs criticised him for not accepting the offer. Mr Clarke, MP for Norwich South, told the Eastern Daily Press that Mr Blair's support was vital to his position. Mr Clarke said: "At the end of the day, my own political future depends on my own strength of character dealing with the points that are raised, first, secondly on the support of my own political colleagues, and thirdly and most importantly, on the decisions of the prime minister. If I lost that support, that would be different. I hope I will continue as home secretary." He said he had considered his position in recent days and that it would have been "ridiculous", given events, if he had not considered resigning. "I thought about it and thought about the reform agenda and what I had delivered. If I look back over the past 15 months, I don't think it's been an underachieving period. I feel we have achieved a great deal." The home secretary said the pressure he was under did "not remotely compare to the pressure of [last year's London bombings on] 7/7 and the subsequent decisions of that time and how we protect ourselves against the threats that are there". The left-wing MP Bob Wareing became the latest Labour backbencher to call on Mr Clarke to quit, telling the BBC: "I think he should resign"."The point is that you can't get away from this basic principle that the minister is responsible. It's not just a small error where he could come to the House of Commons and apologise and that would be it. This is a major error within his department."At a May Day event in his constituency, the Conservative leader, David Cameron, claimed chaos and incompetence was endemic in the government which he said was suffering an "irreversible loss of authority". He announced a new Tory working group of business leaders and former civil servants that would report back to him on ways to improve administrative competence and management practices within government.The government has been rocked by the Home Office crisis and revelations that the deputy prime minister, John Prescott, had a two-year affair with his diary secretary. The Guardian reports today that senior cabinet ministers want Mr Blair to rescue his failing government by agreeing to a public date on when he will hand power to the chancellor. Mr Blair is considering a reshuffle as early as next Monday, which would be a few days after Thursday's local elections, in which Labour is expected to do badly.