The errors that seriously undermined the first investigation into the disappearance of estate agent Suzy Lamplugh were outlined for the first time yesterday as her family expressed anger and frustration that the prime suspect for her killing has never been charged.Naming serving prisoner John Cannan as the focus of a reinvestigation into Lamplugh's abduction and murder, Scotland Yard Detective Assistant Commissioner Bill Griffiths admitted it was a "matter of great regret" that the original inquiry, launched in 1986, had "missed significant opportunities." He said: "If these had been grasped at the time, it may have led us to a prosecution many years ago. But that did not happen." A second investigation, which began two years ago, culminated in a file against Cannan being sent to the crown prosecution service. But Mark Dennis, a senior Treasury counsel, ruled the circumstantial evidence against the 47-year-old convicted rapist and murderer was insufficient to take to court. At a press conference yesterday, during which the police admitted they could take the case no further without fresh evidence, Lamplugh's father Paul said: "We are greatly distressed, and indeed considerably angered, that after all these years it is still not possible to prosecute the person who both we and the police believe murdered Suzy." Detectives conceded yesterday that Cannan should have been a suspect from the early stages of the original inquiry. This was launched when Lamplugh, 25, disappeared in July 1986 while showing a client, who called himself Mr Kipper, around a vacant house in Fulham, south-west London. Three days before Lamplugh vanished Cannan had been released from a hostel at nearby Wormwood Scrubs prison, where he was finishing a six-year sentence for rape. In prison Cannan was known by other inmates as "Kipper". Yet police involved in the original inquiry did not check prisons for records of recently released sex offenders. Yesterday senior officers confirmed that police had also failed to act upon information supplied by Mr and Mrs Lamplugh about a man of whom their daughter had spoken of shortly before she disappeared. This man said he was from Bristol - Cannan's hometown - and it appeared he had approached Lamplugh in the weeks before her abduction. Detective Chief Inspector Jim Dickie said: "My theory is that Suzy was either befriend ed by or stalked by the man who subsequently abducted her." In another crucial mistake, police used an out of date photograph of Lamplugh in the first appeals for witnesses. This showed her with dark hair when she had dyed it blond - a confusion that led some witnesses to discount what police now realise were important sightings. Despite clues that pointed to Cannan's involvement, he did not become a suspect until he was arrested for the abduction, murder and rape of Shirley Banks, a newly married sales manager, whom he bludgeoned to death in Bristol in October 1987. Cannan, a category A prisoner at Full Sutton jail, has been interviewed by police on four occasions since then and has denied involvement in Lamplugh's murder. But Mr Dickie said yesterday there was "a great deal of circumstantial evidence" to implicate him. He said police were still hoping that fresh material might emerge that would solve the case once and for all. Mr Lamplugh said yesterday that the "professionalism, dedication and determination" of the officers involved in the second inquiry could not be faulted, and he still hoped "to nail the person who killed our daughter".