Whatever else international criminal law should achieve, it is surely to stop those identified as likely to commit sexual offences against children from travelling. Any number of international treaties state as much. Such "travellers" are part of an international industry that amounts to organised crime. This week's case – there will be more – involved Lars Gellner, a 37-year-old German who had already been sentenced to ten years in jail in Cambodia for child abuse. With no single international database, this did not register with the UK Criminal Records Bureau (CRB). He secured work as a paediatric nurse near London.Other offenders remain abroad indefinitely, abusing children under cover of charitable work, and are often on bail even after conviction. Foreign charities cannot access the CRB. Any UK order disqualifying work with children does not register or bite abroad. Practical extradition arrangements are often non-existent. According to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, in 2007 some 86 British nationals sought consular assistance following arrest for offences relating to the sexual abuse of children. For obvious reasons, this will be a small proportion of the whole. Countries linked to this activity are disproportionately popular with convicted UK sex offenders required to notify travel. The Child Exploitation Online Protection Centre (CEOP) found that 70% of high and very high risk convicted offenders travelled abroad when breaching their notification requirements.Certain welcome changes have been made. Section 72 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 made all sexual exploitation offences against children extra-territorial: a crime here is a crime anywhere, whatever the local law. Whatever the challenges, such laws must however be enforced. "Child sex tourism" has been an offence since 1997. ECPAT UK has identified only five prosecutions. Given the difficulties of extra-territorial enforcement, the obvious thing is to prevent travel by likely offenders. The UK vehicle for this is the Foreign Travel Order (FTO) under section 114 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003. This has comprehensively failed to deliver the intended outcome. Introduced on 1 May 2004, only five FTOs had been issued nationally by May 2007. What should be a simple test – "given the risk of sexual abuse of a child, is an FTO necessary?" – was hopelessly compromised by additional criteria. Last year, with the Gary Glitter circus in England, the home secretary promised change. The result is Clauses 21-24 of the Policing and Crime Bill 2009. Certain fundamental flaws are addressed. Others, demonstrably, are not. As drafted, the new FTO will still only be available following conviction. Without that, even a person known and proven to be very high risk will remain immune. The local chief officer must prove that, since the date of the conviction ("the appropriate date"), the convicted offender has "acted in such a way as to give reasonable cause to believe that it is necessary for such an order to be made". Note "acted". Are the police expected to keep thousands under surveillance? What of the offender remanded in custody? Although it represents an increase from the original six months, the new FTO would still last only five years. Equivalent orders to prevent offending in the UK – Sexual Offences Prevention Orders, or SOPOs – suffer from none of these restrictions. The FTO criteria should be the same. In submissions to parliament, the Association of Chief Police Officers and chief executive of CEOP agree.Sexual abuse of children is a combination of orientation and opportunity. Those with the former travel in the confident expectation of the latter. They are a toxic export we can and must control. Children abroad deserve no lesser protection than that afforded in Britain.