The police were today given new powers to break up groups of two or more teenagers, as part of the government's crackdown on anti-social behaviour.But the children will not need to have committed any offence to be moved on by officers, if the area has been designated an anti-social "hotspot" by the local council.The home secretary, David Blunkett, is today due to launch the powers at a press conference in West London, as the first powers under last year's Anti-Social Behaviour Act.It also gives police-style powers to private security guards for the first time, if they are officially credited. At first this will allow them to stop cyclists riding on the pavement, although later this year both security guards and the new community support officers will get further powers under the same act.Less controversially, police officers will be able to close down crack houses within 48 hours, and keep them shut for up to six months. The introduction of controversial new police powers to disperse groups of people who have gathered in an area designated an anti-social hotspot by the local council. In fact, the measure narrows the number who may be dispersed from 20, under the 1986 Public Order Act, to two.This aspect of the Act was objected to by children's charities and some lawyers, who said it would victimise youngsters who had committed no crime. Some race groups said it could also target ethnic minorities whose cultures traditionally involve street-corner gatherings. The host of new powers were designed to target yobs, nuisance neighbours, vandals and drug dealers who make life a misery for law-abiding residents. New restrictions on air weapons, raising the age for legal possession from 14 to 17, also come in today. It will also be an arrestable offence to carry air guns in public "without lawful authority or excuse". Newspapers and local councils will be able to name tearaways convicted and punished with an anti-social behaviour order under today's changes. A range of on-the-spot fines are to be extended from adults to 16 and 17-year-olds for offences such as throwing fireworks and making hoax 999 calls. Under the Act, the home secretary will be able to extend the fines in future to children as young as 10. The home secretary was due to visit later today a community in west London which has worked together to combat anti-social behaviour. More powers contained in the Act are due to come into force later this year. The Act itself further extends powers from the 1986 Public Order Act, 1994 Criminal Justice and Public Order Act and the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act.Mr Blunkett said: "From today people have new tools in their fight against neighbours from hell, intimidating groups on their streets and potentially lethal firearms. "They have been introduced after talking with communities who live in fear of yobs and with councils, police, environmental health officers, courts and others who have had to deal with these problems. "We are determined to help these communities - for more than a year the government has been working hard to tackle anti-social behaviour and I recognise the tremendous amount of good work already being done across the country. "But the government cannot do everything on its own. "We have delivered the powers people on the front line wanted. They must now be used for the benefit of everyone."