The home secretary is urgently looking at ways to curb a 73% rise in the number of foreign prisoners in an attempt to tackle the overcrowding crisis in jails in England and Wales.Charles Clarke told MPs yesterday that the explosion in the number of foreign nationals involved in fraud and the drug trade was a key factor behind the all-time-high prison population of 77,774 recorded last Friday. He admitted the jails were now "very close" to their limit.One option under consideration is to send many more foreign offenders home, but he would need assurances that they would serve the whole of sentences passed by a British court.The home secretary also confirmed that he was considering extending the use of the early release home detention curfew scheme, but said no decision had yet been taken. He added that it might yet prove "an undesirable but necessary step". He also hoped to cut the numbers on remand by speeding up court hearings.But Mr Clarke rejected a call yesterday from the former lord chief justice, the outgoing head of the prison and probation service, and an ex-home secretary for a royal commission to be set up into prison overcrowding now that the jails "teeter on the very edge of operating capacity". The call came from Lord Woolf, Martin Narey and Lord Hurd.Mr Clarke admitted that prisons in England and Wales were close to capacity, with space for only 400 more inmates before the system reached its "bust limit", and with numbers increasing by 250 a week. A further 470 spaces are to be made available this month by bringing back into use wings mothballed for refurbishment."12% to 13% of the occupants of prisons at the moment are foreign nationals. That is a very large number indeed," Mr Clarke told the Commons home affairs committee. "From 2000 to 2005 the number of British nationals in British prisons increased by 11% while foreign nationals increased by 75%. If the foreign nationals had increased at the same rate as the British we would have about 3,500 less prisoners than we do today."He added that while there were 1,800 prisoners from other EU countries in British jails there were only about 800 British inmates in other EU prisons: "I'm not sure why there is that disparity and we are looking at it." In June there were 9,750 foreign prisoners, with more than half from Turkey, India, Pakistan, Jamaica, Nigeria and Ireland.Two years ago Morton Hall in Lincolnshire became the first jail in modern penal history to hold a majority of foreign prisoners. Foreign nationals can be sent back back to their own countries to serve their sentences but Britain lacks a repatriation agreement with some of the Caribbean islands, including Jamaica, which is home to the largest single group of foreign nationals in prisons - about 2,700. This has led to suggestions in the past that Britain should pay for a jail to be built in Jamaica so many could be sent home to serve their sentences.