Police were yesterday questioning a farmer who was arrested on suspicion of murdering a man found shot dead in the garden of his Norfolk farmhouse and for the alleged wounding of a suspected burglar.Officers were holding Tony Martin, 54, at King's Lynn police station after the body was discovered at his home in the hamlet of Emneth Hungate, near Wisbech, Cambridgeshire, on Saturday.Norfolk police said they did not know what the man was doing in the garden. Police said they had arrested two men, including the wounded man, on suspicion of burglary. Last night the man who escaped injury was released on police bail.A shotgun is believed to have been recovered from near Mr Martin's home and police say they are not looking for anyone else in connection with the incident.The drama began just before 11pm on Friday when police were called to a house near to Mr Martin's home, Bleak House, after a report that a man had been found suffering from gunshot wounds. Officers later arrested another man nearby.Around 6.30am on Saturday, armed police arrested the farmer at a hotel in Wisbech.When police went to Mr Martin's home, they discovered a body in his garden. The injured man was yesterday under arrest at the Queen Elizabeth hospital, KingÕs Lynn.A special court yesterday granted police the power to detain Mr Martin for a further 24 hours.Neighbours said Mr Martin, who lives in a hamlet of just a dozen homes, had been burgled twice in recent months.Farmer Stewart Mayfield, 48, who lives about half a mile from Mr Martin, said: "There have been a lot of break-ins around here in recent years. The last time they took an antique chest and some of Mr Martin's family papers and photographs. Some of those papers turned up in a ditch. The police got no one for it. He was very angry and distressed about what had happened."After the most recent burglary, Mr Martin had moved many of his possessions upstairs in the hope of improving the safety of his property. Mr Mayfield added: "He's very much an individual. He's very well educated. He will do things like go off to visit a stately home when he should be working. And he will go out farming when everyone else has finished. He was out the other night until two in the morning. But he's very friendly. He will come to make himself known to people, which a lot of locals won't."Mr Mayfield's wife, Carole, 51, said she had spoken to Mr Martin after the last break-in at his farmhouse. "He was very worried about coming home and finding someone in the house," she said. "His personal papers and family things were very precious to him and he was very upset at the thought of people interfering with them," she added.