Ken Clarke, in his speech overhauling prison policy today, pointed out that the prison population was 44,000 when he left office and is 85,000 today. This is the sole uncontested statistic of the conversation, which is the beauty of prisoners: it's really easy to count them. Other areas are more complicated. Clarke says Labour's lock-em-up policy made no difference to reoffending, which has increased. Jack Straw, writing in the Daily Mail, counters that recidivism has actually gone down, by 20% among adult offenders, 24% among young offenders.In fact, on reoffending you can make the figures dance to your own tune. Broadly, reoffending has gone up over the last two years, but the drop was so substantial in the six previous years that it is still lower than it was in 2000. Prisoners on short sentences are much more likely to reoffend, but there has been an impressive fall in recidivism among prisoners on long sentences.The received wisdom is that it's hard to get traction with short-term prisoners – with a sentence of under a year, six months will be served. Much of that will be on remand, during which time there is no obligation for the prisoner to take any courses, they are busy anyway with their court appearance, and they might ping between prisons, never staying anywhere long enough for training.There's also the obvious point that six months is not that great a deterrent. The former governor of Pentonville, Gareth Davies, described this as one of his biggest battles: to stop short-term prisoners relaxing into the stretch as an "occupational hazard". Clarke suggests using community orders instead, enlisting the support of private and voluntary organisations instead of relying on custody. I don't disagree with everything he says – if nothing else, this will kibosh the Titan-prison idea, probably the best method yet devised for quashing rehabilitation, taking prisoners miles away from their families.Nevertheless there are two mistakes in the debate about the penal system as framed by Clarke. First, the idea that public fear of crime is a reflection of failed policy. Speaking at the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, Clarke said of Labour's policy: "And do the public feel any safer as a result? I think not. Crime remains one of their top three concerns." This attempt to equate fear of crime with rising rates is bogus. Crime figures are the lowest they have been since 1981 – the fear of crime, I suspect, is a response to a subliminal awareness of inequality. The ultimate political dilemma is whether you protect your wealth or share it: if you know you're not sharing it, of course you'll fixate on the need for its protection. But there aren't any Ministry of Justice tables for that.Second, there is a massive misrepresentation of – indeed lack of respect for – the prison service here. Clarke describes its main work as "to punish offenders, protect the public and provide access to justice". If that were all there was to it, it would be enough to keep the doors locked. Instead, there are governors of immense vision, creating schemes that aren't led by government that happen irrespective of a government's sentencing policy.Brixton is a good example: a small prison, terrible facilities, overcrowded and absolutely inspirational – yet it has a radio station that won a Sony award last year. High Down in Surrey has, just as a training space, quite a chi-chi restaurant (nobody's allowed to eat there apart from prison officers, so in restaurant terms it's hard to gauge its success; it turns out people are trained not to flip burgers but to make a ballantine of chicken, oxtail and black pudding … the idealism and energy that went into this project is humbling).Twenty five years ago, Wandsworth was a byword for brutality; it was kept that way as a punishment option for prisoners who wouldn't co-operate in other prisons. The ex-governor Graham Clark, credited with turning it round in the late 80s, said of the sex offender wing, when he started: "There was nothing for them, no training, no courses, nothing. They were just sitting there with their magazines. For 12 years." (This is what a prison built on punishment and protecting the public looks like.) It's no exaggeration now to say the place flourishes: there are employers on site, training prisoners and undertaking to hire them when they get out. Insiders say it's like an academy.The point is that there is much more to a prison's success story than the trickle-down impact of a sentencing guideline. While there is endless talk about sentencing, the next stage – the bit where the sentence is served – is possibly the least politicised area of public spending. There are literally no votes in it. This has resulted in some fine institutions. Clarke says prisons are more expensive than Eton: many are also better. The government has more to learn from the prison service about governing than it has to tell it about imprisonment.