In the dock of court 16 the mother of Baby P sat a few feet from her former boyfriend. Dressed in a fuschia pink T-shirt, using her dark curtain of hair to obscure her face, she never turned her gaze towards him.For months this tall, well-built man had obsessed her to such an extent that she wilfully ignored the terrifying attacks on her vulnerable young son that began when he was just nine months old and ended when, as a toddler of 17 months, he finally succumbed to a forceful blow to the face, meted out to shut him up as he stood crying in his bloodstained cot.This was probably the last time the couple would be together, flanked by prison officers in the glass-fronted dock of a court which was overflowing with police officers, journalists, lawyers, probation officials and, unusually, jurors, who had been invited to watch the defendants sentenced after sitting through weeks of evidence detailing the sickening physical abuse and neglect of a child who can now be given his real name of Peter.Many of the Old Bailey jurors had shed tears for him, and today emotions were spilling over once more when Judge Stephen Kramer QC called for silence for the final chapter in one of the worst cases of sadistic brutality and sordid child neglect to be brought before a British court.In the back of the court, not visible from the dock, sat Peter's natural father, who last saw his son the weekend before he died on 3 August 2007, and failed, like so many others before him, including trained social workers, doctors and police officers, to see that the bruises, lesions on his scalp, bandaged ear and hand were symptomatic of repeated violent physical abuse.All three in the dock – Peter's mother, her boyfriend and their lodger, Jason Owens – have always denied causing the injuries. With no evidence of who had inflicted the injuries, all three had escaped a murder conviction and were being sentenced for causing or allowing the death of Peter.As they sat in the dock there were no last-minute admissions of responsibility for the violence – just studied impassivity."Your alleged ignorance of what was happening to Peter in that small house in Tottenham [north London] defies belief," the judge told them.He had been presented with several files containing pre-sentence reports, psychiatric assessments and details of their childhoods. Both Peter's mother and her boyfriend came from deprived backgrounds.She was removed from her mother at the age of 12 and put into a reform school for delinquent children; he had been brought up in a violent household. Illiterate and with an IQ of around 60, he became obsessed by inflicting pain. He had been prosecuted by the RSPCA for torturing animals and faced a police investigation over claims he tortured his own grandmother to make her change her will in his favour. The woman died before a decision to prosecute had been made.Their miserable union had begun in 2004 when he was working as an odd-job man. She was still married but by the time Peter was three months old the marriage was nearing its end.She soon moved her new lover into her home and spent her days drinking vodka and coke, smoking, talking to her friends on the telephone and watching pornography. She had been provided with a council house and a childminder four days a week, had an allocated social worker and was part of a "mellow parenting programme", all arranged by Haringey council.She kept the presence of her boyfriend in the house from police and social services and covered up the injuries to her son, using on one occasion chocolate and on another nappy cream.The true scale of the depravity was laid bare when the boy died. In the house police found human and dog faeces, dead rats and chicks to feed the boyfriend's two pet snakes. The place was infested with fleas and on the kitchen sideboard lay a dismembered rabbit.There were 22 injuries on Peter's body, some signifying nothing short of torture. These included the removal of a fingernail and toenail, in all probability torn off deliberately, the splitting of the skin of the left ear as a result of the lobe being gripped and pulled, seven broken ribs and a cracked spine, caused by his back being forcefully extended over a knee or the side of a cot.Judge Kramer said he would not speculate on who did what to Peter. He told the boyfriend, a man whom Peter called "dad", he had abused the position of trust he held towards a toddler.The 32-year-old was convicted earlier this month of the rape of a second victim, a two-year-old, and the judge said he posed a grave threat to young children. Sending him to prison for life for the rape and 12 years for causing or allowing Peter's death, he ordered the prison staff to take him down.Turning to Peter's mother, he said he had read the numerous reports on her, noting that one described her as a "vocal and not unintelligent young woman who is fairly articulate".The judge said: "You are … a manipulative and self-centred person, with a calculating side as well as a temper. I sentence you for a course of conduct lasting weeks if not months, during which time Peter was abused, injured and finally killed. I reject the suggestion that you were blind to what was happening in that house or that you were naive." He said she had actively deceived the authorities about the presence of her boyfriend in the house. "You acted selfishly because you priority was your relationship [with your boyfriend]," he said.Despite the tragic results of her conduct, she still had no insight into her behaviour and as a result the judge imposed an indeterminate sentence for public protection. Reading from a pre-sentence report, he said: "You present a high risk of causing harm to children in [your] care."Just minutes after her former boyfriend, she too was led down to the cells, to be returned to the prison where she has spent the last 644 days in solitary confinement for her own protection.