 An innocent commuter mistakenly detained at gunpoint has filed an official complaint over his arrest after it emerged that he did not match the description of the armed suspect police had been seeking.Nzube Udezue, 21, an Oxford University graduate, was ordered to the ground, handcuffed and arrested by a team of armed officers after disembarking a train at Bournemouth station on Saturday.It had been thought that Udezue, who boarded his train in Southampton, directly matched the description of another man seen earlier in the day brandishing an imitation firearm 30 miles away in Basingstoke.Dorset police have repeatedly insisted that Udezue had no complaints - and nothing more to say - about his wrongful arrest. But in his first interview since the ordeal, Udezue said police had since admitted the Basingstoke suspect had been described as black, with short hair and wearing a brown T-shirt with orange writing. Udezue, who had a shaven head, was wearing a black T-shirt with orange writing and long white sleeves.The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) took just a few hours this week to deem the actions of Dorset police "appropriate and proportionate to the circumstances". The complaints watchdog decided not to launch a full investigation, instead opting to "supervise" an internal inquiry by the Dorset force.Udezue's solicitor has filed an official complaint to the IPCC, calling for a full and independent investigation. A commissioner from the complaints body is expected to visit Udezue this week.In a statement that appeared to concede the IPCC had not been told about the mix-up, the complaints body said: "The IPCC decided that Dorset police's actions in stopping Nzube Udezue were appropriate and proportionate in the circumstances because the force's account to the IPCC was that they were acting on intelligence that at the time was believed to be correct."Revisiting the station platform for the first time, Udezue, an aspiring hip-hop musician, recounted the moment he was forced to the ground by officers pointing handguns and submachine guns at his head."What I felt was fear, primarily, but then confusion and embarrassment," he said. "I was completely compliant with their orders. But it's something that could have gone wrong. I can imagine very easily that a different person could have reacted in a different way. That would have had terrible consequences."It was an altercation in Basingstoke shopping centre hours earlier that resulted in Udezue's arrest. Two men - one carrying an object that "looked like a gun" - fled the scene, according to an account of the incident police have given to his family.Hampshire police put out a description of the suspected armed man as black and wearing a brown T-shirt. Two transport police officers identified Udezue, who was wearing a black T-shirt, as that man as he sat on the train listening to his iPod.During the next 30 minutes there was a crucial failure in communication over the colour of Udezue's T-shirt. It was described by the transport police officers as "brown", and then became described as "dark".A firearms team was dispatched to Bournemouth station and, just after 6pm, Udezue was apprehended on the platform. The following day, a dramatic image of the moment he was ordered to the ground was released, prompting comparisons with the case of Jean Charles de Menezes, the Brazilian man mistakenly shot dead by police after the failed July 21 bomb attacks.Udezue wrote an account of his experience on his blog to try to assure friends who may have heard of his arrest. "People who saw me must have thought: what's Zuby done?" he said.His blog entry was written in a light-hearted style. "When I woke up this Saturday morning, I could happily say that I'd managed to get through (almost) 22 years of my life without any real incident with the police. I could also say that I'd never had a gun pointed at me," he wrote. "Little did I know that by 6.10pm. I'd be lying face down on the ground, handcuffed, with several submachine guns pointed at me and the entire county's specialist police firearms unit on me." Udezue now says he has important grievances. It was only once in the patrol car, for example, and after repeatedly telling officers that he was an Oxford graduate who had not been anywhere near Basingstoke, that police began to doubt themselves. "At that point, one of them said to the other: 'He certainly doesn't seem like the regular customer'."After a brief stop at the police station, the officers offered Udezue a cup of tea, apologised, and drove him back to Bournemouth station. He was not informed him he had the right of complaint. He then travelled home alone. When he arrived, still shaking, he was unable to place his keys in his front door.A senior officer only came to the family home to apologise for the incident after Udezue's distraught family phoned the station demanding the visit. Udezue's family want an explanation for the failure in communication that led to his arrest. They are also angry that Dorset police and the local MP, Tobias Ellwood, who has come out in support of the force, "assumed" that the computer science graduate had no complaints."There seems to be an understanding that [Udezue] recognises that these things can happen," Ellwood has said. "I think it is important that police don't fear stepping in for fear of reprisals if they get the wrong person."Udezue, who is of Nigerian descent, believes his race was not pivotal to his wrongful arrest, but should still form a part of any investigation."As the person who experienced this, I don't think [race] is a core issue," he said. "I think where race may be an issue is the point at which somebody jumped to the conclusion that I was the suspect – based on a description that was not precise. It's possible that being a black person in an area where there isn't a lot of black people – that a conclusion could have been jumped to."Asked about Udezue's complaints, Dorset police said in a statement: "It would be inappropriate to comment further because of the investigation by Dorset police's professional standards department into the incident which is being supervised by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.""I don't want to damn the police," Udezue said. "I know they do a hard job. I just want to make sure this never happens again. Because it could happen to anyone."