A taxi driver who killed three women before shooting himself left his County Durham house to get his gun after a minor argument, it emerged on Thursday.Michael Atherton, 42, shot his partner, Susan McGoldrick, 47, her sister Alison Turnbull, 44, and niece Tanya Turnbull, 24, late on New Year's Day. He was also found dead at the property in Horden, Peterlee. Four other people in the house managed to escape.A preliminary inquest hearing into the four deaths was opened and adjourned at Chester-le-Street magistrates court. Police do not believe Atherton had planned the murders, which followed "a relatively trivial family argument", as he had arranged to meet a friend on 2 January to shoot rabbits.Detective Superintendent Paul Goundry said: "Michael had been out to a local club and returned home soon after 10.30pm. Susan had been out with Alison and Tanya with other friends having a drink. Susan came back and soon after an argument started of a minor nature. Michael then left the back of the house and went to his vehicle where it appears he retrieved a shotgun."He went back in the house and within seconds he had killed the family."Goundry added: "While I say I understand what happened in the house, I still do not understand why. The focus of my investigation has to be why did a minor domestic argument turn into this tragedy?"Susan McGoldrick's daughter from a previous relationship, Laura, 19, was hit by the spray of shot aimed at her mother. She ran upstairs and escaped through a window with her boyfriend. Atherton's son with McGoldrick, Michael Jr, heard shooting and ran outside. A middle-aged friend of the women who was in the house at the time also walked out to safety.Goundry said police had recovered the murder weapon, another gun from the car and other firearms Atherton had kept legally in a locked cupboard.The detective said the extended family were now supporting each other. "Laura and Michael Jr and all the family members are fully supportive of the police investigation and like us, all they want to know is why their father committed this heinous crime."The coroner, Andrew Tweddle, opened the inquests, where he confirmed the names of the victims, their ages, when they died and the likely cause of death, which was gunshot wounds. He allowed their bodies to be released so funerals can take place.Outside the hearing, the detective leading the inquiry said officers had spoken to health professionals including Atherton's GP, and that there was no indication he was suffering from any mental illness or depression.Goundry said that when Atherton left the house, the women believed he had gone to stay elsewhere, but then he returned with the weapon. The shooting spree was over in a matter of seconds, rather than minutes.He added: "I've met Laura and Michael and had the opportunity to speak to them in detail." He said they were "incredibly brave"."No one can understand exactly what they have been through but they have the love of their family around them in order to get them through this terrible time."He added: "I would like to thank, from the bottom of my heart, the community of Horden and surrounding villages, who have given us valuable assistance."