Economic crime is never easy to prove in court: tracking down evidence clear enough, and persuasive enough, to convince a lay jury of intent to defraud is a tough game that requires a high level of expertise from the investigating and prosecuting authorities.The City of London police and Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs are the keepers of the specialist skills that, in theory, enable them to crack down on the cheats, whether they are damaging Britain's reputation as a capital for global finance, or as the home of the good sport. On Thursday, as they survey the scathing reports of their attempts to make a charge of relatively small-scale tax evasion stick to one of England's popular heroes, faces at the Wood Street headquarters should be redder than Harry Redknapp's.This is a prosecution that has cost millions of pounds, after an investigation which began with a flawed raid on the Redknapp family home. That was more than four years ago. On Wednesday, the jury threw the charges out after barely five hours. But it is not just the bungling of a prosecution that should be an embarrassment to the City police's financial crime experts. It emerged on Wednesday that last October an earlier trial on similar charges relating to Milan Mandaric and to the former Portsmouth chief executive Peter Storrie had also failed. And five years ago, at about the same time that the City police began Operation Apprentice against Harry Redknapp, they were involved in another spectacular failure when a judge ordered the jury to acquit Britain's six-times champion jockey Kieren Fallon of race fixing.Of course it is right to pursue investigations where there are reasonable grounds to suspect fraud. It matters very much that sport is honest, that ordinary punters know the result they see on the race track or at the football is a true one. Yet the City of London police's determination to pursue an inquiry for so long, and at such a heavy individual and financial cost, without securing a conviction is troubling. But it is not the most troubling aspect of the whole affair. The fundamental question is: why these prosecutions, and not others? Why football and racing, and why not the bankers and the traders, some suspected of criminal negligence, some whose activities have impoverished the nation?Last week, the Financial Standards Authority fined a City high-flier Ravi Shankar Sinha for fraudulently obtaining £1.3m from clients of a private equity firm advised by the company of which he was UK chief executive, JC Flowers. There is to be no criminal investigation. Even the Financial Times was moved to thunder against "rich man's justice". As one reader's post on its website quipped, "just as well it wasn't a pair of shoes".