The courts' "love affair" with prison shows no sign of abating with the latest official figures showing that 111,600 people were sentenced to immediate custody last year - the highest figure for at least 75 years.The Home Office statistics show that 25% of all those convicted of serious indictable offences in 2002 were sent straight to prison and for longer periods regardless of their offence. The figures show that 111,600 people were sentenced to immediate custody in 2002, a rise of more than 5,000 over the previous year. This is nearly twice the number sent to prison 10 years ago: only 58,100 were imprisoned in 1992. The rate of imprisonment in crown court cases presided over by judges has risen from 44% of all those convicted in 1992 to 63% in 2002. In magistrates courts it has risen from 5% in 1992 to 15%. The increasingly punitive appetite of the courts has pushed the daily prison population to nearly 74,000 - which is 7,000 more than the uncrowded capacity of jails in England and Wales. The latest official forecasts say the prison population will hit 82,300 within 18 months. The new figures published in Criminal Statistics 2002 show that the courts have failed to respond to repeated pleas from the home secretary, the lord chief justice and the head of the prison service to "end their love affair with custody" anduse prison only as a last resort. Ministers hope to try to ease the pressure by introducing two "weekend prison" pilot schemes at Kirkham, Lancashire, and at Morton Hall, Lincolnshire, in late January. But financial constraints mean they are unlikely to introduce the new "custody plus" and "custody minus" sentences that will boost the large-scale use of community punishments combined with suspended prison sentences for another 18 months. These new sentences are part of the Criminal Justice Act that reached the statute book earlier this month. Ministers hope that a further part of their reforms, the new powerful sentencing guidelines council, will help to curb the appetite of the courts for prison. The latest criminal statistics show that the courts are finding roughly the same number of serious offenders guilty - 337,000 - as they were 10 years ago but are dealing with them much more harshly. The use of the fine has collapsed from 34% of those found guilty on indictable charges in 1992 to only 23% now. Instead sentencing has "ratcheted up" so that the fall in the use of the fine has been replaced by an increase in the the use both of community punishments and prison. The number of serious offenders given community punishments has risen from 74,000 in 1992 to 110,000. The average length of sentences for all serious crimes has also grown in the last 10 years. The courts have become much tougher on burglars, for example, with the average sentence rising from 16 months in 1992 to 25 months now. But the official statistics also show that the courts have failed to use the highly controversial "three strikes and you're out" three-year mandatory sentence for burglars. Only two burglars were actually sentenced to the minimum three years under this provision in 2002. This brought the total to eight since the controversial measure was introduced by the home secretary, Jack Straw, in 2000. It had been put on the statute book by his Tory predecessor, Michael Howard, amid a huge controversy with the judges. The minimum mandatory sentence of seven years for a third drug trafficking offence has been used even less by the courts. Nobody was sentenced under this provision in 2002 and it has been used in only three cases since its introduction. In both cases the judges appear to have sidestepped an attempt by the politicians to impose headline-catching "tough on crime" sentences on the courts by using an "exceptional circumstances" loophole to avoid imposing the mandatory minimum sentence. But this has not meant that the judges have become less punitive in their approach and the courts do not appear to have enthusiastically taken up the plea by Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, to use community sentences for first time burglars. Harry Fletcher of the probation union, Napo, said the rising rate of imprisonment showed that the attempts by the executive to curb the use of prison was failing. "Hopefully new guidelines from the sentencing advisory council will have a downward effect on the prison population in due course," he said.