Offenders who repeatedly refuse to pay court fines could have their cars clamped and their property seized by bailiffs, the government said today.The warning came after an influential committee of MPs said that the payment of court fines was "almost voluntary" in many parts of England and Wales. The Commons' public accounts committee found that around 40% of financial penalties imposed by magistrates and crown courts go unpaid - including compensation orders and costs to prosecutors as well as fines. In 2001/02 some £148m was either written off - usually because the offender could not be traced - or cancelled on account of successful appeals or defendants' changed circumstances. The committee chairman, Edward Leigh, the Conservative MP for Gainsborough, said: "The current system for the collection of fines fails both the taxpayer and the victims of crime. "It is simply unacceptable that the payment of a fine has become almost a voluntary activity. Fines are a punishment and should in theory deter offenders but a haphazard approach to their collection is far from a deterrent and must be addressed as a matter of urgency." In their report, the committee noted that the Lord Chancellor's Department has no direct control over the collection procedures of the 42 local magistrates courts committees responsible for collecting penalties. Information systems were inadequate, and magistrates were unlikely to have sufficient details on defendants' outstanding fines when imposing a new penalty. The MPs said that a string of official reports dating back to 1989 had highlighted the weaknesses in the systems for collecting financial penalties, but the department had "not given them sufficient priority". The report noted that victims only receive compensation payments when - and if - an offender pays the court. It recommended that the department, along with the Home Office, consider introducing a fund from which victims could be compensated immediately, and which would be reimbursed by the offender. The courts minister, Yvette Cooper, said: "We welcome proposals that courts should be able to introduce discounts for early payment, or penalties for late payment including higher fines, preventing defaulters from getting credit and sequestrating assets. We intend to introduce these new powers and pilot their effect. "But it is important that at the same time the courts get more information about offenders' means so they can set appropriate penalties in the first place, and that those who genuinely can't pay get proper advice and support. "Those who can't pay need advice and alternatives, those who won't pay should not be allowed to get away with it." She continued: "There are unacceptable variations in fine enforcement, for example from under 40% in Merseyside and Cambridgeshire to over 80% in Dorset and West Yorkshire. "Fine enforcement should not depend on where offenders live. That is why we need to see poor performance by particular magistrates courts committees properly addressed and new powers for the courts to enforce fines." The Liberal Democrat's home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said: "If fines are going to work they must be collected quickly and effectively. No-one is going to take the system seriously if convicted offenders are allowed to wriggle off the hook. "The government's own pilot schemes have shown that fine dodgers do pay up if they are put under pressure. The government will have to explain to the taxpayer why the lessons learned in these pilots have not led to better enforcement at all courts." The committee recommended that the Lord Chancellor's Department should now pursue "significantly" improved performance by:  · examining the scope for centralising some collection procedures regionally or nationally · introducing new management information systems  · disseminating good practice  · reviewing the scope for combining the separate systems for enforcing criminal and civil penalties  · widening the sentencing options available for dealing with defaulters - for example introducing the sequestration of defaulters' assets, such as cars.