A 15-year-old schoolboy described yesterday the moment that Kiyan Prince, a promising young footballer, was stabbed in the heart outside his school. Kiyan, also 15, who played for Queen's Park Rangers' youth team, collapsed after a scuffle with another boy who pulled a knife."He was going for him everywhere," the witness said.A 16-year-old from north London, who cannot be named because of his age, denies murdering Kiyan at the London Academy in Edgware, north London, on May 18. He has admitted Kiyan's manslaughter but claimed in interviews with the police that he only wanted to scratch him.Watched by Kiyan's parents, Mark Prince and Tracey Cumberbatch, the witness at first began his evidence via a video link. But the sound quality was so distorted that he agreed to enter the court at the Old Bailey.In halting language he described how he and the defendant were leaving the school and started pushing and swinging each other around. Then Kiyan turned up and tried to intervene.The defendant started pushing him. Kiyan responded and the defendant got angry. "He said, 'if you push me one more time see what I'll do to you'."The witness said he saw the defendant pull a knife out of his right pocket and flick it open. Keeping it behind his back he then grabbed Kiyan in a headlock and started stabbing "pretty fast".The witness tried to intervene. "I saw something running down Kiyan's chest," he said. "Then [the defendant] stabbed him in the arm." Seeing a teacher approach them, he said the defendant muttered: "Don't grass me up."Opening the prosecution case Nicholas Hilliard said Kiyan was described by a teacher as "a gorgeous boy ... very popular and well-liked by all who knew him."Mr Hilliard said the defendant had been excluded from his school at the time of Kiyan's death. "There is no evidence of any bad feeling between the two of them." He said Kiyan had told the defendant and the witness to "stop playing around".Just before Kiyan was grabbed round the neck the defendant said "who's laughing, who's laughing?"Kiyan was taken to the Royal London hospital but pronounced dead.The defendant was arrested the next day and he told the police: "It was an accident. I didn't have any intention to kill him. I just wanted to scratch him. I thought I stabbed him four times."A teacher at the school, Liejhe Hernandez, broke down in the witness box as she told the court how she first found Kiyan bleeding on the ground. She described him as "a lovely boy - such a really nice boy, always smiling". She was on gate duty as the school day ended and had seen two boys apparently play-fighting - their arms held out in front of them."It seemed very slow. I started to walk across to break it up." She saw one boy swung against a car, snapping off a wing mirror. She turned away from the scene for a few seconds to call a colleague for help. Then someone called: "Miss, miss, miss." She turned to see the witness who later gave evidence, on the floor, tending to Kiyan.In tears, the teacher said the boy was "holding a shirt over one of Kiyan's arms. I saw it was bleeding. I told him to put pressure on the wound to the arm. He lifted Kiyan's shirt and jumper. I saw a little nick on his chest and told him to apply pressure to that. I did not realise how seriously he had been injured at first."The trial continues.