A gang of thieves has carried out one of Britain's biggest ever mobile phone robberies escaping from a warehouse in west London with 23,000 top-of-the-range Samsung mobile phones worth £4.2m.Police believe the raiders were acting on inside information, making the most of an unusually high number of phones being stored. There were no signs they had forced their way into the warehouse and the alarm system was turned off. A police source said: "They knew what they were doing and they were waiting for the right moment. We are exploring the possibility that they had inside information, and could have had a ready market for the phones." The phones were taken from a freight forwarding warehouse in Swallowfield Road, Hayes, on Sunday but the theft was only discovered yesterday morning - a matter of hours before Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, launched a crackdown on mobile phone theft. It is believed the thieves would have needed a 40ft articulated lorry to transport the Wap Internet access phones, which had been imported last week and were stacked in more than 60 pallets. It is understood that an unusually high number of phones were being stored in the warehouse because of a recent order cancellation.The stolen phones have no SIM cards and have been deactivated using international serial numbers programmed into each handset. However, there is a distinct possibility the phones could be reprogrammed illegally and sold on the black market. Det Insp Morgan O'Grady, who is leading the inquiry, appealed to consumers not to buy the phones marked with Orange and OnetoOne logos. He said: "I would ask members of the public not to waste their money, they will be ripped off as the phones are dead and they would have to find another criminal to do the reprogramming for them." Samsung, working closely with the police, has offered a reward of up to £200,000 for information on the raid and Det Insp O'Grady confirmed that some information has already been received. The raided warehouse is just three miles from Heathrow airport, where yesterday robbers stole £4.6 million in used notes. Police are not linking the raids, as they believe they would have needed separate and complex planning.Under the Metropolitan police scheme launched yesterday, thousands of mobile phones are to be marked with ultraviolet pens. The campaign aims to trap thieves by making the phones instantly identifiable if they are stolen and later recovered and comes as part of a package of measures to deal with a dramatic rise in phone theft.Mobile phone thefts in Britain have soared in recent years with more than 700,000 handsets stolen in street robberies last year and accounting for more than half of street crime in London. As a result a great deal of pressure has been put on manufacturers to improve security measures. Anyone with information about the Hayes raid should contact the incident room at Uxbridge, Middlesex, on 020-8246 1421 or call Crimestoppers on 0800-555 111.