Two men who have been convicted of running an illegal online fertility company, providing women with access to sperm donors, were warned yesterday they could face imprisonment.Ricky Gage, 49, and Nigel Woodforth, 43, operated Fertility First which made sperm available from anonymous donors without a licence.The men had denied procuring sperm illegally, arguing they had acted only as an introduction database. But yesterday the pair were told they could be jailed after a jury at Southwark crown court convicted them of providing sperm without a licence or third-party agreement.The pair, both from Reading, earned around £250,000 from the enterprise. They will be sentenced next Friday.The court heard how nearly 800 women signed up to use the service, operating under various names including Sperm Direct Limited and First4Fertility. Their website introduced would-be donors to women trying to conceive.Gage and Woodforth were reported to the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) after a customer complained about their unprofessional standards. Melissa Bhalla-Pentley paid an £80 joining fee and a further £300, the cost of using the service for each menstrual cycle. She then had to pay a courier company £150 for each delivery of sperm, £50 of which would be given to the donor.She complained to the HFEA when Gage and Woodforth refused to refund her money after she was mistakenly shown the donor's name. During the subsequent investigation it was discovered the pair were acting without a licence.Yesterday, the HFEA welcomed the jury's verdict.Professor Lisa Jardine, chair of the authority, said: "We understand why women may use these sites. Getting access to fertility services can be difficult and there can be some very strong emotional pressures when trying to start a family. This is a victory for those women. We will continue to work with the police to prevent more women from being exploited by those who choose to break the law."Under the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act, donors using licensed clinics are not the legal fathers of any child conceived. However they are classed as parents if the centre has no licence.Without licensed treatment, a child does not have the legal guarantee that they would be able to find out who their father is later in life, nor can they access his genetic history.