For most of the 90s, on the rare occasions when race was debated in the House of Lords, a little ritual would be played out afterwards. Lord Desai, the long-serving Labour peer, would be sitting in the bar, draining his post-debate tomato juice, when one of the white peers would approach him. In a confiding murmur, they would enquire whether Desai and his fellow black and Asian Britons were, well, exaggerating about the extent of racial discrimination. Couldn't it all be "sorted out" with "a bit of goodwill" rather than legislation?Desai would politely disagree. Beneath his professorial comet-trail of grey hair, his gaze would remain affable. He thought of himself as comfortably "middle class", and rarely experienced harassment. Moreover, he did not want to be stereotyped as a race-relations activist. Early last month, Desai went along to another debate on discrimination. The government had published a new race relations bill which, as usual, seemed inadequate. The idea that public bodies would be held responsible for "indirect" as well as intentional discrimination had evaporated. Two hours into the debate, Desai stood up and made a brief, erudite speech, contrasting the harassment of black motorists with Queen Victoria's promise, in 1858, that all British subjects should be treated alike. Then he sat down, depressed. "I thought, 'There'll be a long battle, and it'll take another 10 years to get it right.'" Barely two weeks later, the government backed down. The language was smoothly face-saving but it could not disguise the significance of the event. Black and Asian Britain had used what was supposedly the country's stuffiest, least inclusive political institution to impose its will. The means behind this success suggested a tactical breakthrough. First, a coalition of peers was formed - black, white and Asian, Labour, Conservative, and Liberal Democrat - and meetings demanded with the government. When the home office made legal arguments, the peers prepared legal papers of their own. Then they threatened to froth up the press: "We would compare the promises made to the Stephen Lawrence campaign to this mouse of a bill," says the Liberal Democrat Lord Dholakia. In the meantime, their allies in the Commons, and the Commission for Racial Equality, and the Muslim Council for Britain, lobbied the home office. Finally, the dissidents began publicly planning to vote en bloc against the government.But this time there was whispered encouragement in the bar. The day before the government conceded, Desai had a delicious moment. "I was told, 'OK. We've done what you want.'" Black British commentators such as Stuart Hall sound surprised to be praising peers. "They're taking their task seriously. It's not a sinecure. They are a potent group." Beyond the Lords, too, there are signs that the freeze-out of ethnic minorities may finally be ending. At the last general election, the number of non-white MPs more than doubled, to nine (all Labour). One Asian candidate, Ashok Kumar, won a seat with an electorate that was 99.6% white. All the main hopefuls for mayor, early in their campaigns, requested meetings with Operation Black Vote (OBV), an organisation that campaigns for greater political involvement by minorities. By most estimates, over a third of the capital's voters will be non-white in 2010. The momentum has been a long time coming. It could also fade, as the few histories of black British politics record, into familiar disappointment. In 1789, Olaudah Equiano, a former servant and coalminer, published a polemic against slavery that had to be reprinted 13 times. A century later, the first non-white MP was elected. In 1892, Dadabhai Naoroji won for the Liberals in a poor part of what is now Islington. Despite Tory claims that he was a "fire-worshipper", he won - by three votes. "Narrow Majority", as he was nicknamed, lost his seat three years later. For almost another century, Parliament stayed white. There was briefly another Asian MP in the 1890s, and a communist called Sha purji Saklatvala in the 1920s. But until 1987, that was all. Black Britain had to mobilise beyond Parliament. In 1959, the year after anti-black riots and the fatal stabbing of a West Indian carpenter in Notting Hill, activists established the Indian Workers Association and a "standing conference" of West Indian Associations. But it took the Campaign Against Racial Discrimination (CARD), which began in 1964, to properly pressure the government. By the late 60s, some members had moved on from Martin Luther King's moderate methods. This separatist strategy is still pondered. "If a black party came to the fore," says Simon Woolley, national coordinator for Operation Black Vote, "it would pick up masses of votes." During the 70s and 80s, separatist movements of varying militancy emerged, from the Race Today Collective, which argued for "mass organisation" against police excesses, to the Labour Party Black Sections, which sought to set up an autonomous group within the party. None of these groups, however, forced mainstream politics to move far. Most non-white Britons continued to put their faith in the Labour party as it was. Since 1974, Labour's share of the ethnic-minority vote has only once (in 1987) slipped below 80 per cent. The common explanation for this is that, in such a divided and hybrid country as Britain, race is only one, not necessarily dominant factor in how people decide their politics. "Class is a lot more important," says Desai. And since non-white Britons are disproportionately concentrated among the working class and poor, they most trust the party that created the welfare state.  Assuming, that is, that they vote at all. At the last general election, more than four-fifths of British Indians did - a slightly higher turnout than among whites; less than two-thirds of Africans did likewise. New Labour's free-market notions, Hall suggests, let alone those of the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, may be alienating the poorest black Britons, while taking their support for granted. At Operation Black Vote, they would like to overturn these situations. They have three old computers and a corner of someone else's office, just up the road from where Naoroji won power. Since 1996, they have been going into schools, selecting political apprentices to shadow MPs, and collecting data on "ethnic marginals". Woolley speaks, with a polite steeliness, about "subverting" and "blackening" the political system. Yet relying on appointed grandees, and the House's peculiar procedures, could be seen as a sign of continued electoral weakness. A poll last week in the black newspaper New Nation found that less than half those asked could name one of the contenders in the London mayoral elections. And nine minority MPs hardly constitutes equality. To even roughly represent the population, there ought to be over 40. Moreover, outside London and the big cities, where much of Britain's self-image still resides, the country's politics is, racially speaking, "a nightmare", as Woolley puts it. "You're still in Alabama." London is not always better. When Ahmed was sworn into the Lords two years ago, he asked for a copy of the Koran. No one could find one.