Public confidence in the national crime statistics has never been high. Opinion polls repeatedly tell us that the public think crime has been rising remorselessly despite the fact that on the best measure that we have available - the British Crime Survey - it has fallen by more than a third since 1995.Indeed when Charles Clarke was home secretary he thought this lack of public trust had got so bad that it was no longer possible to have a grown-up debate about alternative criminal justice policies.The fiasco over the Home Office publication of the latest quarterly crime figures does nothing to repair that damage. On the face of it there were a good set of figures to report. Overall on both the BCS and police recorded crime figures the headline crime rate is down by 6% in the 12 months to June 2008 dispelling fears that the economic downturn had already sent the crime rate soaring.Even on violence the overall picture is encouraging. Murder is down by 10%, gun crime by 6% and the 237,000 offences categorised as violence against the person recorded by the police between April and June this year is down 7% on the year before.Yet this reassuring picture was punctured by the disclosure that the number of offences recorded and categorised by the police as the "most serious violence against the person" between April and June this year rose by 22% from 4,038 to 5,073. The Home Office, unusually for the quarterly crime figures, held a journalists' briefing to explain this apparently alarming figure in this violent crime sub-category. So is this a statistical quirk or does it represent a real surge in the most violent crimes in England and Wales and a consistent under recording of most serious violent crime by the police?Professor Paul Wiles, the Home Office's director of research and statistics, explained that the extent of the problem only became clear after an agreed clarification of the counting rules was issued to police forces in April. This said that cases where there was clear evidence of intent to commit grievous bodily harm should be classified as a "most serious violent offence" regardless of whether the victim had actually been injured or not.Wiles cited the example of a nightclub fight in which a woman smashes a bottle on a nightclub table and then lunges at her victim but only succeeds in cutting her nose and giving her a nosebleed. It now transpires that many, if not all 43 police forces, in England and Wales had been recorded such incidents in the alternative, and less serious category, of "other violence against the person with and without injury."After the clarification was issued 13 police forces reported that the number of GBH with intent cases they were reporting had almost doubled. The Home Office asked them to do a recount and they estimated that two-thirds of the 22% rise in this category of violent crime was down to the change in interpretation of the counting rules. Only 5% of the rise represented an actual increase in more serious violent offences - about 200 actual assaults out of a total of 237,000 violent crimes. This view was endorsed by the Association of Chief Police Officers.The net result of this recategorisation is a full-scale row about what appears at first sight to be a headline surge in serious violent crime and so undermining, once again, any more balanced picture of the falling crime rate in England and Wales.