If you have recently been mugged or burgled, please don't complain. Be positive. According to Polly Toynbee and the Guardian, you are living in a virtually crime free country.I visited Brixton on a Saturday night not long ago. In the two hours I spent out on the streets, I did not see a single policeman. To me, and most of the public, the lack of a police presence in our inner-cities at night is a cause for real concern.Polly Toynbee and the Guardian don't apparently share this concern. They've howled in protest at my comments and demanded an apology. But no one has contradicted what I said - for the simple reason that I spoke the truth. Ms Toynbee has implied that my choice of Brixton for a walkabout has "racist overtones". Playing the race card is meant to undermine any legitimate point you have to make. It is designed to shut down debate and discussion. As it happens, I was in Brixton because I was invited by volunteers from local churches. They call themselves Street Pastors and, sadly for Ms Toynbee, they are black. Perhaps she thinks they are racist too. I don't. I think they are concerned, active citizens. Every night in Brixton the Street Pastors go out in teams. They told me that they are responding to the level of street crime and the concerns of ordinary people - black and white - who feel their streets are unsafe. Like me, they believe that people are reassured by a police presence on the street. It means that there is someone you can turn to if you feel threatened or if you need to report a crime. Her second line of attack was to take refuge in selective statistics. When she talks about crime nationally, Ms Toynbee prays in aid the British Crime Survey. Perhaps she should listen to what the independent Crime and Society Foundation has to say. It argues that there are "significant flaws" in the BCS and that it "stretched credibility" to suggest crime is falling. The BCS excludes lots of crimes from its calculations - such as murder, crimes against children under 16, sexual offences, dealing and taking drugs, and shoplifting. It is estimated that around 12 million crimes a year don't even make it on to the BCS radar.The most reliable crime statistics - those crimes recorded by the police - show that crime in England and Wales has risen by almost 850,000 in the past five years. While burglary and car crime have fallen, gun crime has doubled; robbery has gone up by more than half; and, most damning of all, violent crime has increased by 83%. Last year, it hit the 1 million mark for the first time ever. That is 3,000 violent crimes every day - more than 100 violent crimes every hour. When it comes to Lambeth, Ms Toynbee is quite happy to use the recorded crime statistics to make the point that crime in Brixton has fallen. This is welcome, and I am happy to congratulate the police for their success. But she failed to mention that violent crime in Lambeth has risen by almost 10% in the past five years. Violent crime really frightens people - and a police presence on the streets helps to reassure the public. When I became home secretary my officials gave me a graph. It showed crime rising inexorably. Crime, they said, would always go up. My job was simply to manage the public's expectations. I did not take that advice. I worked closely with the police to make it possible for them to combat crime and bring criminals to justice. By the time I left office, crime had fallen by nearly a million a year. The next Conservative government will renew the fight against crime. In particular, we will get rid of the unnecessary paperwork and bureaucracy that keeps the police handcuffed to their desks. We will scrap the politically correct form Labour are introducing that police officers will have to fill in every time they stop someone. Not stop and search, just stop someone. And we will recruit 5,000 more police officers a year. This will get more police out on the street fighting crime. Ms Toynbee has never let the facts get in the way of a story. Not very long ago she accused me of devoting my maiden speech to a call for the restoration of the death penalty. You don't have to be an investigative journalist to track down the contents of a maiden speech. It's published in Hansard. My maiden speech contained no reference to the death penalty. So if Ms Toynbee can put aside her prejudices and focus on the facts, we may yet be able to have an honest and reasonable debate - on crime and the causes of crime, on the most accurate statistics to measure it by and on the failure of the current government to make any progress in dealing with it. I would welcome that debate. · Michael Howard is leader of the Conservative party blackg@parliament.uk