At 7.11pm on an autumn evening five years ago, Julia Pemberton dialled 999. She explained to the call handler that she was hiding in the store room from her estranged husband Alan, who was breaking into her home brandishing a loaded gun. She had already heard him discharge the weapon. What she did not realise was that he had killed her 17-year-old son, William.The operator instructed her to remain hidden, assuring her that officers were on their way. Yet, at 7.17pm, the police log recorded "no units to attend ATT [at this time]". Julia stayed on the line for a further 10 minutes, begging for help: "He's coming through the door - oh God. I've got about one minute before I die - please get to me." At 7.27pm the operator noted the sound of a door opening, and a scream. The line then went dead. Next month, a homicide review panel is due to report on its investigation into the deaths of Julia and William. There could be no murder trial because, after shooting his wife and son, Alan Pemberton turned the gun on himself. This kind of inquiry, which holds local agencies to account over domestic killings, was developed in the 70s, following the infamous case of Maria Colwell, the seven-year-old brutally murdered by her stepfather in Brighton in 1973. But it has only recently been extended to include adult fatalities. The Pemberton review will be significant not only in what it concludes about police failings but because it could set the bar for future investigations. The months before the Pemberton shootings tell a story of abject system failure. After years of abuse, Julia broached the subject of divorce with her husband. He responded that he'd rather kill her. But when she went to the police, they had no domestic violence policy in place, did not undertake any risk assessment and failed to respond adequately to Julia's increasingly desperate pleas. When her locks were glued up and further death threats posted through her door, the police did not act, despite the fact that Alan was already subject to an injunction with power of arrest. On the day of the shooting, armed officers were ordered to hold back for fear of injury. It was nearly seven hours before they entered the house to discover the bodies.These are only some of the deficiencies that Julia's surviving family hope will be addressed next month. But the trouble is that homicide reviews are flawed in their inception. The domestic violence charity Refuge has already expressed concern that both the process and the findings are confidential, which offers too much opportunity for cover-up and precludes external scrutiny. The chair of the committee is not required to be independent. And staff involved in cases are often not informed of the outcome, while local authorities seldom act on the institutional failures revealed.In the arena of domestic violence prevention, homicide review can easily seem like fiddling after the fact. They are expensive, and undertaken in a minority of cases. Still, two women each week die at the hands of their partner or ex-partner in this country, many as much victims of a postcode lottery that dictates how seriously injunctions or threats to kill are taken by the police as they are victims of violent men. But more shocking than this statistic is the knowledge that so many of these deaths are preventable. Unusually, the Pemberton panel has considered hours of evidence from family members, whose views are not generally solicited, though they will likely have better knowledge of a victim's circumstances than any other party.Julia's brother, Frank Mullane, has been challenged about the public cost of such inquiries. But, as he sees it, these reviews could yield benefits beyond preventing deaths. "Done with honesty and genuine commitment, there must be a chance that they will raise the consciousness of those involved in protecting the public," he says. "Beyond that, the review might drive innovation in the services offered so that more people in need make contact in the first place, including perpetrators. And it might contribute to greater community involvement and give impetus to education of youngsters about warning signs and how to have healthy relationships." Around the same time as the Pemberton results are due, the government will release its guidelines on how future domestic homicide reviews should be handled. Those involved in drafting the guidelines would be wise to examine the template that the investigation into the murders of Julia and Williams provides. Only then will these reviews become more than chronicles of deaths foretold, and provide a mandate for change. · The Pemberton family can be contacted at Advocacy After Fatal Domestic Abuse info@aafda.org.uk