The home secretary will today outline plans to increase protection for children surfing the web, including new jail terms for convicted paedophiles who use social networking websites.The measures, which mirror systems operating in the US, include a requirement for convicted sex offenders to give their email address to the police. If they use that address to sign up to a website such as MySpace, Bebo or Facebook, they could be imprisoned for up to five years. The restriction will apply to more than 30,000 people who have been added to the sex offenders' register since its inception in 1997. However, questions have been asked about how this will work in practice, as anyone can create new email identities in a few minutes. A spokesman for the Home Office said that failure to declare any new email accounts would be considered a criminal offence, but admitted that police would ultimately rely on members of the public to tell them of unlawful actions.The email idea is thought to have been a late addition to the package of new guidelines, developed by the Home Office in consultation with children's charities and large social networking websites. The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said: "We have some of the strictest controls on sex offenders in the world to protect our children. We are working together with police, industry and charities to create a hostile environment for sex offenders on the internet, and are determined to make it as hard for predators to strike online as in the real world."The plans also include a new kitemarking scheme for parental filtering software. They follow last week's independent Byron review, which recommended better education for parents. A separate study by the media regulator Ofcom found that more than 25% of eight- to 11-year-olds had a profile on a social networking site.The Home Office plans were largely welcomed by children's charities. "We must strive to do all we can to protect children by keeping one step ahead of the abusers," said Diana Sutton of the NSPCC.