 Relatives of Becky Watts have described the 16-year-old as a “tornado, hurricane and sunbeam all at once” and said her sexually motivated killing at the hands of her stepbrother and his partner had left them living a nightmare. Nathan Matthews, 28, and his partner Shauna Hoare, 21, face life sentences after he was convicted of murder, she was convicted of manslaughter and both were convicted of plotting to kidnap the girl. Becky’s father, Darren Galsworthy, said he had loved Matthews, his stepson, as his own child but now believes he and Hoare should face the death penalty. His wife Anjie – Matthews’ mother – said she was devastated and simply could not explain what her son had done.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A photo of Becky at a local church. Photograph: Matt Cardy/Getty Images The girl’s natural mother, Tanya Watts, said Becky was “a beautiful, happy” girl and urged parents everywhere to listen to their teenagers. “Above all, cherish them as time with them is precious and can be too short,” she said.  There were gasps and cries of “yes” from the public gallery as Matthews and Hoare were found guilty of killing Becky before dismembering her body and hiding the remains in a garden shed. Later, while relatives paid tribute to Becky, the jurors who tried the case were applauded by members of the public as they left the building.Becky Watts murder trial: Nathan Matthews found guilty Matthews, a former Territorial Army soldier and delivery driver, admitted manslaughter, but the jury found him guilty of murder after just three hours and 27 minutes of deliberations. Hoare had denied any involvement in the plot, the killing or the aftermath but was convicted of Becky’s manslaughter and helping dismember and hide the body. Matthews claimed that he alone had accidentally killed Becky when a kidnap plot designed to teach her a lesson for the way she supposedly treated Anjie went wrong. But detectives unearthed a much more sinister motive. They discovered texts in which Matthews and Hoare exchanged messages about kidnapping petite teenage girls for sex. Their phones and computers were used to access pornography focused on teenagers, young women dressed as schoolgirls and threesomes, and their laptop contained a 17-minute video of a young woman being raped in her own home.For the first time it can also be reported that a stash of 19,000 explicit – but legal – images of young women was found on a hard drive at the couple’s cluttered Bristol home. And it can also be revealed that Becky had complained to a friend that Matthews had once touched her on the leg.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nathan Matthews and Shauna Hoare in a 99p store. Photograph: Avon & Somerset police/PAIn February, Matthews and Hoare targeted Becky, aiming to use her as their “sexual plaything”. The pair went to her home equipped with a “kidnap kit” including stun guns and handcuffs. Becky was suffocated in her bedroom in an attack that left her with 40 bruises all over her body. She was stabbed in the stomach 15 times after her death. Matthews and Hoare then took her body back to their home, ordered a takeaway, played a board game and later set about dismembering Becky’s body with a circular saw. They packed the remains in plastic and salt and hid them in a garden shed. The nature of the crime means Matthews could join a small group of killers – such as Moors murderer Ian Brady and serial killer Rose West, who were given full-life tariffs – when the sentencing takes place on Friday. He bowed his head as the verdicts were returned. Hoare, who is likely to face a very long minimum term, stared ahead before dabbing tears in her eyes.Becky Watts: a shy girl who was growing in confidence  After the verdicts, senior investigating officer Det Supt Mike Courtiour said Matthews had shown no remorse and described his crime as “gruesome, horrific, despicable … barbaric”. Hoare has claimed she was physically and psychologically abused by Matthews but Courtiour said she was “very, very calculating”. Courtiour added: “Though he admitted manslaughter, Matthews has never taken full responsibility for his actions. He has forced Becky’s family and friends to undergo the trauma of a lengthy and distressing trial. Shauna Hoare has never admitted her role, demonstrating her cold-blooded nature.” The officer also said he thought another 16-year-old girl was “lucky” after coming to the attention of Matthews and Hoare before they pounced on Becky. The pair were attracted to the girl, who cannot be named, and Hoare approached her via Facebook. Nothing came of the approach. In a statement, Tanya Watts, Becky’s grandmother Pat and brother Daniel paid tribute to Becky. “She was like a tornado, hurricane and sunbeam all at once. She came into your life and made you feel alive.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Nathan Matthews and Shauna Hoare. Photograph: Avon and Somerset police They thanked the staff at Flax Bourton mortuary, saying: “We do not underestimate how they went above and beyond their duty ensuring we had the opportunity to see Becky one last time. It was something that gave us great comfort.” The family members added: “We loved Becky. We can tell you that she was a beautiful, happy, funny, feisty, caring, loyal and witty girl. We would urge everyone who has teenagers to listen to your kids; don’t ignore or dismiss what they are trying to say. If they are feeling worried about something, take your time to listen to them.” Speaking to the BBC, Darren Galsworthy said: “There’s only one way to pay for this sort of crime – and that’s by losing their own lives.” Galsworthy said he and his wife Anjie had been through “hell on earth”. He said: “It has been horrendous. I wouldn’t put my worst enemy through it. I was so desperate to get her back … It was ripping my heart out. She was my youngest … the devastation and heartbreak is indescribable.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  CCTV shows Nathan Matthews buying a circular saw – video Galsworthy added: “Nathan was so arrogant he thought he could get away with it. I loved him like my own son – I hate him now. Clearly there’s something psychologically wrong with the pair of them.” Of Becky he said: “Every night I expect her to come through that door – ‘Cook us some tea, Dad’ – but she never does.”Nathan Matthews and Shauna Hoare: dark fantasies became reality  Asked for her thoughts about what her son has done, Matthews’ mother said: “I was just devastated, I couldn’t explain it. He’s always been open and honest with me … he seemed fine.”John Galsworthy, Becky’s grandfather, said: “On 19 February 2015 the Galsworthy and Watts families were thrust into a nightmare, but unlike most nightmares it did not end in the following morning or any morning after that.” A serious case review will take place to look at contacts Matthews, Hoare and Becky had with the authorities. Becky once told a psychologist she was frightened of Matthews. Matthews and Hoare, who was in and out of care as girl and young woman, began a relationship when she was just 14 or 15. The case is also bound to reignite the debate over whether pornography can in some cases lead to violent crime. Matthews said in court he used pornography – often focused on teenage girls – almost every day.