The mother of Anni Hindocha, the British woman murdered on her honeymoon, has issued an impassioned plea for her daughter's husband, Shrien Dewani, to face justice in South Africa."Shrien, please come to South Africa and tell everything you know," said Nilam Hindocha, 49, after a short Hindu ceremony at the spot where her 28-year-old daughter's body was found. "I beg you for the love of Anni to liberate us all from this torture."Shrien Dewani, a 31-year-old businessman from Westbury-upon-Trym, near Bristol, is wanted by South African prosecutors in connection with the murder. He denies claims made in South African courts that he ordered the killing of his wife on 13 November last year.Hindocha, who with her husband Vinod and South African police earlier retraced Shrien and Anni's last car journey, said: "As a mother I cannot rest and my grief remains raw because the case goes on and on. I speak for myself, my family and, I believe, maybe also for Shrien's family."The Hindochas, accompanied by relatives from England, created a small shrine on the street in Khayelitsha township where Anni's body was found slumped in the back of a Volkswagen Sharan with two bullets through her neck.The couple, Ugandan-born Hindus who live in Mariestad, Sweden, stapled a laminated photograph of Anni and cards from family members onto a board. They decorated the site with oil lanterns, bouquets of flowers and a heart-shaped wreath featuring 28 white roses – one for each year of the Swedish engineer's life. A pandit, or Hindu priest delivered a short blessing.Afterwards, in a personal appeal to her son-in-law, Hindocha said: "Shrien, please do this [come to South Africa] in the name of love and in honour of the kind and beautiful girl who was your wife and will forever be my adored daughter."Anni's father, Vinod Hindocha, said during the visit: "We've come all the way from Sweden to pay our last respects. We want an end to this story. We want the answers that only Shrien can give. He should be here praying with us."Dewani and Hindocha married in a lavish traditional ceremony at a Mumbai resort before setting off for their honeymoon in South Africa – chosen because its initials matched theirs. They spent three days in the Kruger Park before travelling to Cape Town, where they stayed in the luxury Cape Grace hotel.South African investigators privately question Dewani's mental state, pointing to contradictory behaviour and citing an unusual attitude to money, such as the fact that Dewani negotiated a 90% discount on the couple's Kruger Park holiday, yet left 14,000 rand (£1,200) in cash tips for Cape Grace hotel staff.Dewani is due before City of Westminster magistrates on 23 March, when the South African authorities are expected to apply for his bail to be reversed. Last week, Dewani was taken ill in what South African prosecutors interpreted as a suicide attempt. Three days have been set aside for Dewani's extradition hearing from 3 May.Last week, a Cape Town court delayed the trial of the two alleged hitmen in the killing until 1 June. Mziwamadoda Qwabe, 25, and Xolile Mngeni, 23, are accused of abducting and killing Hindocha and feigning a hijacking at the behest of Dewani.Qwabe and Mngeni were named by the couple's driver, Zola Tongo, who is already serving an 18-year jail sentence for his role. Tongo has been helping prosecutors since December and claims that Dewani instigated the crime by asking him to recruit hitmen.