Britain is faced with one of the biggest ever closures of public footpaths as part of a government initiative to fight crime. Scores of applications are expected from councils which have applied for the new "high crime area" status in an initiative which closes next Monday. Successful applicants will be allowed to close alleys, ginnels and other paths - many of them rights of way for more than 100 years - on the grounds that they are a focus for anti-social behaviour. Manchester alone has applied for 25 areas in the city to be given the new status and Rotherham, in South Yorkshire, has listed five paths which it describes as hubs of disorder and crime. Bradford is among other major cities expected to apply for the status. "Local residents asked the council to look into this - it didn't come from the council itself," said Andy Savage, of Rotherham council. "There's mainly anti-social behaviour involved - use of drugs, theft, arson, car crime, drug dealing and break-ins," he said. Chris Barber, of Manchester city council, said the paths involved were mostly urban cut-throughs behind Victorian terraces. "We have old, terraced properties with alleyways at the back, used in the past for access to outside toilets," he said. "The only people who use them now are criminals, or people who want to access their houses round the back. Some residents are in despair to get through their day." But the move is facing furious opposition from right-of-way campaigners, who have organised some of the countryside's most high-profile protests in recent years. "The move will allow local councils to close more footpaths in the future, invoking high crime rates," said Janet Davis, head of rights of way policy for the Ramblers' Association, which launched the "right to roam" campaign and took legal action against a footpath closure by the jailed millionaire Nicholas van Hoogstraten. "Roads don't cause crime, people on them do - simply closing one alleyway will just make people make a nuisance somewhere else. "Council tax payers will not be thrilled to know they live in designated high crime areas, because of the implications for house prices and insurance." Councils will still have to apply for individual closures under the new powers, but the crime prevention argument is expected to outweigh free access arguments in all but a handful of cases. "Once these measures are approved, it is possible to appeal them, but it is very difficult to do," said Ms Davis. The Open Spaces Society said Rotherham council did not consult it before making the application. "We will write to Defra [the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs] to send back Rotherham's application. "They should consult us and then apply," said a spokeswoman, Kate Ashbrook. "They have to prove that the path itself causes the crimes. I very much doubt they will be able to do that. There's no evidence that the path itself causes crime. "What they should do is have well-lit, welcoming alleys." 