Today the government unveil proposals to change the way complaints against police officers are handled. We hope that for the first time we will see proposals to set up an independent body to investigate such complaints.For years there has been concern about lack of independence in the system. The police hold a unique position, with powers to interfere in the lives of the public, and responsibilities to act independently to uphold the law. Inevitably at times this places them in positions of conflict, and will lead to complaints, including allegations of criminal conduct.Accountability is vital both for public confidence and for the effectiveness of policing, so that the police can be seen to be subject to fair and open scrutiny. If citizens are to have confidence in the police service as a whole, they must feel that when they complain about individual instances of police misconduct their allegations will be investigated thoroughly and impartially. The key to achieving this is a complaints system which can demonstrate independence and openness at every stage. The history of the complaints system in England and Wales is littered with attempts at reform. We have been waiting too long. As early as 1929 there were proposals for independent investigation. The 60s, the 70s and the 80s all saw inquiries set up where independent investigation was considered, but on each occasion proposals were rejected in favour of compromise solutions. These compromises have not stood the test of time. The current system includes independent supervision by the police complaints authority of police investigations in some of the most serious cases. It was set up after the recommendation for independent investigation by the Scarman inquiry into the riots in the 80s. But concerns have continued. There have been a series of high profile cases where there has been criticism of police "investigating themselves". Liberty has long held that the rights of the public and police officers can be properly protected only by a truly independent system, including independent investigation. In fact this has also been the position of the police federation since 1981 and even police management, the association of chief police officers, are likely to support a practical and workable model. Most recently the reports of the Commons home affairs committee and the Lawrence inquiry recognised that there is now widespread support for the introduction of independent investigation. Sir William Macpherson in the Lawrence report stated: "Investigations of police officers by their own or another police service is widely regarded as unjust, and does not inspire public confidence." Over a year ago, therefore, the government commissioned a feasibility study into the practicality of a mechanism for independent investigation of police complaints, by consultants KPMG. It is to be published today alongside an independent report by Liberty. Because complainants are not happy with the complaints system more and more of them are seeking to sue the police in the civil courts and more and more of them are winning substantial damages. A better complaints system would result in fewer legal cases. Ironically in those civil actions the statements taken by the police where there has been a previous complaint are revealed. Unfortunately the evidence is then that all too often the investigation of police by other police officers is not as robust as it should be. We also know that there is a problem with the system because, despite successful civil actions against police officers in the courts, few officers suffer disciplinary sanctions as a result. Although the police complaints authority has an "independent" role in supervising investigations in serious cases, they are reliant on police officers doing the investigations and taking the statements. This does not work and the members of the PCA have too little time to carry out detailed supervision of every single case. We need an independent body that does the investigation itself. This would help to root out malpractice in the police more effectively. There would be other advantages of course. People who think they have been badly treated by the police are much less likely to accept their complaint being dismissed if the investigation was carried out by another police officer. But complainants are much more likely to accept this if the complaint was independently investigated. The system would have advantages for the police too. No police officer, having been "cleared" following a complaint, wants the public to believe that he or she "got away with it" because a colleague investigated the case. The problem with allowing the police to investigate themselves is clear. What we need now is an alternative model. After Liberty and KPMG publish their proposals today, it is the responsibility of Jack Straw, the home secretary, to make sure a new body is set up now rather than waiting for the next scandal to occur. John Wadham is director of Liberty. comment@theguardian.com