Shelter agrees that aggressive or threatening behaviour in public spaces is unacceptable. However, penalties already exist to tackle this problem, in the form of antisocial behaviour orders and the Public Order Act 1995. It is unnecessary to introduce further legislation.People who spend a lot of time on the street are some of the most socially excluded, and often have complex needs. Begging is a demeaning and risky activity undertaken only out of desperation, and those who beg are often victims of violence and harassment themselves. It is also important to note that the act of asking people for money does not, in itself, constitute threatening or menacing behaviour.Although not all people who beg on the streets are homeless, and not all those who sleep on the streets beg, there is a high degree of overlap between the two. One factor common to both is a high level of vulnerability. People who beg or sleep on the streets cannot, in any way, be viewed as a homogenous group: they have a range of different, and often multiple, needs requiring specialist support as well as housing and health provision. Research from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation on the links between begging, sleeping rough and selling the Big Issue in Glasgow and Edinburgh found that most interviewees had a family background which was characterised by disruption and trauma. Almost half had been in residential or foster care, and more than a quarter reported that their parents had misused drugs or alcohol. One third said that they had alcohol dependencies, and more than one fifth were current heroin users. Several interviewees reported that their habits had worsened as a result of life on the streets or in hostels. There is also a relationship between begging, street homelessness and poor physical and mental health. More than half of those taking part in a study by Crisis in London in 2000 reported a physical or mental health problem. The Glasgow and Edinburgh study also found that, although many people who beg may be in receipt of state benefits, an absence of benefits is often a reason why people start begging. Begging often continues because this income is not adequate to support the expensive nature of life on the streets. However, for most, but not all, this was linked to their need to support their problematic substance misuse. A prevalence of people who beg, street drink or sleep on the street can reflect an absence of appropriate service provision that will not be solved by creating further penalties for begging.Current experience is that detoxification and rehabilitation programmes often have long waiting lists, and people who want to address drug or alcohol misuse are left without support for months. Agencies are likely to lose track of individuals, whose health, and ability to solve their problems, is likely to decline as a result. Shelter believes it is vital that, under new homelessness legislation requiring councils to set up strategies to tackle and prevent homelessness, agencies including the police, health, social services and voluntary organisations work together to ensure that those most at risk get the help they need. Shelter feels that increasing services to provide a range of immediate access, specialist provision would keep the majority of people off the streets, helping them to resettle and retain stable accommodation. In addition, these measures should include genuine alternatives to street life, such as providing learning skills and work opportunities. Criminalising people who beg will only serve to exacerbate their social exclusion. The way to address public concerns about those on the streets is to ensure that there are adequate services to tackle complex needs, meaning that individuals do not have to resort to begging or sleeping rough.· Nicola Robinson is Shelter's policy officer