Neighbourhood wardens, community support officers, park keepers, housing officers and other frontline council staff should be given regular access to local police intelligence in an attempt to clamp down on antisocial behaviour and other low-level crime, under plans being examined by Downing Street.The plan, seen as part of a strategy to develop more effective neighbourhood policing teams throughout England by 2008, has been supported by Hazel Blears in her role as home office minister responsible for crime before switching to the post of Labour party chairman.Ministers believe an army of frontline public sector workers could provide information on criminals if they were, in return, given access to police intelligence.The police will be unnerved by the proposals, which come after disputed Police Federation claims that ministers and chief police officers are willing to cut total police numbers by as many as 25,000 as the number of cheaper police community support officers increases.The efforts of police and local councils to combat the antisocial behaviour and other crimes at the heart of the new plans was also criticised this week in an Audit Commission report. A survey by the commission showed that over half the police were not using information from neighbourhood wardens.It also found that methods of recording antisocial behaviour have been developed haphazardly, with only 30% of crime and disorder reduction partnerships using the categories recommended by the Home Office.A spokesman for the Police Federation said it would be concerned by any plans to make police intelligence more widely available. "There will be issues about data protection and confidentiality," he said. "The biggest issue is that sensitive information is carefully handled. The police service is entirely accountable for all its actions and there are mechanisms in place if information is leaked."There are already mechanisms for sharing some information on things like antisocial behaviour and that will involve local authority employees. But if they are given information there will be an expectation that they will do something with it. We would be concerned if this is part of a plan to see policing functions further handed out to people without power."James Welch, legal director of Liberty, said: "Police intelligence is highly sensitive and can be very dangerous if it falls into the wrong hands. It should only be disclosed on an absolute need-to-know basis. Wardens do not receive the same specialist training that police do. Why is such sensitive information, seemingly irrelevant to their work, being given to them?"Although the police normally enjoy political protection from the Conservatives, the Tory leader, David Cameron, has recently referred to them as one of the great last unreformed public services.The prime minister, who is struggling to regain his hold of the law and order agenda after successive Home Office fiascos, visited a closed crack house in London yesterday. Powers to shut down crack houses have been seen as one of the most effective measures of the many government crime laws.Tony Blair is expected to return to the issue of antisocial behaviour in a more coordinated way next month. Broadly, the government believes the need is not for lots of new laws, but for better coordination and enforcement of existing powers.