Two different sides to the floods aftermath in the north. The bad one, first. Northumbria Police are stepping up patrols after £30,000 worth of stock was taken from a bike shop in Newburn, Newcastle.This is the area where a block of modern town houses has been left effectively ion stilts, facing possible demolition after its foundations were washed away. Much of the area is slimy with mud and cordoned off, with some shops still six feet deep in water.Problems hit the area in June when a culvert collapsed and the houses now in danger were evacuated for the first time. Debris and abandoned cars add to the desolation where the thieves managed to get into KB Cycles, one of Newcastle's biggest cycle stores.Nine stolen bikes have now been recovered and one arrest made, and fears of other shopkeepers that they might also have been targeted have not been realised. Julie Watson who runs AJ Bridal Wear, a big and newl-opened store next to Keith Barker's bike shop, said earlier that she was worried about stock but had not been allowed to check until the danger of further flood damage or building collapse was over. Stock is almost certain to have been damaged by the floods but the police say:There have been no further reports of any burglaries. The safety of business owners and residents affected in that area are our priority. We have increased patrols and will continue to work with people in that area to ensure the safety of them and their belongings.A very different picture comes from York, which is well-used to flooding. I had a friend who lived in Tower Place by the Ouse and knew for certain that her house would flood when the gangway for cruiseboats reached a particular angle. That gave her an hour to move everything upstairs. Charles Yates reports a similar spirit today: Mike Hughes, a regular at the Cock and Bottle on flooded Skeldergate was among the locals to dip their feet in the water and enjoy a pint outside in the swirling current. He works at Sidney Philips estate agents and says:We've not had it this bad since 2000 when the Ouze came up 5.4 metres, but the beer in the city is worth wading for. I've just bought a new car – if I'd known this was coming I'd have bought a boat instead.  Endless mess. More than 400 properties have been evacuated since Sunday. Photograph: Owen Humphreys/PAAt appropriately-named Streamline Taxis on Cumberland Street staff were busy putting up flood defences. Taxi controller Natalie Stroughair, 27, helping with the sandbags in between despatches, says: Our drivers know how to keep their feet dry – it's business as usual for us though we are upping our flood defences at the base.And scores of tourists snapped away at the York Dungeon as actors dressed as ghosts and ghouls employed inside waded through waters in the street outside after escaping the thigh high waters in the flooded torture chamber inside.The tourist attraction's general manager Helen Douglas, 41, who handles up to 175,000 visitors a year, says: It's a scary place at the best of times – but it's really scary when the water starts rising.At 9am the water first appeared in the Viking area, then it spread into the torture chamber, the executions exhibit, the witches space and by the time it reached the Dick Turpin exhibit we had to stand and deliver the closed sign.Carry on, chaps. And they will. The Dungeon plans for business as usual before the weekend.