The only senior officer to face a disciplinary hearing over the mishandled Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry yesterday received the lightest possible sentence following a tribunal ruling that he was guilty of neglect of duty.Detective Inspector Ben Bullock, 50, was given two cautions for failures during the investigation six years ago. Cautions are not considered serious enough to appear on a disciplinary record, so he will retire from the Metropolitan police on Sunday without any blemishes. Stephen's father, Neville, said he was saddened by the ruling. "As far as I'm concerned, he's guilty on all counts. If he had done his work in the early days and arrested these people, then they wouldn't be walking the streets." Imran Khan, the family's lawyer, criticised the way the tribunal was conducted, saying Mr Bullock was not subjected to severe scrutiny. "The outcome of these proceedings strengthens the resolve of Mr and Mrs Lawrence to pursue a civil action against the Metropolitan police." Mr Bullock, who was second in command of the original investigation into Stephen's death in April 1993, was found guilty on single elements of two charges. The three member tribunal ruled he had been negligent not to follow up an anonymous letter sent to the police several days after the murder. And he had failed to brief police officers properly before searching the home of Jamie and Neil Acourt, two of the five men branded over the killing. Mr Bullock was cleared of another complete charge and four others were dismissed due to lack of evidence. The tribunal recommended cautioning Mr Bullock and the sentence was ratified yesterday by a panel chaired by the assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Anderson Dunn. Mr Bullock was the only officer to face disciplinary proceedings after an investigation by the police complaints authority. Four other senior officers who would have faced charges retired before any action could be taken. The disciplinary process was mocked by the Lawrence family, who pointed to the criticism of Mr Bullock made by Sir William Macpherson in his report on the murder inquiry. It said he was "often too passive and not up to his job". Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, which supported Mr Bullock, said Mr Bullock was satisfied with the sentence. "It would be completely unfair for Mr Bullock to be punished for the errors of an organisation that not only failed Mr and Mrs Lawrence but frankly failed Mr Bullock and others involved in this inquiry.