A corruption inquiry has forced 1,400 credit cards to be taken from Scotland Yard detectives after investigators identified almost £2m expenses still unaccounted for. The cancellation of almost half of the 3,530 American Express credit cards issued to officers comes at the end of a major inquiry. Three detectives were arrested over claims that they used their cards to spend public money on themselves, their friends and families. Two are serving officers while the third is a 51-year-old former detective sergeant from the specialist crime directorate. All three remain on bail. Scotland Yard sources say that more arrests over potential 'criminal activity' may follow, while it has also emerged that a separate inquiry has been set up by the Independent Police Complaints Commission into alleged fraudulent claims by officers. Meanwhile, the Metropolitan Police Authority's directorate of professional standards has confirmed that its inquiry into potential criminal activity is continuing. So far, £1.88m of spending has still to be 'unreconciled' (unaccounted) with £96,000 of the sum currently under investigation. Initially, auditors had uncovered more than £3.6m of credit card spending not properly explained. The six-month review by the MPA examined almost £7m spent on Amex credit cards by officers since 2004, and already it has prompted wide-ranging changes to the way the force monitors its expenses. The MPA has now cancelled its contract with American Express in favour of a four-year-deal with Barclaycard.Under the new scheme, most officers will have a spending limit of £5,000 a year with managers receiving a monthly statement outlining the expenditure incurred by staff issued with the 'corporate charge card'. Cardholders who fail to submit a justification for their expenses within 30 days will have their card withdrawn and unreconciled transactions deducted from their salary. The cards are regarded as essential for officers assigned to lengthy investigations usually outside London and on cases where they have to travel extensively. Scotland Yard's internal accounting system has previously not been examining credit card bills alongside expenses claims, that were often without receipts verifying the expenditure. The Yard's payment of expenses has been identified as a 'weak area' and one subject to 'inadequate control' in internal auditors' reports published by the MPA. Last December the country's most senior terrorist officer Andy Hayman quit after Yard auditors investigated £15,000 spent on claims relating to drink, restaurants, hotel bills and trips abroad.