The way the bodies of five women murdered in Suffolk were disposed of was "inconsistent", suggesting one person did not kill all five, the barrister representing the man accused of killing them said today.Steve Wright may not have had the ability and forensic knowledge to kill the women and dispose of their bodies in remote locations, Timothy Langdale QC told Ipswich crown court.The lawyer said the 49-year-old was a "pretty ordinary sort of bloke" and questioned whether he would have been able to dispose of all five women's clothing without a trace. Langdale conceded there was a lot of evidence "giving rise to suspicion" about Wright but claimed the prosecution had failed "to bridge the gap between suspicion and proof".The blood of two of the victims was found on a reflective yellow jacket owned by Wright, but Timothy Langdale QC said a killer would have been "barmy" to wear a high-visibility jacket while disposing of bodies.Wright denies murdering Ipswich sex workers Gemma Adams, 25, 19-year-old Tania Nicol, Anneli Alderton, 24, Paula Clennell, also 24, and 29-year-old Annette Nicholls. Their naked bodies were found in remote locations near the Suffolk town between December 2 and December 12 2006.  The bodies of Adams and Nicol were found in a stream, those of Alderton and Nicholls were laid out in a crucifix shape in woodland, while that of Clennell appeared to have been hurriedly dumped, the court was told. "It is hardly consistent with it having been the same person who killed Tania Nicol and Gemma Adams," Langdale said."If it was the same man, you may think the evidence shows that there was no reason to change at that time," he said. "If it was the same person, why not put the body in that little stream? "The prosecution's suggestion is that somehow Steve Wright suddenly started doing this on the spur of the moment and then could not stop killing. "You may think the evidence shows actually that whoever was responsible, whether it is one or more, needed a greater degree of planning, skill and knowledge of forensic and scientific matter than Steve Wright had."The barrister also highlighted "vital evidence" from Clennell, which may suggest one of the women had been killed by someone else.Jurors have been told Clennell had been questioned by police following Nicol's disappearance in late October. Prosecutors have suggested that Wright killed Nicol after picking her up at around 11pm on October 30. However, Clennell told police she saw Nicol talking to the occupant of a car that did not match Wright's in the early hours of October 31. "If it is so, it means that Steve Wright did not kill Tania Nicol," Langdale said. Somebody else did, after she left his car."