Police investigating the death of a teenager who became ill after taking ecstasy at a party have arrested three men on suspicion of supplying controlled drugs, as his family warned: "It could happen to anyone."The three, aged 18, 19 and 20, were arrested on Tuesday by Scotland Yard as the family of Daniel Spargo-Mabbs and others who knew him paid tribute to the 16-year-old from Croydon. "This was the first time he'd taken anything, and if it could happen to him it could happen to anyone," said his father Tim. "We very much want to get that message across."Mr Spargo-Mabbs described his son as "a lovely, mercurial kid". "He was up for adventure. He was a really normal kid. He spent a bunch of his spare time with his girlfriend and played a lot on his Xbox."The teenager was taken to hospital in the early hours of Saturday after going to the party at an industrial site in Hayes, west London. He died on Monday.Richard Parrish, headteacher at Archbishop Tenison's Church of England high school in Croydon, where Daniel was a pupil in the first year of studying for his A-levels, said that he was "just beginning to find his niche"."He was a bright boy, he was an articulate boy, he was a boy of huge potential. He was going to go far," he said.Parrish wrote a letter to parents to express the school's grief, saying: "Sometimes you hope that the worst thing won't happen. Sometimes it does happen anyway. And yesterday it did."We began Monday knowing that Daniel Spargo-Mabbs, one of our year 12 students, who has been with us in the school since year seven, was in a critical condition on a life support machine. At lunchtime, he died. In the afternoon we spoke to each year group in turn, starting with his own, to tell them the terrible news."Police said that were called at 4am on Saturday by paramedics who were treating the unconscious teenager at the rave at Pump Lane, Silverdale Road.The force added that he was taken to Hillingdon hospital and was believed to be suffering from the effects of a drug overdose. He was later transferred to Kings College hospital, where he died.The Metropolitan police said that they closed down the rave, which was illegal, but made no arrests on the night. In a statement on Tuesday, however, the force said that three men from the Croydon area had been arrested on suspicion of supplying controlled drugs.Detectives from Hillingdon station are investigating the death.