Attempts to link the Duke of Clarence, son of King Edward VII, with the Jack the Ripper murders stem in part from his dealings with blackmailing prostitutes. Letters auctioned in London five years ago showed that a Mrs Richardson was paid £200 to keep quiet. The duke sent the money (£12,000 at today's values) via an aide in return for letters he had written. He noted it was "rather expensive but I presume there is no other way of getting them. I will also do all I can to get back the one or two letters written to the other lady."A mother and her daughter in Munich blackmailed Prince Ludwig of Bavaria by "threatening to make public certain events in his life in which the younger woman had been concerned". He paid until, in 1913, they demanded the equivalent of £1m at today's values to stop them writing a book. They and a publisher were jailed.Kaiser Wilhelm II was involved in a swirl of gay scandals from 1907 to 1909 - his army secretariat chief dropped dead of a heart attack while dancing in a tutu, and the venerable chancellor, Prince von Bülow, was said to have kissed a man at a private function. Army commander von Moltke's nickname was given in court as Sweetie, and six officers committed suicide in blackmail plots. Bülow and Moltke won libel actions.In 1907 Victor Emmanuel III of Italy defied an apparent blackmailer who demanded an annuity to support her son whom she claimed was the result of her seduction by Victor Emmanuel's father, King Umberto. Victor Emmanuel stood Firm, despite carping that it was his meanness which lay behind his willingness to have his father's name dragged through the courts. He was vindicated, as the woman had no birth documents and an alleged wet-nurse for the child who was called to court proved to have been only 13.Louis XVI of France paid off London criminals who published sexual libels about his queen, Marie Antoinette. The gangs took advantage of British law which protected only British citizens. The king's deep purse worked but his over-efficient bureaucrats filed copies of the blackmail pamphlets in the Bastille. On its fall in 1789, these were reprinted by the thousand, blackening the queen's reputation.