Jack Sraw triggered fresh controversy yesterday after calling for 'good neighbours' to tell the police about anti-social thugs and vandals.The Home Secretary wants the stalwarts of the Neighbourhood Watch to report local thugs and problem families and actively 'get involved' in seeking so-called anti-social behaviour orders against them. But probation officers warned that attempts to turn the sentinels of suburbia into amateur detectives risked making them targets for violence by accused youths. Until now decisions on issuing orders - meant to cover behaviour causing 'alarm, distress or harassment' to others - have been left to police, probation officers and local authorities, who proved initially resistant to using them, much to Ministers' irritation. Although Straw said that more than 100 orders have now been issued after encouragement from the Home Office, the new initiative will be seen as another attempt to override professionals' reluctance by tapping into deep public anxieties about gangs of loitering teenagers indulging in vandalism or harassment. In a speech to the National Neighbourhood Watch Conference yesterday, Straw said anti-social behaviour 'blights people's lives', adding: 'I want you and your members to get involved in the process itself by notifyng the police and local authorities of cases of anti-social behaviour and asking to be involved in the decision-making process that leads to the application for an order. If you or your neighbours are suffering from anti-social behaviour, do something about it now.' There will be forms for ordinary people to fill in complaining about issues from teenage vandals and 'neighbours from hell' to prostitution or car crime, Straw said, which they can then present to police or local authorities, pushing for an application for a court order to be made. But Harry Fletcher, the spokesman for the National Association of Probation Officers, warned the idea risked retribution against Neighbourhood Watch members. 'The Home Secretary is in danger of encouraging a "snitch and reprisal" culture, which would be extremely unhelpful to community relations,' he said. 'He needs to realise that Anti-Social Behaviour Orders are not popular with the courts and they are not popular with the professionals.' Labour has repeatedly suffered this year from the backfiring of 'tough' measures that turned out to be ill thought through. Straw has previously urged members of the public to tackle thugs directly themselves, pointing out that he himself once rugby-tackled a mugger - prompting police warnings that civilians should not put themselves at risk. The orders, designed to combat low-level criminality with sanctions of up to five years in jail if breached, were introduced last April but got off to a slow start, prompting Straw to criticise councils and courts for not using their new powers. Shadow Home Secretary Ann Widdecombe accused him of pushing the responsibility for the poor response to ASBOs on to other people. 'I would never discourage anybody coming forward with information, but this is not what Neighbourhood Watch groups were set up to do.'