Rape victims seeking compensation are having their payouts reduced if they had been drinking before they were attacked.Campaigners called on the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA) to end the application to rape victims of a clause that says awards in all types of cases can be cut if consumption of alcohol "contributed to the circumstances that gave rise to the injury".In the past year 14 rape victims - 1% of rape-related applications - were told they would get less money because of alcohol consumption, the CICA confirmed.One woman, who believes she was raped after having her drink spiked, told the Guardian it "felt like a slap in the face" when she read that the standard award of £11,000 would be reduced by 25% in her case, to £8,250."The evidence that we have shows that your excessive consumption of alcohol was a contributing factor in the incident," she was informed by the CICA.The woman, who was raped four years ago when she was 25, was awarded the full sum after her solicitor argued that the practice amounted to indirect sexual discrimination.No one was arrested for the attack. The Metropolitan police apologised to her after an internal inquiry found a string of failings in the investigation. Helen, a beauty therapist who has not worked since the incident, said: "When I read the CICA letter I just had no words; I could not take it in. It felt like I was being punished for having the audacity to step up and say 'I don't think this should have happened to me.' It was like going back to the 70s, saying 'she was asking for it'. How else could you read the letter but as saying it's my fault I was raped?"Helen told the CICA she had been drinking but did not say how much alcohol she consumed. The police submission said it was "possible" her behaviour had contributed to the incident, because she had drunk a "large amount" of alcohol. Helen's solicitor, Debaleena Dasgupta, said women should challenge docked payouts. "It's appalling, the number of women that are probably getting this letter and aren't fighting because they don't know that they can," she said.A spokesman said: "CICA makes decisions on conduct issues in good faith, based on the facts available to them in each individual case, and any applicants unhappy with the decision in their claim can ask for a review by a more senior member of staff."In a second statement, issued later, the CICA said a mistake had been made in Helen's case and its policy was not to reduce awards to rape victims on the basis of alcohol consumption.The justice minister Bridget Prentice said: "Although I cannot comment on the individual decisions of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority I can be clear that it is not our policy to reduce the level of award to a victim of rape due to alcohol consumption."This stance supports our view that a victim of rape is not in any way culpable due to alcohol consumption. It is never an individual's fault if he/she gets raped; regardless of how much he/she has drunk."