Rape statistics are notoriously difficult to use in a way that is considered fair and reasonable by all. Even last year's report by Baroness Stern, commissioned by the government to look into concerns over the level of rape cases resulting in convictions, failed to settle all the issues around statistics for some campaigners.A reader who was looking at the Guardian's archive found two historic articles, published on 14 March 2009 and 27 March 2009, with which he took strong issue. Both articles used the same pair of statistics in the same way. Turning to the first, this was the sentence that led to the complaint: "Of the rapes that were reported from 2007 to 2008, only 6.5% resulted in a conviction, compared with 34% of criminal cases in general."The reader said: "This is wrong on both counts. About 13% of reported rapes result in a conviction, not 6.5%, and you have in fact pointed out this mistake several times in your Corrections and clarifications column."More importantly, the suggestion that 34% of general criminal cases result in a conviction is just nonsense. Only about 15% of reports of general criminal cases result in someone being charged, let alone convicted. I would imagine that the percentage of reports that actually result in a conviction is in single figures, and it is certainly less than that for rape … Given the frequency with which these articles are referred [to], it would make sense for your paper to attach corrections to them, in order to avoid readers picking up entirely false ideas about conviction rates."Dealing with the first figure of 6.5%, it is indeed true to say that we have corrected the usage of this figure in the past, but it is a little more complicated than that, as some work by my colleague Leslie Plommer nearly two years ago, which became a Guardian editorial guidance note, reveals: " … the formulation that is correct, and should be our standard, is: 'In England and Wales, about 13% of reported rapes end in a conviction.' We could elaborate: 'That is, conviction on a range of charges from rape to lesser offences such as sexual assault and others.' The body of evidence for the 13% is far from extensive, but … it is the finding of the most authoritative and up to date (2007) study commissioned by the Home Office on what the outcomes are for reported rapes … What about the 6.5% conviction rate we often cite: eg, Only 6.5% of reported rapes end in a conviction? Certainly we are free to use the 6.5% – but have to signal clearly that this represents a narrower body of convictions … those on the charge of rape itself."The reference to 34% of criminal cases in general is wrong and results from misreading a sentence in a press release from the solicitor general's office on 24 October 2008 that stated: "Overall, only 6.1% of rapes reported to the police result in a conviction. However, 34% of all cases prosecuted result in a conviction, the highest conviction rate for 10 years." This refers to 34% of rape cases that are prosecuted, not general criminal cases, although it is interesting to note that in 2008 the solicitor general was using the figure of around 6% for rape convictions. However, the Guardian will continue to use the figure of 13% as the benchmark, which is much closer to the 14% recommended by the Stern report.The real problem is finding a meaningful comparison for rape convictions. There are no Home Office figures under the heading general criminal convictions, but even if they existed they would take in crimes such as burglary and criminal damage where the victim largely never sees or is not aware of the perpetrator, unlike rape. Figures for rape as measured against those for violence against the person seem a much more relevant comparison.Among the statistics collated by the Home Office are the "sanction/detection rates". These are defined as the percentage of crimes for which someone is charged, summonsed, and receives a caution or other formal sanction.The 2010/2011 Home Office statistics show that the sanction detection rate for violence against the person was 44.5%, and for rape 29.9%.