The prison service yesterday began to free 900 of some of the most troublesome inmates in England and Wales in the wake of a human rights ruling that governors' punishment hearings were illegal.The Home Office is bracing itself for compensation claims which could run into millions of pounds from prisoners who have illegally had up to six weeks added to their sentences for each disciplinary offence they have been convicted of inside jail. The prison population hit a record high of 71,723 before the mass early release programme began yesterday. The figure represented an increase of more than 220 on the week with 185 "locked out" in police cells. About 80,000 "added days" are imposed on inmates by governors each year and compensation claims for unlawful imprisonment could cover punishments going back to the implementation of the Human Rights Act two years ago. The prison service confirmed yesterday it would not appeal against the ruling by the European court of human rights and had started to release "about 900 inmates". Most of those released were serving an extra 28 days or less but there some isolated cases of inmates who had been awarded 233 added days and one inmate who had been given 362 added days. Those who require supervision by the probation service and others are expected to be freed next week. The Strasbourg court ruled last week that it was a breach of the right to a fair trial under article six of the European convention on human rights for a prison governor to sit as "judge and jury" in internal prison disciplinary hearings for offences that would be considered criminal outside prison. John Dickinson, the solicitor who took the case to Strasbourg on behalf of two British prisoners, Lawrence Connors and Okechukwiw Ezeh, said yesterday that there were grounds for compensation: "Under English law wrongful imprisonment often results in compensation and it would be appropriate for it to be available to prisoners who suffer such detention." The last time there was a mass release of inmates was in 1996 when 541 had to be released early because their sentences had been miscalculated. One of the inmates was awarded £5,000 compensation for 57 days' wrongful imprisonment. The prison service is considering an alternative internal disciplinary system, possibly using a panel of independent legally qualified people. Juliet Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust said it was surprising the prison service had not acted earlier. "This has been a fundamental injustice that has led to an unnecessary increase in incarceration. Given a service struggling to survive, it is surprising they did not take these steps at their own volition."