Two officers working on the inquiry into the murder of schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman have been arrested on suspicion of child pornography offences, police sources said today.They were arrested in connection with a worldwide FBI operation against internet pornography. Holly and Jessica's families have been informed of the arrests but Cambridgeshire police stressed the alleged offences were entirely separate matters to the murder inquiry. The two officers are accused of inciting others to distribute indecent photographs of children. The officers - one aged in his 30s and the other in his 40s - are based at Cambridgeshire police headquarters in Huntingdon.West Midlands police were yesterday invited by Cambridgeshire to carry out their own independent investigation into the allegations, said a police spokesman. He said: "West Midlands police agreed to conduct the investigation, which is being supervised at the request of Cambridgeshire constabulary by the police complaints authority." The two Cambridgeshire officers were arrested at around 7am by officers from West Midlands police at their home addresses in the county and taken to a police station outside Cambridgeshire to be questioned. The arrests were part of Operation Ore in which UK police have been targeting users of pay-per-view websites based in the United States.In May, 36 people were arrested in a series of raids coordinated by the national crime squad. Computer users arrested in Operation Ore were accused of paying to access websites which were selling pornographic images, some of them of children as young as five being sexually abused. People wanting to buy images from the websites had to give details of their credit cards and billing addresses and were sent an email with a user log-in and password. Operation Ore is the UK wing of the FBI's Operation Candyman, which has so far identified thousands of suspects around the world. The credit card details and email addresses of suspects identified in Candyman were passed by the FBI to the UK's national criminal intelligence service (NCIS). NCIS was first told by the FBI more than a year ago that child porn websites in the US were receiving hits from British surfers. The FBI has identified several thousand British internet users suspected of paying to access the US sites.