A woman has been arrested on suspicion of child neglect after a one-year-old girl was rescued from a smoke-filled house, police said today. The baby was found by a neighbour in an upstairs bedroom at the house in Bristol after smoke was seen coming from the kitchen.Forty-nine-year-old Rob Sullivan entered the house to rescue the baby after his partner saw the child's two sisters, aged two and three, wandering outside at about 10.30am. He removed a smoking pan from the cooker before rescuing the baby from upstairs. The two older children later told him that they had been trying to bake cakes and had turned on the oven themselves.Police were called amid concerns that no adults were in the house, Avon Fire and Rescue said. A woman thought to be the children's mother was later detained on suspicion of child neglect.The children, who were unharmed, are now being looked after by social services and relatives.A spokesman for Avon and Somerset police said there was no significant damage to the house. "A woman in her mid-20s has been arrested and is helping police with their inquiries."Stephanie Mounsey, a spokeswoman for Avon Fire and Rescue, said: "It appears the neighbour noticed the two- and three-year-old girls wandering around outside the house and spotted smoke coming from the property. She approached the youngsters, who told her their one-year-old sister was asleep upstairs in her cot."The neighbour dialled 999 and alerted her husband. He decided to enter the house and found a pan on the hob getting very hot and smoking. He switched off the cooker and went upstairs and rescued the one-year-old girl, bringing her to safety as firefighters arrived."Sullivan said he acted immediately when his partner Julie Dyer, 34, told him there was a baby in the house. "It was instinct, I had to get the baby out. I went in without thinking about it," he said."There was lots of smoke, I opened the oven and saw the plastic was about to drop from the tray. I pulled the tray out and grabbed a rug to smother it. [The children] had put the grill and the oven on somehow. There were no smoke alarms going off and I think it was just about to ignite when I got to it, so everyone has been very lucky."He found the baby crying in her cot in a bedroom directly above the kitchen. "I just had to get her out, so I grabbed her and ran down the stairs into the fresh air," he said.Dyer, who has six children of her own, said: "The mum only moved in a few months ago, so we don't know her. We didn't know she had children until now."Firefighters later fitted smoke alarms in the house. Mounsey said: "Had the fire developed while the children were asleep the smoke detectors would not have alerted them."