A man who stabbed his on-off girlfriend and her sister to death in a "brutal and depraved" attack was jailed for life today.Mohammed Ali, 29, of Birmingham, used three knives to kill Yasmine and Sabrina Larbi-Cherif, whose partially clothed bodies were found at their blood-drenched flat in the city in September.Sentencing Ali, who was not in court, to a minimum of 34 years in prison, Mr Justice Hamblen said: "You barbarically and brutally butchered these two girls, turning their flat into a cauldron of blood."The judge, sitting at the Royal Courts of Justice in London, rejected Ali's claim that he was provoked into the killings during a loss of self-control. "This wasn't a case of provocation," he said. "It was a case of anger and retribution in the case of Yasmine and of cover-up in the case of Sabrina."Hamblen said Ali had killed two "educated, outgoing girls in the morning of their lives" without showing any remorse. "You do not know the meaning of the word respect. Not one word of apology has been offered to Yasmine and Sabrina's grieving parents and family. To them you have caused quite unimaginable grief."Yasmine, 22, and Sabrina, 19, moved to the UK from Algeria with their parents and three brothers in 1998. The older sister met Ali in 2006 and became pregnant by him twice, resulting in two terminations.In February last year she accused Ali of rape, and he spent five months on remand in prison. The charges were dropped when she decided she could not face giving evidence in court. The pair got back together after he was freed but their relationship began breaking down before the killings.On 14 September Ali stabbed Yasmine twice and inflicted 35 separate knife wounds on her sister before dragging their bodies into a bedroom, his trial at Birmingham crown court heard. Ali twice walked to the kitchen to rearm himself after breaking two of the knives.He was filmed on CCTV leaving the sisters' flat, and was arrested two days later at a ferry terminal in Dover, Kent, attempting to flee the country for France.A jury took three hours and 20 minutes to convict Ali of the two murders.