Dean Rice sits between two armed and masked Spanish police officers, his hands tied behind his back. He has just been arrested in the small Andalusian town of Alhaurin and is about to return to Britain to start a life sentence for a grim kidnapping that occurred in Kent in 2006 and of which he was convicted in his absence. He must have thought that, using various aliases, he had managed to hide himself amongst the many expats in the area but he was rumbled by a neighbour in February and arrested in a morning raid.Rice is the latest to fall foul of Operation Captura, launched jointly five years ago by the Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA) and the charity Crimestoppers which offers anonymity for tip-offs on the whereabouts of villains. "Don't let UK criminals became a handicap in Spain," was how the scheme was originally launched, alongside a picture of a retired gent on a coastal golf course. Since then, expats have help to shop 40 of the 60 most wanted.No rewards are paid to members of the public who tip off the police but the response so far has been remarkable. Dave Cording, Crimestoppers' Director of Operations said: "For many years, Spain has been an appealing sunny hideaway for British criminals escaping justice. But this all changed in 2004 when European Arrest Warrants came into effect, making it easier to bring British criminals back into the UK's criminal justice system."It is more than 20 years since a young Englishman hopped off his mountain bike outside a villa in Llanos de Naguelos, near Marbella, went round to the swimming pool and shot dead the great train robber, Charlie Wilson. The murder represented the Costa del Crime writ large and was a reminder that thousands of British criminals had made Spain their home and given the coastal area the reputation of being "the bit of Europe that fell off the back of a lorry." It was the collapse of the extradition agreement between Spain and the United Kingdom in 1978 that first encouraged villains on the run to settle there and although that has long since changed, Spain remains an unwilling haven to thousands of Britons on the run.The scope of British criminality in Spain has been well illustrated over the past month. Last week, (MAR 22) three Britons were arrested in Benidorm for allegedly importing three kilos of mephedrone from India. Two other Britons in Spain have just launched an appeal against their conviction for killing an ex-pat playboy criminal, Colin Nobes, whose body was dumped, wrapped in a tarpaulin, under a flyover in the province of Alicante in 2006. The spirit of Sexy Beast lives on.