• The inquiry was set up to investigate whether the British intelligence agencies could have prevented the murder by two Islamist jihadis Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale. It basically clears the domestic agency MI5, the overseas spy agency MI6 and the surveillance agency GCHQ.• There is only light criticism of the agencies, in spite of the killers having appeared in seven separate investigations. The report identifies errors by MI5 “where processes were not followed, decisions not recorded or delays encountered”. It describes the response of MI6 in dealing with Adebolajo as inadequate.• It concludes there is little the agencies could have done, based on the knowledge they had at the time, that would have made a difference. Adebolajo was a high priority for MI5 during two operations in which a broad range of intrusive techniques were used but “none of these revealed any evidence of attack planning”. Adebowale was never more than a low-level subject of interest.• The one issue that could have been decisive, the committee says, was an online exchange between Adebowale and an overseas extremist codenamed Foxtrot on 4 December 2012 during which Adebowale said he intended to kill a soldier.• The report says an unnamed internet provider on whose platform his exchange took place could have made a difference. The company does not regard itself as under an obligation to notify the authorities when its communications services appear to be used by terrorists, it says.• It also says US internet companies do not regard themselves as compelled to comply with UK warrants for communications data sought by British agencies• The report, citing national security, sidesteps the issue of allegations that MI5 had harassed Adebolajo or tried to recruit him as an agent. The report says: “Despite the considerable public interest in this case, it is nevertheless essential that we do not comment on the allegation that MI5 had been trying to recruit Adebolajo as an agent. In relation to allegations of harassment, we can confirm that we have investigated all aspects of MI5’s actions thoroughly, and have not seen any evidence of wrongdoing by MI5 in this area.”• Referring to young Britons travelling to Syria and Iraq, the report takes a swipe at the government’s strategy. “The scale of the problem indicates that the government’s counter-radicalisation programmes are not working.”• The case happened before the revelations about bulk data collection revealed by the  National Security Agency (NSA) whistleblower Edward Snowden from June last year. The report carries only one reference to him, saying that the move by internet companies to offer encrypted services had been accelerated by his disclosures but would have come anyway.• Some information has been withheld on security grounds, according to the committee. There are also intriguing redactions, such as the final paragraph. “Adebolajo’s allegations of mistreatment potentially related to a ***. It is essential that ministers are informed immediately of any allegations made against an overseas organisation for which any part of HMG bears responsibility and which is ***.”• Lee Rigby report live – all the latest developments• Read the full report here