Tony Blair's final prime minister's questions on Wednesday was a rather stage-managed event and a number of the questions were clearly intended to highlight what Blair feels are his most conspicuous achievements. So I was not surprised to hear the former home secretary, David Blunkett congratulate him on his fabulous success in tackling crime. According to Blunkett, Blair deserved praise for introducing tough new sentences for dangerous criminals while at the same time bringing in Sure Start and a raft of other polices that had led to falling crime rates. All in all, Blair had more than lived up to his early promise to be "tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime".Since Tony Blair first rose to public prominence on the back of this particular soundbite, it was appropriate that it should be aired on his final day in power. But Blunkett's words rang hollow. Blair's law and order policies have, in fact, been a failure and he leaves the criminal justice system in crisis.Like all previous Labour governments, New Labour came to power promising radical change. But whereas past Labour governments hoped to improve society primarily through redistributive economic policies, Blair sought to achieve social reform through the institutions of criminal justice. From the moment he took office, the courts have been bombarded with a plethora of new criminal offences as well as numerous measures designed "balance" the criminal justice system in favour of victims and against criminals (ignoring the fact that in our system of justice no one can be called a criminal until they have actually been convicted).New powers have been given to the police and to prosecutors while historic provisions designed to protect the innocent have been stripped away. And the criminal law has invaded areas from which it had previously been absent: ASBOs now allow the courts to imprison beggars and to lock up teenagers for associating with the wrong people. Frequently, they do just that.But what has a decade of Blairite law and order policy actually achieved? Crime as a whole has fallen consistently throughout the period but this is the result of low rates of unemployment, not high rates of imprisonment. On the other hand, violent crime seems to have risen (although it is not clear by how much). ASBOs have done little to cure the social ills they were supposed to address: drug users and prostitutes are removed from one area only to reappear in another. Gang culture has not gone away either, and may be worse than ever if recent spates of killing in our inner cities are anything to go by.Tough law and order policies have scarcely improved our society, but the criminal justice system itself has been stretched to breaking point.Swimming with the political tide, judges and magistrates have been locking people up in ever greater numbers. In consequence, our prisons are now about to burst open at the seams. The prison population as a whole has risen by over 20,000. The female prison population alone has doubled and most worryingly, we now imprison more juveniles than any other European country (nearly 3,000). During the Blair years, young people have been criminalised to an unprecedented extent.The prison crisis is not going away. As the Guardian reported last Saturday, prisoners subject to imprisonment for public protection (IPP), a new indeterminate sentence established by the 2003 Criminal Justice Act are now beginning to clog up our prisons. Apparently intended to catch only the most dangerous offenders, the legislation has in fact resulted in an extraordinary proliferation of prisoners serving what are, in effect, life sentences. Well over 150 IPPs are imposed every month, vastly exceeding available places on the offender behaviour courses that, in a cruel Catch 22, IPP prisoners must undertake before they have any hope of release.And the crisis extends beyond the prisons. While we spend more and more money locking people up, the probation service is overstretched and under-resourced. Experienced officers are leaving the service, disillusioned with a system that requires them to take on an ever more coercive role. Those that remain face a privatisation scheme that may see parts of the probation service taken over by private security companies. In the meantime, facilities for drug treatment are still woefully under-funded. Criminal defence lawyers are also in despair. The vast proliferation of new offences, increases in police charging, custodial remands and imprisonment have in turn led to increases in criminal legal aid expenditure. Rather than examine the policies that have resulted in this rise, the government has sought to force through swingeing cuts to legal aid. These will cripple many criminal defence firms and increase the risk of miscarriages of justice.For those of us who work within the criminal justice system, the future looks bleak: are we to have up with a US-style system, complete with prison gulags, dumbed-down defence lawyers and privatised probation services? It need not be this way. The new government has the chance to reverse the tide, and it should start by announcing clear polices to reduce prison numbers and support the probation service. It must also reverse the disastrous Carter reforms of legal aid and enter into a genuine dialogue with legal aid lawyers. But we can all learn from the mistakes of the last decade: criminal justice is not, and can never be, a panacea for social ills.