What should we make of the new fashion item, those bright orange jackets marked "Community payback" we read about in today's Guardian? Good idea? Or not very helpful?They're the "vests of shame" that people sentenced to community service orders (CSOs) are now having to wear when out putting in their hours picking up litter or laying that new patio outside the arts centre.The two Jacquis – home secretary Jacqui Smith and Jacqui Straw, the justice secretary – defended the innovation yesterday, insisting it was not primarily about the shaming of miscreants in front of the community against which they offended.No, it's more about reassuring the community that non-custodial CSOs aren't the soft option they are widely assumed to be. Some 10,000 orange vests have been ordered – which must be a small but useful counter-cyclical boost to the economy, unless it's the Chinese economy."They're not medieval; it's not to do with the stocks. It's not to do with shaming," Straw explained. "The shame the offenders feel is the shame and humiliation of having committed the offence and then going to court and having a criminal record. What this is about is enabling the public to see that justice is being done."Fair enough then? The probation officers' union, Napo, isn't sure. It fears vigilante attacks on offenders who are out in public in such a visible way. Two offenders have already been shot by rival gangs, it says.The Probation Chiefs Association is happy with high visibility vests (HVVs) in principle, but worries about practical problems, the bullying of children whose parents are seen serving CSOs, the impracticality of separating minors (whose anonymity must be protected) from adults in sparsely populated rural areas. And so on.Louise Casey, Tony Blair's "crime tsar" who managed to survive the Brown takeover, told the Daily Mirror this week that voters didn't feel the criminal justice system listened sufficiently to their concerns. HVVs help get the message across and allow citizens to see justice being done.As you'd expect, offenders themselves are divided on the scheme; some think it's unfair and mean, others shrug it off.But are we right to expose people to social shame as a matter of policy? Is it quite different from a proper sense of guilt for wrongdoing? One is external; it's about feeling humiliated or dishonoured in the community. The other is internal, the knowledge that one has violated values which we believe to be right. There's a lot of literature here, as a quick trip to Wikipedia College readily confirms. It's 20 years since I read the scholarly Ian Buruma's Behind the Mask, the kind of attempt to explain modern Japan I had not previously encountered. Japanese culture does shame rather than guilt, was one point Buruma hammered home. Guilt is better; shame is what you feel for getting caught. It helps to explain the difficulty that Japan's wartime enemies, China and Korea as well as the US and Britain, have long had with Tokyo's official attitudes to the war. It started with the Emperor's famous 1945 broadcast announcing the surrender – "the war situation has developed not necessarily to Japan's advantage" became a celebrated phrase. It lingers on in many ways. Japan's refusal to countenance the loss of face which the drastic and necessary actions to resolve the 1990s banking crisis is blamed by some for prolonging it. With banks, as with the treatment of minor offenders, as with much else, we are about to see if we can do better.