The home secretary, David Blunkett, today pledged a "bonfire of the paperwork" to free up more police time, as he announced the highest-ever number of police officers since records began 81 years ago.Following his bruising backdown over reforming police practices in the spring, the home secretary told the Police Superintendents Association he wanted to cut red tape and free up 90,000 hours a year - but linked the plan to putting more officers on the beat.The most radical innovation will see officers taking meal breaks in cafes and restaurants, to save time and mix with the local community.However, the home secretary revealed he would allow forces to "phase in" the recommendation of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry that the race of all people "stopped" by police was recorded.Mr Blunkett said: "There is no point in reducing bureaucracy in one area only to have it increased in another. "I intend to build on our commitment by bringing in phased implementation to achieve a means of recording stops in a way that is the least bureaucratic for the police and individuals concerned. "His decision to only "phase in" the recommendations is likely to anger race relations groups, whilst antagonising officers who see the move as politically correct red tape.The Lawrence inquiry said police should issue a certificate to every person they stop in the street, rather than just to those they stop and search at present. The scheme - based on recommendation 61 of the Lawrence report - means officers will hand a certificate to everyone they stop on the street, which will record their name, address and ethnic origin. It is designed to track whether officers are unfairly stopping large numbers of blacks and Asians.Appealing to the police forces of England and Wales - over whom Mr Blunkett has only limited operational control - to put extra bobbies on the street, Mr Blunkett said it was essential that "we end up with them reassuring people on the street, rather than being bogged down with paperwork and bureaucracy in the station".The plans were welcomed by Mr Blunkett's opposite number, the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, but he warned that previous announcements had not been followed through.Mr Letwin said: "We shall watch closely to see if he actually carries out this latest initiative, although his track record in putting his announcements into practice is not impressive." "The government greatly reduced police numbers after they came to power in 1997. They are now only just above the point where they started. This is not a huge achievement. Home Office figures today showed there were 129,603 police officers in March this year, 3,922 (3.1%) on the previous year. The Home Office also publishing a major review of police bureaucracy by former chief inspector of constabulary Sir David O'Dowd, which will set out a five-year blueprint to tackle time wasting. Last November, Home Office research found officers spent 43% of their time in the police station and just 17% on patrol. It also revealed that they had to cope with a array of more than 250 forms in regular use. Mr Blunkett today announced halving of the 15 most-used forms and an aim to reduce drastically the total number."Many of these forms are repetitive, too long and even redundant," he said."There is also a huge variation between forces - for example, the missing person report varies from a double-sided form in one force to a 32-page document in another." A spokeswoman for the Home Office said today's police recruitment figures confounded last week's reports that the multi-million pound "Could you?" TV campaign had been a flop. More people had joined the police over the last year - 10,215 including those who replaced officers who retired or left the job - than since 1975 when the figure was just over 9,000, she said. Sir David's report features a raft of ideas to further reduce police bureaucracy over the next three to five years. It contains an overall estimate of the police hours which could be saved following an intensive study of all 43 forces in England and Wales by Sir David and a team of rank-and-file officers and support staff. The report recommends that officers due to give evidence in a prosecution should be issued with pagers so they do not waste time waiting outside court. It backs the adoption of a pilot scheme in Nottingham where officers were told to stay within 30 minutes of the court so they could be there promptly when paged by court officials. Other measures announced by the Home Office today based on Sir David's report, includes securing a deal with supermarkets or restaurant chains so officers take meal breaks at public places. The Home Office said officers would get discount on food if they took part in the scheme to eat away from police stations, adding there would be a "great benefit to be gained from this approach in terms of enhancing police visibility". A trial scheme in the West Midlands had received a "positive response from the retail community". Another proposal which will be taken forward from Sir David's report is a new power for police officers to deal with arrestable crimes on the street without having to take a suspect into custody immediately. The so-called "street bail" scheme or "street direction" would save time because officers would not have spent hours processing an arrest. The Home Office said suspects would "simply be required to attend a police station at a later date". Other initiatives adopted from Sir David's report, which will be implemented over a number of years, include expanding the role of civilians in processing arrests and escorting arrested suspects to a station. Forces will be encouraged to make better use of retired officers during busy periods or major inquiries, to draw on their experience and expertise. Another proposal which may concern rank-and-file members is the Home Office's proposal to reduce the number of police who patrol in pairs. The government wants police to be more visible to the public, and says so-called "single crewing" should be possible where the risk is acceptable. However, frontline officers would have serious concerns on safety grounds if they were assaulted or threatened while patrolling alone.