The collapse of the prosecution case against the brothers accused of murdering Damilola Taylor confirms a terrifying social fact: we now have pockets of lawlessness where, as the Daily Mail puts it, "feral thugs" roam the streets. And that's not all. We also have the highest rates of teenage alcohol and drug consumption in Europe, and unacceptably high rates of sexually transmitted diseases and teenage pregnancy. Youth is "in crisis" and young people and their parents are to blame.But while parents bear the brunt of responsibility, adult society as a whole has failed to provide for the needs of the young in a changing world; adult society has failed to provide an adequate safety net for them when things go wrong. Teenagers are stereotyped as different, difficult and dangerous when they are children, and in desperate need of adult care, trust and guidance as they struggle to grow up. Adult society has created the pockets of social deprivation, such as the North Peckham estate where Damilola Taylor died, where drug-taking, criminality and hopelessness flourish among the young before they have barely lived. When big children rob small children in public places, adults are at fault for not intervening. We blame the young for roaming the streets in gangs, but the youth service has collapsed during the past 20 years and there is nowhere safe and stimulating for them. The Scouts website complains that 60,000 young people are waiting to join Beaver colonies or Cub packs because there aren't enough adults volunteering to run them. We blame the young for failing to make the most of the education system, when surveys show that half of all secondary school children are bored and fail to see what relevance much of what they learn has to their lives. We blame them for failing to get jobs when adults have failed to educate them effectively for a changing market. We blame the young for being materialistic, and binge drinking, when they are merely emulating adult society, which has never been more materialistic or consumed so much alcohol. We have seen an unprecedented rise in the commercialisation of childhood in the past 20 years; adults target the young as a market and sell to them in sophisticated ways. Children and adolescents find it harder than adults to distinguish emotion from reason, and cravings are easily triggered. They want what they see. But few children can afford what is being sold. There has also been a threefold increase in child poverty during the same period. Research by American scientists in the past 20 years has shown adolescence to be a period of critical brain development, when people need to be exposed to as many challenges and adults as possible to learn how to be responsible and cope with modern life. Yet adolescents have never been so isolated from adult example. We isolate them in large schools with a handful of teachers who may be specialists in their subject but don't know about adolescent development and little more about their pupils than their names. They have a busy curriculum and many exams. Most teenagers learn more about adult life from their peers and television than they do from grown ups. Teenagers are denied clear social and economic roles - they pay emergency tax at 16 but cannot vote until 18, or claim full state benefits until 24. They are denied influence in running their schools or opportunities to contribute to the community when they most need to prove their worth and learn responsibility and respect for others. A survey of more than 30,000 young people in Scotland found that "belonging to a community of others" was the strongest protection against emotional distress, drug use and truancy. These are stressful times for the young and statistics show that rates of drink and drug use, depression, self harm, suicide and eating disorders are rising. The young also have to contend with rapid social change - emotional fallout from divorce, separation and step-families. They face more exams than any previous generation and are rarely allowed the down time crucial to healthy adolescent development. Deciding who you are and what you want to do in life is harder when there are no certain paths anymore. Traditional gender roles have broken down and young people are confused as to what it means to be a man or a woman. Teenagers need more help, guidance and input from adults to be able to cope with these pressures. Contrary to the myth they do not need to be misunderstood. Yet where are the specialist adolescent support services? The drug dependency clinics for the under-18s? The shelters for the growing number who run away from home because life there is unbearable? Why is it almost impossible to get treatment for a 15-year-old anorexic unless you can pay through the nose for it? Although 20% of the population is under 20, children and adolescents receive only 2% of the mental health budget when rates of depression and other problems among teenagers are clearly rising. If we are ever to reverse disaffection and despondency among the young, we need to understand the true nature of adolescence and put the needs of the young first as we do with small children. That means listening to what they have to say and, as I found by interviewing teenagers, they all say the same thing. They want greater trust, respect and responsibility from adults, but they also want greater understanding and support for the difficulties they face. We have seen a radical revolution in nursery school education and social activities for small children because we know that this is good for them. Now we need similar interest and investment in our teenagers. It will take more than anti-truancy sweeps and anger management courses to get disaffected kids back into school. The whole nature of compulsory schooling has to be reformed to bring out the best in teenagers. We need investment in services for the young. And all adults, not just parents, need to reach out to the young and to welcome them into their world with guidance, public rites of passage, understanding and love. How are the young ever to learn how to develop responsibility and respect towards others unless adults teach them by example? The job of being a parent to teenagers has never been tougher and they cannot raise children alone effectively. It takes a village to raise a child, as we are now beginning to realise to our cost. · Kate Figes's Terrible Teens will be published by Viking on June 13, £9.99. kate.figes@wyld.demon.co.uk