Failures in communication and the identification of at risk prisoners at Feltham young offenders institution are to be reported to the Home Office by a coroner following an inquest into the death of a teenager at Britain's largest youth jail. The west London coroner, Allison Thompson, said she would be reporting her concerns about Feltham after a jury returned a verdict of suicide in the case of Kevin Henson, 17. Henson, who had suffered alcohol problems since the death of his mother, was found hanging from exposed pipes in his cell on September 6 last year. He had been refused bail on a charge of wounding the previous day. The three day inquest at Hammersmith and Chelsea coroners court heard of a succession of failures at Feltham, which houses around 700 inmates aged between 15 and 21. Power cables for televisions were housed in pipes that were left exposed in some cells. Henson hanged himself from one of these. Medical records, including an assessment by a police doctor who diagnosed Henson as suffering from alcoholism and severe anxiety were not passed to reception staff at the jail. Senior staff at Feltham were unable to provide an explanation as to how that happened. Despite being seen by three health care workers no concerns were raised about the risk of self-harm in Henson's case. Henson's father, also named Kevin, called for an independent investigation into procedures at Feltham which was described as "rotten to the core" by the chief inspector of prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham. "Short of pulling the place down, it will be nice for an outside agency to go in. If it's left to the Home Office to investigate there will be no criticism." he said. "I've just spent three days listening to people justifying their failure to take action. The prison service ... didn't do their job." A representative of the family said they would be taking the case to the parliamentary ombudsman, reporting a GP who saw Kevin in Feltham to the General Medical Council, and requesting a meeting with the prisons minister, Paul Boateng. Deborah Coles of the campaign group Inquest accused the prison service of attempting to restrict the remit of the inquiry in order to stifle criticism of staff. "This inquest has painted a disturbing picture of the complete failures in the screening and identification of at risk prisoners," she said. Martin Narey, director of the prison service, said in a statement: "Kevin Henson's death was a tragic waste of young life which has affected many people who knew Kevin, including the staff at Feltham. On behalf of the prison service and the staff at Feltham I can only reiterate our heart felt regrets and condolences." Mr Narey pointed out that £8m would be invested this year to drive down prison suicides and that the numbers of suicides fell last year for the first time in five years. Nick Pascoe, the governor of Feltham, said the remaining exposed pipes in cells would be boxed in by the end of next week. Kevin Henson was deeply traumatised following the death of his mother of cancer on his 14th birthday in August 1997. He turned to alcohol and within 18 months was an alcoholic. In 1998 his father, struggling to cope, turned to social services for help and Kevin moved to a foster home in Milton Keynes. He was settled for a while but after 14 months he was moved to a home in Luton after an argument with another teenager. After breaking hostel rules in Luton he moved back to his father's house in Uxbridge, Middlesex, where his behaviour deteriorated. In November 1999 he was arrested for a street robbery and being drunk and disorderly, and on August 15 2000 he was made the subject of a probation order. A GP diagnosed him as alcoholic. Less than two weeks later on the bank holiday weekend Kevin got drunk and got into a fight during which he slashed another teenager across the face. He was arrested, charged with wounding with intent and held at Uxbridge police station. A doctor at the station examined him and noted, "asthmatic, anxiety plus, alcohol plus plus". This record was not passed to medical staff at Feltham. On September 5 Henson was refused bail and warned he could face two years in jail. He cried on hearing he would be returning to Feltham and told his father he was worried he would not be able to visit his mother's grave on her birthday the following month. Later that night he tore a strip off a bed sheet, tied it to the exposed pipe, and hanged himself. In a letter to his father he said: "I've been thinking about doing this since mum died. I just want to be with mum."