Detectives hunting for the murderer of a talented A-level student, found dead just 500 yards from her family home, believe she had been sexually assaulted and stabbed.Jeshma Raithatha was last seen leaving her college at lunchtime on May 16, three days before her 18th birthday. Her partially clothed body was found by police yesterday in woodland at Greenford, west London. The jeans she was wearing had been removed and left by her body. She had also been stabbed, but a post mortem examination is being carried out to find the exact cause of death. Her mother, Manjula, has told how she phoned and texted her daughter's mobile after she went missing, but the phone was switched off. Ms Raithatha was a singer who was devoted to music. She also played the clarinet and had modelled. Her A-levels were due to start this week and she had won a place at university to study for an arts degree. Yesterday, Jeshma's aunt Neena made a statement on behalf of the girl's parents, Suresh and Manjula. "The family feel devastated and distraught at this time," she said. "Our beautiful and loving daughter has been taken away from us by an evil person. If anyone knows or has seen anything at all that will help catch her killer, please contact the police." A family friend who lives a few doors away, who did not wish to be named, said tearfully: "She was a lovely girl, she didn't cause anyone any harm. The whole community is shocked, no-one can believe it. We want this person found and found quickly. Our kids can't come out till they do. Her sister plays with my daughter. It's just sick, sick." A neighbour, June Reen, who has lived near the family for five years, said: "It is absolutely shocking. How do the parents ever get over something like that? "She was a lovely girl, very pretty, always very well turned-out and very polite. She was always talking to her sister. I just feel so sorry for her mum and dad, who are lovely people." Mrs Raithatha said her daughter had planned a holiday with friends in the Canary Islands to celebrate the end of exams. She said: "Jeshma was in a happy state." On the day her elder daughter disappeared, she had dropped her off at school. Mrs Raithatha told the Evening Standard of her alarm when Jeshma failed to return home: "At 4pm or 5pm it started raining. I called her mobile phone and left a message. It was getting a bit late, I texted her. She always replied to a text message. "About 6pm I started to get worried. I called the police at 10pm. I got the impression that it was not that unusual for a 17 or 18-year-old to be gone for a few hours. I was calling all her friends. They were all linked to each other. Her friends came around at night. We knew something had happened." Jeshma was a student at Claremont High School in Kenton, a college specialising in the performing arts. She was studying A-levels in music, information technology and English and had talked of being a musical therapist. On a website promoting voice-over artists, Jeshma had written that she could perform in English and Hindi and offered recordings for radio, television, documentaries and films. "I am used to performing in front of an audience," she wrote. "I go to singing lessons to keep training my voice further. I songwrite and I am into music and I used to be in a choir at a younger age." On another site she wrote: "I love music. I am a singer with a strong voice, I have a lot of experience. I love the stage, glamour, lights, auditions and everything." She was last seen around 1.30pm on May 16 wearing a blue jumper, navy blue jeans and carrying a black schoolbag with red hearts. She had long dark hair with blonde highlights and wore three silver bangles on her wrist and a nose stud. Yesterday, police and forensic teams were scouring the area where her body was found for evidence and had cordoned off all entrances. The woodland is at the back of the family home and there is a recreation ground nearby. A footpath leading to a tube station, often used as a short cut, had also been closed, as had a neighbouring David Lloyd leisure centre. Detective Superintendent Sue Hill, who is leading the murder hunt, said: "We are appealing to anyone that may have used the recreation ground at the back of Sudbury Tower over the last week and that may have seen anyone acting suspiciously, or moving in and out of the bushes. "We are also aware that Jeshma had a lot of friends and we are appealing to them to contact us if they had seen or heard from her between May 16 and May 25." Terry Molloy, headteacher of Claremont High School said pupils and staff were devastated: "She was a delightful, sensitive, caring and creative young woman."