Roy Jenkins said in 1975 that if the prison population approached 42,000, "conditions in the system would approach the intolerable and drastic action to relieve the position would be inescapable". Thirty years later more than 80,000 crowd our prisons, and every few weeks or so we reach a new record for the numbers incarcerated, a record that puts us near the top of the world's prisoner league table.Attempts to ignore the crisis, as David Ramsbotham suggests officials tried to do at Harmondsworth this week, will achieve nothing. Ministerial complacency, as shown by John Reid, only exacerbates the problem. This is not just a matter of a little temporary discomfort for prisoners or detainees, it is altogether more serious, as the incidents at Harmondsworth have shown. If detainees are treated inhumanely, unrest is bound to ensue.Problems with immigration detention are escalating, not only because of overcrowding, but because of increasing frustration over the protracted detention of those desperate to be deported but waiting for the creaking Home Office bureaucracy to process their case. We believe more than 500 foreign prisoners who should have been deported at the end of their sentences are still languishing in prison or the immigration estate.In the wider prison estate, overcrowding is leading to a massive escalation of prison violence, with an incident every 13 minutes of an attack on an officer, a fellow prisoner or self harm. This not only increases the risk that we will tip over the edge into rioting, but it prevents prisoners from being rehabilitated and so has a direct effect on increased levels of crime in our villages, towns and cities, inflicted by ex-prisoners who now reoffend at a historically unprecedented rate.Worryingly, there is a consensus between Labour and the Conservatives that we should simply continue with current trends. They are participating in a Dutch auction over who can promise the most extra prison places and £1.5bn has been allocated for more spaces. But we must bear in mind that the overwhelming majority of offenders - indeed all but the most dangerous 20 or 30 - will at some stage leave prison. So the measure of success in prison policy should not be how many people we have locked up, but what happens to them once they are released.Instead of simply building more and more prisons, we should adopt a comprehensive strategy to making prison work. Far too many individuals in prison have acute mental health problems - as many as one in 10 are estimated to be functionally psychotic. Rather than spending millions of pounds of taxpayers' money in a frantic effort to build prison cells as quickly as they are filled, does it not make more sense to invest that money in building more secure mental health treatment capacity?We need to expand drug treatment, to tackle the causes of offending, and crucially extend the use of non-custodial sentences as an effective alternative to prison for those who have committed lesser offences.At the moment non-custodial sentences are, with some justification, not well regarded. We need to consider ways make the work done visible, in order to foster public confidence and make it clear that by working, instead of languishing for 23 hours a day in a prison cell, offenders are making reparation to their communities. Only then will we end the revolving door of repeat crime.