A jury has been sworn in to hear the trial of Vincent Tabak, the man accused of murdering the Bristol landscape architect Joanna Yeates.Six women and six men will hear the case against Tabak, a Dutch engineer, who denies murdering Yeates, 25, shortly before Christmas last year. Bespectacled Tabak, wearing a suit, tie and casual training shoes, watched from the dock, his hands clasped in front of him, as the panel took its place in the jury box.The clerk told the jury that Tabak, 33, was charged with murdering Yeates between 16 and 19 December last year. He informed them that the defendant had pleaded not guilty and it was the jury's job to say whether he was guilty or not.Mr Justice Field, the trial judge, told the 12 men and women that Tabak was "in your charge". He added: "It will be your role to bring a verdict on the basis of the evidence you will hear."He reminded the jury he had instructed them not to read the reporting of the trial or do any of their own research on it. He has also told them not to view discussions on social network sites about the case. The judge said these instructions were of the "utmost importance" and any breach of his directions could lead to them being in contempt of court.Field told the panel that if anything "unsettling" happened during the trial they should report it to the usher. He said the prosecution would open the case against Tabak on Monday. On Tuesday they would be taken on a bus from Bristol crown court to "various locations" connected to the case.The judge released the jury until next week and advised them to put the case "entirely from your mind until Monday morning when you're back in court and the trial will proceed".Before being selected, the jurors had answered a series of questions to make sure they were not connected with people or businesses involved in the case. They were told that they would have to be available for the next four weeks.Yeates went missing after pre-Christmas drinks with friends near Bristol city centre. After a high-profile search her frozen body was found on a country lane on Christmas morning three miles from her home in Clifton, Bristol.Tabak is being represented by William Clegg QC; Nigel Lickley QC prosecutes.The trial continues.