There is a small group of once popular Christian names that have fallen out of use because of their association with one hated individual. In Germany, Adolfs under 60 are thin on the ground. And you can count on the fingers of one hand the number of Myras born in this country since 1966. That was the year in which Myra Hindley, who has died aged 60, was jailed for life at Chester assizes, along with Ian Brady, for the murder of two children. Later, she admitted her part in the killing of three others.While other child-killers came and went in the public imagination, in the following three and a half decades Hindley remained a hate figure, even among those too young to remember her trial. To reflect such prejudices - and, some argued, to inflame them - her name was only ever used in tabloid newspapers with the qualifying adjective "evil". That Medusa-like snapshot, taken in 1966, with peroxide hair swept up and back and a fixed, almost defiant, look in the eyes, became an icon of crime. For the relatives of her victims, for most mainstream politicians - and for the vast majority of the public - keeping Hindley in prison was an article of faith. In her case, life had to mean life, if we were not to be seen as a society going soft on crime. The 25-year tariff, suggested by her trial judge, was in recognition that there was a possibility of rehabilitation; Brady was deemed "wicked beyond belief". But when that tariff was reached in 1991, it was changed, first to 30 years by the then Conservative home secretary David Waddington, and, in 1997, by his successor, Michael Howard, to forever. Despite her record as a model prisoner, it seemed that, in his eyes, her crimes had somehow got worse with the passage of time. The courts, however, took a different view. At the time of her death, Hindley's lawyers, led by Edward Fitzgerald QC, were fighting to uphold a high court judgment that for politicians to increase tariffs in such cases - and Fitzgerald always included Hindley among that small group of lifers - was beyond their powers, and illegal. The authorities' repeated refusal to grant Hindley parole came even though she more than met all the criteria for such treatment. In the end, it was public opinion - which, according to the letter of the law, can play no part in the judicial process in regard of individual prisoners - that kept her in jail. Britain's longest-serving woman prisoner was, in effect, a political detainee, and prejudice her jailer. The irony of it all was that Hindley was one of the few success stories of our prison system. She was a woman for whom jail had provided an opportunity to make of herself a better person. So, during her time in Holloway, Durham, Cookham Wood,and latterly Highpoint, in Suffolk, she obtained an Open University degree in humanties, became a voracious and intelligent reader, and a keen student of politics. In Durham, she was held in the secure category-A wing, with other women murderers such as Rosemary West, but, in general prisons, like Cookham Wood and Holloway, she resisted segregation in order to work and eat alongside fellow prisoners, in for petty crimes. She learnt to keep herself to herself. Occasionally, she developed intimate friendships, with, among others, the singer Janie Jones, who, in Holloway in 1976, rescued her after she had been beaten unconscious by a fellow inmate. In conversation with visitors, she made light of such episodes, and was a surprisingly articulate observer of the society from which she had been for so long locked away. In middle age, Hindley was warm, funny and blunt, unrecognisable from the Gorgon who haunted parents' imaginations. Even usually cynical prison officers who had come into contact with her, became supporters of the campaign to get her released. The strength of her connection with the outside world was one aspect of what became the obsession that drove her on - the desire to end her days outside prison. So terrible had been her crimes, however, that few were prepared to accept her rehabilitation as genuine. Indeed, the more that convincing evidence was presented of her transformation, the more the myth grew, in response, that she was a manipulative schemer, prepared to trick anyone to be free. A small band of supporters was led initially by the former Labour minister Lord Longford (obituary, August 4 2001), who began to visit her in 1969; then came the former Observer editor David Astor (obituary, December 8 2001), who funded her legal campaign. Since their deaths, Fitzgerald, Longford's grandson-in-law, tried to win over the sceptics, but it was all to no avail. Hindley came to realise that it was a forlorn battle. As a consequence, she suffered long periods of depression, and her health problems, aggravated by heavy smoking and the onset of osteoporosis, multiplied. To some close to her, it seemed she had a death wish. It was the only way she would ever be free. She had few true friends. Her connection with her supporters was, in essence, a professional one. Though her relationship with Longford was warm and close, she periodically broke off links with him on the grounds that he was doing more harm than good. Within three years of being jailed, she had severed her ties with Brady, who later maintained that she had been as committed to murder as he was. Years afterwards, the very mention of his name still had the power to drive this usually passive woman into a rage; in 1998, she claimed he had sadistically abused her. In her isolation, she found increasing sustenance in a return to the Catholicism of her youth. Though she rejected, with a laugh, Longford's suggestion that she was "a good religious woman", she spent long hours in prayer, and with her spiritual guides. That contributed to an ongoing, and ever-present, remorse for her crimes. For anyone who knew her - I visited her on a number of occasions, and remained in touch with her until her death - there could be absolutely no question that this was genuine. Even the religious authorities, though, doubted her. When she was accepted as a lay member of the Franciscans in the early 1990s, it was, she remarked, the first time anyone had welcomed her into their organisation. The decision of the national headquarters to overrule their local representatives, and rescind her membership, was a cruel blow. Even the intervention of Cardinal Basil Hume (obituary, June 17 1999) failed to move them in their abhorrence of her. Hindley's case continued to rouse public passions. For some, it was the tape-recording, played to the jury, of the tormented last hours of 10-year-old Lesley Anne Downey, that can never be forgotten or forgiven. For others, it was the complete lack of remorse that Hindley and Brady showed as they were sentenced that stuck in the mind. As the woman of the pair, Hindley shouldered the greater public outrage. The popular assumption was that she was the devil incarnate.  B orn in Gorton, Manchester, to a father later disabled by an accident at work, and a factory machinist mother, Hindley was an unambitious, unremarkable, tongue-tied school-leaver, in a dead-end clerical job at Millwards chemical merchants, when she met stock clerk Ian Brady. She was 16. He was intelligent and well-read, though largely self-taught. To her, he was drenched in glamour. She later said he was the only man she had met with clean fingernails. She quickly fell under his spell, and was dragged into his crazed world of paranoia, sadism and pornography. Though she later rejected efforts by her supporters to mitigate her guilt in the moors murders by showing how completely she was taken over by Brady, it was clear from their trial onwards that the whole appalling scheme was the product of his perverted imagination. He took the lead, and she followed. Her crime, which nothing should diminish, was to lure the children who became his victims, and then to look on as he murdered them and disposed of their bodies. Those who refused to believe that she had been changed by her years in prison pointed to her failure, for 21 years, to answer the pleas of the distraught parents of three of her victims, whose bodies had never been found. When, in 1987, she finally agreed to help locate the corpses, it appeared a cynical gesture aimed at ingratiating herself to the parole authorities. Her previous silence was hard to explain even for those most dedicated to seeing her released. Her change of heart, they claimed, was part of her own internal struggle to come to terms with the full horror of what she had done, the last stage of repentance, and the beginning of real remorse and reform. Her mother survives her. · Myra Hindley, murderer, born July 23 1942; died November 15 2002