Recently discovered forensic evidence links three youths to the murder of Damilola Taylor, the Old Bailey was told today.Blood and fibres were recovered from clothing and footwear belonging to the youths, said Victor Temple QC, prosecuting. Hassan Jihad, 20, and two brothers aged 17 and 18 who cannot be named for legal reasons, are on trial for murder, and alternative charges of manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The three, all from south London, deny the charges, which were brought following a renewed investigation into the 10-year-old's killing.Four different youths aged under 18 were cleared of his killing following an Old Bailey trial in 2002, the jury was told. The youths on trial now were aged between 12 and 14 at the time of the attack. Nigerian-born Damilola was found bleeding to death in a stairwell of a block of flats in Blakes Road, Peckham, south London, on November 27 2000. The prosecution says he was stabbed with a broken bottle in a "brutal and callous" attack during an attempted robbery on his way home after school. Mr Temple said that some vital clues to the killing were missed by forensic experts who examined the clothes and belongings from a number of youths in the initial investigation. He said there was never any forensic evidence such as fingerprints, DNA or footprints, to link any of the four original suspects with the attack on Damilola, and that - despite extensive re-testing - this was still the case. He told the court that after the four youths were cleared in 2002, "fresh minds were brought to bear and a new senior investigating officer appointed". "All the existing evidence was re-examined and reassessed. Further witnesses were traced. Crucially, detailed forensic evidence concerning blood and fibres were recovered from items of clothing and footwear attributable to these three defendants," he said. "The totality of evidence now available points with certainty to the criminal involvement of these three defendants and demonstrates their participation in the fatal assault." He said a drop of Damilola's blood on the heel of a trainer allegedly belonging to the younger of the two brothers was previously overlooked. He said Damilola's blood was also found in the weave of the right cuff of a sweatshirt belonging to the older brother. The principle intention of Damilola's attackers was to rob him, Mr Temple said. While he carried no valuables, he had a distinctive silver-coloured padded jacket. "Damilola Taylor was not prepared to be robbed, he stood his ground," he said. So they used the bottle on him to "cause really serious bodily harm". None of the three defendants had gone to his aid and none called the emergency services, he added, despite it being obvious he was bleeding profusely. The prosecution was not in a position to call any witnesses as to the precise details of the attack on Damilola, or to identify one or more of the defendants as being in Blakes Road immediately before the attack, but Mr Temple alleged that there was "powerful circumstantial evidence" that was "capable of proving a proposition with the accuracy of mathematics".After the attack, Damilola made his way to a stairwell and up a couple of flights of steps before collapsing. He was found by Guillermo Casal, a carpenter who had noticed a "considerable" trail of blood. Damilola told Mr Casal: "I'm okay, I'm okay". But Mr Temple said: "It was all too clear that the boy was not okay. He was dying."While he was waiting for an ambulance to arrive, Mr Casal noticed three black youths standing in the road. "One of them looked up towards Mr Casal and proceeded to make a gesture with his left hand across the thigh of his left leg," said Mr Temple. The prosecution's case was that this was the older of the brothers, who was left-handed. Two days later, the same youth allegedly returned to the stairwell as police stood guard. He spent a few minutes there at the same time as some of Damilola's relatives. Two police officers knew him and noticed that he was "not his usual self" and was subdued.Damilola died from a stab wound to his inner left thigh that damaged major blood vessels. His parents, Richard and Gloria, dressed in black, sat at the back of the court.The trial continues.