The entertainer Michael Barrymore was told yesterday that he will not face charges in connection with the death of a young man during a party at his home six years ago. The Crown Prosecution Service confirmed there was "insufficient evidence" to charge Barrymore with any offence in relation to the death of Stuart Lubbock, whose body was found in his swimming pool in March 2001.Two other men, Justin Merritt, 32, and Jonathan Kenney, 36, who were arrested with Barrymore, 55, in June, on suspicion of the murder and serious sexual assault of 31-year-old Lubbock, were also released from their bail by Essex police.However, the detective in charge of the case said he remained determined to find out what had happened on the night Lubbock met Barrymore and his friends at a nightclub and joined them for the party at the entertainer's home in the village of Roydon.Barrymore left Harlow police station in Essex yesterday afternoon without commenting. He had earlier been reinterviewed by detectives about the death. Outside the police station, his lawyer, Henri Brandman, said his client had not been charged with any offence. "He has always protested his innocence in respect of the circumstances of the tragic death of Stuart Lubbock," said Mr Brandman. "Today's decision not to charge him fully justifies and supports the denial he has expressed on a number of occasions." No one has ever been charged in connection with Lubbock's death, His father, Terry, 62, has fought a long campaign to keep the case open, running a website with the latest news of the campaign.An inquest in 2002 heard that the young butcher had suffered serious anal injuries and had a "significant level of alcohol and drugs in his system". The coroner returned an open verdict and the case was reopened last year.Yesterday Chris McCann, of Essex CPS, said there was "still no answer in either the scientific or medical evidence how or by whose hand Mr Lubbock died".Mr McCann said he had considered new information but had decided there was insufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction. He said there was "no forensic evidence that connected any person or object to any potential defendant and, more importantly, to Mr Lubbock".Det Supt Gareth Wilson of Essex police said the investigation was far from closed. "Stuart Lubbock received very serious injuries the night he died and the evidence arising from our current investigation suggests they occurred at the address in Roydon," he said. "We are disappointed that our latest inquiries have not brought us the answers the police and Stuart's family are looking for and we remain committed to finding out the truth of what happened that night. I am convinced that someone knows what has happened and I hope their conscience or their obligation to do the right thing will eventually prevail."Barrymore, who enjoyed success as a television host on such shows as Strike It Lucky, Kids Say the Funniest Things and My Kind of People, has always denied involvement in the death. His career was heavily damaged by the allegations and he moved to New Zealand for a while before returning to England and taking part in Celebrity Big Brother last year."I think it was a straightforward drowning," he said of the death when promoting his autobiography last year. "He dived into the pool and passed out from all the drink and drugs." At the time, Barrymore received a caution for possession of cannabis and for allowing the drug to be smoked at his home.The Lubbock family have complained to the Independent Police Complaints Commission about the original handling of the case by Essex police. The inquiry was halted after the arrests in June and an IPCC spokesman said yesterday that the position would now be considered.Terry Lubbock was not available for comment at his home yesterday.