 For  Diran Adebayo, award-winning author and commentatorI welcome flyposting. It is part of a world of media that operates underneath the proper mainstream stuff. It is a public information service. It gives me information I want to know and it does it very effectively. You can walk down Green Lanes in North London and there are flyposters about some Greek Cypriot singer or an African singer who is in town that you otherwise would never have known about. It is how those communities keep in touch with what is happening and allows the rest of us to to keep in touch with those sub-cultures. I am dead against the council, because it seems we are developing a very straight conformist culture. I am libertarian minded and I think there is too much nannying from the left. There is a very illiberal tendency. Surely these are part of the "can do" entrepreneurial spirit that we are supposed to welcome. One of the things I have always like about London in particular is that it is not a highly designed city. There are different energies living cheek by jowl. There is an improvised feel to London and flyposting fits in with that. Flyposting just makes an area more funky. Camden has done very well from having a slightly bohemian reputation. If they want to sanitize the area, maybe they should clear away some of the dirt and the litter.   Against  Maxwell Hutchinson, architect and commentator Flyposting is an insult and an unnecessary intrusion into the environment. Most of the posters have no value or virtue in themselves and are badly stuck on the walls, but still like honey to a tea towel. They are plastered one on top of another, which makes them utterly incomprehensible, so the whole point is lost. It also costs thousands of man-hours to remove them. If only they were funny or witty or engaging, one might forgive them. I don't see them as aggressive, but they are ugly and I have never learned anything from them that was worth learning. If these companies are so intent on publicising their wares, local councils should give them special noticeboards so they can do it properly. They could at least be an entertainment, designed well, competing with each other and no one else, in a legitimate space.