Joey Ganguli is at it all the time. He lives and breathes and earns his rolls of cash right in the middle of the Asian gang wars that run through criminal life in the East End of London like beach life runs through Blackpool.He is 21 now and he has been selling drugs since he was 14. In the beginning, he stood on the pavement and sold them for other people. Now he is a top man and he pays other 14-year-olds to take his risks for him. He worries about his work. The Brick Lane boys have been threatening his patch. But he doesn't worry too much. He has knives. He has guns. He has his ways. It's like he says: "In street life, you need power. You have to keep people in your hand, you have to use them, get them to make money for you." So when Joey walks the streets, he has his hands in his pockets and his chin in the air, because he's the lord of his manor: he has £150 of Timberland boots on his feet, £400 of leather jacket on his shoulders, and a haircut that is pure style. And when he takes girls to the Scala club at night, he'll spend a grand, maybe two, because he can afford to, because he is at it all the time. And when Joey Ganguli turns up in the dock at Thames magistrates court, his case plays out an uncomfortable truth: the courts work in a state of disarray. As the crown prosecutors' inspectorate found in October 2002, nearly half (44%) of all pre-trial hearings fail to proceed on the day they are listed. Reports arrive late, files go missing, forensic evidence is delayed, witnesses fail to show, defendants disappear, even the police fail to turn up. And when the day of trial finally arrives, 70% fail to proceed. Numerous prosecutions squirt through the gaps in this clumsy machine, leaving guilty defendants to walk free. The waste of time and money for all concerned - and the loss of authority for the criminal justice system - is something that this government has attacked with relentless energy. Like most other prolific offenders, Joey is not often troubled by the law. In all his seven years of gang dealing, he has never been busted for selling drugs; or for carrying a firearm, or a knife. He's been pulled only five times, for little things. The first was a minor assault when he was 15 and he was chasing one of the Brick Lane boys down the middle of the road in Stepney and ran straight into the police. He was fined but didn't pay. The bailiffs couldn't collect because he still lives at his parents' house, and they couldn't tell what belonged to him. Mostly, he's been done for driving offences. He shouldn't be driving at all -he's never had a licence. Finally, about 18 months ago, he got into some trouble for drugs. Joey says it was a silly mistake. He should never have been selling crack in person, and if he was going to do it, he should have been holding the rocks in his mouth so he could swallow them. As it was, he tried to shove them down his trousers, but he was too slow. The good news was that he had only four rocks on him, so he was not charged with dealing, just possession, as well as driving without insurance. Lost In court, just over a year ago, the news stayed good for him. He was given a 24-month community rehabilitation order, which essentially meant he had to go and sign a book at a probation office once every week or so. A few months later, he got busted for another driving offence, but he just got another 18-month community rehab order to run alongside the first one. Joey didn't turn up to the probation office. He was also supposed to attend a course in cognitive behaviour therapy, but since he can't read or write, he didn't bother with that either. That was all more than a year ago and now, finally, he has been brought back to Thames magistrates court to be punished for breaching the two orders. But things carry on going well for him. The first time his case comes up, it is adjourned so that the probation service can prepare a report on him. Two weeks later, he appears again, to discover that probation have failed to produce the report - but they think they have discovered a third community order, 160 hours of community punishment, which was given to him for driving while disqualified before either of the other two orders, and was lost in the system. Joey has not served any of that order, but probation can't find the paperwork to prove it was ever made. The whole thing is adjourned again. Two more weeks later, probation have finally produced a report, but it deals only with one of the first two orders - they have failed to find the paperwork to prove the third - but now they think they have found a fourth order, yet another community punishment for a driving offence, which he also seems to have breached, and for which they also lack the paperwork to prove anything. Meanwhile the Crown Prosecution Service has lost his file; the printout of his criminal record mentions only two of the four supposed court orders; and the probation officer in court apologises because she knew nothing about any of this until the end of last week, and their computer system has been down for some time. Joey sits quietly in the dock, smiling to another Bengali lad waiting for his case to be heard. Joey is wearing his Timberland boots and an Adidas shirt, and his hair is layered at the sides and quiffed at the front. He winks at the press bench. The probation officer calls her boss to get instructions, the crown prosecutor finds the file, and they agree to deal with Joey only on the first two orders and leave the others because they just can't find the paperwork. Joey says he hasn't touched crack for five or six months - a brazen lie - and he apologises for being back here again. The court agrees to revoke both orders. Having failed to comply with four orders, he is now officially freed from two, and the others have simply got lost. For driving without insurance, he is fined £100 with an alternative of a day in custody, which he has served simply by being here in court today. For possession of crack, he gets 21 days on a curfew from 9pm to 6am at his parents' house, with an electronic tag to check his movements. He had one of those before. He broke it. So the lord of the manor walks away happy, the beneficiary not so much of justice as of the muddle and disarray which run through the justice system. Thames magistrates is not a bad court. It is well staffed, has the latest technology, and is housed in a modern building; things frequently run smoothly. And yet, some cases still crash into a wall of disarray. While Joey walked free, another man was accused of beating up a bus conductor. The prosecution could not proceed because they could not find his file. The defence could not proceed because they had not been given the victim's statement nor the details of his injuries. And the defendant in the dock was raging because the court had issued a warrant for his arrest for failing to attend an earlier hearing: they did not know he was already in prison for another assault. With a lost file, lost evidence and a lost defendant, the case did not proceed. When a case does not proceed, everybody's time is wasted - lawyers, witnesses, police and the court. It is so common for trials not to proceed, that the courts commonly (in 53% of hearings) double- or even triple-book the courtroom so that they, at least, do not waste time. This, of course, has the unfortunate result that if the first listed case does proceed, all of the lawyers and witnesses in the other case or cases sit around all day and have their time wasted instead. But it is not just about time. Senior prosecutors admit that every month the London courts are throwing out some 150 serious cases simply because the CPS is not ready for the committal proceedings. Files of evidence provided by the police to prosecutors are on time and up to quality in only 43% of cases; and the preparation by prosecutors is effective in only 60% of cases. This same day, a man accused of possession of heroin with intent to supply walks away because the police officer who seized his drugs marked the exhibit with the same number as he marks all the drugs which he seizes and, since he left several packages lying around together in his desk drawer, the crown cannot now prove which package was seized from this man. Senior police officers and ministers have blamed delays on defence lawyers spinning out cases to raise their fees. The evidence for this is somewhere between remote and non-existent: legal aid fees do not reward delay, and even senior prosecutors privately rubbish the claim. However, it is clear that some defence lawyers advise clients to stall on pleading guilty because they know there is a significant chance that prosecution disarray will mean the case collapses before the trial. The government's own figures suggest that it is everybody's fault - and that it is extremely difficult to make the clumsy machine run smoothly. New computer systems now link the different agencies. Yet, in this court, the probation service can produce a pre-sentence report on a man accused of battering another driver, without knowing that he has a criminal record for violence; and a man accused of beating up his ex-wife can ask for bail without the crown prosecutor realising that, in this same court, he has already admitted another assault for which he is due to be sentenced in a fortnight (this time, the clerk of the court noticed it in her own records). There are some signs of improvement. Two years ago, the CPS experimented with putting their lawyers into police stations to advise on charges. The early results were a disaster: the police resented the prosecutors and asked for their advice, on average, fewer than three times a day; one prosecutor in a pilot scheme was consulted less than once a week. But since then, according to CPS sources, the link has improved, with the result that more cases are proceeding on time and with the correct charge. The problem of prisoners arriving late at court has been eased by setting up video links to prisons, so that defendants can take part in hearings without travelling. Other efforts have had mixed results. A drive to recruit more CPS lawyers by raising their pay had the accidental side effect of poaching legal advisers from the courts. A streamlined system of hearings, known as Narey hearings, which were intended to streamline magistrates courts, have succeeded in speeding up the handling of guilty pleas, but have failed to make any difference to delays for those who plead not guilty. They still wait an average of 15 weeks for a verdict; the official target is eight weeks. And some well-intentioned initiatives have simply blown up. The CPS has tried to make sure that police officers are available for court hearings by asking them to list suitable dates on a form, but an analysis of five forces found that officers in four forces made errors on every form; in the fifth, they did so on 90% of them. The point perhaps is not that the system is unreasonably inefficient, but that it is necessarily and unavoidably inefficient, because of the complex mechanics of gathering the fine detail of so many different kinds of evidence. They are even more complex when they have to mesh with the demands of a rights-based trial system. The government - caught between the evident failure of conventional law enforcement and the populist imperative for much more of it - hammers the machine to deliver better results, imposing targets, demanding inspections, creating inquiries, and fiddling with the rules in criminal justice bills. They can make some difference, but as long as they fail to admit the structural limits of the system - and as long as they fail to invest greater effort in more effective alternatives - they will be playing in a sideshow. And they will not stop Joey Ganguli walking back on to the streets with a smile on his face, reflecting happily: "I have no worries. I don't have anybody on my back." · At his request, Joey Ganguli's name has been changed