Jane (not her real name), 53, was a witness when a young man was stabbed to death in north London. "I was walking home from work on a June evening at around 8.30, thinking about what I was going to be having for supper. I was totally preoccupied. "I saw these two young lads run past me on the Holloway Road and they started having a fight. One of them was on the ground and it looked as if he was being hit by a baseball bat. "I didn't think I was in a position to interfere and then another group ran past me and at that point I became really frightened. "Other people were watching what was going on and someone shouted that he had a knife. I didn't get in touch with the police. "The following week at the same time the police had flooded the area and they were asking people if they had seen anything. I told them that I thought I had seen something. I had literally been in the middle of what was happening and one of the lads who was stabbed behind me died and the other very nearly died. "The police followed this up with a phone call and I was then interviewed but was told it was unlikely I would be called as a witness as I had not seen anything of particular relevance. "Six weeks later I was asked to go to an identity parade in Brixton and when I got there it was cancelled. There were six young men hanging around the police station and I had to announce at the front desk who I was and why I was there. "I did a video ID parade seven months later which took four hours at a police station one Saturday afternoon. "I was called to be a witness at the Old Bailey - I received a photocopied letter. They had a volunteer witness support scheme which was very helpful. "I found the ordeal overwhelming and terrifying, even though I am used to public speaking. I felt the judge was supercilious when I was trying to remember what they were wearing. I ultimately left the court and felt in a state of limbo. "No one told me what the outcome of the case was and what happened. I just wanted to feel helpful in some way but I was in a vacuum. "But I would give evidence again if I had to, I just think there should be more support for witnesses."