The Independent Police Complaints Commission said tonight it will launch an investigation into the Metropolitan police's handling of the stabbing of Peter Woodhams, who was murdered seven months later when he stood up to a gang of youths near his home in east London.The 22-year-old father of one received a fatal shot wound on Monday, just moments after a confrontation with the gang outside a parade of shops on Freemasons Road, Canning Town. It emerged earlier today that the head of the Met police, Sir Ian Blair, has been asked to report on his force's handling of the stabbing case. In January this year, Mr Woodhams was attacked by a group of youths and stabbed in the neck near the same shops, but nobody was brought to justice. Tonight, the IPPC chairman, David Petch, expressed his condolences to Mr Woodham's fiancee, Jane Bowden, and said public concern about the case had led him launch an independent investigation."I express my sincere condolences to Mr Woodham's fiancee and family. There has been considerable public concern about this case and I therefore decided our own investigators should look at the police's response to the stabbing incident in January. I should emphasise that we are not examining the current MPS investigation into the death of Mr Woodhams."It is vital that Mr Woodham's family, the police involved, and the public at large can have confidence that their concerns about the initial incident will be robustly investigated. "The family have made no formal complaint. However, we will be offering to meet them to explain our role in this investigation and listen to any concerns they have."The IPCC said the Met police had voluntarily referred the matter to them. The IPCC investigation will be led by Senior Investigator Peter Orr and will run parallel to the Met's murder investigation, which remains under their control.Separately, Sir Ian has been asked to "report fully" to the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA) on how his officers responded to the incident and Mr Woodhams' subsequent murder. An MPA spokeswoman said: "We will want to know how police responded to the earlier stabbing incident in January when Mr Woodhams was allegedly attacked with a knife and whether the handling of that incident had any bearing on his murder. "Without prejudging the outcome of the Metropolitan police's own investigations, we will want to see if there are any lessons to be learnt." A senior Scotland Yard officer apologised last night for "any hurt" that the investigation into the stabbing of Mr Woodhams may have caused. Ms Bowden claims she phoned police every day for five weeks following the attack, and that officers never took a statement from her.It emerged today that the 14-year-old youth arrested over Mr Woodhams' murder this week had also been held in connection with the earlier stabbing. The teenager, who has been released on police bail, was not only arrested in connection with the murder, but also on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm in relation to the knife attack on January 21. Last night Commander Rod Jarman told a press conference in Forest Gate, east London: "We will robustly deal with any failings in our investigation of the previous incident and make sure that those matters are dealt with. "I would also like to make my apologies for any hurt that that investigation may have caused the family." Detectives are understood to have removed clothing that Mr Woodhams was wearing during the knife attack from his home. They are investigating whether there is a link between the stabbing and his fatal shooting on Monday. The clothing will be examined by forensic experts. Mr Woodhams' father, also called Peter, told London's Evening Standard: "These clothes are covered in his blood and their DNA. But they have been sitting in a plastic bag in a cupboard at his house for months. They could have held the key to putting these people away and saving Peter's life." A picture of Mr Woodhams after the attack today graphically illustrated the facial injuries he sustained. Detectives are examining CCTV of Monday's confrontation for clues. Shortly after the altercation, Mr Woodhams drove the short distance home to Tallis Close, went into the house and complained to his fiancee of "trouble outside". He went back out, apparently to speak to the youths, but just a few moments later he was shot, just yards away in adjoining Leslie Road. Mr Woodhams, a television satellite engineer, managed to stagger back towards his house, before collapsing in front of his horrified fiancee. He was pronounced dead on arrival at the Royal London Hospital. Ms Bowden has claimed they were subject to a campaign of intimidation by a group of youths since the January stabbing, which happened after Mr Woodhams confronted them for throwing a stone at his car. Scotland Yard confirmed today that an internal inquiry into the investigation of the January stabbing was being carried out by the force's Directorate of Professional Standards (DPS). A spokeswoman said she could not comment on who had led the original inquiry, what rank they were or on any specific claims about the police response while the investigation was ongoing. "Officers are aware of issues in the initial investigation and this forms part of a DPS inquiry," she said. Asked whether officers had removed a bag of clothes - that Mr Woodhams had worn when he was stabbed - from his home today, she said: "As part of the murder inquiry officers have recovered numerous items for examination".