David Blunkett faces a constitutional clash with the Lords today after he reinstated plans to restrict the right to trial by jury after the upper house threw them out.He warned Conservative and Liberal Democrat peers not to vote against the measure when it is sent back to the Lords, warning them "the time for posturing is now over". Opposition peers have inflicted a series of defeats on the high profile criminal justice bill. Ministers must either accept the changes or overturn them this week if it is to become law. Mr Blunkett has until Thursday to get the bill on to the statute book. In an effort to win peers' support Mr Blunkett offered two concessions. He defined what form of jury intimidation would warrant removal of jury trial and said that he was planning to remove jury trial only in long or complex fraud cases, rather than wider cases of money laundering. In the Commons yesterday, he vowed he would offer no further concessions. But in similar constitutional confrontations with the Lords in the past the Home Office has often been forced to backtrack. The home secretary also came under attack from Labour backbenchers yesterday for planning to offer defendants a choice of trial by jury or judge. Vera Baird QC, the Labour MP for Redcar, said the choice would lead to "the worst imaginable kind of forum shopping" with the accused making choices on whether or not to opt for a jury trial on the basis of whether the judge had a reputation for being soft. "It is an appalling prospect," she said. The public would decide that "trials by judges are quicker, cheaper, slicker, and more efficient". The former Treasury minister Geoffrey Robinson also warned Mr Blunkett not to abolish the right to trial by jury. Mr Blunkett said jury tampering was "a major worry to people across the country ... who see those who have been accused of the most serious crimes going free, not because the system worked, but because the system was tampered with". Mr Blunkett tabled amendments to the bill stating that jury trial will be removed "where jury tampering has taken place in previous criminal proceedings involving the defendant or in a case where there has been intimidation or attempted intimidation of any person who is likely to be a witness in the trial". The shadow attorney general, Dominic Grieve, said he would accept the removal of juries only if the likelihood of tampering was so overwhelming that even police protection would not free witnesses from intimidation. He also rejected government plans to extend the admissibility of previous convictions or bad character, saying they risked miscarriages of justice and went further than the proposals set out last year by the Law Commission. Simon Hughes, for the Liberal Democrats, said that limiting jury trials would erode public confidence in the justice system. "If something works we shouldn't seek to replace it unless there's an overwhelming argument," he said. David Davis, shadow home secretary, said: "We will not be bullied by the government into accepting flawed and unacceptable legislation." Meanwhile in the debate over the sexual offences bill, the government refused to back down over opposition moves to grant defendants in rape cases anonymity until they are charged.