UK police authorities are gearing up to deal with drunken and disorderly behaviour around the World Cup. The way in which they will do so reveals much about the removal of checks and balances from the criminal justice system.The treatment of drunken behaviour is perhaps the best indicator of the shift in the way in which public order offences are apprehended and punished. Over the past 10 years, there has been a move from formal mechanisms (a caution or arrest by a police officer) to informal mechanisms (on-the-spot fines or alcohol confiscation) by a police officer or by newly empowered officials such as CSOs. As a result, public order offences are being increasingly tried according to the whims of officialdom.For all the furore about binge drinking, there are no more drunken incidents "brought to justice" than 20 years ago: what has changed is the nature of the justice. In 1989, there were 48,373 prosecutions and 49,912 cautions for drunkenness or drunkenness with aggravation in England and Wales. By 2004, this had fallen to 25,155 prosecutions and 13,456 cautions, and by 2007 to 19,845 prosecutions.Yet this fall in prosecutions goes along with a rise in on-the-spot fines (penalty notices for disorder – PND) for drunk and disorderly, which rose from 26,609 in 2004 to 44,411 in 2008. In addition, there were 1,761 PNDs in 2008 for consumption of alcohol in a public place. The formalities of the courtroom – a context in which a police officer's word is questioned and, if found wanting, dismissed – has been replaced with on-the-spot justice. Worse, on-the-spot fines can be given by newly accredited and often barely trained officials. These badged busybodies can perform none of the more useful functions of the police – catching burglars and so on – but instead are little more than behaviour police.There are now some 15,683 CSOs, only a little short of the number of police sergeants (22,008). CSOs first trod the streets in 2002, and increased rapidly in number over the past eight years, almost doubling between 2006 and 2008.In addition, police forces can "accredit" individuals to give out on-the-spot fines and other penalties.A 2009 audit found that there are 1667 "accredited individuals", including private security guards, railway employees and park rangers. Avon and Somerset police have empowered guards from the Vision Security Group who patrol The Mall shopping centre in Bristol, while Hertfordshire police have given the honours to employees of Parkguard Ltd.There is another even more shady area of public order policing: drink confiscation. Under powers given in the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001, police officers and other accredited individuals have the powers to confiscate people's alcohol in certain designated areas. They can do this at any time, for any reason. If you refuse their request – however unreasonable – you are committing a criminal offence.In a Manifesto Club report last summer, I documented how residents in cities such as Brighton were having their alcohol confiscated and poured away, often while they were sitting on the beach or in a parkchatting to friends. One beach in Merseyside stations officers at the beach entrance and empties people's bags, confiscating all alcohol. Police forces do not even require officials to make a note of the incident, so it is difficult to know the scale of this practice. In July and August 2004 – when there were far fewer CSOs and fewer drinking control zones – there were nearly 10,000 confiscations. Today is it likely to be a lot more.If people are drunk and behaving badly then there are more than enough formal police powers to deal with them – but this means that evidence must be collected and proven in court. The turn to on-the-spot fines and undocumented alcohol confiscations shows how public order offences are being removed from the checks of legal accountability, into the murky realm of pavement justice, where a barely trained official can stand as judge and jury.When this happens, it is difficult to distinguish between drunken behaviour that is so bad it is criminal, from the just plain boisterous – or, more importantly, from the person enjoying a drink on the beach who is not doing anything wrong at all.