A woman who murdered a toddler months after being made her legal guardian has been jailed for at least 18 years.Kandyce Downer was convicted on Tuesday after a trial at Birmingham crown court of killing 18-month-old Keegan Downer, formerly Shi-Anne, at the family home on 5 September 2015.A postmortem examination revealed that the toddler died from a combination of old head injuries, septicaemia and blunt chest trauma, and had suffered a catalogue of injuries in her short life.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Keegan Downer. Photograph: PASentencing Downer to life with a minimum term of 18 years, Mrs Justice Frances Patterson said: “It is a horrible tale of callous conduct and at no stage have you showed any remorse. Why you changed from a loving mother to a brutal attacker of a defenceless child is a mystery.”The judge said Downer had inflicted terrible injuries, including causing the child brain damage. “As a result of the trauma, Keegan’s brain was incarcerated in scar tissue which caused persistent pressure on it, preventing the brain from growing, and Keegan would have become backwards in her development. She would have regressed from what she could do physically.“You did not set out with the intention to kill Keegan, but the repeated assaults on her made death as an outcome of your conduct increasingly likely.” Patterson said Downer, who has four other children, had “hitherto been an exemplary mother” but had caused Keegan untold suffering. “The bruising and injuries to Keegan’s face, head and frenuli [mouth tissue] would have been evident to her carers,” Patterson said. “These injuries would have been caused by a hard slap, a punch or forcing a feeding bottle into her mouth.” Concluding her remarks, the judge said: “Keegan suffered considerably in the last days and months of her life.” Keegan’s body had more than 153 scars, abrasions and bruises, but Downer never sought medical help and never registered the child with her GP.Downer had also previously and unsuccessfully tried to become the legal guardian of Keegan’s older sister, the court heard. Birmingham council later approached her to ask if she wanted to take on Keegan herself.The judge said: “They contacted you to see whether you would be interested in caring for another baby girl, and you indicated a willingness to do so.” Keegan had been removed from her own mother, a heroin addict, after her birth, and Downer - an extended family member - was given custody through a special guardianship order in January 2015. During what police branded Downer’s evil treatment of Keegan, she inflicted severe injuries. These included a spiral leg fracture, which jurors were told would have made the slightest movement agony, and a historic injury to her head or spine, discovered after her death. For the previous 10 months Keegan had been raised by a foster carer and was described in court as a healthy and happy baby. She then went to live with Downer at the family home in the Weoley Castle area of Birmingham. A number of witnesses said Downer had been a good mother.The toddler attended nursery until June last year, which was what Patterson described as a turning point because it ended any public scrutiny of the child’s care. Keegan collapsed at home shortly before 10am on the day of her death, after Downer left her alone for more than two hours to take another child to a wedding rehearsal. After Downer returned home, CCTV footage showed her driving to dump a blood-stained mattress, a babygrow and pyjamas near a skip before ringing 999. 