Police in London receive two calls a week from women and girls reporting so-called honour crimes, such as being forced into marriage or being threatened with murder by their families.Commander Andy Baker, head of Scotland Yard's homicide squad who set up a unit to investigate honour-related killings and violence last year, said many more incidents went unreported due to fear and cultural taboos. He organised yesterday's conference in The Hague to share best practice with police and other experts from across Europe. Women in some ethnic minority groups are murdered by relatives or hired assassins because they are judged to have shamed their families by perceived immoral behaviour such as refusing a forced marriage, being suspected of an affair or wanting to study and pursue a career. Heshu Yones, 16, a Kurdish Muslim from west London, was stabbed to death by her father Abdalla two years ago because she was dating a Christian boy. Yones was jailed for life. There have been more than 12 such murders in the UK in the past year but Cmdr Baker said other women were "missing" after being taken abroad by relatives or suffered suspicious injuries claimed to have been caused by road accidents or chip pan fires. In other cases girls are forced into marriage and used as slaves by their husbands' families in the UK or abroad. Cmdr Baker said Asian women were four times more likely to commit suicide than white women because they could see no way out, but honour killings affected many races and religions. While killings were more often carried out by men, women were sometimes involved. In some cases mothers and grandmothers handed a daughter over to her murderers. Cmdr Baker told the Guardian: "Those who come to police are, without question, the tip of the iceberg. This is a worldwide problem with thousands of victims. We are just starting to get to grips with it in the UK." Comparable in some ways to how they treated domestic violence, he said police realised early intervention could save lives. "There are cultural sensitivities when dealing with these crimes, but murder is murder. Police must not hold back for fear of being accused of racism," he said. He said defendants sometimes pleaded provocation or diminished responsibility to get reduced sentences. The Law Commission was examining the issue. "Many of these crimes are extremely brutal and well-planned," he said. "They can be difficult to investigate because of the collusion of whole families... They can use the language barrier and other jurisdictions are sometimes involved." As well as girls being taken to countries such as India and Pakistan bounty hunters from other European countries carried out murders, making pan-European cooperation vital. Laura Richards, a behavioural psychologist with the Met, heads a unit advising police on honour crimes. Her team tells officers to listen to suspected victims, not to inform their families and not to try to mediate. Police were also checking on parents booking one-way tickets to take teenage girls abroad and teachers were being advised to be alert to parents removing girls from school before exams. Ms Richards told of a young shop assistant whom police had to whisk out of the shop's back door to avoid relatives waiting to take her aboard to be married. "We are giving officers the tools to save lives," she said. Her team is trying to identify all honour killings in the UK between 1993 and 2003. They are analysing 117 cases and of 13 completed to date, four were judged to be honour-related, six suspected, while three were not. Yesterday's conference heard about a secret refuge in Berlin for Turkish girls, an idea Cmdr Baker said the UK should consider, and also how Swedish police used DNA advances to investigate old cases.