The killer of the headteacher Philip Lawrence has been recalled to prison for an alleged robbery four months after his release, a probation service official said today.Learco Chindamo was freed from prison in July, 15 years after he stabbed Lawrence outside his London school in 1995. He was allowed to remain in Britain despite calls for him to be deported to Italy.He was arrested early yesterday morning on suspicion of robbing a man in north London on Saturday.Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation service's trade union, said Chindamo had been recalled to custody yesterday for his own and the public's safety."The probation service made the decision yesterday," he said. "Anybody who is arrested in connection with a serious offence, consideration would be given to recalling them to custody."Chindamo was 15 when he stabbed Lawrence, aged 48 and a father of four, as the headeacher defended a pupil outside St George's Roman Catholic comprehensive school. He was convicted of the murder in October 1996 and jailed indefinitely, with a minimum tariff of 12 years.Fletcher said that even if Chindamo was not charged with robbery, probation staff could argue to keep him behind bars for a possible breach of the conditions of his release. In that case he would be entitled to a hearing before the Parole Board within 28 days to try to argue against his return to prison.Fletcher said that Chindamo was turned down for parole at least once on the grounds that he hadn't made sufficient progress. He was placed in a probation hostel upon his release, until officers agreed a month ago that he could live with his mother in north London.When he was released, Chindamo said he had reformed and wanted to live a "quiet and decent" life.Lawrence's widow, Frances, has expressed her distress after hearing of the arrest. She told the Daily Telegraph that it felt as though the British legal system had given Chindamo "every help" while she and her family had been "hung out to dry"."My first thought was 'My God', I feel shocked. I find it odd that he is arrested so soon after the 'atonement'," she said. "What does it say about the justice system and the notion of what is justice? True justice surely cannot pick and choose who it supports."The arrest will raise questions about the monitoring of offenders released back into the community and reopen the debate about deporting foreign criminals.Chindamo came to the UK when he was six, and has an Italian passport. His father is Italian and his mother is from the Philippines. Three years ago he won an appeal against being deported to Italy after his lawyers argued it would breach his human rights.They successfully argued that deportation to Italy would be illegal as Chindamo was from an EU country and had lived in the UK for 10 years by 1995.