The 12ftx7ft cell at Brixton prison in south London might normally house two men, two beds and a toilet. But this one has a desk and chairs, and approval has been granted for a phone line.Corbin Thomas and Richard Summer survey their office. Both long-term prisoners, they are also employees of the homelessness charity, St Giles Trust, and are two of Brixton's first six prisoner peer advisers offering support for their fellow inmates on housing issues. Up to 60% of prisoners are homeless on release, according to the trust, and half lose their housing while serving their sentence. The charity believes that working to save tenancies or to find new accommodation will help cut reoffending rates. The scheme started two years ago at Wandsworth prison, London, and the charity now recruits prisoners in seven jails in the south-east to offer housing advice and support. All are given training to NVQ level 3 in advice and guidance and so far 35 have qualified, with a further 26 currently studying for the certificate. "So many prisoners have substance abuse issues, as well as problems with housing and education, and it's great to be able to help out with some of that," Summer says. "The qualification is a big draw too because it enables us to further what we can do when we leave." The project is the first of its kind in large, high-category prisons and was the brainchild of head of prisons for St Giles, Mike Rose, when he started a scheme to reduce the numbers of prisoners homeless on release from HMP Wandsworth. "Around 4,500 go through Wandsworth prison each year," Rose says. "An estimated 1,500 of them are homeless, with most relying on friends and family." Many tenancies held by remand and short-term prisoners could be saved, as housing benefit is available for 12 months while a prisoner is on remand. Yet a lot of prisoners are unaware that they are entitled to this money as they are not getting even the most basic advice. Facing limited funding for the housing advice scheme, Rose realised that some of the prisoners themselves could undertake housing assessments and initial advice sessions. The prisoners are treated, as far as possible, like ordinary employees; the job vacancies are advertised with a job description, application forms and interviews. They earn around £10 a week, and assess the majority of new prisoners. "Only a very small proportion have any chance of being housed," Rose admits. "But we make sure they will at least have the right documentation and advice when presenting to councils, hostels or day centres. More than a third at Brixton are released into the boroughs of Lambeth or Southwark. But in Lambeth you can wait eight to nine years for a council flat." Last year, at Wandsworth alone, at least 99 tenancies were saved and a further 70 prisoners were rehoused. The charity is now contracted to provide full housing advice services at Wandsworth, Bullingdon and High Down prisons, and has teams of peer advisers in Brixton, Standford Hill, Canterbury and Spring Hill prisons. The project's rapid spread to other prisons is partly thanks to the increasing willingness of the prison service to get more inmates working. But the charity has had to battle hard for acceptance from some more traditional parts of the prison service, and has faced the all-pervading lack of resources. The work is helping to change the culture of the prisons involved. At Wandsworth, for example, advisers are now allowed to move more freely around the jail to see clients. It is a position the charity is adamant should not be open to abuse. "There were some legitimate fears that the advisers might help move drugs around," says Maria McNicholl, St Giles's development worker at Brixton. "But the teams know they could be tested at any time and that they could be sacked - we have done it once. We've found they become self-policing because they realise what a good position they're in." Brixton adviser Paul Williams says: "We're doing more than a full-time job and we care about it a lot. We're working longer hours than anyone on the outside, simply because we can. We're seeing most of the new admissions in their first two weeks." Brixton's governor, John Podmore, who is a strong advocate of getting Britain's 75,000-strong prison population working, is keen to see the scheme expand and for the advisers even to get limited internet access. "Let's be blunt and realistic here - the resources I'm getting are diminishing all the time," he says. "Using prisoners to their own benefit can only be spending money smarter." Some prisoner advisers have been so enthusiastic about the work that they have refused opportunities to move to other prisons - and even on to electronic tagging - so they can complete their qualifications. David Bailey, who gained the advice and guidance NVQ while he was in HMP Bullingdon, is now employed in the outside world by St Giles. His job is to liaise with prisons involved in the scheme. "Let's face it, inmates open up more with each other," he says. "The prisoners are the best people for the job." · Richard Summer is a pseudonym.· More on the St Giles Trust at www.stgilestrust.org.uk 