"The allegations could not be more serious - a doctor accused of murdering 15 patients ... You will have heard evidence which may have aroused feelings of anger, strong disapproval, disgust, profound dismay or deep sympathy." Mr Justice Forbes, summing upDr Shipman"He was exercising the ultimate power of controlling life and death and repeated the act so often he must have found the drama of taking life to his taste." Richard Henriques QC, prosecuting."No patient had to register with Dr Shipman, but the fact that so many did must mean some inferences can be drawn. With a list size of 3,100, well above the national average, Dr Shipman must have been doing something right." Nicola Davies QC, defending.His strategy"As they grieved, this determined man employed every device to make sure no postmortem examination took place. The poisoner, of course, fears the pathologist. He fears ambulances and he fears hospitals." Richard Henriques QC, prosecuting. The patients Ivy Lomas, 63: "He said she was a nuisance. He was laughing. He said he considered her such a nuisance he thought about having part of the seating area reserved permanently for Ivy Lomas and mounting a plaque to the effect `Seat reserved permanently for Ivy Lomas'." Detective Sergeant Philip Reade, called to the surgery after Mrs Lomas's death in May 1997. Joan Melia, 73:  "I believe she died from lobar pneumonia. A small percentage of elderly women die very quickly." Pamela Hillier, 68: "I can remember coming out of the surgery feeling guilty. He was trying to intimate that mum was poorly and we should have expected that she might have died at any time." Jacqueline Gee, daughter.  Muriel Grimshaw, 76:  " I don't think I can draw any other reasonable conclusion other than Mrs Grimshaw died from the toxicological affect of morphine." Home office pathologist Dr John Rutherford. Irene Turner, 67: "Dr Shipman said that due to the number of tablets that she was on, he would not need a post mortem and that he would be able to issue a death certificate the next day." Michael Wodruff, Mrs Turner's son-in-law.Kathleen Grundy and the £400,000 will"He came to where Kathleen was lying on the sofa and felt her hand for a pulse. I asked what was the matter and he said 'Cardiac arrest'." - John Green, caretaker of the day centre where Mrs Grundy ran a luncheon club."I became very concerned. It was badly typed and my mother was meticulously tidy. The whole thing was just unbelievable, leaving everything to her doctor. It was inconceivable the thought of her signing a document which was badly typed." Angela Woodruff, daughter, on the £400,000 will. "She thought he was a good doctor. She admired his work. All his patients thought highly of Dr Shipman, not just Mrs Grundy." Her friend, May Clarke, 91. "Taking the evidence into account my opinion is that the two signatures were not written by Kathleen Grundy. Rather they are poor, crude simulations, forgeries, of her signature, written by some other person." Handwriting expert Michael Allen.The families "Their relatives trusted him to tell the truth about the circumstances in which his patients died. The community trusted him to keep records and documentation with insight and knowledge. He did not care at all for these 15 patients he killed." Richard Henriques QC, prosecuting.