The director of public prosecutions has blown a hole in the government's plans to extend pre-charge detention for terror suspects, by questioning whether courts would allow the police to use the extra time. Sir Ken Macdonald told MPs that he was satisfied with the current 28-day limit, which "has suited us nicely", and argued that the response to terrorism should be "proportionate and grounded".Earlier in the meeting of the home affairs select committee, the former law chief Lord Goldsmith said he had seen no evidence to justify the extension and told MPs that he would have resigned if parliament had approved Tony Blair's attempt to introduce a 90-day limit. The committee also took evidence in private from MI5 director-general Jonathan Evans, on the present terror threat facing the UK.Gordon Brown has said he wants to extend the maximum detention period, while introducing new safeguards, but has not specified an upper limit. The Tories and Liberal Democrats oppose the change and the government has struggled to find support outside parliament, although it is backed by Sir Ian Blair, the embattled Metropolitan police commissioner, and the Association of Chief Police Officers leader, Ken Jones.Macdonald told the committee that while prosecutors normally have to use the full test - a realistic prospect of conviction - to charge a suspect, they are able to apply the lower test of "reasonable suspicion" that someone has committed the offence in the case of serious crimes. "That would cover all terrorist crimes, I'm sure, as long as the case was kept under review and the full test applied as soon as possible. If after 25 or 26 days you couldn't find reasonable suspicion to justify a charging decision, it might be quite difficult to persuade a court that even though there isn't reasonable suspicion, a man or woman should be kept in custody for a longer period," he warned.He said that courts scrutinised applications rigorously, adding: "The longer you have someone in custody without finding material, the tougher that's going to be. When prosecutors apply for 14 days that's tough. When someone is in custody longer, it's tougher - courts are a lot more sceptical about the prospect that material is going to be found." He added: "In every case where a suspect has been charged on the threshold test, evidence for the full test has arrived [subsequently]."Macdonald said that the Crown Prosecution Service had felt 14 days was insufficient but had "managed comfortably" since the increase to 28 days.But asked whether complex investigations in future might require longer detention periods, he replied: "You are always able to set up hypothetical situations. It's up to parliament whether it wants to proceed on hypotheticals, rather than the evidence we have now."