Local authorities will be given discretion to set up local tolerance or "managed" prostitution zones under the options to be set out today in a Home Office consultation paper proposing the first comprehensive overhaul of the law in this area for almost 50 years.The home secretary, David Blunkett, told the Guardian last night that he was "more favourably" disposed to giving local authorities the discretion than he was towards the zones, which he believed led to "organised deprivation and organised squalor". He said he believed a state registration scheme and a system of regular health checks might prove more productive as an initial step towards dealing with heroin and crack abuse among prostitutes and helping them to find a way out of the often violent sex trade. But he also said that while the government would never condone prostitution, it was time to acknowledge that "if we are going to stop people getting into it and we are going to support people getting out then we have to work alongside them." Mr Blunkett joked that he was in danger of being portrayed as a modern Gladstone - who spent his nights "rescuing fallen women" - but said he did want to invest in others who were providing an "exit strategy" for women involved in prostitution. Where local authorities were keen to experiment with tolerance zones as part of a wider strategy he would not clamp down on them and would put them on a firm legal footing. The consultation paper to be published today is also expected to examine the option of decriminalising brothels involving only two or three women, and new penalties against punters and pimps, including confiscation of driving licences, and the prosecution of underage sex as child abuse. Mr Blunkett said he recognised people got "extremely jumpy" over prostitution and there was a great sensitivity about politicians even touching the subject. But the work the government had been doing on trafficking and domestic violence meant it could not leave prostitution alone. "We do really need to face up to the enormity of what it means in personal degradation and the exploitation of women, in terms of the association of with class A drug abuse, the organised criminality and the use of pimps and the trafficking, particularly from eastern Europe." The consultation paper a "professional, substantive, academic look" at international practice and what works in Britain. No final decisions had been taken, but it would cover options for action in prevention, protection, support and proper justice for those involved. Mr Blunkett made clear that if quick changes in the law were needed, Home Office legislation on police reform and organised crime this winter could provide the vehicle. He said the package would aim to break the vicious circle by which young girls are snared into prostitution by pimps offering them heroin and crack and then sending them out on the streets to pay for their habit. He believed every single one of the 250 to 300 prostitutes in Sheffield city centre was a class A drug abuser. "You also have to break the cycle of people being fined for being a prostitute and then openly proclaiming to the magistrate or district judge that they will have to be given 24 hours to earn it before they can pay the fine. That is crackers." Existing laws could also be used more imaginatively, such as curfews and antisocial behaviour orders against prostitutes if at the same time they could be offered a way out that included drug treatment. Exclusion and molestation orders could be used against pimps. "The real challenge is to stop girls getting in and offering women a way out." The home secretary said the international evidence on tolerance zones was that they did not work. "My approach is that I am more favourable to allowing local authorities discretion more than I am favourable towards the zones. "The evidence is that they lead to organised deprivation and organised squalor, and therefore my instincts are that zones are not as productive as registration and health checks, and the acknowledgment, that while we do not condone and would never condone prostitution, it exists ... and we have to support those who want to get out." He said in the initial stages that might mean a registration scheme would be needed. "The problem with zones is that they don't actually engage with prevention and support. Therefore, while I am sympathetic to local authorities having discretion, I am less sympathetic to them actually setting them up." Mr Blunkett said the zones that had been tried, such as in Edinburgh, had been tacitly accepted but had not actually been legal. "We are not intending to clamp down on them, but to actually engage with people on whether we should acknowledge it rather than ignore it."