Lord Irvine of Lairg, no stranger to public odium, has never been less popular. His call to keep more first-time burglars out of prison provoked media scorn and a lack of endorsement from the Prime Minister. But the Lord Chancellor is right. So is the Lord Chief Justice, whose demand Irvine was echoing. Prisons, now housing 72,000, are grim and full beyond capacity. But the argument is not simply one of necessity. Offenders given community sentences are slightly less likely to reoffend. In addition, every non-custodial penalty represents a £20,000 annual saving to the taxpayer.The row over burglars exemplified the current mood of vacillation in which, according to a survey published yesterday, public confidence in the way crime is tackled by Ministers and judges has virtually collapsed. It is easy to see why. The Aston shootings have provoked sensible policy suggestions, such as banning replica guns and a firearms amnesty. Hot rhetoric on rap lyrics and David Blunkett's demand for a five-year mandatory minimum sentence for gun-carrying proved less felicitous. Within hours, the judges had forced a partial U-turn. Internecine disputes at the apex of the justice system fuel the mistaken idea that crime is out of control. In fact, the alarming 35 per cent increase in gun offences is not replicated elsewhere. The British Crime Survey, the most optimistic but also the most accurate audit, shows an overall fall of 7 per cent. Disproportionate panic and pessimism are, in part, engendered by friction between the Home Office and the judiciary.Mr Blunkett knows that sending most non-violent, non-persistent offenders to jail is a waste of time. He has said so. But his broader reservations about judicial power appear to trump the need for unity. In a radio interview yesterday, he questioned the clarity of Lord Woolf's instructions on sentencing burglars, saying he did not 'blame him, because he is not a politician'. Judges are certainly not beyond criticism, as demonstrated by Lord Woolf's previous wish to imprison all mobile phone-snatchers. But it is for the Home Office and Downing Street to hold the line and resist playing to the hardline populists who unfairly rubbished Lord Irvine. Such opportunism only alarms the public. A country worried by gang culture should be spared the additional spectacle of turf wars between the executive and the judiciary.