Prisoners have been largely ignored by government moves to promote volunteering, according to a report released today. The first national study of the opportunities for prisoners to become active citizens through volunteering concludes that there is "institutional reluctance" in the prison service. Volunteering by prisoners, inside and outside jails, is widely recognised to assist resettlement and reduce reoffending. Yet opportunities exist for only a minority of inmates and there is no strategic leadership or coordination of activities, the report by the Prison Reform Trust suggests. One prison governor is quoted as saying that there is "nil support from the prison service, which neither knows, cares, nor understands".Researchers received completed surveys from almost nine in 10 prisons in England and Wales. Interviews were conducted with education staff, workshop supervisors, governors, community groups, probation staff, board of visitors members and 82 prisoners. Only 3% of inmates were involved in helping the community from inside prison. The most common form of volunteering was peer support, including listener schemes or support for substance misuse, parenting, translation, employment, education or housing. In all, some 7% of prisoners participated in an activity that helped other inmates. However, the trust found this was often not linked to the chance to gain qualifications or otherwise demonstrate progress. Fewer than a third of prisons helped inmates involved in providing education support gain a qualification. And only 5% of prisons supported those who were providing translation services to gain a qualification. Concerns were raised at several prisons that the management favoured commercial workshops over charity ones, because they brought in income. Only one in three prisons considered the skills and experience prisoners gained from volunteering when assessing their progress during their sentence. Of prisoners entitled to temporary release, a mere 1% volunteered in the community. Although such community placements help prepare inmates for returning to the wider world, the report says they are "not functioning to their potential". Several prisons cited security concerns for not facilitating community placements, even though only 0.1% of releases on temporary licence end in failure of any sort. The report, Barred Citizens, suggests there is an "overwhelming aversion" to taking risks, arguing that "the majority of prisons still function primarily to contain, rather than to prepare prisoners for reintegration into society". The trust is calling on the government to encourage the prison service to recognise the benefits of volunteering and to take the short-term risks involved in giving prisoners responsibility. Finola Farrant, co-author of the report, says: "Prison strips people of responsibility. It makes sense to start building up a sense of the needs of others while people are still in prison, rather than dumping them back on the streets and hoping it will just come to them." Barred Citizens is available at £10 inc p&p on 020-7251 5070. 