It is always particularly shocking when a woman abuses a child. Myra Hindley, Baby Peter's mother Tracey Connelly and now the Plymouth nursery assistant Vanessa George, inspired a very special horror. We hope that women have a natural maternal instinct to protect and nurture all children, but alas, in some cases, that instinct is perverted into terrible cruelty.The figures released by ChildLine demonstrate that sexual abuse by women is not nearly as rare as we would hope. There has been a dramatic rise in the number of women reported by child callers to ChildLine as abusers. This rise is partly due to the fact that many more boys are ringing us.When we opened our lines 23 years ago, four times more girls than boys called the helpline. So we specifically targeted boys, hoping to reassure them that it was not a sign of weakness to ask for help with a difficult or painful problem. We knew that the imbalance could not be explained by the fact that boys encountered fewer problems than girls. Suicide is the biggest single cause of death for boys in their late teens and early 20s, even outnumbering deaths in road accidents.So ChildLine counsellors believed that far too many boys and young men were reluctant to disclose a problem until it became so overwhelming that they felt life was not worth living. That is why we have focused on boys – with so much success that the number counselled has reached an all-time high of more than 58,000.Last year, more than half the boys who rang disclosing sexual abuse reported that they had been abused by women. The most common female perpetrator – in almost 1,000 cases – was the boy's mother. Among the boys who reported being sexually abused by a man (almost the same number of callers), the most common perpetrator was the father – again, in about 1,000 incidents. Both shocking statistics.How can we help these children? Certainly not by refusing to discuss the problem in the hope that it will disappear.Many elderly people have told me that the taboos surrounding this subject had imprisoned them in silence as children and prevented them asking for help. We know that sexual abuse can cause life-long damage if children are never able to disclose their suffering, so they are never protected and made safe. Which is why it is crucial that children are aware of ChildLine's number (0800 1111) and know that it is free, confidential and does not show up on phone bills. And why it matters so much that all those who work with children and who come into daily contact with them ensure that they have access to the helpline or can make contact online at www.childline.org.uk. There is no other way that a child, isolated and desperate, can ask for help.Sexual abuse has been described as an attack on a child's soul. ChildLine can be the only lifeline within their reach.