Alicia Jones (22) knows both Salford and Manchester well. For her it was the negligible role of "race" that was the most surprising feature of the Manchester riots. Having sensed the character of the London unrest, she, mixed-race herself, had anticipated Manchester would assume a racially charged tone. "Things first kicked off in Langworthy, a white area and one of the poorest in the northwest," she said. "I expected it to be Moss-side, that would be first. If it was Moss-side, then it would've been called a race riot. But because of how things happened, it's better called some kind of class riot."Alicia also believes it is a mistake to dismiss the events as apolitical. "For me the riots are valid. Obviously not in the destruction they did. But in what they exposed. It is a true representation of the poor youth's condition. They are saying: 'We have nothing. Absolutely nothing.'" If the riots in Manchester were a spectacle of perverse consumerism ('shopping riots'), by the same token, they also revealed the absence of credible life prospects for many of the city's young people.Danny Lee is 23 and from Longsight. Involved in much criminal activity in his own teenage years, he laments that "kids over here don't really ever think about property and careers, families and pensions." For them there are no such certainties. Instead, he claims, all they have left is the pursuit of consumerist thrills that provide momentary pleasure.This disaffection is amplified when considered in light of the regeneration that has become synonymous with post-1990s Manchester. The much-touted revival is mocked by Danny as being uneven, having little to no beneficial impact upon the "rougher" parts of the city. "Look at the Quays," he tells me. "What does it mean to them [the Salford poor]?"The boast that Manchester is now the 15th best city worldwide for attracting inward investment is belied by the fact that it also hosts some of the nation's most disadvantaged wards, where unemployment can exceed 50%. There are, of course, poorer or equally deprived wards in other cities. But in Manchester, the sense of felt disparity is intensified by the "underclass" being a regular witness to a gentrifying, upwardly mobile cityscape which appears increasingly remote.With regeneration comes a proliferation in Manchester's consumer options. Yet, for the younger people excluded, it only reinforces their sense of inadequacy. After all, it is as consumers that many of them find some semblance of purpose in the first place. "The riots are about a kind of hatred of themselves," Alicia explains. "What do they have now that is meaningful?" Until they are able to expect more of their life, to have dignifying long-term goals that many take for granted, these frustrations will only worsen. She concludes that this is the most urgent predicament facing local communities and central government and hopes that now they will take a genuine interest.• Names have been changed; Sivamohan Valluvan is a sociology PhD candidate at the University of Manchester. His work is concerned with issues of race, integration and citizenship among younger members of minority communities