A high court judge has refused to publish a 2014 judgment on the death of Ellie Butler on the grounds that her father, who has been jailed for life for her murder, might in the future face a retrial.Six-year-old Ellie was murdered in October 2013. Her father, Ben Butler, was sentenced to at least 23 years in prison on Tuesday. His partner Jennie Gray was given 42 months for child cruelty and for her part in a “cynical” and “calculated” cover-up of their daughter’s death and their fake 999 call two hours after she had died.Following Butler’s conviction, the media applied for the full judgment on the grounds it was in the public interest to know the full background to the murder of a child.Ellie Butler murder: how the case unfolded Mrs Justice Pauffley said the reporting of the 2014 judgment, which found Butler responsible for Ellie’s death, would be extensive and could prejudice a jury in a potential retrial. Pauffley said she was very troubled by the impact it would have on any potential criminal proceedings.At a time when the family courts are under pressure to open up, her ruling could be seen as yet another barrier to reporting family court proceedings when they are linked to criminal court trials.Pauffley was responding to an application by the Guardian and six other media organisations for access to a full judgment, handed down privately in the high court in June 2014 by Mrs Justice King.The media was obliged to seek permission in the court because of reporting restrictions laid down in 2014 by King, who had held a review of the facts of the case following the death of Ellie months before. Following an earlier application by the media, a separate high court judge granted permission to report one paragraph from the judgment after the verdicts.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ellie Butler, who was killed in October 2013. Photograph: Family handout/PAThat paragraph read: “I am satisfied so that I am sure that Ellie died as a result of the father either hitting her on the back of her head with the leg of the child’s table or swinging her with such violence that her head came so forcefully into contact with a table leg, that the leg broke and she sustained the skull fracture from which she died.”In the hearing on Wednesday, Pauffley said the “expression of views [by Butler from the dock], albeit in the heat of the moment immediately after the verdict, gives a solid indication this criminal process is likely to extend to the making of an application for permission to appeal or a submission should be made that this conviction should be overturned.Ben Butler, the violent criminal who posed as a doting father “The reporting of Mrs Justice King’s judgment, were I to give permission, is likely to be extensive,” she said adding she was fully aware of the public interest in approving the release. “There’s a potential for prejudice; for derailing that [criminal process] that to my mind is manifest. The risk … may be small but the consequence in the criminal process could be incalculable.”Under contempt of court rules, the media are barred from reporting any background on defendants once proceedings become active.Jude Bunting, counsel for the media, argued there was no risk of substantial prejudice by the press under the Contempt of Court Act 1981 because no proceedings were scheduled.He said that there was public interest in the background to the horrific murder and open justice was a central plank of democracy. He put it to Pauffley that Butler could not have a retrial unless he satisfied, in the first instance, the court of appeal that he was entitled to one.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Ellie Butler’s grandfather: ‘She told us that she loved us. That was the last time we saw her’Bunting said “the ship had sailed” in relation to Ellie Butler’s death as there was widespread coverage across all media of his conviction on Tuesday. He said Butler’s conviction was “already in the public domain” and he doubted any additional information in the King judgment could be more significant than murder. In addition, Bunting argued, even if Butler crossed the high threshold at the court of appeal, a potential retrial would be in “the distance future” and a jury could therefore not be prejudiced.The media have been to court on three occasions to seek release of judgments and orders in a bid to jigsaw together what went wrong for Ellie, who was found at home with catastrophic head injuries akin to a high-speed car crash.Bunting requested permission to appeal, which was refused. However, Pauffley pointed out that this did not preclude the media from going directly to the court of appeal. 