The property baron Nicholas van Hoogstraten was today held responsible by the high court for the killing of business rival Mohammed Raja.The ruling on a £6m civil action from the dead man's family came after Mr Van Hoogstraten was cleared of manslaughter in the criminal courts.Mr Raja, 62, a former business associate of Mr Van Hoogstraten, was stabbed and shot by two of the property tycoon's henchmen after answering the doorbell at his home in Sutton, south London, on July 2 1999. He had been in the process of suing Mr Van Hoogstraten over a business deal at the time of his death.Mr Raja's murderers, Robert Knapp and David Croke, were jailed for life at the Old Bailey in 2002. Mr Van Hoogstraten walked free from prison a year into a 10-year sentence for manslaughter when the court of appeal set aside his conviction.The dead man's family brought the £6m civil case for damages to ask the high court to decide if Mr Van Hoogstraten was directly involved. During the trial he had denied hiring two hitmen and his lawyer, Richard Ferguson QC, suggested the killing was more like a robbery "gone horribly wrong" than a carefully planned hit by a powerful businessman.Giving judgment today following a six-day hearing in London last month, Mr Justice Lightman said: "I am satisfied that the recruitment of the two thugs was for the purpose of murdering Mr Raja and not merely frightening or hurting him. "The use of two violent thugs armed with a shotgun was more than was needed to frighten or injure him. The second shot was deliberately aimed at killing him. "Mr Raja had at all times shown himself resilient, ready to resist threats and to complain to the police. "Nothing less than murder would rid Mr van Hoogstraten of this thorn in his flesh." Mr Justice Lightman said he reached his conclusion "on the balance of probabilities" - the civil law standard of proof - "and indeed, if it were necessary, beyond reasonable doubt" - the criminal law standard. Mr van Hoogstraten, in arranging the murder, was trying to obtain the release or settlement of Mr Raja's court action against him on terms highly favourable to Mr van Hoogstraten, the judge said."His purpose in murdering Mr Raja has not been achieved because, contrary to his expectations, Mr Raja's family have been as resilient as was Mr Raja in his lifetime in standing up to Mr van Hoogstraten." Amjad Raja, the dead man's son, said outside the court that the family had been seeking justice. "No amount of money will ever make up for the loss of our father," he said. Mr Raja added he would like to see Mr Van Hoogstraten "behind bars".The property tycoon - who earned his first criminal record at the age of 11, described his politics as being "to the right of Attila the Hun" and became a vocal supporter of Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe - was not in court or represented during the civil proceedings. He has nine convictions, the most serious of which was damaging the home of a clergyman with a hand grenade in 1968, for which he received a four-year sentence. He has described his tenants as "filth", business rivals as "maggots" and ramblers who cross the land around his East Sussex mansion as "scum".He is believed to have gone to Zimbabwe, where he has business interests, having told Mr Justice Lightman's clerk after an earlier hearing that he was leaving the country and would not be back until next year.