A new club has opened up in Britain. It's rare to apply to be a member, although Pete Townshend of the Who just has. Usually, the newspapers put you up for entry. It's a guild of the possibly guilty, a union of the accused. Let's call them the Innuendi.There are two membership lists: the named and the unnamed. The TV presenter Matthew Kelly entered the first register when he was questioned by police over allegations of child sexual abuse, which he denies. Pete Townshend joined him, when he was questioned during the (unconnected) Operation Ore investigation into downloading paedophile pornography from an American website. The anonymous roll of membership of the Innuendi is currently led by a "top television presenter" and "two former Labour ministers" who, according to some newspapers, are among the next subjects of the Operation Ore investigation. Also in the unnamed category - though in an entirely different field - is the "top England footballer" who, according to back pages, ran up a £30,000 gambling debt during the World Cup. The names of these supposed criminals and miscreants are freely circulating in chatrooms and will eventually lead to their upgrading to the official membership lists. While what happened in a card school is probably the player's own business, anything that occurs with schoolboys isn't. Let's be clear that if any men have committed the crimes for which they're being investigated, there should be no escape or pity. But note that word "if". It should be written in five-foot-high letters of fire in the sky. The objection to the setting up of the Innuendi is that the hostile media profiles, editorials, calls for sacking and ostracism which used to follow criminal conviction now follow arrest and questioning. Interviewing suspects under caution is a routine part of police procedure, but the public is now encouraged to assume that this means guilt. This is simply wrong. The gleeful assumption in some newspapers that Kelly's television career is now over would have been questioned even in the Soviet legal system. For unidentified members of the club, different issues arise. Most textbooks on law for journalists warn against the risk of "group libel". Never write blanket defamations along the lines of "it would surprise me if any Olympic gold medallist had not taken drugs" because you invite suits from those whose urine has always been pure. Yet, in the nudge-nudge culture, group libel has become endemic. Barely freed from suspecting any "top television presenter" of raping women, we now find ourselves idly speculating about their possible abuse of boys. Political coverage is complicated because any "former Labour minister" who comes on screen may be one of the tabloid-alleged paedophiles. Watching the TV news these days has become like playing Cluedo. But innuendo is subject to the same objection as the death penalty: that the pursuit of the guilty snares innocents as well. Last autumn, the dirty-linen laundrette in television plausibly identified at least seven leading presenters as potential serial rapists. It perhaps tells us something about the balance of depravity in the medium that industry rumour identifies only two serious contenders as the "top telly host" who is supposedly about to be arrested for downloading paedophile porn. Beyond the legal and moral objections to the games which some newspapers and websites play, a bigger one is that they don't play straight. Their biggest professional foul is what's become known as "Doing a Flitcroft" after the insistence from sections of the press that a married footballer seeking to prevent his adulteries being published was a "top premiership player" and a "household name". Days of suspecting football's superstars ended when it was finally revealed that the philanderer was a name only in the household of the unfortunate Mrs Gary Flitcroft. Before John Leslie was named as the subject of rape allegations, newspapers supposedly protecting the man's identity hinted that he was "one of television's biggest names" and "married and living in the home counties", none of which applied to Leslie, although this profile fitted innocent others. (In a similar linguistic trick, the police description of the allegations against Matthew Kelly as "historic" - cop jargon for a long time ago - was used by some journalists with the modern implication of unprecedented.) Yet at least those people falsely numbered among the Innuendi suffer their irritation in private. For people who are publicly inducted into the club, the consequences are horrible. Are we really happy to live in a culture in which people have their careers wrecked before any charges are made against them? And where, even if charges do follow, the trials may well become untenable because of the level and nature of publicity? There are bigger consequences for our culture beyond the threats to the legal system and the ancient presumption of innocence. Recent events mean that all asylum seekers and all Arabs living in Britain are about to join the Innuendi. That bloke on the telly is probably a pederast. Don't listen to his records: he's a pervert. That footballer may well be a gambling addict. The African bloke next door is a terrorist. Contempt for legality and morality has created a climate in which we are constantly encouraged to suspect.