He may be in his 90th year but "Mad" Frankie Fraser is still causing mayhem. It has emerged that the former gangland enforcer, who has spent 42 years in prison for 26 offences, has been issued with an asbo after an incident in his residential accommodation.Fraser, who was jailed for 10 years in the so-called "torture trial" in 1967, is now frail and in poor health. However, according to a new documentary, he is clearly not going gentle into any good night. He was given an asbo, one of his sons told film-makers, after getting into an argument with a fellow-resident and is unrepentant about his life of crime.Last seen in public in October at the funeral of his former boss, Charlie Richardson, Fraser is one of the few remaining members of a generation of "celebrity criminals". His life of crime started aged nine when he worked for the notorious Sabini gang, which ran protection rackets at the racecourses at a time when off-course betting was illegal."At the races, I'd be bucket boy," says Fraser in the documentary, Frankie Fraser's Last Stand, which will be broadcast on the Crime and Investigation network on 16 June at 9pm. A bucket boy would offer to clean the bookies' blackboards with a sponge, for which they were obliged to pay the Sabinis. Both Fraser and his sister, Eva, were also active juvenile thieves. "You name it, we nicked it," he says. "As I was growing up, I never had to buy a shirt – Eva made sure she nicked them for me."A deserter during the war – he pretended to be mad to avoid the call-up – Fraser was certified insane three times and spent time in Broadmoor secure hospital. He was frequently punished for breaking prison rules or fighting prison officers: "I've done more bread and water than any man alive."Of the war years, when he was heavily involved in theft from bombed-out stores, he says: "You wanted to win the war but you wanted it to go on for ever. It was a thief's paradise, Gor blimey! Whatever you nicked you could sell, they'd be queuing up to buy it off you."After the war, he worked for underworld boss Billy Hill, for whom he carried out razor attacks. "Hill paid by the stitch – if you put 50 stitches in a man's face, you could expect £50," says James Morton, Fraser's biographer. News reports were checked to see how much was owing.Fraser was jailed along with other members of the Richardson gang for violently punishing people whom the Richardsons believed owed them money. His decision to join the Richardsons rather than their rivals, the Krays, has been described as "like China getting the atom bomb".He emerged from jail in 1989 and has not been back since. "Maybe he was bored with going to prison," Ronnie Richardson, Charlie's widow, tells the programme. In 1991, while emerging from Turnmills nightclub in Clerkenwell, London, he was shot at by an unidentified gunman. According to one of his sons, David, Fraser was unharmed but he did not inform on his assailant. "If you play by the sword, you've got to expect the sword as well," says his son.Over the last decade or so he was on the cabaret circuit and ran gangland tours of the East End, taking in such sights as the Blind Beggar pub, where Ronnie Kray shot dead George Cornell, one of the Richardson gang, in 1966.A famous Monty Python sketch featuring the Piranha brothers, Doug and Dinsdale, has often been associated with Fraser and the Kray twins and some aspects of the new documentary may add to this impression. Fraser has complained in the past that "I had no help from my family; my mother and father were dead straight so I had to make my own way."The new documentary returns to this theme, suggesting he had a hard time in prison because there were no criminals in his family. "My father was the most honest man I've ever come across," says Fraser, who also refers to his Native American antecedents, saying that his grandmother was "a Red Indian"According to his sons, Fraser has no regrets: "He said, 'No, I wouldn't have done my life any other way.'"• Frankie Fraser's Last Stand will be broadcast on the Crime and Investigation network on 16 June at 9pm