The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday, August 6, 2004There is no such language as Sri Lankan. Sinhala is spoken by 74% of Sri Lankans, Tamil by 18%, and other languages by the remaining 8%.In Wembley Park, where the suburbs of north-west London finally surrender to the trunk roads and exhaust fumes, the day that Vipula Prasanna died was an otherwise unremarkable one - a quiet Sunday in May that started foggy and never got much brighter. As almost everyone involved in the case would remark at some point over the following weeks, a few seconds' difference and it would have stayed unremarkable. Prasanna, a 40-year-old Sri Lankan, wouldn't have reached the tube station exit barrier at precisely the same time as Michael John-Charles and John-Charles's five-year-old son. And the fine boundary that separates a general atmosphere of aggression from outright violence on the London Underground might never have been breached at all. Instead, this is what happened: a few minutes before 11am, Prasanna, who was planning to visit a cashpoint before attending a Buddhist temple, reached the barrier a few footsteps ahead of John-Charles, a former dancer on his way to see his mother, who was visiting from the Dominican Republic. Then Prasanna stopped, realising that the gates immediately ahead of him were for passengers entering the station. He turned to his left, scanning for the exit gates, found them, and changed direction. John-Charles and his son had been heading directly for the correct gates; in the few seconds it took Prasanna to cross several feet of yellowed floor tiles, they had caught up with him, and the three converged at the barrier. In the next moment, a 15-year-old girl on a school trip heard someone shout something about a shoe. A Nigerian woman, on her way to church, remembered John-Charles telling Prasanna that if he didn't apologise, he would get hurt. James McShane, a station attendant, turned towards the noise and saw a confrontation at the ticket barrier. John-Charles's face was inches from Prasanna's, one witness recalled, and John-Charles was screaming, "Do you think you can step on my son and get away with it, you fucking cunt?" McShane remembered that Prasanna "might have sworn back", but mainly his impression was that the Sri Lankan was "trying to defuse the situation". By now, the three had made it through the barrier, and CCTV footage shows Prasanna extending his arm as if imploring John-Charles to see reason. On the narrow, cracked pavement outside the station, no longer in view of the cameras, Prasanna turned to the five-year-old, witnesses said, and "leant forward and touched the young boy ... in a gentle and reassuring manner". "Don't you fucking touch my child," John-Charles shouted, and clenched his right hand into a fist. * * * Two hundred and thirty-eight people were violently killed in London in the year to June, some for reasons just as trifling as stepping on somebody's foot - like the 15-year-old knifed to death in Fulham in June, apparently for his mobile phone. But something about Vipula Prasanna's death on May 2 seemed to shake even seasoned police detectives and lawyers. It wasn't just the sense that anyone could have been the victim, but a troubling flicker of a thought that it wasn't all that hard to imagine being the perpetrator, either. "It's just sad, really sad," says one veteran official connected with the case, before adding bluntly that there have been times on the tube when he has felt like punching people, too. Not that the official would want you to believe that he might have done what John-Charles did in the moments after he delivered an upper-cut to Prasanna's jaw. The blow, though not fatal in itself, pushed one of Prasanna's teeth through his lip, and sent him reeling backwards. He hit his head on the pavement, where he lay motionless. More than one witness said they saw "the life go out of [Prasanna's] eyes". But John-Charles apparently ignored him, striding off with his son down the road, past the Food King and the funeral directors' towards a nearby council estate. Prasanna was carried by air ambulance to the Royal London Hospital, in Whitechapel, and attached to a life-support machine. Three days later it was switched off. A day after that, according to John-Charles's legal team, the 38-year-old was driving past Wembley Park station when he saw the police boards requesting help in finding a suspected murderer. He recognised himself in the CCTV photos, called a solicitor, and made arrangements to surrender the following morning. Police say he told them little, though it did emerge that the foot-stepping incident might have happened earlier in their journeys, at a different station. Last Friday, John-Charles was jailed for manslaughter at the Old Bailey, and the curious details that emerged about him then seemed somehow to intensify the poignant randomness of the two trajectories that crossed at Wembley Park. John-Charles had worked as a professional dancer, appearing, his defence counsel said, with "several major singers" on Top Of The Pops. He had apparently trained for the ballet, and was described - in a detail the newspapers jumped on - as the "first black student to enrol in the Royal College of Ballet". (This was also, however, one of the many details of the case that seemed to collapse at the slightest prodding: there is no Royal College of Ballet, and John-Charles was not a student at the Royal Ballet School or the Royal Academy of Dance. His lawyers declined to clarify the matter.) After dancing - and before giving up on the arts altogether, and moving into computers - he had tried singing, even recording his own album. A single called No Chorus, by a Michael John-Charles, was released in January 1998, in the same month as Catatonia's hit Mulder and Scully, and Under The Bridge, by All Saints. * * * News of Prasanna's death made a forceful impact in Sri Lanka - not so much because of its randomness, but because of the way it seemed to strike at the foundations of some long-held Sri Lankan ideas about the British character. "The British are known as gentlemen," says Prasad Gunewardene, who covered the story for Colombo's Sunday Observer. "Maybe it was unintentional, but it has brought down the standards of the Britishers among the people of Sri Lanka. They don't expect British people to assault a person who is already pardoning himself." Prasanna's family heard the news on his wife's birthday. At their modest home in Colombo, Sudanthika Prasanna answered a phone call she expected to be from her husband - but the voice at the other end was that of Irene Fernando, his former London landlady and a fellow Sri Lankan immigrant. "I was sitting there, and the police inspector was over there," Fernando recalls, speaking this week, after John-Charles's sentencing, and gesturing around the small front room of her semi-detached house 10 minutes' drive from the spot where Prasanna was attacked. "They don't speak English, and the police didn't speak Sri Lankan. So it was down to me to tell them he was on life support." Soon after, at the Royal London, Fernando held a mobile phone to Prasanna's ear so that his four children, aged between four-and-a-half and 20, could talk to their unresponding father. "Oh my God, they were screaming," Fernando remembers. "'Don't turn off the machine! Don't turn off the machine!' But the doctors decided they had to, and who am I to argue?" By the time he died, Prasanna had been living in the UK for four years, working mainly in a souvenir shop on the Edgware Road and a discount store in Brixton, sending a portion of his wages back to Colombo each month. "And perfume and makeup," Fernando says. "His daughter [20-year-old Sashika] would say, 'Send me this, send me this'. I told him, 'You can buy them in Sri Lanka - what do you want to send them from here for?' But he'd say they liked British things." Prasanna had arrived as an asylum-seeker, but his application had been refused twice by the Home Office. His friends say that he had no interest in staying illegally any longer, and planned to return home in July. "And now the problem is for the children," says Anura Medagadara, sitting in an office at Willesden Community Hospital, the broken down NHS establishment where he works as an orderly. Medagadara, a small, jowly man in his 30s, barely knew Prasanna, but is active at the Buddhist temple he sometimes attended, in the London suburb of Kingsbury. After the attack, Medagadara raised about £5,000 for Prasanna's family through the London tabloid Newslanka. Much of it was spent bringing Sudanthika and her youngest son, Divyanjali, to London in June, to co-ordinate the return of Prasanna's body to Colombo. "In our culture system, they always need the body." Sri Lankan Airlines gave them discounts, but now little of the money is left. According to Gunewardene, at the Sunday Observer, Prasanna's funeral in Colombo on June 26 drew almost 1,000 mourners, and took nearly three hours to process four kilometres from the family home to the cemetery. In the family's only interview, Sashika told Gunewardene she thought that her father had been phoning to wish her well in an imminent exam. "He had hope in me and wanted me to study well," she said. "Who will assault a man who tenders an apology for an error that he had made? Do British people behave in such a dastardly manner?" For her part, Sudanthika seemed as angry as she was upset. "We want prime minister Tony Blair to ensure justice," Gunewardene quoted her as saying. "Englishmen are known to be people with manners." In the end, the fate of John-Charles was decided by a turn of events as random as the encounter that killed Prasanna. The night before he gave his plea, the judge who had been scheduled to hear it, Michael Hyam - who might well have ended up deciding his sentence - suffered a heart attack and died. The next morning, every judge in the Old Bailey crowded into Court Number Four to pay their respects. Shortly afterwards, in an adjoining courtroom, John-Charles's defence lawyer announced that he would be pleading guilty to manslaughter. Last Friday, he received a sentence of three years, half of which was suspended; given the time he has already served in custody, he should be free by September next year. The sentence reflects the clear lack of homicidal intent on John-Charles's part, but Prasanna's friends in Britain are understandably furious. "I never heard of anything like this in my country," says Medagadara, who expresses his anger with bursts of nervous laughter. "In Sri Lanka, the killer would get real punishment. A lifetime sentence. He's getting three years, he comes back. Yeah, it's manslaughter, but if he didn't attack, Prasanna would never have fallen down. Prasanna would never have gone to the hospital, and never died." He sighs. "But it doesn't matter now." On the grey day of Prasanna's death, Wembley Park station was closed until after 6pm, but things have long since moved on. The ticket barrier where the confrontation occurred is closed as part of extensive renovation works; passengers are currently diverted through a side passage. Most of the surrounding area, in fact, feels like a construction site - from the cranes along the side of the railway tracks to the giant swooping arc of the new Wembley Stadium nearby. On the street outside the station, the spot where Vipula Prasanna's head hit the pavement is unmarked.