An Asian police officer who claimed he was framed by colleagues for a crime he did not commit after launching a race discrimination case against his force had his criminal conviction quashed by the court of appeal yesterday.Sultan Alam, who was sentenced to 18 months in prison and dismissed from the force after being found guilty of conspiracy to handle stolen motor vehicle parts in 1996, broke down in tears after the court ruled his conviction unsafe. He said all he had ever wanted was to become a policeman again. Alam served nine months of his sentence.Lord Justice Moore-Bick described it as a "very grave case", in which police had "deliberately misled the court in order to suppress evidence". Alam, now 45, who joined Cleveland police in 1984, made a claim in 1993 alleging racial discrimination after a series of incidents culminating in finding a Ku Klux Klan poster on his desk. The judge said Alam felt he was "deliberately targeted and wrongly implicated" by the police in order to undermine the discrimination proceedings.Gordon Aspden, counsel for the Crown, which did not contest the appeal, told the judges the prosecution had also been "misled by the police".Alam has worked as a taxi driver and run a mobile phone shop since he was dismissed as an officer, but has been told that the "door is open" for him to return to the force. "I will do the best I can to try to make a life for my family, but everything has been about today," he said.He said he hoped to rejoin the police. "I never wanted to leave in the first place. I was pushed. I was very good at my job," he said, adding: "My life has been in limbo for 13 long and painful years. "Sean Price, chief constable of Cleveland, said the force had not hesitated in handing over evidence during the investigation. "I, as chief constable, apologise on behalf of the force to Mr Alam for what happened," he said. "We understand it is his wish to take up his legal right to return to police duties and we will support him fully in this course of action."