The trainee teacher who accused the disgraced former Tory MP Neil Hamilton and his wife, Christine, of raping her was yesterday found guilty of perverting the course of justice.Nadine Milroy-Sloan, 29, from Grimsby, was convicted at the Old Bailey on two counts and faces a "substantial" jail sentence next month. The mother of four complained to police in May 2001 that she had been drugged and raped by the former MP for Tatton and his wife at a flat in Ilford, Essex. She said she had been lured to the flat by Barry Lehaney, who told her he was the Hamiltons' chauffeur. Lehaney was in fact a disabled pensioner with a criminal record who met Milroy-Sloan in an internet chatroom. He had sent her explicit messages from two fictional characters from Chigwell called Sir James and Lady Joan Hamilton. Neil and Christine Hamilton were arrested in August 2001 after Milroy-Sloan said they were in a group who raped her. But the Hamiltons produced receipts to show that on the night of the alleged assault, they had been drinking at Claridges before having friends to dinner at their flat. Milroy-Sloan, who has previous convictions for burglary, assault and threatening behaviour, was described in court as a "practised machiavellian liar" who had never met the Hamiltons. She told friends she wanted to sue the former MP so she could go shopping at Harrods and Versace. Two days before the alleged rape, she visited the publicist Max Clifford claiming the Hamiltons were involved in a vice ring and tax scam. Mr Clifford said she could expect £100,000 from the media if she substantiated her claims. Orlando Pownall QC, for the prosecution, told the court Milroy-Sloan's claims were "in some measure born of fantasy, but principally of a desire for financial reward and celebrity status". After the Hamiltons were arrested, Milroy-Sloan was paid £50,000 by the News of the World to waive her anonymity. During the trial, she told the court: "If I have made a mistake, I am deeply, deeply sorry." Mr Hamilton said of the verdict: "If there isn't a deterrent sentence, that's going to be a green light to other little gold diggers to try to make a fast buck out of selling their story to newspapers, even though it might be completely invented." Mrs Hamilton added: "The whole thing has just been a grotesque charade, but I'm delighted at last, over two years after she made the original allegations, justice has been done."