Councillor Sophie Linden, the deputy mayor of Hackney Council who has lead responsibility for crime and community safety in a borough once famed for plenty of the former and little of the latter, has found herself accused of certain offences at a hearing at London’s City Hall. The capital’s new mayor Sadiq Khan wants Linden to be his deputy mayor for policing and crime. Getting the job entails securing the recommendation of the London Assembly’s police and crime committee. Linden came before it on Thursday. The experience was not entirely comfortable.A charge sheet had been prepared by members of the ten-strong committee, which is chaired by Steve O’Connell, the Conservative AM for Croydon and Sutton (among other things). Linden said that tackling crime and antisocial behaviour is at the heart of the mayor’s mission to extend opportunity to all Londoners: “It’s about justice but also about pursuing social justice.” She described taking a phone call about her son being mugged at knife point and knowing Hackney families whose sons have been killed. She mentioned her time working for Labour Home Secretary David Blunkett. She’s also done two years with public relations agency Bell Pottinger. But O’Connell wasn’t happy with her curriculum vitae. There just wasn’t enough of it. “We were deeply disappointed,” he said: “It has disconcerted us.” He advised Linden that her punishment would be a sterner public probing than she might otherwise have endured. O’Connell’s deputy, Labour’s newly-elected Unmesh Desai, asked her to provide examples of her work in Hackney. Linden talked about the borough’s Integrated Gangs Unit, whose existence since 2011 has coincided with large falls in recorded gun-related and knife injury crimes. The unit brings together police, probation officers, youth services, local voluntary organisations and even someone from the Department for Work and Pensions to interrupt cycles of violence and steer young people, including girls, away from gang culture and activity, as well as enforce the law. She moved on to how she foresaw her relationship with the Met. “One of the challenges is to hold the police service to account, to make it more transparent and more accountable,” she said. This was encouraging - Boris Johnson’s policing deputy gave the impression that his job was to lead the Met fan club. So was Linden’s stress on crime prevention by such means as education and good mental health services. She assured the committee that although the budget of the mayor’s office for police and crime (MOPAC), which she will head, is much bigger than Hackney’s, her borough experience had prepared her for handling it. Yes, she was sure she could handle negotiating budgets with the nation’s most senior police officers too.There were some interesting exchanges about tensions between competing freedoms. Siân Berry of the Greens, a party big on civil liberties, asked Linden about her introduction of a public space protection order (PSPO) to an area taking in London Fields, Mare Street, Broadway Market and Hackney Downs under the crime and policing act (2014). This was withdrawn after pressure from campaigners. PSPOs have been criticised by Liberty - which Mayor Khan used to chair - and others as criminalising rough sleeping and begging. As she has before, Linden defended attempting to address “some quite deep-seated anti-social behaviour, which did involve street drinkers, some rough sleepers and some beggars. It was a case of defecation and urination in public spaces, people being spat at and shouted at. It was causing a lot of problems for residents and businesses in that area”. But she conceded that her “bruising experience” over the PSPO had taught her “the absolute importance of wider public consultation, not just statutory consultation” and “more discussion with the community”. She said she’d apply that principle to the police and crime plan MOPAC is required to draw up. Labour’s Andrew Dismore sought Linden’s views on mandatory sentencing. Minimum prison terms for repeated knife possession were introduced a year ago. “We’ll have to see what the impact of the new sentencing is,” Linden replied: “It’s a difficult one, isn’t it?” She thinks it was “worth a try” because of the signal it can send about the seriousness of the offence “but I don’t think it should be the only thing we are doing”. Dismore’s concern is that taking away judges’ discretion can saddle a young person with a criminal record which, in the end, does more harm to the individual and to society than good. Linden replied that mandatory sentences don’t apply until the second offence and that “what’s important to me is that the first time they are caught there is proper intervention”.The overall impression was of a “tough love” pragmatist who can’t be glibly labelled either liberal or authoritarian. She sees the Met as “a service” rather than a force, but one that has “the ability to use force” when needed. Another Tory AM, Kemi Badenoch, was sharply sceptical about Linden’s ability to work with non-Labour politicians, though the hearing itself underlined that Linden is prepared to embrace measures Tories have introduced. At the same time, there were signs that she is ready to contest Tory cliches. The first MOPAC police and crime plan took as read a direct link between public confidence in the police and the number of “bobbies on the beat”. Gavin Hales of the Police Foundation thinktank has pointed out that MOPAC’s own research suggests that police visibility is not “a key driver of public confidence” in the Met. Go back to when the Johnson-era police and crime plan was being scrutinised, and its very definition of public confidence was strongly challenged (to no avail). Linden seems alive to this, saying she’d look at how public confidence is assessed and how to improve it: “Overarching figures can hide significant problems.”Linden’s appointment can be vetoed by the committee, but that would take a two-thirds majority and there aren’t enough Tories on it to pull that off, even if they are so inclined. Despite her cv faux pas, expect her to be in post soon. Khan came to power pledging to restore “real neighbourhood policing”, address rising levels of violent and hate crime and, famously, be “the British Muslim who will take the fight to the extremists”. Linden’s job will be to see that he delivers. But, with luck, she will do something else too. Under the previous mayor, much police and crime committee effort was expended on turgid arguments about the true level of police numbers. Johnson’s boasts on that score made this hard to avoid, but it did little for the debate about the Met, crime and community safety. If Linden can improve the quality of that, it will be a big achievement in itself.Watch a webcast of Sophie Linden’s confirmation hearing here. 