The chorus of opposition from social workers and probation officers to government plans to put community service offenders in uniform tells us all we need to know about criminal justice today (Clarke backs uniforms for young offenders, May 18). For those charged with protecting us to so elevate prisoners' rights and feelings above those of their victims, perhaps in a misguided attempt to win their "respect", is troubling.Restoring the concept of shame is long overdue and no government should be shy about it. Put them in the stocks early enough and half our delinquents would never turn into serious villains. It's called tough love.Andrew Schofield Shepreth, Cambs · As a former magistrate of 31 years and an established designer of corporate dress (with Scottish banks among our clients), I suggest one of the most effective ways to dress repeat young offenders may be to require them to wear a smart conventional suit, a white shirt, striped tie and regularly cleaned black shoes. This mode of dress would help to rehabilitate them into society. The only identification logo would be one that signifies: "I am a reformed offender, trust me". After six or 12 months free from offending, the logo can be removed. If the home secretary would like help with this exercise, we would be very happy to assist.Betty DavisBetty Davies Company· Palestinians released from Israeli prisons en masse wear bright orange tracksuits to indicate their status. These are then worn with some pride during demonstrations etc. Perhaps Ariel Sharon could give Hazel Blears the name of their tailor for the new community service uniform.Nicholas RoyallWarlingham, Surrey · I thought that young offenders already had a uniform. Aren't they called hoodies?Rajiv GandhiNottingham· A Quaker granny's persistent nonviolent protest (Anti-war protester escapes asbo, May 18) gets the authorities so rattled that she has to be electronically tagged and put under a curfew. Good job she wasn't wearing a hoodie: that would have been really scary.Caroline WestgateHexham, Northumberland· Further to Eva Berglund's letter (May 14), if the government completely halted the trend of rating youngsters on their abilities to perform in exams - Sats, GCSEs, A-levels - and started appreciating and encouraging them for who they are, perhaps there would be less discontent and fewer feelings of rejection by society. The government's plans to expand apprenticeships is a key step on the way to making every youngster, no matter what their clothes or talents, feel valued and respected (for it is a two-way relationship) by society, rather than being squeezed into narrow stereotypes. I wore a hoodie on Saturday - to buy the Guardian.Josh BlackerLowestoft, Suffolk · And while we're about it, as well as outlawing hooded tops, why not dispense with those funny hoods that pass as wigs on judges? Surely both forms of headwear are making a certain statement and prevent proper identity.Alistair GregoryCarnforth, Lancs · In my day, we had to dye our hair blue, put candle wax in it to make it sticky, put safety pins through our ears, rip our jackets and wear bondage trousers to shock the older generation. Now kids just have to put their hoods up. It's never been easier to be a teenager.Stuart ThomsonExeter