A leaked report reveals apparent failings by Doncaster council to fulfil its legal duties to safeguard children and, as yet, the nine agencies involved are not held to account (Young brothers' torture case throws light on 'dysfunctional' child services, 19 January). Meanwhile, two young children in foster care await sentencing in an adult court and media organisations are pressing for their right to anonymity – part of UK law since 1933 – to be removed. This would do nothing to help the victims and would clearly contravene international law. The children have admitted the grave attacks, which is the first step towards positive rehabilitation. If these children lived in any other European country, bar the UK and Ireland, they would not be subjected to criminal proceedings because the focus would be on helping them recover from past neglect. The UK has been repeatedly and severely criticised by UN and Council of Europe human rights bodies for its treatment of children in conflict with the law, including disregard for children's privacy. In 2001, the high court judge Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss granted lifetime anonymity injunctions to the two young men that tortured and murdered James Bulger in 1993, when they were aged 10 years. She did this because she considered the young men to be still at serious risk of injury or death almost a decade after their convictions. We must learn the lessons from this case. It is in the public interest that the brothers in Doncaster receive proper support, and this will be seriously jeopardised should the media be unleashed on them.Carolyne Willow Children's Rights Alliance for England, Frances Crook Howard League for Penal Reform, Deborah Coles Inquest, Paul Ennals NCB, Sally Ireland Justice, Bob Reitemeier Children's Society• Martin Kettle is right to describe this week's report from the Commons justice committee as "immensely significant" (Britain must call a truce on its criminal justice arms race, 15 January). At a time when the criminal justice system is in desperate need of reform, the justice committee has conducted a thorough and wide-ranging review of policy, something that the government and opposition have conspicuously failed to do.The criminal justice system cannot continue to operate as it is now, with prisons dangerously overcrowded, high reoffending rates and billions wasted on building endless new prisons. The report provides whichever party wins the forthcoming election with a comprehensive blueprint for reform. Both main parties should seize this opportunity to end the squabbling and unite behind the recommendations of this report.We need a new approach to criminal justice policy that combines reducing the use of prison with investment in properly funded alternatives in the community. Ending the party-political arms race on penal policy is a vital first step towards making this a reality.Jon Collins Criminal Justice Alliance