Children of a drug-addicted mother, beaten by an alcoholic father, excluded from school, running wild and forced to forage in bins for food. Two young brothers from Doncaster last week pleaded guilty to a vicious attack on two other children, but it soon became clear that the boys, aged 11 and 10 at the time, were both the victims and the perpetrators of horrific child abuse.The case has seen social workers under attack again for failing to intervene in the boys' dysfunctional family in time. The brothers had been raised in appalling circumstances of violence, drugs and neglect, and had been known to the police and to child protection services for some years. The 10-year-old was on police bail and the 11-year-old had been in court four times previously for "acts of violence". The pair were infamous for antisocial behaviour in their community.They had only been taken into care in March this year, three weeks before they attacked, tortured and sexually abused an 11-year-old boy and his nine-year-old nephew.The boys are what some are beginning to believe is an "unreachable" underclass. Despite the Labour government's decade-long concentration on the issue in the UK, where 16% of children grow up in poverty, pockets of deprivation have stubbornly refused to be fixed. The chief executive of Barnardo's, Martin Narey, told the Observer that some broken families simply can't be fixed and we should be taking children from those parents at birth. But as Doncaster's social services department opens a serious case review to look at what went wrong – the eighth such inquiry the local authority has been forced to hold since 2004 – the case has ignited a deeper debate: is foster care the right place for Britain's most damaged youngsters?It was known that Doncaster children's services was in trouble. Seven children on the at-risk register have died over the past five years; and in March, the same month the boys were placed with a foster family in the town of Edlington where the assaults took place, a major overhaul was ordered by the government after inspectors identified "serious weaknesses" in performance.A new management team was sent in after reports that social workers were being overwhelmed by their case loads, exacerbated by staff shortages on child protection teams of almost 20%. One worker said that details of vulnerable children were "buried in a pile of other referrals".Last week, Tim Loughton, the Tory shadow minister for children, said the decision to send the boys to a foster home where they were free to roam reflected the "chaotic state" of social services in Doncaster. "Clearly there is a case for asking why they were not put in some sort of secure accommodation," he said.More than three-quarters of all children taken into care in England and Wales go into foster families; the current thinking, said Andrea Warman, of the British Association for Adoption and Fostering, is that a stable family environment is best for children. "People who grew up in care homes of the past have made it very clear that the family unit was very much something they missed," she said. "We do need to respect and support foster carers more, but a lot of the research shows that, without family attachments and experiences, young people do very badly."How would we expect them to go on to make relationships themselves if they had never experienced one?"But Martin Narey makes the point that the shortage of foster carers and the problems within many children's services departments mean that hundreds of children in care find themselves moved around almost constantly. He talks of one 15-year-old girl he met recently who had had 46 foster family placements. "That is not unusual," he said. "My view is that we should be taking far more children into care and take children away as babies and put them into permanent adoptive placements – that is where the success is. It's all very well to talk of foster families, but it is normal to find children whose foster placements number in the double figures."Just a week ago, I spent an evening talking with some young people and a girl was talking to me about how it felt to be taken to a strange town, into a strange house and left with people she had never set eyes on before, often in the middle of the night, and be forced to constantly change school."Narey believes residential care and early adoption are both under-used options for children. "In one of my small homes I know a 12 year-old boy. He's a very nice boy but he is autistic, and with a dedicated team of shift workers he can get good stable care, but he would overwhelm foster carers."Deprivation in some of Britain's cities is so deeply embedded that families are on the third or fourth generation of unemployment and poverty. Three years ago a National Audit Office report on antisocial behaviour in such areas found that the minority of hardcore offenders were impervious to efforts to stop them. "One thing I would point to, however, is that in the mid-1990s there were 100 children under 14 a year being convicted of the gravest crimes – grievous bodily harm, rape – but for the past few years it has dropped right down to 60. So there is proof that many more children are being reached, many of them by the government's Sure Start programme."Children remain far more likely to be the victims of crime than its perpetrators. They are responsible for just 12% of crime, and youth crime has been falling since 1992. Yet we lock up more children than almost any other European country – four times as many as France – and our age of criminal responsibility is one of the lowest, at 10 years, with campaigners, including James Bulger's mother, Denise, calling for it to be lowered.In the view of some experts, the two boys in the Edlington case were already "neurally wired" to behave in a violent manner by the age they reached their foster parents, a couple in their 60s living in Edlington, some 15 miles from the boys' home. But Philippa Stroud of the think-tank the Centre for Social Justice refuses to accept that there is an "unreachable" underclass in society."I don't think we should go there," she said. "These children were clearly brutalised themselves. There should have been intervention from the time their mother was pregnant – the health visitor, social workers. She should have been seen again and again and if she had not been able to change her behaviour then the kids should have been taken into care in the first year."Early intervention is key. The mother could have been salvageable and retrained. Social workers come into their profession with noble aims, but before long they are carrying enormous case loads and are stuck in such box-ticking roles instead of being out there where they should be."That was the reflection too of Tony Blair, who in 2007 said he had been wrong when, while in office, he presumed that investing in poor neighbourhoods would help dysfunctional families. That approach was flawed because there were an "unrepresentative minority" that would never be reached by anything but direct, early intervention, he said.But early intervention was unlikely to ever happen in Doncaster. Several anonymous postings on the online magazine Community Care are from people claiming to work in Doncaster child protection. One writes: "I find that the workers at Doncaster are on the whole a committed and dedicated bunch who are trying very hard to do their jobs under mounting pressures from all sides. Children don't trust them due to the short period of time they have with workers; parents don't want them because they want to carry on with their lifestyles."It's not just the pay; it's respect from senior management who change on a monthly basis, as do team managers. The ship is sinking fast and those who remain will be blamed, while others are not permitted to speak out for fear they will not be employed anywhere else."The boys' foster carers were in court for the hearings, unlike the parents – the 36-year-old mother told reporters it was "nowt to do with me" because the boys had been taken away from her.Robert Tapsfield, chief executive of the Fostering Network, said a shift in how foster carers were regarded was needed. "Foster carers are entrusted with these vulnerable children, but too often they are not consulted by the case workers or given the information they need to really care for these children," he said "All the research points to foster families as being the best place for children who cannot stay with their own families, and that is reflected in the fact that the vast majority of children in care are living in foster care."Still, a shortage is a huge problem and the shortage shows up in finding the right placements for the right child and the greater likelihood that they will have to move, which of course is not the stability we are looking for. I think we agree that children are best served in families. Quality of care and nurturing is highest inside the family unit and the government has invested in schemes to train specialist foster carers for enormously challenging children."But we do have a huge problem in social workers not being provided with enough information on children's backgrounds to enable them to care for the child," added Tapsfield. "It is absolutely critical foster carers have all the information. But sometimes the social workers are so short-staffed that they don't have the information or there is an issue with a young graduate social worker simply not respecting the life experiences of an older, but perhaps not university-educated, foster parent."Although the Centre for Social Justice and other organisations talk of the end of the family, a rise in single mothers and a decline in social values, these two boys had two parents. The case was not about housing estates that have descended wholesale into hotbeds of crime, leaving residents to mourn the halcyon days when people kept their front doorsteps scrubbed and door knobs polished. It was about one family that no one tried to reach until it was too late.The boys who were attacked were raised in the same place. The father of the eldest victim told reporters at court: "My kid plays with Lego. They play with knives. That's the difference."