A couple who admitted taking over £61,000 from a faulty cash machine were given suspended jail sentences yesterday.Joanne Jones, 33, who had worked for an investment bank and her husband, Darren, 29, made 300 visits in three months to the machine at a Waitrose supermarket in Billericay, Essex drawing out on average £200 each time. They were caught after HSBC, owner of the cashpoint, installed CCTV cameras because the bank thought cash delivery guards might be taking the money, Basildon crown court was told.The couple used the money to put a deposit on a sports car, buy clothes and stay at an expensive hotel. When police raided their home at Wickford in Essex, they found cash in envelopes labelled holiday money, car money, clothes money, kitchen money and baby money. One marked debt money contained £30,000.Alan Jackson, prosecuting, said: "A search of their home recovered numerous receipts for luxury clothes and cosmetics by the likes of Hugo Boss, Coco Chanel and Dior to name a few. By way of what they were doing they were able to live a pretty good lifestyle." He said Joanne Jones discovered that the cash machine paid out even though she was more than £1,000 overdrawn and the withdrawals did not appear on her HSBC statement. The couple made continuous visits, taking £1,250 in five minutes one day and £2,400 in 10 minutes on another. Jackson said the fault arose owing to the machine being very old, and that "very few" other people benefited from the free payouts because "a majority of people in Billericay were not overdrawn."When questioned, Joanne Jones admitted the crime and said she was surprised they had taken as much as £61,400. Her husband said it was the bank's fault.Judge Christopher Mitchell told them: "It's like something out of a fairy tale, put a bit of plastic in the wall and free money comes tumbling out and there is no record on their bank account." Joanne Jones, a former banker at Northern Trust Bank in London, admitted theft of the cash from HSBC between 1 March and 27 May last year and using £9,000 of the money to pay for the sports car. Her husband, a builder, admitted theft and transferring £2,000 of the cash into another account. The couple, who have no criminal records, had "no solid" assets left from the money apart from the car.Matthew Bagnall, defending Joanne Jones, said she had had a miscarriage since admitting the crime and would never be able to work in a bank again. Jamas Hodivala, defending her husband, said the scam was a "unsophisticated enterprise" which exploited a loophole. "When this fairy tale came true they acted on the wrong side of the law. I hope there is some empathy for the vulnerability of the human nature or the frailty of the human mind."The couple were each given a nine months suspended prison sentence, ordered to do 250 hours of unpaid work and were put on probation for two years.