The drive to put more police on the streets was stepped up by the home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday when he announced that an extra 2,500 officers are to be recruited over the next two years.The promise means that Mr Blunkett has set a new target for a 132,500-strong police force in England and Wales by spring 2004. It follows the 130,000 target for spring 2003 set by Mr Blunkett 12 months ago. Police numbers have risen by 4,000 over the past year and last month the home secretary announced that they had reached 129,621 - the highest level since records began in 1921.The extra police officers, to be funded out of existing Treasury money allocated to the crime fighting fund, will be supplemented by the recruitment of 4,000 community support officers over the next four years to work alongside them. The first of this new breed of officers - dubbed "Blunkett's bouncers" by the Police Federation - started patrolling London streets only 10 days ago. "In March 2000 police numbers stood at just over 124,000. This year we broke through the 129,000 barrier and are well on course to hit the 130,000 target by spring 2003." Conscious of past political rows over the announcement of "extra" police officers at party conferences, Home Office sources stressed that the promise involved a net increase in officers over and above existing numbers, that the necessary training capacity existed in police colleges and that forces would be invited to bid for the extra officers. Mr Blunkett also made clear that the extra officers would be used to increase the number of high visibility patrols to reduce the fear of crime as well crime itself. The announcement of extra police officers was made as Mr Blunkett answered criticism that he was pandering to far right racists over immigration and asylum. He also announced a further tightening of the laws dealing with serious sex offenders. But he made clear that he would not give in to demands to open the sex offenders' register to public inspection. He said: "We cannot open the register to vigilantes who do not understand the difference between a paediatrician and a paedophile." He confirmed that he intends to overhaul the sex offenders' register by requiring each offender to report to a police station every 12 months, instead of every five years, to confirm their personal details. When they turn up they will face "biometric tests" such as retina scanning and be fingerprinted and photographed to confirm their identity. Those who fail to re-register will face a penalty of up to five years in prison. Foreigners convicted of sex offences abroad will also be refused entry to Britain. Mr Blunkett renewed his determination to open new routes for legal migration into Britain and said that the number of work permits issued this year will double to 175,000 in the next year. He also promised to put right a historic anomaly under which thousands of stateless people holding British passports and living in former British protectorates such as Zambia, and those with British subject status in India and Ireland, have been unable to settle in Britain. Announcing that they will finally get the right to do so, he said: "There is a campaign building up to say stop all migration whatsoever. We cannot afford not to take them from across the world." He rejected the accusation that his citizenship tests amounted to "linguistic colonialism", defended his policy on asylum and appealed for the debate on the issue to be conducted as a "dialogue of friends". He said: "Securing our borders against illegal immigrants whilst offering a safe haven to refugees is crucial. We are also determined to make the case for managed migration - immigration benefits our country and we should say so with confidence. "Racism has not been eliminated in this country; we still have more to do to see off racists and build communities that are at ease with each other," the home secretary said. "We are offering centre-left solutions to issues that our voters care about, fighting off the threat from the far right, not occupying their ground," he said in answer to his liberal critics.