Wellington, August 27.Three experts to-day told a Wellington court trying Juliet Marion Hulme (15) and Pauline Yvonne Parker (16) for the murder of Pauline's mother that both girls were sane. Yesterday two defence witnesses contended that they were and always would be insane. The first witness to-day, Dr Kenneth Stallworthy, superintendent of Auckland Mental Hospital, told the Court that Pauline had said: "We knew we were doing wrong. We knew that we would be punished if we were caught and we did our best not to be caught. I would have been an absolute moron not to know that murder was against the law."Dr Stallworthy said that his conclusion was that neither girl had any disease of the mind. After quoting Pauline, he said that Juliet had told him: "I knew it was wrong to murder, and I knew at the time that I was murdering somebody."The prosecutor: Do you know of any paranoiacs who went through the various stages the girls did - lying, cheating, blackmailing, and thieving?Dr Stallworthy: No. I have seen sane murderers show such a callousness as has been commented on in this case. In my experience, liking for games of bloodshed and violence are exceedingly common among adolescents. The type of literature in such demand to-day by adults, and embodying just these things, shows this, I think.Is there any connection between homosexuality and paranoia? - There is, in my opinion, no relation between active homosexuality and paranoia. I do not know of any practising homosexual who is a paranoiac, I do not consider homosexuality, which is by no means uncommon, as any indication of insanity.Are these girls homosexual? - I think there is no doubt that the girls have been engaged in some form of physical homosexuality. It is usual for adolescents to outgrow that stage. There is, I think, clear evidence that Parker was sufficiently interested to let members of the opposite sex make love to her, one way or another.Dr Stallworthy's evidence was supported by the two other medical witnesses, Mr D. D. Hunter, superintendent of Sunnyside Mental Hospital, and Mr J. E. Saville, a Sunnyside medical officer. Mr Saville told the court that he would not certify either girl insane, emphasising that he did not know of any crime committed by two insane people in combination.Pauline and Juliet are accused of murdering Mrs Parker by hitting her with a brick enclosed in a stocking while they were walking through a Christchurch park. The evidence was ended to-day, and the court adjourned until to-morrow, the sixth day of the trial, when counsels' final addresses and the judge's summing-up will be heard.[Juliet Hulme and Pauline Parker were found guilty of the murder of Pauline's mother, Honora Rieper, on 28 August 1954. Peter Jackson's 1994 film of the case, Heavenly Creatures, marked Kate Winslet's film debut.]