The judge in the Damilola Taylor trial began his summing up of the case yesterday by urging the jury to "set aside sympathy" for the schoolboy's family and to ignore the consequences of their verdicts.Mr Justice Hooper also told jurors that though they might think the two remaining defendants were "young louts or yobs", this must not influence them when considering whether they were guilty of the charges of murder, manslaughter or assault with intent to rob. Two brothers, aged 16, have denied stabbing 10-year-old Damilola in Peckham, south-east London, on November 27 2000. Setting out the legal directions that the jurors must follow, the judge emphasised that they could convict the brothers only if they were sure of their guilt and that they must not speculate on what happened to Damilola on the afternoon he died. "We all have sympathy for the family of Damilola Taylor, who have lost a much loved son," he said. "But sympathy for Damilola's family, sympathy for all the others caught up in this case, must be put aside when considering your verdicts."Sympathy cannot help you... you are judges of fact." He added: "Your verdicts will attract a great deal of public interest and analysis. These consequences must be ignored... concern for the consequences of the verdicts cannot help you." The judge turned to the discredited evidence of the prosecution's key witness, the 14-year-old known as Bromley, who claimed to have seen the attack on Damilola in Blakes Road. He reminded the jury that her account had been struck out of the case and that there was "no value" to anything she said. "Her description of what she had seen must be ignored. [Bromley] painted a picture for you. The canvas she left behind is now blank." Referring to the brothers' previous convictions for a range of minor offences such as theft, the judge said the teenagers were capable of "behaviour which we associate with young louts, young yobs". "There are, sadly, too many youngsters who behave in a similar way to these two defendants. It would be quite wrong to use the defendants' characters as any support at all for the prosecution's case, and I direct you not to do so." The judge said the prosecution's case "depended wholly" on alleged "cell confessions" the two brothers made when they were on remand in young offenders institutions. Earlier in the case the jury was told that mobile phones owned by the two boys were used minutes after Damilola was stabbed in an area two miles from the murder scene. The judge said yesterday that the panel could not consider whether the brothers had got from one place to the other in the time available because this would "require impermissible speculation" about the journey. The prosecution has claimed the brothers could have given their phones to friends. The judge said: "Whoever used those phones could not have been involved in the death of Damilola Taylor." The hearing continues.