When New Labour ministers talk about "rebalancing" the criminal justice system in favour of the victim, count the constitutional spoons. In the real world the criminal justice system is not the zero sum game that such language implies. Rights for the defendant are not inherently in conflict with those of the victim. In a good criminal justice system, both will be promoted, not one at the expense of the other.This is the spirit in which to respond to the lord chancellor Lord Falconer's plan to allow the families of murder and manslaughter victims to have the right to speak in court after a defendant has been convicted but before sentence is passed. Initially, Labour promoted this project in its worst populist manner. But the confirmation this week that the reform will be piloted for a year at the Old Bailey and four other crown courts, involving perhaps 400 cases in a 12-month period, encourages the possibility of a more truly balanced approach.It is beyond dispute that the families of homicide victims need better support than they sometimes get. The loss in such circumstances of a family member - and of a child most of all - is unimaginably devastating and can endure for a lifetime. Currently, unless they are witnesses, the bereaved have little voice in the court process. They must sometimes sit through malign accusations from the defendant about the dead victim's behaviour or character. We need to find a more just and a more emotionally intelligent way of enabling the bereaved to know that their feelings and needs have been expressed and taken account of.The crucial questions are whether, and to what extent, those needs are best addressed inside the courtroom. The answer is surely that the courtroom is very important but not to the exclusion of other forms of support. It is easy to imagine circumstances in which the emotional need to be heard could come into conflict with the need for procedural fairness to all sides. There is also some risk that the level of sentences may also be affected by the level of eloquence of the bereaved. The chance to speak in court should not be regarded as a quick fix either in individual cases or in the politics of criminal justice. It should be judged on its merits, in the context both of defendants' rights and the bereaved's needs. Perhaps the reform will be just what is needed for some. But perhaps it will fail others, whose needs are better addressed in other ways, well away from the courtroom. That is why it is so important and right that the plan is to be piloted. If only ministers were as careful as this more often.