Police said there was a “distinct possibility” that a taxi driver twice convicted of murdering young women could be responsible for other unsolved killings.Christopher Halliwell, 52, laughed as a guilty verdict was returned at Bristol crown court on Monday and smiled at relatives of Becky Godden, who went missing aged 20 in 2003 when she was a sex worker in Swindon.He is already serving life for the murder of 22-year-old Sian O’Callaghan, whom he abducted from a nightclub in the Wiltshire town in 2011.After the verdict, Det Supt Sean Memory, the senior investigating officer in the Godden case, said Halliwell may have killed others.“I am really open-minded – there is an eight-year gap between Becky and Sian,” Memory said. “I would appeal to Christopher Halliwell – if he wants to speak I’m willing to speak with him. “I can’t rule out that there are other victims. He’s not forensically linked to outstanding cases. However, that’s not to say he hasn’t committed other offences.“I’m not specifically looking at any one particular offence, but I do want to try to understand why there’s an eight-year gap between his offending behaviour. There’s a distinct possibility there could be further offences.”It can now be revealed that in the mid-80s, while he was in prison for an unrelated offence, Halliwell asked a prisoner how many women one needed to kill before being considered a serial killer.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Becky Godden went missing aged 20 in 2003 when she was a sex worker in Swindon. Photograph: Wiltshire Police/PAAnd when police searched a remote pond where Halliwell dumped O’Callaghan’s boots after stabbing and strangling her in 2011, they discovered dozens of scraps of material that may be clothing. In common with many violent sexual offenders, Halliwell had a fascination with hardcore pornography, including child abuse and bestiality. Computer search terms he used showed he had an interest in murder, violent sex and rape.After a two-week trial, a jury found him guilty of the murder of Godden. He became besotted with her after meeting her while working as a taxi driver in Swindon’s red-light district. In January 2003 he had sex with her, strangled her and buried her body in a field in Gloucestershire.Godden’s murder came to light only after Halliwell was arrested over O’Callaghan’s disappearance in 2011. He led the senior investigating officer, Steve Fulcher, to where he had left O’Callaghan’s body at the side of a country road – and to where he had buried Godden’s remains eight years before. But because Fulcher did not follow the rules over how suspects should be treated, Halliwell initially escaped justice. Fulcher believed at the time that O’Callaghan could still have been alive, so ignored the rules and questioned Halliwell on a remote Wiltshire hillside without giving him the chance to seek advice from a solicitor or reading him his rights. Fulcher’s reasoning was that he believed O’Callaghan’s right to life outweighed Halliwell’s legal rights.Outside court, Becky’s mother, Karen Edwards, said: “It has been an extremely painful journey but today we have received the justice that has felt like an eternity for our beautiful little girl Becky. We have all sat and listened to heart-breaking evidence day after day.”She paid tribute to Fulcher for finding out what had happened to her daughter. Edwards said: “I would like to thank him from the bottom of my heart for bringing my little girl home. I will always respect him and be indebted to him for making that moral decision as a police officer.”Chris Halliwell: painstaking fight to bring Becky Godden's killer to justice Fulcher, who faced disciplinary proceedings over the O’Callaghan inquiry, has left Wiltshire police and is now working as a consultant in Somalia. Edwards continued: “He should never have suffered the consequences, the loss of reputation and career for doing such a thing.”Also speaking on the court steps, Becky’s father, John Godden, added: “Becky was our daughter, sister, granddaughter, niece, cousin and auntie. Her life was taken too early but she will always live in our memories. Our time has come to put Becky to rest and hopefully she can now be at peace.”Sian O’Callaghan’s mother, Elaine Pickford, said she believed there may have been other victims.She said: “As far as I’m concerned I think there would be others. I don’t think a man starts killing at the age he killed Becky and I don’t think he’d have gone the length of time between Becky and Sian without needing his fix.”Breaking his silence about the case, Fulcher said: “Halliwell is an evil and depraved violator of women. I caught a serial killer, preventing any further girls being murdered.”Fulcher said he was convinced that the way he handled the questioning of Halliwell without giving him access to a lawyer was “the right and moral thing to do”. He added: “I felt that I correctly prioritised the human rights of the victims and their families, balanced against the rights of the perpetrator.“It is perfectly clear that, had I not acted as I did, neither Sian nor Becky would ever have been found and Halliwell would be free to abduct and kill other girls.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Photo issued by Wiltshire police of taxi driver Chris Halliwell, who has been found guilty of murdering Rebecca Godden. Photograph: Wiltshire Police/PAHe was angry that his actions were deemed to be acts of gross misconduct. “The public will need to know how this can be, and what the police will do on behalf of their loved ones who are missing.”Because the details of how Halliwell led police to Godden’s body were ruled inadmissible in 2011, detectives had to find other evidence to link him to the killing. They painstakingly mapped Godden’s last movements and matched them to where Halliwell was at the time. They also showed that soil found on tools in Halliwell’s shed was probably from the field where Godden’s remains were found.Trial judge Sir John Griffith Williams told the court he was considering either a whole-life order or a significant minimum term of imprisonment for Halliwell when he sentences him on Friday.It can also be revealed that, in common with many violent sexual offenders, Halliwell had a fascination with hardcore pornography, including child abuse and bestiality. Computer search terms he used showed that he had an interest in murder, violent sex and rape.