A court has heard that on the night Shafilea Ahmed was killed her mother picked her up from work and was unhappy that she was dressed in western clothing.Shafilea's younger sister Alesha Ahmed, now 23, said that on 11 September 2003, she was in the car with her mother and other siblings when they picked her up from a part-time job in Warrington, Cheshire, at 9pm.Alesha told Chester crown court that her mother "was not happy" with how her sister was dressed, in a V-neck lilac T-shirt with writing on it and white stretchy trousers, carrying a hooded cardigan. "There was a car next to us and there were Asian people in it," she said. "She was not happy that someone had seen her like that, that she was in just a T-shirt."She said her sister was "starting to go back to how she used to dress".Her parents, Iftikhar Ahmed, 52, and Farzana Ahmed, 49, from Warrington, are charged with murder, which they deny. Their 17-year-old daughter's badly decomposed remains were discovered in February 2004 near a flooded river in Cumbria.The court heard Shafilea drank bleach during a family trip to Pakistan in February 2003 after her mother told her she would not be returning to the UK. Alesha told the jury that when she asked her sister why she had drunk the bleach, "she said, what else was she supposed to do". Her mother became angry with her sister, she said, and told Shafilea "she'd made a scene" and "brought shame" on them. She told Shafilea to tell people it had been a mistake and that she had meant to drink mouthwash."My mum made a remark to Shafilea, which I think was what triggered her into drinking bleach," Alesha said. "She told Shafilea she would be staying in Pakistan and wouldn't be going back.""Shafilea went to the bathroom. Everyone just heard her screaming and shouting. We all went outside and she was holding her stomach." As people sought medical help, according to Alesha, her mother said she was OK "when she clearly was not".Earlier during the trip, Shafilea had argued with her mother as an aunt had caught her outside the house at a shop without a shawl covering her. "Mum got really furious saying a lot of people would be talking about her," Alesha said. "They started arguing and there was a lot of shouting in the room. My sister came out of the room holding her arm and she had treatment. It was sprained badly."In evidence, Alesha said her sister received marriage proposals while in Pakistan, but this was usual for British girls. She had been shown photographs of potential suitors with oiled hair and moustaches but "she was just not interested at all" in the proposals, she said, and she did not know the men.Alesha told the court that when Shafilea came home from Pakistan, she was in hospital in Warrington for three months, weighed five stone (31kg), and was struggling to gain weight. Eventually she was able to put on about half a stone.She said that when three of Shafilea's friends called to see her at the house, "My mother answered the door and said she wasn't at home, but she was upstairs in her bedroom." The friends knocked on the door again as they had seen Shafilea arrive in the house, Alesha said, and her mother called Shafilea downstairs and told her – in Urdu – that she must tell them she did not wish to speak to them.The prosecution barrister, Andrew Edis QC, asked her what Shafilea did. "She did what my mum asked her to do," Alesha replied. She said her parents also told Shafilea that she must not return to Great Sankey high school and shortly before her death she became more compliant with their wishes and enrolled at a sixth-form college. Alesha said she wanted to be a lawyer.Edis had previously told the jury that Alesha saw her parents suffocate her sister at the family home. He said: "Both parents acting together got a carrier bag that they forced into her mouth. Their hands were over her face, closing her airways so she couldn't breathe." Later, she is said to have seen her father carrying a large object wrapped in binbags and tape – that she assumed was her sister.The hearing was adjourned as Alesha Ahmed complained of feeling sick and dizzy. The trial continues.