Arrested for being a public nuisance outside a takeaway shop, the 15-year-old blamed her behaviour – screaming and bashing the counter – on the systemic abuse she had suffered at the hands of two men inside. During six hours of videotaped testimony she went on to say how she'd been lured in by the men with gifts – drinks and a phone card or maybe something to eat – and made to feel "pretty" before eventually being asked to "pay for" the vodka with sex. She even handed over underwear spotted with the 59-year-old accused's DNA.Nine months later, in August 2009, the Crown Prosecution Service decided not to charge the two men as the girl would make an "unreliable witness" and the lawyer doubted any jury would believe her.So far, so typical. Of the 17,000 reported cases of sexual offences involving children under 16 just 4,000 went to trial last year, according to the CPS. That's just under a quarter of all reported cases. And according to NSPCC research, a third (34%) of children who are sexually abused do not tell anyone at all about it, let alone report it to the police. Yet the case of the teenager and the takeaway shop bucked the statistical trend this week when the girl's evidence formed a central part of the case against a gang of nine men, who were each sentenced to between four and 19 years after being found guilty of 25 child sex offences, including rape and trafficking.In the reporting of the Rochdale "grooming trial" much has been made of the fact that the men were largely Pakistani while the 47 victims – although only seven gave evidence – were all white and working class. The victims were aged between 13 and 15 at the time of the abuse, and police described them as being from "chaotic" and "council estate" backgrounds.Not so much has been made of why the young girl's allegations weren't believed in the first place. Nor how the reporting of this case could lead to a similar kind of stereotype and myth around sexual violence.By focusing on the race element of this crime – something stirred up by the outrageous behaviour of the English Defence League and BNP outside the Liverpool courtroom – it is easy to lose sight of the fact that this is a broad narrative of abuse and is not unique to one community. Marai Larasi, a director of Imkaan and co-chair of the End Violence Against Women Coalition, warns: "An excessive focus on some cases of sexual exploitation with a primary focus on ethnicity rather than the exploitation itself is misleading and fuels racist attitudes which ultimately won't help women and girls."Nazir Afzal, the newly appointed chief crown prosecutor for the North West, who was responsible for bringing the perpetrators to trial, today told the Guardian: "It wasn't their race which defined them, it was their treatment of women." Before adding: "There is no community where women and girls are not vulnerable to sexual attack and that's a fact."In one of his first decisions when appointed to the job a year ago, Afzal, who has pioneered work to tackle honour-based violence and forced marriage as well as violence against women more broadly, reopened the case after watching the testimony. It is rare for the CPS to reverse a decision, and is only done if the senior prosecutor believes it to be wrong and necessary "in order to maintain public confidence".What made Afzal believe the witness when his predecessors – at one point in the video testimony, a police officer is reported to be yawning – did not? He credits a "better understanding of sexual offences full stop over the last few years"."There were a lot of myths and stereotypes surrounding sexual assault so to be a victim you have to be beaten up or a total innocent. But not everybody comes out of a nunnery. These girls lived troubled lives but just because somebody has a troubled background doesn't mean she is not telling the truth."The fact that it takes a senior member of the CPS to say such a thing is perhaps telling. Afzal, who is of Pakistani origin, has talked of being bullied, racially abused and then attacked when he was at university. "Those first two decades of my life, the way I'd been brought up was: 'Don't bother telling the police. There's no point.'"Yet the failures in Rochdale are not just about one decision taken by a CPS lawyer, which is now subject to an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission, nor the fact that they appear to have been subsequently made good by another.Larasi at Imkaan says there may be "issues of ethnicity" but only in helping public authorities recognise and deal with predatory behaviour. There is evidence that communities with strong male bonds can lead to a culture of silence – look at the priesthood as an example and not just at a subset of Pakistani society. But it remains to be said that, while there might be a higher incidence of on-street grooming among some "Asian" men, most sexual offences are carried out by white men acting alone, according to the CPS.Agencies working with victims of sexual violence – such as Imkaan and the CPS – believe that much of the work to be done is about busting stereotypes and raising awareness about such abuse. "The focal point of this should be the fact that vulnerable young people are being targeted," says Larasi. Prosecuting, Rachel Smith QC, described the victims to the jury as "the sort of children who were easy to identify, target and exploit for the sexual gratification of these men".So rather than being preyed on because they are white, these girls were victims because they were seen as weak and vulnerable – in other words similar to most victims of predatory sexual violence. Detective Chief Superintendent Mary Doyle of Greater Manchester Police has said: "There is no evidence that they were targeted because they were white. They were targeted because they were there."An investigation by the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre found that a third (35%) of the child victims of street-grooming last year were in care when they were abused.So what can we do to prevent such abuses taking place? The head of the CPS in London, Alison Saunders, suggested that public perceptions themselves were to blame for the failure to secure more convictions of suspected rapists such as the "demonisation" of women who drink, for example, or those who had previously had a relationship with the accused. CPS lawyers decide to prosecute such cases only if they believe they will pass muster with juries. "You can see how some members of the jury can come along with preconceived ideas. They might still subscribe to the myths and stereotypes that we have all had a go at busting," says Saunders, who has introduced training for officers to counteract these stereotypes as well as to identify the vulnerable and those likely to prey on them.Larasi at Imkaan has called for an inter-agency response where all public sector agencies – from the schools who spot absenteeism to the police and social services – should coordinate responses and share information about vulnerable people. "There are clear gaps in the way we are dealing with the issues. We need stronger responses in order to make sure girls receive the protection and support they need at critical points and to prevent these crimes from happening in the first place."Afzal has not shied away from the fact that Asian men are disproportionately responsible for on-street grooming. Previously vilified for his role in highlighting female genital mutilation, for example, he calls different cultural habits "the elephant in the room". But in most cases of sexual assault, including the Rochdale grooming offences, men prey on girls because "they were perceived to be unwanted, unloved, they were on the streets late and nobody seemed to care". Again underlying the fact that, as with most cases of rape or sexual assault, it is the powerful preying on the weak rather than for the colour of their skin.He also believes that more discussion about sexual assault and understanding for the victims will lead to a greater conviction rate, and encourage more women and children to come forward. "Sexual assault is the great silent crime of our time and the silence makes it invidious. It's the kind of crime that prefers darkness and we need to shine a light on it, and for that we all share a responsibilty. Every community worker, professional and neighbour has a duty not to stay silent."• This article was amended on 11 May 2012. The original described Alison Saunders as the head of the CPS. She is the chief crown prosecutor for London.