Official responses to the recent well-publicised car-jackings speak volumes about who and what this society is prepared to protect. Scotland Yard has now been given the go ahead to deploy 11 "elite armed response vehicles", manned by marksmen wearing protective clothing and armed with rifles and handguns.This, apparently, is "a proportional level" of force against the threat of car-jacking. By contrast, the huge number of muggings currently carried out against 14-to 16-year-olds are not even recorded in the violent crime statistics and, until very recently, had barely registered on the political radar.Recent reports of car-jacking are horrific, but it is impossible not to conclude that property theft and threat to middle-class people is taken much more seriously than attacks on those with less status. Currently there are only 1,200 car-jackings a year in London. By contrast there are over 200,000 violent muggings, most involving teenage victims. But until his recent call for tougher sentencing of mobile phone muggers, the home secretary seemed more concerned to deny this violent crime is increasing, exploiting the exclusion of under-16s from these statistics even though a quarter of all mugging victims are boys between 14 and 17. Trivialising muggings of teenagers is widespread. Police say mobile phone theft is the modern day equivalent of pocket money theft. Others describe teen-on-teen crime as a rite de passage. I've even heard someone describe teenagers from wealthier backgrounds as fair game, a walking "resource". Tell that to the kids involved. I live in a crime hot spot - Lambeth in London - and while I wouldn't go as far as to say mugging is a daily occurrence, it is an uncomfortably frequent part of my teenage children's universe. Every local teenager has had bikes, money and mobile phones stolen, sometimes just with threats, sometimes with knives and violence. On one occasion, my son had his face badly bruised. Teenagers won't report these incidents, even though they are often shaken, physically hurt and thoroughly humiliated. They regard the police as useless and on the evidence of the occasions I have dealt with them over such crimes, they are right. One helpfully told me: "We've lost the plot in this area". For most politicians, figures about street robberies involving teenagers are statistical abstractions. Solu tions are equally lacking in empathy. It's a matter of improving phone design, or handing out exemplary sentences to regular offenders. Blunkett's stupidest idea has been to transfer police from traffic infringements to street patrolling. Stupid because it so happens teenagers are the main victims of dangerous driving accidents - and deceitful. In my hot spot, there's been no trace of increased police activity. Anyway, police numbers and length of sentences don't address the cause. The soaring muggings rate is being driven by teenagers attacking other teenagers, rather than being the effect of criminal gangs. The real change is in "offender behaviour". Certainly, there are teenage muggers profiting from organised crime but there is also far more opportunistic crime, bullying that shades into theft and violence. My daughter was with friends chatting for some time to another group before having her phone forced off her, fortunately without violence. But this opportunism can be lethal if weapons or extreme violence are used. Inner city teenagers are living in a complex and volatile world where psychological issues of race, sexual identity and physical dominance are critical in how chance encounters turn out. Mood, and mood affected by drugs, also play a part. There is no hard and fast line between criminals and victims. They often come from the same area, inhabit the same world, may even have started out at the same primary school. There are similarities with age-old bullying, but now there is more danger, more deliberate humiliation. Classically, an older group of boys picks on a younger one, often of a different race. It's a world where might is right and gang culture reluctantly admired. Police do nothing. Kids keep on the right side of friends who know the "bad guys" and admire parents who threaten back. Few schools seem remotely up to speed on these issues, still pushing soft and outmoded anti-bullying programmes. This is a very different teenage world from the one shown on Pop Idol. No wonder middle-class parents went so mad about that show. It was the teenage world they wanted to see, not exactly unrealistic but very partial. These kids are the products of music lessons, drama clubs, of aspiring parents cultivating talent and ambition. In Pop Idol, peer group rivalry is sublimated to mutual solidarity. It's an idealised world. The reality is so much more complex, a world where teenagers have their freedoms curtailed by threats and their confidence undermined by violence. Few in power are even describing this world, let alone producing solutions. This is a worrying situation. What will this teenage generation think of politicians who send in armoured teams to defend a Mercedes but who do nothing to make their streets safe? comment@theguardian.com