Traditional cheque and credit card fraud is firmly in decline while there has been a sharp rise in the fradulent use of card details and counterfeit cards, according to the official crime figures published yesterday. Plastic card fraud overall rose in value by 30% between 2000 and 2001 to an estimated total of £411m. But within this the more traditional method of simply using a lost or stolen card has fallen sharply from 50% of all card fraud to just over a quarter. It has been replaced by the use of the card details without having to use the card itself and by the illegal production of counterfeit cash and credit cards. Outright identity theft - opening an account with a false identity or taking over an existing account - is still relatively a minority criminal occupation, accounting for only £12m worth of fraud in 2001. The major types of fraud identified in the Home Office statistics published yesterday are customs and excise fraud, - mainly avoiding VAT, and tobacco and alcohol smuggling - which is estimated to be worth between £6.4bn and £7.3bn a year. Social security fraud is estimated at £2bn a year but the level of fraud involving jobseeker's allowance and income support is believed to be falling. In the private sector it is estimated that the level of false insurance claims has broken the £1bn mark for personal general insurance alone. Most of this is false claims on motor insurance. As far as City crime is concerned, the total value of cases investigated by the serious fraud office has risen by a quarter, from £1.38bn in 1999-00 to £1.75bn in 2001-02. This is despite the total number of cases dropping from 81 to 75. For all fraud cases, about 70% of the 22,000 prosecuted in 2001 resulted in a conviciton, although this falls to a rate of only 40% in the more complex cases involving conspiracy charges. The most common sentence is a community punishment. In July last year, the law commission recommended that a single offence be created for fraud, something presently being considered by the Home Office.