A top City lawyer was jailed for eight years yesterday for stealing £5.8m from clients' accounts to fund a "life of opulence".The sums plundered by Michael Fielding, 59, a partner in the London law firm Lawrence Graham, had been almost beyond comprehension, Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC said at Southwark crown court in London. "Put simply, of its type this case could hardly be more serious ... It is off the financial scale," he said.The court heard Fielding had used his "immense intellectual capacity" to hoodwink clients, and on one day alone had stolen £1.1m from a client account, using his position as a partner to get colleagues to countersign necessary authorities.Fielding had used the money to clear a series of debts and buy a home in Regent's Park, London, and a hideaway in southern California. It was only when one of his victims realised what was happening and wrote to complain that Fielding stopped. He intercepted the client's letter and left it, with a letter of farewell, on his boss's chair.Police tracked him and his wife to America but it was only as the threat of extradition drew nearer that he agreed to return to Britain. Fielding pleaded guilty to 24 counts of theft between March 1998 and May 2001. He also asked for 89 similar offences to be taken into consideration.The court heard he had graduated with a first-class honours law degree and passed his solicitors' exams "with flying colours". After starting his own law firm, he joined a property company called Minerva. Fielding had hoped its flotation would result in a multimillion-pound pay packet and prove his salvation from spiralling money problems, said Edmund Lawson QC, defending. Instead, he got into an "awful financial pickle".Helen Malcolm, prosecuting, said Fielding's thefts began shortly after he joined Lawrence Graham in 1996. The most audacious came on a single day in June 1999 and was made up of a series of dishonest transactions totalling £1.1m, the largest for £821,000. But it was three years before a large firm in Chicago blew the whistle.Fielding began his confession to his boss: "I cannot tell you how grieved I am to have to report to you on a painful subject which will cause you and your partners trouble, shame, and the greatest possible anxiety." He continued: "There is no way I can adequately convey to you my deep sorrow for what has occurred and the distress it has caused ... I simply cannot face the shame of all this, nor indeed the pressures this will immediately cause."Ms Malcolm said the ensuing investigation had proved "tremendously complicated." She conceded that the defendant, who now faced a £20m bankruptcy order in the United States, "must have had an immense intellectual capacity" to constantly carry the many figures involved in his head. Once interest had been taken into account, the total loss was in excess of £6.4m.However, the judge said that whatever the motive for Fielding's crimes, they were not "merely simple thefts". His partners had had to pay out more than £1.2m because of his crimes.