A new crackdown on film and CD piracy was launched by the government yesterday, amid fears that organised criminals and even terrorists are cornering the £500m market in fake DVDs. Estelle Morris, the arts minister, and Lord Sainsbury, the science minister, will jointly chair a new creative industries forum on intellectual property which will have two core aims: educating the general public about the creative input that goes into CDs, DVDs and videos so that people understand how wrong it is to buy pirated material, and examining fresh ways of cracking down on pirates. In a sign of the government's commitment to protecting the creative industry's £54.8bn contribution to the British economy, eight ministers from the Westminster and devolved administrations will sit on the forum. The 25-member body will also feature industry figures, including Lavinia Carey of Video/Audio Visual, John Higgins of Intellect UK and John Woodward of the UK Film Council. Ms Morris said: "A vibrant, diverse creative sector is important to the UK both culturally and economically. Intellectual property rights have always been at the heart of our creative industries - by encouraging and rewarding cre ativity. We've listened to the concerns of our creative industries and know that these issues matter, which is why we are joining together to work on a way forward." Lord Sainsbury said: "Creative industries play a vital role in the UK's economy and competitiveness and are instrumental in developing and fully utilising innovative new technologies. It is vital that both government and industry work together to support this key sector and find ways to maximize the benefit from appropriate intellectual property right protection." The forum comes amid fears that the £500m market in DVD piracy could double to £1bn within three years. Interpol says that 1kg of pirated discs is now worth more than 1kg of cannabis resin to criminal and terrorist groups as the risks are so much lower. A spokesman for the Industry Trust for Intellectual Property Awareness said that it was crucial to educate people about where the profits go. "We want to shatter the illusion of DVD pirates as harmless 'Del Boy' characters," a spokesman said as the industry launched a £1.5m advertising campaign. Police and trading standards groups have had some success. Seizures in the first half of 2004 were more than double those in the same period last year, and up fourfold on 2002.