She took, she said, "great pride in her work". She was "excited" to be part of a "lovely team". But on Tuesday, as Hollie Gazzard finished her shift in the hair salon she worked in, a young man stuck a blade in her flesh and stabbed her to death. Colleagues screamed as they watched her fall. Paramedics tried, but they couldn't save her. People passing stared, as they always stare when tragedies unfold in front of their eyes. When there's screaming, and crying, and blood flowing as a life ebbs away, it's hard not to. But some of them didn't just stare. They whipped out their phones and videoed it.For the parents whose "brightest star" had gone out, perhaps it's some tiny consolation that the footage doesn't seem to be on YouTube. Perhaps it isn't there because police "urged" members of the public not to post it. "I am sure," said the chief inspector on the scene, "nobody related to the woman who died wants to see it on social media."You might think people would guess that those whose hearts have been broken might not want their daughter's last moments to become an online hit. But actually, it looks as though they didn't. It looks, for instance, as though the people who watched a young soldier in Woolwich have his neck hacked into thought the best way to respond was to create a YouTube sensation."Uncensored video of Woolwich mujahideen" has had more than 69,000 hits. "Raw footage of Woolwich attack" has had more than 460,000. That's even more than "British soldier hacked to death". It's also more than "Sleeping dancing kittens".It's hardly news that people like a bloody thrill. Romans queued to watch wild animals tear prisoners into chunks. Elizabethans thought a public hanging was a good way to follow a Sunday stroll. But in most places, at most times, watching people die has been something for a special occasion. It hasn't been an opportunity to increase your Twitter following, or get Facebook likes. It hasn't been something to flick to as a break from email.We nearly all spend big chunks of our lives online. Eight- to 18-year-olds, according to a report by the Kaiser Family Foundation, are now spending nearly eight hours a day using media, and are so good at multitasking that they're packing them with nearly 11 hours of "content".There are advantages to this, of course. Young brains are receptive, and if you're really good at flicking between windows, you could probably learn a few languages while Snapchatting to your mates. But you probably don't; The trouble is, you probably spend quite a lot of time posting stuff that's all about you.If you post a picture of you – with your mates, or in your new outfit looking hot – it is, pretty clearly, all about you. But if you post footage of breakdancing kittens, it might well be too. Yes, the kittens are cute, but look at me – I'm funny, and ironic, and cool! And if you post footage of a soldier being cut down in the street? It could be about the soldier, but it could also not. It could be: God, this is awful, and I got there first.Young people, according to a new book called The App Generation by Harvard psychologist Howard Gardner and digital media expert Katie Davis, spend 80% of their time on social media talking about themselves. Eighty percent is quite a lot. If it's 80%, you've got to call it narcissism. If it's 80%, it's narcissism on a sociopathic scale.Sociopaths aren't great at putting themselves in other people's shoes. Or, if they are, they'd rather not. Most people aren't sociopaths, but the ability of young people to empathise, according to recent research, might not be quite as well developed as their ability to post selfies on Instagram. The American psychologist Sara Konrath has collated evidence from 72 studies which seems to show that empathy levels among American college students are 40% lower than they were 20 years ago. In the last 10 years, she says, there has been an especially sharp drop.It isn't yet clear whether a digital diet is what has caused this decline. It also isn't clear whether the decline is matched by one in the UK. But there's quite a lot of evidence to show that, as people spend more time watching flickering images online, they read books and stories about other people's lives less. This isn't just bad for the people who write them. It's also bad for us. A recent study by psychologists at the New York School of Social Research showed that reading literary fiction helped people understand others better. It does this because, in the words of the writer Elizabeth Strout in her novel The Burgess Boys (the best I read last year), it's the imagination that enables you to "fall feet first into the pocket of someone else's world".It's already hard to imagine a world where we didn't have a whole universe at the click of a mouse. Most of us wouldn't want to, even if we could. What larks, as Great Expectations' Pip might have said, to be alive in this revolution. It's on. It's here. It's not going to be switched off.But where there are gains there are also losses. Let's do what we can to limit those losses. We could start by teaching children that when you see a girl bleeding to death at the end of her shift, what you do isn't grab a tiny screen and point and click. What you do, if you've done what you can to get her help, is go somewhere quiet and cry.• This article was amended on 25 February 2014. An earlier version said a report by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that eight- to 18-year-olds were spending nearly eight hours a day online. In fact the report found that they were spending that time using media, which included watching television and movies, listening to music, playing video games and reading printed matter.