A man who murdered three teenagers in the 1990s has admitted earlier killing a 14-year-old boy but denied murder, claiming diminished responsibility for his actions, a jury has been told.Steven Grieveson, 42, confessed to police nearly 22 years after the death of Simon Martin in a derelict house in Sunderland, according to the prosecutor outlining the case against him at Newcastle crown court.The death "had haunted [him] for 20 years" and led to the killer self-harming and being "driven crazy", detectives were told by Grieveson, who was convicted in 1996 of murdering Thomas Kelly, 18, and 15-year-olds David Hanson and David Grieff in 1993 and 1994. They had been strangled and their bodies burned.While confessing to Simon Martin's killing in January last year, Grieveson – who was 19 at the time of the crime – told police he was a glue-sniffer and afraid of people finding out he was bisexual, said William Lowe QC, prosecuting. The teenagers had been playing football together and had then gone to a house in the Roker area where they had "performed a sex act", Grieveson had told police."After I was finished I got scared, I started shouting at him not to tell anyone. I just flipped for a minute and I started strangling him. I didn't let go and the next thing he was on the bed. I think there was a rock or something and I smashed his head in."Grieveson had then taken and binned the victim's clothes and thrown his footwear into the sea. "He was saying he wouldn't tell, but for some reason I didn't believe him," Grieveson later told police."It has driven me crazy and I need to give the family peace of mind, myself as well. I cannot move forward unless this is said," the court was told.Prosecuting barrister Lowe added: "For whatever reason he strangled with his bare hands and with a ligature this 14-year-old boy and then smashed his skull. We said he did that with an intention to kill and that he is guilty of murder." The violence Grieveson used on the boy and his three later victims may have been to keep them quiet after sex or to force them into engaging in sexual acts, the court heard.Simon Martin's family raised the alarm after he did not return home from playing with friends, and relatives could not find him. His body was discovered eight days later by two boys playing in the derelict house.The teenager, who had suffered a serious head injury, was naked from the waist down on a mattress and blood was spattered on walls. Semen found on the boy's body was linked to Grieveson by DNA testing 10 years later.Lowe said that those defending Grieveson would call expert witnesses to give evidence saying that he was unable to exercise self-control because of "an abnormality of mind", but the prosecution would not accept that. "He chose to kill him and he is guilty of murder and nothing else."Other teenagers have since claimed to have been sexually abused by Grieveson, the jury was told. The case continues. 