Can we prevent violent crime by intervening in children's brains with drugs and behavioural training programmes?Listening to Joshua Rozenberg's recent Radio 4 documentary The Criminal Mind, you could have been forgiven for thinking that it's not only easy but a moral imperative.The "unprovoked attacks" that the programme focused on were said to be the result of what Rozenberg called "criminal brains", the solution being to fix those brains. One might think that memories of lobotomies would set Clockwork Orange-shaped alarms ringing. The nice soft-voiced scientists and doctors were telling us that these children's brains are defective, it's not their fault, but the result of abuse and neglect, and so maybe they are not culpable for their crimes. In impeccable liberal style, we were told that money should be spent on early interventions rather than the criminal justice system. What could possibly be wrong with that?The problem lies in the typical simple-mindedness of scientists who think that we can solve complex social problems through biological interventions. It was no accident that there was not a single account from a child of what was happening in their minds in the programme.The cardinal defect of reductionist explanations of crime is the way they locate the problem in the individual, rather than society, and thereby necessarily stigmatise that individual. If you take a naughty five-year-old and give him drugs and behavioural training on the basis that he is likely to grow up into a criminal, that child is bound to be stigmatised by his peers and picked on even more.The medical approach insists on drawing a clear line between what is "normal" and what is not. But any grown-up knows this is fiction. Abuse, brain pathology and challenging behaviour all come on a continuous spectrum, but nursery workers and social workers will be asked to identify those who are "abnormal".We already know from experience of the mental health system that unconscious racism and class bias will enter into these judgments, resulting in overdiagnosis of black and working class children as abnormal. It will never work if, after treatment, the children are dumped back into dysfunctional families and hostile streets.There is a long history of disastrous attempts to apply technical fixes to problems whose real causes are social and environmental.The real social causes of crime need to be addressed - poverty, oppression and destruction of community.That does not mean that, as one scientist suggested, the only alternative is to "do nothing" and let more people be killed by violent youths. The programme also revealed that simply giving offenders vitamins and other dietary supplements cut their rate of offending by 26%. The key point is that we need to make sure that all children get the adequate diet, not to target "high-risk individuals". And we need to do that because it is a child's right, not because we are trying to reduce crime.We need to make sure that all children can access high quality childcare and we need to tackle the real roots of crime, as Tony Blair promised us, so long ago. Just because scientists can tell us a part of how the problem works, we must not jump to embrace their seductive but simplistic solutions.• Dr David King, a former molecular biologist, is the director of Human Genetics Alert