Thirteen people have been arrested across south London amid "rising tensions" after the Oxford Street stabbing of 18-year-old Seydou Diarrassouba on Boxing Day.In co-ordinated raids, Metropolitan police detectives targeted addresses in Merton, Wandsworth, Southwark and Westminster after monitoring social networking sites after the death during a confrontation in a Foot Locker store.Diarrassouba, from Mitcham, whose street name was "Nutz", died from a single stab wound to the heart after collapsing on the street near Bond Street underground station in front of horrified shoppers at 1.45pm. Police are investigating whether the incident was gang-related.Several weapons, including a 7.5cm lock knife, were recovered nearby. Eleven people, aged between 16 and 22, were arrested at the scene and later bailed pending further investigations.Scotland Yard said the 13 people arrested during Friday's raids were for offences including grievous bodily harm, robbery, affray, intent to supply drugs, burglary, forgery and handling stolen goods. A large amount of cash was also seized. Those arrested remain in custody at various London police stations.Diarrassouba's family issued a statement through police appealing for witnesses. It said: "Our loving son and brother has been snatched away from us. A simple shopping trip has turned into a complete nightmare for our whole family."We are urging anyone who was in Oxford Street at the time of the incident to come forward with any evidence, no matter how little relevance they think it could have , to help the police with their ongoing investigation. This is a very difficult time for our family and we would really appreciate to be given the chance to grieve privately and honour his memory."Whoever took his life away took our backbone away. Seydou kept us upright and now we feel weak as we have lost a very special part of us."Life seems meaningless without our special son and brother. All we can say is 'Why'? He had so much consideration for others. We want Seydou to be remembered as the loving, down to earth, respectful and charismatic young man he was."Commander Mak Chishty of the Met said: "We were aware of rising tensions in the wake of the murder and having monitored the situation closely, including various comments that have been made on social networking sites, we felt it vital we take robust and prompt action in order to pre-empt any potential future violence."This is just one of a series of measures we are carrying out in order to enhance the safety of the public and visitors to London, especially with New Year's Eve pending.""We will continue to aggressively pursue any lawful opportunities against those who choose to become involved in violent crime and thus protect potential future victims, in line with the commissioner's pledge on Total Policing".Diarrassouba, whose family are from Ivory Coast, was due to stand trial at Inner London crown court in the new year accused of assault and robbing a 16-year-old youth of his BlackBerry. He was the 15th teenager to be murdered in London this year.