An independent investigation was begun last night when a man was shot dead after repeatedly opening fire on police, and gunfire was exchanged with officers across an exclusive west London square.Scotland Yard said officers were shot at three times and returned fire each time at a man who was in a flat in Markham Square in Chelsea, just off Kings Road.The man was pronounced dead shortly after he opened fire for the third time. Scotland Yard confirmed that armed officers from the CO19 unit had returned fire. They finally stormed the property after apparently using stun grenades. Eyewitnesses reported seeing green flashes and hearing several loud bangs before the police carried out their raid. The man is thought to be the first person shot dead by Met officers since Jean Charles de Menezes, killed in July 2005 at Stockwell tube station after being mistaken for a terrorist suspect. It is understood that the man last night was killed by an officer, and did not shoot himself; police sources said last night they were confident the investigation would find he had been killed lawfully.A spokesman for the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said: "The commission will independently investigate the fatal shooting of a man in the Kings Road area of Chelsea tonight."At 9.50pm the Metropolitan Police Service referred the incident to the IPCC. IPCC investigators are going to the scene to start the inquiry."Officers were called to the property shortly before 5pm after a man reportedly began shooting from the rear of a house in Markham Square. They were shot at and returned fire. A police negotiator arrived at the scene, but shots were again heard at 9pm, and then at 9.30pm, shortly after which the man was fatally injured. He had not been named last night.The armed officers had been patrolling London in an armed response vehicle, which has special permission to carry arms and is designed to respond to rapidly emerging firearms situations.One woman, who declined to be named, said the gunman had begun shooting from the rear of a house in Markham Square in the direction of her own property, in the adjoining Bywater Street, with a shotgun. The two houses' gardens back onto each other.She said the man began shooting at random into her house from a second-floor flat, without opening his window.He fired into one of her second floor bedrooms, sending shot spraying over pictures in the room and breaking the window.She was outside with a friend, heard gunshots, and went upstairs to see him re-loading the gun.The woman, who was not named, said: "It's just very strange. I think it's going to hit me tomorrow, I don't know why someone was shooting at my house."I have no idea who he is, I've never seen him in my life."The woman described the gunman as white and in his mid-20s. But she said she had no idea who he was or why he was firing. "I had been sitting outside with a friend five minutes before. At first I thought they were firecrackers, or that he was shooting at a cat or something in a tree; but then I saw the shotgun."Police cordoned off 200m of the exclusive area and told residents and workers in shops and restaurants nearby to stay indoors.A woman who lives next door to the house where the gunman was, said she had heard a total of six shots. "I was making dinner for my two children just before 5pm when I heard shots. I heard three shots before the police arrived, then I heard three more after the police came."Earlier, Linda Logan, 45, who was visiting friends, described how she could see armed police training weapons on a house in the square from where she was, three doors up from where the stand-off was happening. She said: "It's shocking. I can see three police gunmen crouching outside my window, watching and aiming at a house further along."Earlier in the afternoon we heard a little cracking noise, which sounded like a builder had thrown a piece of concrete out of a window. We didn't take much notice at the time, but then about 15 minutes later there was another cracking noise and then a short succession of more cracks. We still didn't realise they were gunshots."Then we looked out of the window and saw that Kings Road had been shut off and there were armed policemen running past the house. "