Two men who spent 18 years in prison for the murder of the newspaper boy Carl Bridgewater will go to the Lords today to fight the deduction of their jail "board and lodging" costs from their compensation for their wrongful convictions. Vincent and Michael Hickey, who are cousins, were told that 25% of the compensation they received for loss of earnings while behind bars would be taken off in view of their "saved living expenses" over the 18 years.Their case is thought to be the first of its kind and is expected to lay down important guidance on how awards for miscarriages of justice should be worked out.The men argue that Lord Brennan, appointed to decide compensation awards, should not have made the cut. The deductions were £51,036 for Vincent and £46,215 for Michael. The pair won their case in the high court but the appeal court backed the assessor. Their lawyers say they should not have to pay for accommodation in a cell where they were wrongly detained. The pair were also abused by inmates who thought them child killers. The clawback, the cousins say, is in effect rewarding the state for its own wrong.Their solicitor, Susie Labinjoh, of the London law firm Hodge Jones & Allen, said: "If somebody was in a traffic accident and [then] hospital for three months, and the defendant turned round and said 'Oh, well, you've saved money by not spending money on food whilst you're in hospital', I think most people would be appalled. It's actually worse, because people spat in their food and put glass in their food."The cousins and their co-accused, James Robinson and Patrick Molloy, were convicted in 1979 of shooting 13-year-old Carl during a burglary at Yew Tree Farm, Wordsley, West Midlands. Mr Molloy died in prison in 1981. Appeals by the surviving three were rejected in 1989 but their convictions were quashed eight years later when evidence came to light that West Midlands police had forged a confession.In 2003 Michael Hickey was awarded £990,000 compensation by the independent assessor for the wrongful conviction, and Vincent Hickey £506,220.The awards were made up mainly of a payout for non-monetary losses (such as loss of liberty, damage to reputation, injury to feelings, and any psychiatric illness suffered, plus an extra sum for any aggravating features), and for past and future loss of earnings.The Hickeys will ask the law lords to rule that their awards be consistent with the compensation paid to their co-accused, Mr Robinson, by Lord Brennan's predecessor, Sir David Calcutt. While Mr Robinson got £172,000 for aggravating features, Michael Hickey got only £35,000 and Vincent nothing. And despite a worse criminal record, Mr Robinson had only a 10% cut, based on his previous criminality.Michael Hickey, 45, has a serious psychiatric illness, and Vincent, 52, became a heroin user though he later shook off the addiction. Both men are still jobless.