The battle against car crime is being severely hampered by 'shambolic' national computer records which are hopelessly out of date and contain millions of 'phantom' vehicles.The Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency's national database in Swansea is so riddled with inaccuracies that it is unable to fulfill its role of maintaining the vital information kept on every British motorist. This week a report commissioned by the Department for Transport will condemn the database as 'inherently poor' and demand fundamental reform of the system. Researchers at the Jill Dando Institute of Crime Science of University College London found serious flaws with the DVLA database including:· the existence of records showing 10 million more vehicles than are actually on British roads; · half of official inquiries to the DVLA to trace the owners of uninsured vehicles resulting in 'out of date or wrong information'; · the key databases covering vehicles, insurance and MOT details were not connected to each other. Edmund King, executive director of the RAC Foundation, said: 'The research shows that the system is in a complete mess and the only people who benefit from this are dodgy dealers and the criminal underworld.' The Government is planning to force the buyer of a vehicle to re-licence it with the DVLA. The vendor of a car is currently obliged to notify the authorities of a change of ownership, but the buyer only has to give his details to the person who sold him the car. King said that the current system often led to delays in the DVLA being notified of the new owner - or receiving no new records at all. The inaccuracies could lead to the wrong people being arrested for a serious crime such as a hit-and-run killing. 'If you sell your car in part-exchange to the garage and it is then sold on but the DVLA is not told, the police could come looking for you if the car is then involved in a hit-and-run accident or crash, even though you sold it weeks ago,' he said. A Department for Transport spokesman said people often did not notify the DVLA after a vehicle had been scrapped or abandoned - a nuisance believed to account for many of the 10 million 'phantom' cars still on the database. While there are 37.5 million vehicles registered with the DVLA, there are only 28 million actually in use on Britain's roads. The report pointed out that up to 6 per cent of motorists - 1.5 million - are not insured, which typically costs the majority of honest motorists an extra £30 on their premiums. And 4 per cent of drivers fail to buy a tax disc, depriving the Treasury of £185m a year. 'There are a number of loopholes in the system, which are easily exploited,' the report said. It also highlights two problems for the future. A European law introduced last month will phase in a system to regulate the disposal of vehicles 'at the end of their life', with a compulsory scrapping charge of £100 payable by the last owner. The report said 1.8m vehicles are written off or wear out completely each year. But of these, 350,000 are simply dumped on the streets costing local authorities millions of pounds to remove.