It was Andrew Jones's 19th birthday and, as ever, his home in Walton, Liverpool, was packed with friends and relatives. A likeable, popular lad, always surrounded by people, he had recently passed his forklift-truck test at the firm where he was an apprentice. It was standing room only in the front parlour but no one was celebrating. His friends and family had planned to take him out on the town, but instead they were there to say goodbye.Andrew was dead, his body only released the day before so he could come home before his funeral. He had been murdered on March 9 2003, but to date, no one has been convicted of the crime. Andrew had been out with his friends, minding his own business when he had the misfortune to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Like many other young men in city centres late at night, Andrew was attacked by a gang of thugs. His parents are still waiting for justice. "Andrew was just an ordinary working-class lad, so it doesn't frighten the police and Crown Prosecution Service that we are suggesting that this murder was not vigorously investigated or prosecuted," claims Andy Jones. He and his wife Christine believe their son's death was seen as nothing more than the result of a "scum on scum" killing. It was a Saturday night like any other in Liverpool city centre. Andrew was walking along Hanover Street at 3am, on his way to a nightclub. It was his cousin Lee's birthday, and 30 or so friends and relatives had been out celebrating. Somehow, the group split up, so Andrew and a friend, Daniel Starky, went looking for the others. They were approached by a gang of five youths and one accused Andrew of purposely banging into him. Andrew held out his hands to show that he meant no harm, and apologised, telling him, "I don't want to fight". Twenty witnesses confirm this. Out of nowhere, a fist smashed into Andrew's face, breaking his jaw and knocking him to the pavement so hard his skull broke. He died the following afternoon in hospital, having never regained consciousness. Starky was with Andrew when the gang approached, but walked on ahead as Andrew was marched back down the road. "One of the first things the police asked me was if Andrew had been fighting with anyone at the clubs that night and asked how much he had to drink," he says. This upsets Christine. "Of course he'd been drinking", she says, "he wasn't driving, he was out celebrating. Does that make him bad?" Many of the local press reports describe the attack as a "street brawl", something that troubles those who knew Andrew as a gentle individual who would always want to talk himself out of trouble rather than fight. "Incidents like this are so common," says a spokesperson for Support after Murder and Manslaughter (Samms) in Liverpool, which has 300 members, "and there are those who believe some lives are worth more than others." Like most of the witnesses, Starky says he did not see the actual attack. Simon Duncan, who led the case for the CPS, finds it odd that so many people happened to be looking away when the punch was thrown, and is convinced that friends and associates of the gang made inaccurate and misleading statements to the police. Even Starky made four contradictory statements pre-trial, then claimed in court he "could not remember much", which led to the case being thrown out. So who did throw the punch that killed Andrew? There are those who are willing to speak out. Ann and Simon Meadows (not their real names), from Wales on a night out in Liverpool, remember the events "as if it was yesterday." They witnessed the entire incident from a few feet away, and had a clear view of the killer's face. "I saw this lad being marched back down the road by a gang, one directly in front of him, shoving and shouting, and the others flanking him," Ann recalls. "Then this fist shot out and hit him full-on." Both Ann and Simon clearly recall the perpetrator. "Andrew was knocked out, and when he hit the pavement there was a really sickening sound of crunching bone." Ann, who is trained in first aid, tried to revive Andrew at the scene. "He was choking on his tongue. I was covered in his blood, and trying to wake him up, but it was clear he was dying." Two police officers who happened to be in the area grabbed one of the suspects as he was running away. Although the other officer had seen him kick Andrew while he was on the ground, he took his name and address and let him go. The suspect's friends insisted he had been merely "stepping over him". Christine and Andy Jones feel they cannot achieve closure, or even start to grieve, without those responsible behind put behind bars. "It's not about revenge, but justice," says Andy. "My son is reduced to ashes in a box, and those responsible are walking free." They are not the only ones to hold the view that the police sometimes prioritise certain murder investigations over others. MP Vera Baird has witnessed police reprioritisation of so-called "scum on scum" crime both in her Redcar constituency and in her practice as a criminal barrister. "Police often don't care enough about white, working-class communities. One senior officer recently told me that they do not consider it their job to police rundown areas." Baird has seen several cases like Andrew Jones's. "Police and CPS consider these cases as one up from a pub fight. If it were a gangland killing then it might be considered glamorous and would warrant serious attention. The general culture seems to be, though, that anyone who has been drinking and gets into a fight deserves all they get." Young men are often seen as complicit when hurt in a street attack, and Andrew's case was no different. When his body was released three weeks after he died, his parents were distressed that, in order to find evidence that Andrew had been fighting, the pathologist had cut into each of his knuckles. "The lad they eventually charged pleaded not guilty and denied being involved in the confrontation. Why were they trying to show it was self-defence?" asks Andy. The attack was witnessed by a couple in a parked car, but aside from appealing for them to come forward two days later the police made no further efforts to find them. Andy and Christine believe they could be crucial to the case. "All along we had to push the police into making further efforts to find witnesses" says Christine. "Mainly, we are the ones who have gone to the press to appeal for help from the public, because we are completely frustrated at the lack of progress." Merseyside police deny any complacency in looking for the witnesses. "We appealed in the local press for them to come forward, but got nowhere," says Keith Jones, the family liaison officer on the case. "We have made several press appeals since, asking for general information, but have received nothing new." The police did not erect a notice at the scene appealing for witnesses, claiming that they already had enough, leaving Andrew's parents to stick posters around Liverpool asking for information. The police said they had "enough witnesses", even though they admitted that some of their evidence was questionable. But Christine does not see how they could end up with only one of the gang in court. "If they had enough to go on, why was only one man charged and then acquitted due to lack of evidence?" Although police arrested four men days after the incident, only one was charged. He appeared in court charged with murder, which was reduced to manslaughter on the first day. The Crown's main evidence was that a friend of the accused who was at the scene made a statement to police saying that he had confessed to throwing the fatal punch. The CPS decided this was enough to proceed with, although the CCTV footage showed that the man running from the scene was wearing a short-sleeved shirt. The key witness was clear that the man who threw the punch was wearing a long-sleeved shirt. This was to prove crucial at the trial. There was other contradictory evidence, but the police are adamant they had the right man. "I am fairly confident we got it right," claims Detective Superintendent Russ Walsh, recently retired, who led the murder inquiry. "This was my only 'not guilty' in my service, and that hurt. But I have never, ever seen such a closing of ranks amongst those who were at the scene." The trial opened in October 2003 and lasted four days before the judge ordered an acquittal. Ann and Simon were originally primed to give evidence on behalf of the prosecution, but at the last minute were called to give evidence for the defence. "We were not happy with that, but we soon discovered why the prosecution couldn't use us," says Ann. "The man I saw walking out of court, cleared of the crime, was not the one who did it. It was not the one we had described to the police. I remember his face, his height, and could pick him out in a crowd." Duncan resolutely denies that more could have been done to achieve a conviction. "It was a weak case, and many prosecutors would not have taken it to trial, but I did." The Joneses wonder if the investigation would have been more enthusiastic had drugs and firearms been involved. On the first anniversary of Andrew's death, Merseyside police promised to step up the hunt for the killer. Nothing has happened since. The file was resubmitted to the CPS early this year on the strength of the statement from the Meadows, but it was decided not to proceed. Andrew's parents feel their lives are in limbo. "Our lovely, smiling boy is gone," says Christine. "His life was just beginning and he had great hopes for the future. It would seem that some people's lives are cheap."