Police forces massage their crime figures and detection rates to "put them in the best possible light", an official Home Office inspection report confirmed for the first time yesterday.The inquiry by the inspectorate of constabulary said that variations in police methods in recording crime meant the level should be 20% higher than the picture presented by the official figures published each year. The twice yearly British crime survey, which asks people about their experience of crime, has long demonstrated that the true level of crime in England and Wales is approximately 20m crimes a year, while the police record approximately 5m offences. The Home Office minister, Charles Clarke, has decided that, while the police figures will never reflect the actual amount of crime, it is time to try to bring greater accuracy and consistency to the way that the recorded rate is officially compiled. The recorded crime figures are crucial in the distribution of the £7bn a year police budget and in determining public attitudes to crime. Mr Clarke yesterday published proposals for an overhaul: "We've got 43 different forces doing different things according to different traditions, with different computer systems in quite different ways. "Some record on the basis of allegations made. Some record on the basis of requiring a certain degree of evidence. The level of comparability seems very poor across the country. It seems completely dotty, which is why we are setting about changing it." Studies by the police inspectorate published yesterday, alongside proposals to reform the way statistics were collected, also showed that some forces had been massaging their figures so they depressed the recorded crime rate in their area and raised their detection or clear-up rate. Offences were often wrongly classified as less serious crimes; there was inappropriate "no-criming" (or writing-off) of an offence after it had been recorded; and there was a failure to record the correct number of crimes, with an error rate of 15% to 65%. The study, On the Record, said that while some forces had been models of good practice, cases were found of crimes not being recorded when they had been reported to the police, delays in the recording of reported crimes until they were detected, and numerous problems with the classifying of crimes, such as car crime and house burglaries, for which there were national reduction targets. It also said there were clear cases where the quality of evidence used to justify a crime being marked down as "cleared up" was far less than the evidence which was needed to justify it being officially "recorded". The report by Keith Povey, one of the constabulary inspectors, said that a clear statement from chief constables was needed to leave officers in no doubt that the "unethical recording of crime is not supported by the force and is in direct contravention of standards set down by chief officers". Mr Clarke said the police should adopt a twin-track system to record crime: making a formal record of all incidents or allegations reported by victims; and recording all offences in which the police believed there was sufficient evidence to justify them being recorded as a crime.