Less than 24 hours after publication of the damning Lawrence inquiry report, the Metropolitan Police was subjected to renewed public humiliation yesterday when it emerged that vandals who defaced the murdered black teenager's memorial stone overnight may escape justice because a surveillance camera supposedly monitoring the site was actually a dummy. As politicians and church leaders condemned the daubing with white paint of the granite stone marking the spot in Eltham, south-east London, where Stephen died in April 1993, embarrassed senior police officers were forced to explain to his parents how a system of closed-circuit television cameras installed after previous attacks had been removed and replaced by the fake even though the site remained a potent target for racists. For Doreen and Neville Lawrence, who visited the site last night with the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, it was the latest insult to their son's memory by both the vandals and the police and vindication of their decision to bury Stephen in Jamaica. Imran Khan, the family's solicitor, said they had been "shocked, horrified and outraged" when he broke the news to them. "I explained that to Mrs Lawrence and her first words were: 'This is unbelievable that the police are compounding and not learning from the mistakes they have made in the past.'" After previous attacks on the memorial, police installed a series of covert cameras to protect the site. Last June, evidence from one of them led to the conviction and imprisonment of Stuart Hollingdale, a right-wing extremist, who had battered the stone at least 12 times with a hammer. But after three months the cameras were removed and replaced with the dummy. It was left to Detective Chief Superintendent Mike Parkes, of Scotland Yard's racial and violent crimes task force, set up in the wake of the Lawrence fiasco, to explain the latest embarrassment and to again offer the Met's sympathies to the family. "Only sick and racist people would do something like this in London," he said. "Unfortunately a decision was taken to take the camera out and deploy them elsewhere in London. We cannot anticipate every eventuality."  The vandalism was spotted around 9am yesterday by a passer-by who flagged down a police car. The bus stop 100 yards away, where the initial attack on Stephen took place, was also daubed in white paint, which the vandals carried in a dog food can. Both sites were cordoned off as officers began house-to-house inquiries in an attempt to find witnesses. But to local residents the police explanation and their hunt for the culprits rung hollow. "If they had worked this hard when the lad was murdered we might not have been in this situation now," said Albert Sharp, who lives nearby. "They made a mess of this at the start and they are still making a mess of it now." Local people are appalled by the outrage, which they believe is yet another slur on their neighbourhood's reputation. But there is also a sense of resignation that this is how life will be in Eltham. "I just thank God that the boy isn't buried around here," said another local woman, Yvonne, who declined to give her full name. "These people will never let him rest in peace." Last night the Home Secretary called for the incident to be seen as proof of the need to drive out racism. But if the mood around the memorial on Well Hall Road was of horror, there remained signs elsewhere in Eltham that this fundamental message has yet to penetrate. Along the busy High Street, many were unmoved by the vandalism. "What do you expect?" said one local man, who gave his name as Alan. "White people around here get all the abuse and they see the Lawrences and the blacks getting special treatment. They are angry because they know the treatment wouldn't be the same if it was a white kid who died." 