There was a chorus of press criticism last week about the conduct of the Milly Dowler murder trial following the conviction of Levi Bellfield.The Dowler family complained about their treatment at the hands of the police and the courts, and many papers weighed in behind them.Here is but a sample of the coverage:The Sun described the cross-examination of the Dowler family as "savage and humiliating.. their private lives were ripped to shreds in public by a monster's lawyer."A Daily Mirror columnist said "the justice system... subjected the Dowlers to relentless mental torture."The Daily Star said the Dowlers went to court to seek justice, "only to have Bellfield imply that Milly's death was their fault... that Milly might have run away or committed suicide because she was unhappy."Donal MacIntyre hit out in the Daily Express at "the degrading, intrusive and demeaning interrogation" of the Dowlers. The Daily Mail, in a comment headlined "The cruellest trial" thought the family had "paid an unforgivably heavy price" because the police had treated Milly's father as a suspect and then, during the trial, her father had been "deliberately humiliated, and falsely accused of having caused Milly to run away from home."The Mail on Sunday argued that Bellfield's QC, "having no proper evidence to offer... chose to attack Milly's parents" in "a distressing, pointless exhibition."Suzanne Moore, also in the Mail on Sunday, was outraged that Bellfield's counsel "tore Milly's family to shreds" and quoted the barrister's code to reinforce her view that his questioning was out of order.And Barbara Ellen in The Observer, while arguing Bellfield's "basic human rights" should not be taken away, thought his defence "ludicrous" with "surreal levels of irrelevance and stupidity."I frankly admit, having not followed the case closely, I found myself nodding at all those sentiments. Why, I wondered, had the judge not stepped in? Why had a barrister appeared to behave so insensitively? I was less surprised by the police actions: almost all murders are committed by someone close to the victim. Even so, they did seem to have mistreated Milly's father.But ... and this is one of those big BUTS... my mind has been changed by reading an analysis by former barrister Amanda Bancroft who hosts a blog called Beneath The Wig.The piece, reproduced on the Legal Week site, explains the logic behind the actions of the police, QC and judge. In so doing, it poses questions about the way in which newspapers, by omission and commission, fail to give their readers a rounded and balanced account of reality (while wallowing in sordid details).The blogger, relying on evidence rather than emotion, points to the understandable factual reasons for the police's initial suspicions about Milly's father and why, at trial, those formed the basis of the defence case. I urge every journalist to read the full piece, which is dispassionate but not lacking in compassion (understanding that the Dowlers' loss of a child is heartbreaking).Here is the nub of the argument: Bob Dowler failed initially to give police a full account of his whereabouts on the day of Milly's disappearance. He did not admit driving into a motorway service station to spend time looking at porn.When the police asked to search the family home, Dowler had to warn them that they would find bondage material and fetish porn.In that search, police found notes written by Milly about her distress at finding the bondage porn magazine."Cumulatively," writes the blogger, "all of that turned the police spotlight on to Dad, and he was questioned as a suspect."That questioning was, as is normal, recorded, and therefore made available to the defence. Similarly, the search findings were also revealed to Bellfield's legal team. In that bundle was a letter from Milly to her parents explaining why she was preparing to run away.In a crucial section, the blogger writes: "Put yourself in the shoes of the defence barrister. Your client is telling you he isn't guilty. He has read, and seen all the evidence against him. He asks you to look at the following:- That Dad had bondage and other fetish items in the house, along with fairly hardcore porn;- That it was Dad who took the phone call from Milly, no other member of the family having spoken to her since she left for school;- That there were letters found in her writing, referring to the 'Dad issue';- That there was a goodbye note written by Milly;- That the two post-mortem examinations were inconclusive as to cause of death;- That there was no forensic evidence linking your client to Milly;- That there were no eye-witness accounts or CCTV showing the two together;- That some of the witnesses were inconsistent about what they considered Milly's movements to be that afternoon;- That your client is already serving a whole life sentence and will never be released regardless of whether he is convicted of this crime."The blogger then points to the obligations Bellfield's barrister had under the bar code of conduct to avoid making statements or asking questions "which are merely scandalous or intended or calculated only to vilify insult or annoy either a witness or some other person"However, the barrister "must promote and protect fearlessly and by all proper and lawful means the lay client's best interests and do so without regard to his own interests or to any consequences to himself or to any other person."As for the judge, he was an an experienced, senior high court judge aware of all the evidence and could, at any point in the questioning of any witness, have stopped the barrister and ruled his line of questioning out of order.In other words, everyone played their part professionally given the nature of the evidence and the duty to give Bellfield as fair a trial as possible. The blogger writes that she is sorry the trial was such an ordeal for the family.What I am not sorry for is the line of questioning they faced. That very line of questioning demonstrates that our justice system works. That a defendant will receive a robust, thorough and proper defence on the evidence available to his representative, no matter how distressing, or distasteful, or painful to the witnesses that may be, makes me proud of our justice system."He/she then castigates the press for suggesting that the Dowler family did not receive justice: "I say they absolutely received justice. That evidence was forthrightly and strenuously tested so that they can be sure who killed their child."Then comes the blog's final key section, asking whether - in reporting the case as they did - the newspapers were more at fault than the justice system. "The press want the trial system changed. The victims' commissioner wants to look at making changes, and the director of public prosecutions has come out saying he wants to ensure that the same does not happen again.We are running the risk of being governed by knee-jerk tabloid reaction. Imagine you were accused of a crime. Wouldn't you want a proper defence, a thorough defence, a fearless defence? Or would you want a barrister who visits you in your cell and says: 'I'm sorry, I can't ask that question. Someone might get upset'.By all means, put reporting restrictions on trial. Put the press on trial; but don't put justice on trial. Those details could have stayed inside that court room, where, it could be said, they belonged. But the very press who are calling for the barrister's head on a platter and a noose around the justice system's neck, are the very press who disseminated that information in all its gory detail for public consumption. There is such a thing as restraint. But restraint should never be forced on the team responsible for ensuring a proper, robust defence is run. Justice demands that.Milly Dowler is dead, the third victim of a man who should never walk the streets again. Don't let justice be his fourth victim."Well, it certainly gave me a long pause for thought. Are we, in our desire to tell all, guilty too?Sources: Beneath The Wig/Legal Week