Two brothers convicted of killing the schoolboy Damilola Taylor on a south London housing estate lost an appeal against their eight-year youth custody sentences today.A panel of three appeal court judges had earlier rejected a separate attempt by one of them, 18-year-old Danny Preddie, to have his "unsafe" conviction overturned. Lord Justice Latham said the sentences imposed on Preddie and his 19-year-old brother, Ricky, last August for the manslaughter of Damilola were appropriate given the seriousness of the crime.He said the courts had to send out the message that "violence of this sort will be punished severely, and that will be the case even where the offenders are young".This involved a need to "impose sentences which have a significant element of deterrence", he added, saying there was "no other way that the courts can reflect the need to ensure the streets of this country are as safe as possible". The brothers - who lived near Damilola on the North Peckham estate - denied killing the 10-year-old by jabbing his leg with a broken beer bottle in November 2000. They were 12 and 13 at the time of the killing. They were convicted following a retrial. An earlier trial had cleared them of murder and assault with intent to rob, but the jury could not reach a verdict on manslaughter. Nigerian-born Damilola, who had only been in Britain for a few months, bled to death in a stairwell as local workmen tried to save his life. A number of youths, including the Preddies, were arrested after the killing. Four were cleared at a trial in 2002, and Hassan Jihad, 20, was cleared in April 2006. The Preddies were not charged until 2005 after new forensic evidence that had been missed at the time was discovered. Danny Preddie's lawyer, Orlando Pownall QC, told today's hearing that the eventual manslaughter conviction was "unsafe" and that it had been "unfair" to try him at all in 2006. "The trial process itself was incapable of remedying the serious and unfair disadvantage suffered by Danny Preddie in the presentation of his case, and the investigation on his behalf of matters relevant to his defence, as a result of the delay in bringing this prosecution," he said. "No direction from the trial judge, however full and thoughtful, could enable the jury to evaluate so long after the events the highly complex issues in this case properly and fairly to the defendant. It was an impossible task." However, Lord Justice Latham ruled the trial jury was "entitled to be satisfied by the forensic evidence" and other evidence. The way Preddie's trial had been conducted "was capable of dealing properly with any prejudice that might arise", he said.