Motorists will be tested for drug abuse in the first nationwide crackdown on drug-driving, beginning this week. Police have been given new powers to force drivers whom they suspect have taken drugs to perform a series of 'coordination' tests.Strathclyde Police will launch the scheme on Wednesday, after which it will be copied by forces across the country. The crackdown comes after surveys by System Three and Glasgow University revealed that one in 10 drivers under the age of 40 had taken to the wheel after taking illegal drugs ranging from cannabis to cocaine; four-fifths had accepted a lift in a car driven by someone who had taken drugs.The studies showed many young drivers took drugs in the belief the police could not conduct effective roadside tests. But ministers have given officers powers to conduct 'field impairment tests' similar to those used to detect drink-drivers before the introduction of breathalysers. Motorists will be asked to stand with feet together, eyes closed and head tilted back, and to estimate time periods of between 30 seconds and one minute. They will be told to walk in a straight line, turn around and walk back the same way. They can be asked to touch their nose with the index finger on one hand and then the other index finger. They can also be told to stand on one leg. Officers will check for symptoms of drug abuse, including dilated pupils, sweating and slurred speech. If they suspect a driver has taken drugs, he or she will be taken to the nearest police station for a blood test. Drivers who refuse to take the tests will be forced to give a blood sample. 'There is no drugs breathalyser and roadside blood or saliva tests are impractical, but these coordination tests work,' a spokesman for Strathclyde Police said. A two-week pilot scheme on roads around Glasgow last year led to the arrest of 22 people. Prescription drugs, including cold and cough remedies, can also affect driving ability. The scheme is welcomed by road safety groups. Neil Grieg of the AA said: 'People taking illegal drugs and then driving believe they can get away with it... officers now have a real weapon to tackle the problem.' Lord Whitty, the Roads Minister, said: 'The techniques are simple and straightforward, and can be applied anywhere to help enforce existing laws with greater rigour.' The scheme was developed in Strathclyde because the Glasgow region has the highest number of registered and suspected drug abusers in the UK, with an estimated 10,000 heroin addicts in Glasgow alone. john.arlidge@observer.co.uk