A scheming woman who turned her sister-in-law into a slave, forcing her to do housework naked and making her beg for food in front of six children, was jailed for seven years yesterday.Antonia Pearson-Gaballonie struggled with security guards before slumping in tears to the floor of the dock as a judge condemned her as "manipulative, cunning, callous and brutal".Her sentence ended two years of detective and legal work during which she attempted to kill herself and made repeated efforts to avoid a trial. York crown court heard that the 35-year-old mother had beaten Veronica Sandeman, now 26, with a belt, jabbed at her face with scissors and hacked her hair off, while claiming more than £10,000 in benefits in her victim's name."How one person can behave to another with such cruelty, it's very hard to contemplate, but you did," said the recorder of York, Judge Paul Hoffman. "Your sister-in-law was vulnerable and dependent upon you. You started off by deliberately isolating her from her parents, then had complete dominion over her. She became an unpaid skivvy. You systematically ill-treated, beat and falsely imprisoned her."Pearson-Gaballonie had denied making threats to kill, assault occasioning actual bodily harm and false imprisonment but was found guilty after a week-long trial last month. The jury of nine women and three men reached unanimous verdicts on all counts and also convicted her husband Neil Pearson, 35, a nightclub bouncer.He had denied aiding and abetting his wife's cruelty but the court heard that he had pinioned Ms Sandeman while Pearson-Gaballonie cut off her hair, whipped her and hit her with a rolling pin. He was jailed for two years after being found guilty of one count of aiding and abetting an assault.He closed his eyes in the dock and stood silently as Judge Hoffman told him that it was "a thousand pities" that he had been too weak to resist his domineering wife. The judge said: "You have been so well spoken of and written about in mitigation pleas but you allowed yourself to be overborne. You took part in a very serious and sustained assault by your wife upon this vulnerable girl and you held her wrists so she was powerless against you in a very unpleasant and prolonged attack."The court heard that Ms Sandeman, originally from Dundee, had been terrified by her ordeal but had also failed to escape because of her love for the six children, in spite of the way she was humiliated in front of them. She finally ran for help from the family's house in Acomb, York, in desperation after two years of the abuse.The jury was told that she arrived "looking like an absolute wreck" at the home of a neighbour, Amanda Palmer, whom she had met earlier when taking the children to school. It was three days after Christmas 2004 and Ms Palmer said Ms Sandeman looked "skeletal, with her skin hanging out from her frame".Pearson-Gaballonie was told that her children would be placed with foster parents and relatives.Detective Inspector Mick Moore of North Yorkshire police said the sentence "reflects the seriousness of Gaballonie's crimes but brings little pleasure to anyone at the end of this cruel and distressing chapter. There are no winners here."