A mother who admitted neglect after her 13-month-old son was found dead at her home in Manchester was sentenced to 27 months in prison today.Tracey Sutherland, 39, from Baguley, pleaded guilty to child cruelty by neglect at an earlier hearing at Manchester crown court following the death of her son Alexander. The court heard that shortly before 7am on 10 November last year, Sutherland contacted emergency services and said there was a dead baby in her house.She told the operator she had been alone with her baby for three days, as she could not let him go. The court heard he may have died two days before her call. He was taken to hospital, where he was officially pronounced dead.Ambulance staff had arrived before police and found Alexander strapped in a pushchair by a lit gas fire. He was wearing a stained babygrow. His mother was found walking nearby and was taken to a police station. Several marks were found on her son's body, but a postmortem examination was inconclusive.A pathologist said the boy had been neglected in the days before his death, but there was no causal link between the neglect and his death.Alexander was known to social workers but was not on the at-risk register. The independent Manchester Safeguarding Children Board is heading a multi-agency serious case review.At a previous court hearing, it emerged there was evidence of charring to his body and bruising to his torso and forehead. He had extensive nappy rash, with faeces and urine on his body.Detective Chief Inspector Steve Eckersley, of West Didsbury CID, said: "This is a truly sad case and Sutherland has fully admitted her neglect of Alex. My thoughts continue to be with the family at this emotional time."In a statement, the family said: "No sentence could be given that would ever bring him back. We miss him and think of him every day. Today has given us some closure."Speaking last November, resident Neil Hallam, 35, spoke of the community's shock at Alex's death. He said: "I often saw Tracey with the little boy so it was a huge shock when I heard he had died. Everyone was distraught. He was only a baby, so it's horrible and such a tragedy."