This sort of thing takes you back, when you are in your sixties. To the Sixties. An email arrives from our colleagues at North News with the headline:Arrests made in Heartbeat village after people seen picking magic mushrooms.I remember several damp excursions in search of these exciting-sounding things in mid-Wales when I was a teenager. I can't quite remember what we did with them (which suggests we definitely did something; the opposite of the old saying that if you can remember the Sixties, you can't have been there).They looked a bit scraggy and dubious, as I recall, and we had one of those incoherent late night debates about whether they really were MMs; and if so, whether you ate or smoked them, or both.  Ordinary mushrooms. Tasty and safe. Photograph: Felicity CloakeNot that anyone should mess around with unfamiliar fungi; my guide to British ones has several with a red skull-and-crossbones sign meaning fatal to eat, and it is not joking. Hallucinogenic experiences aren't really good for you either, so you can understand the North Yorkshire police's interest.They turned up after reports of picking at Goathland, that beautiful place in the heart of the North York Moors, and arrested the visitors from Hartlepool and Humberside. The operation was carried out under the 2005 Drugs Act which classifies the mushrooms, both wild and treated, as Class A drugs.The police say: We can confirm that we have received a number of reports of people visiting the Goathland area to allegedly pick magic mushrooms. Three men aged 21, 24 and 26 from Hartlepool were arrested on suspicion of possessing a Class A drug.They were each given an adult caution for possessing magic mushrooms, before being released later the same day.Later, four men from the Humberside area, two aged 26, a 28-year-old and a 32-year-old, were arrested on suspicion of possessing a Class A drug. They have now been released on bail to allow for further inquiries.  Nick Berry in Heartbeat. A different sort of magic. Photograph: Rex Features/ITVGoathland is also known in the unreal world as Aidensfield, home to the TV series Heartbeat which ran for 18 years until 2010. It was also set in the 1960s and you may remember Episode 21 in Season Eight when Gina Ward the niece of the landlord of the Aidensfield Arms gets set up with drugs slipped into her purse.Or am I imagining that..? No, look, it's all here. 