Capital punishment is State murder. Those who support it are "hangers." The police word "retentionist" will not do, since capital punishment is no longer here to retain. It is as well to get this terminology right at the beginning, because the implications of capital punishment must not be evaded. Not should statistics be used to cloud the issue. They may have a part to play in helping some people to decide whether hanging deters murderers. But they are not the main factors. A society, which decides to take one of its members' lives, does do so on the basis of statistics. It should look at its own values, traditions and morality first.Until its abolition capital punishment was a unique survival from an earlier and more brutal age. It is the only penal practice that is directly and solely retributive. Arsonists' houses are not burnt down by society. Rapists are not raped. But murderers are, or were, murdered. It is Old Testament morality wholly untempered by the New. Capital punishment is uniquely violent. In every other branch of our penal practice physical violence has been abolished. The amputation of hands or ears ceased long ago. Flogging and birching went more recently. The death penalty itself was continually restricted until its final abolition. Capital punishment is unique also for being irreversible. If society finds, as it has done from time to time, that the process of justice has resulted in error, convicted men can be released. A dead man cannot.The death penalty admits of no error. It admits of no repentance, either. Yet doctors who have examined convicted murderers have said that they were not beyond redemption. Cases of reprieved men who have reformed themselves are not uncommon. As long as this is so (and it will always be), the arguments in favour of hanging have to be overwhelming. But they are not. The only substantial argument to which the "hangers" have recourse is that the death penalty deters. They have little evidence to support this. The murder rate - the number of murders per inhabitants of the country - was exactly the same in 1968 as it was in 1957. It reached its lowest point in 1966, the first full year after abolition. This, of course, is coincidence. The statistics merely show that the death rate is irrelevant to the incidence of murder. One might as well, argue from them that abolition deters; this is no more absurd than to say that restoration would deter.The Government is right to put the issue to a free vote well before the next election. MPs have the latest statistical analysis from the Home Office, published only a month ago. If they needed that to make up their minds, apart from the major moral issue, they now have it. One more year's figures are unlikely to add anything to the case for hanging as a deterrent. The verdict is Not Proven. There is no ground for bringing back a method of punishment that is violent, brutal and awesome in its finality.