A colleague complained recently that he was clearly a victim of anti-fashion. When he had a mugger stick a knife to his throat seven years ago, the media was dominated by gun crime and his story wasn't that interesting. Then, a year ago, he was within the arc of fire as he walked into a drive-by shooting, but again the world had shifted, and knife crime was the new headline. As we all know, London is a wonderful, vibrant and occasionally dangerous city, so as a born-and-bred Londoner, he shrugs his shoulders and accepts the good with the bad.In the last year, the number of crimes has fallen in London - in particular, knife crime fell by 15.5% and gun crime was down by 8.6%. So why are we suddenly using pan-London, long-term, emergency stop and search powers to deal with a crime that is falling? The answer is that we have just had an election, there is a new boss at City Hall, and the commissioner of the Metropolitan police is feeling under pressure to keep his job. But this isn't just a London matter - other police forces are watching the long-term use of extended stop and search with interest, to see if they might use it in the rest of Britain.The reality is that a lot has been done to tackle knife crime in recent years and we need to thank the previous mayor and the hard-working police service for ensuring that things have been getting better. Take the London Underground, where reported crime has fallen by 11% in the past year and the number of robberies has halved. I know that all these statistics are meaningless to the families and friends who have lost loved ones - even if we halved the death rate and halved it again, that would still not be good enough, but that shouldn't stop us recognising those achievements that do happen.Of course, everyone is appalled by the killing of young people, even more so when committed by other young people, so that two lives, two families, two communities, are blighted forever. And of course I agree that more needs to be done to deal with mainstream crime, especially knife crime, but I always react badly to kneejerk measures where the police reach for emergency powers which are a short term expedient and a long-term disaster. The extended stop and search powers are reducing our civil liberties in a way that was not intended by the legislation. The police themselves have, in effect, decided how much freedom Londoners can have, and are risking a community backlash when even more young people become alienated by aggressive police tactics. A lot of young people are dying, or suffering horrible injuries and tremendous fear as a result of the knife culture, which is why the police have to avoid the trap of criminalising them all.A report that came to yesterday's meeting of the Metropolitan Police Authority warned of the lifelong impact on a young person that even one negative experience of the police could cause, and that stop and search is a key concern for many young people. The police must be polite and respectful, and treat each stop as important for the person stopped, as, based on the number of people charged versus the number of people stopped, they are almost certainly innocent.We have to find better solutions to the problem of knife crime. The creation of a safer neighbourhood team in every ward has been a major achievement, but a disproportionate amount of police time and energy have been put into anti-terrorism and public order. For example, the money we are spending on policing the Olympics could finance all the Safer Neighbourhood Teams across London for over six years. We will have flying drones, tickets that track your movements and plenty of armed police. Tourists will be able to consume their corporate goodies and corporations will be able to make big profits, but will our city be safe for the seven million of us who live here most of the time? Why not scale down the huge amounts we are spending on creating an Orwellian surveillance city for 2012 and use some of it to create youth clubs and sporting facilities which will take young people off the streets, give them activities and outlets that will put them on other, safer paths?There's also the fact that knives are useful kitchen implements, which makes every household a potential armoury. You can stop, search, and take a knife off the streets, but there are there are another half-dozen at home. It is a pointless police activity unless you change both individual minds and also the culture. There is a need to put extra resources into dealing with this problem, but that doesn't necessarily mean emergency powers, or even more police. If we recognise that young people with knives are both the potential criminal but also the victim, then we must also see them as both the problem and the solution.Reducing our civil liberties by extending stop and search without reasonable suspicion is not the answer to reducing crime and the production of future criminals; in fact, it could be making the problem even worse.