Moments before Rana Faruqui was killed in August 2003, a 999 operator heard her pleading with her ex-boyfriend, Stephen Griffiths: "You are not allowed to come anywhere near me, Steve, Steve, leave me alone, leave me alone." She had been cleaning the stables on her Berkshire farm when Griffiths stabbed her to death with a hunting knife.Like many other women killed as a result of domestic violence, Faruqui had left her abuser. After they separated, Faruqui endured months of threats, violence and harassment. The police were called to her house on several occasions, and Griffiths was warned a number of times after spying on her at night, breaking into her home and photographing her. Two weeks before Faruqui was murdered, Griffiths had cut the brake pipes on her car, but police had not followed up her complaint.After his arrest, police found in Griffiths' car a "stalking kit", consisting of a rope, chisel, crowbar, rat poison, syringe, axe, saw, knives and a truncheon. They also found books entitled Stalker and Unnatural Death.He was jailed for life in December last year; at the same time, Thames Valley police issued a statement admitting they should have responded to Faruqui's complaint about her brakes being cut: "This particular incident should have been dealt with differently and a full internal investigation has been launched."According to research carried out at Leicester University, one in five women in Britain and one in 20 men will be victims of a stalker at some time in their lives. In the most recent British Crime Survey, published last summer, 8% of women and 6% of men (more than 1.2 million women and almost 900,000 men) said they had been subject to stalking within the previous year. The survey also found that 37% of cases of aggravated stalking against women were by an intimate, 59% by other known persons, and 7% by strangers.And yet stalking is often perceived as more of a problem for celebrities than for ordinary people. Of course, there are genuine cases — in February, obsessive fan Dawnette Knight pleaded no contest to charges of stalking Catherine Zeta-Jones — but they are not the main story.The most common form of stalking occurs after the end of a violent relationship, but academic research in this area has identified a number of other types: the love-obsessional, who usually has a psychotic mental illness and targets famous people or strangers; the simple obsessional stalker, who stalks after a relationship has gone sour; the resentful stalker, who dislikes happiness and wants to frighten and distress their victim; and the predatory stalker, who is preparing a sexual attack.The largest-ever survey on stalking, to be published in July by the Network for Surviving Stalking (NSS) and Leicester University, has found that many of its 745 respondents fear that they will be killed, or driven to kill themselves.Many give up their jobs, move house or change their social life. More than 45% of respondents use alcohol or drugs to cope with the stress. The same proportion of respondents were told by others that they were being paranoid; one third reported that they were not taken seriously by the police.Tracey Morgan met her stalker, Anthony Burstow, in 1992. She and her husband worked in the same building as Burstow, and befriended him because he seemed lonely. But Burstow soon began a campaign of harassment that was to last 10 years, until he was convicted of the attempted murder of another woman.Even now, Morgan finds it hard to believe she has heard the last of him. "At the beginning of November 1992, I was a happily married 24-year-old living with my husband in Hampshire. By the end of that month, I was withdrawn, terrified and on sleeping pills, thinking I was going mad."Morgan has said that Burstow made her his "hobby". He researched her family tree and pestered her family, her husband's family and friends, and at that point there was nothing in the law to stop him.He obtained a set of keys to Morgan's home, planted listening devices in her bedroom, stole personal items that would turn up on her desk at work, and spent hours sitting in his car outside her house, watching and waiting.As a type, Burstow would be classified as a sadistic stalker, viewing his victim as a target and object of prey. Sadistic stalkers plan to establish increasing control over their victims. Burstow chose someone he perceived as happy, content, stable and "good", worthy of "spoiling".Morgan will never understand why she was targeted. "Time and again I was advised that if I didn't speak out or do anything, he might go away. Believe me, I tried it, but it didn't work — he just increased his activity." On one of the occasions he was arrested, Burstow told police, "I wanted to muck around with her head. That's what this is all about."In 1993 Burstow was sentenced to six months in prison for criminal damage, after pouring oil over Morgan's car. He was released on appeal, broke into Morgan's home, and was sentenced to 12 months for burglary.It wasn't until 1996 that Burstow was charged and found guilty of "grievous mental harm", the first conviction of its kind. In 1997, largely as a result of Morgan's persistence in pursuing a new stalking law, the government introduced the Protection from Harassment Act (PHA). Under this legislation, a person whose conduct causes alarm or distress is guilty of an offence if it can be proved that the accused knew, or ought to know, that their actions amounted to harassment.It is also an offence for a person to pursue a course of conduct which, on at least two occasions, causes someone to fear that violence will be used against them."The worst part of being stalked is not knowing where he is, imagining him out there, hiding and lurking," says Morgan. "In a warped way, it's better when something is happening, because you feel more in control. I used to want him to attack me and leave visible injuries, because then people might believe me and take me seriously.The scars I have are hidden." Burstow is currently serving a life sentence for attempted murder: in 2001 he almost severed the wrist of a former girlfriend after she ended the relationship. Morgan founded the Network for Surviving Stalking, and now helps other victims and lobbies for harsher deterrents for perpetrators.Much of the research into stalking is relatively new, although there is growing academic interest, particularly from psychologists and psychiatrists with an interest in sexual violence. It is difficult to predict who is likely to become a stalker, although difficult childhoods and social isolation are often factors, as are jealousy and possessive behaviour in relationships.Dr Frank Farnham, a psychiatrist in north London who has studied stalker behaviour for more than a decade, believes that the majority of stalkers are lonely and socially incompetent, but that "the most serious assaults in stalking cases are likely to be committed by those with outwardly normal and socially integrated behaviour".Studies show, however, that a majority of stalkers are unemployed. They'd have to be: according to many of the victims I spoke to, stalkers spend so much time pursuing their targets, there's little room for anything else.Alan Cole (not his real name) admits to having stalked at least five women. Now in his 40s and living alone in London, he agreed to talk to me as long as I made it clear he never intended to cause any distress to his victims, but wanted only to offer them "unconditional love". "All I wanted to do was love her," he says of one of his targets, "but I was never good enough."Brought up in a children's home before being adopted by a white couple (Cole is black) and taken to live in an all-white town, Cole's sense of rejection and inferiority was strongly developed by the time he left home at 17. Although he has been diagnosed with a "severe personality disorder", he has received no treatment. He has been cautioned for harassment of one of his victims, and warned several times over others.It hasn't deterred him, though. He feels he has done nothing wrong, and thinks he is the victim. "My relationships never worked out. They always said I was too possessive and finished with me. I started therapy and fell in love with my therapist, but she didn't want to know."Cole called his therapist 100 times a day for almost six months. I asked why he persisted in phoning her after she had made it clear she did not want to get involved, or to become friends. He says, seeming angry and hurt, "I just wanted her to listen to me. Why did she have to treat me like that? Am I scum? I couldn't get through to her, and she just kept slamming the phone down. That drove me mad."Like other stalkers with a rejection complex, Cole became compulsive in trying to get his victim to understand him. He insists that he had no desire to hurt, and that his victim would love him if she only gave herself the chance — even though his therapist changed her number and reported him to the police.Dr Lorraine Sheridan, a psychologist at Leicester University and lead researcher on the forthcoming stalking survey, says, "This category of stalker is what I'd call 'infatuation harassment', harbouring romantic fantasies and pursuing the object of their desire with non-malicious ruses.Such an approach can be characterised by the stalker quizzing friends and associates for details about the person in question, or hanging around to pretend they have had a chance encounter. It is still very frightening for the victim."In the early stages of a stalking case, it is often very difficult for those experiencing it to differentiate dangerous from non-dangerous behaviour. "So long as the image of the stalker we consume through the media is that of a mentally ill stranger," says Farnham, "we neglect the reality — that the offender most likely to do serious harm is the sane, rejected partner. And we will continue to minimise the danger for women who have recently left abusive and controlling relationships."Nor is stalking confined to heterosexual relationships. Stalking is primarily a male crime, but female offenders are far from rare. Farnham, though, has found significant differences. "Most women who are convicted of harassment-related offences display levels of psychosis, but men are more likely to have a form of personality problem, such as believing the world revolves around them and being unable to cope with being challenged or rejected."Rosie Garland, a performance artist well known on the Manchester lesbian and gay circuit, was stalked for three years by a woman who convinced herself that her feelings were reciprocated. Honor Donnelly met Garland at a creative-writing class, and soon began phoning her on a regular basis. Donnelly found her email address and started sending her sexual messages, some of them up to six pages long.Whenever Garland was performing, Donnelly booked a front-row seat, right in the middle. "She literally followed me around the country," says Garland. "I was shocked at how frightened of her I became. Once, she called the stage manager to check where I was staying after a show in the north-east. Another time, she applied to be a backstage dresser at a pantomime I was appearing in. That rang real warning bells and I called the police. She really upped the ante then."Garland agreed to let me see the emails Donnelly sent her: "The way I feel about you . . . That scares the hell out of me. But the way I look at it, aren't you lucky, someone loves you — No price tag, free and gratis. I think that would be nice, if only you did." In another, Donnelly wrote, "I still don't understand. I've made mistakes, haven't you? Maybe it's to drive me away, expose me as a FAKE, make me react violently? TOUGH. I Love You. I think about you every day. Intrusive? Yes, Yes, Yes. I want you in my life."These emails enabled the police and CPS to secure a conviction against Donnelly, because they were, according to the law, "hard evidence" of "unwanted and persistent attention". In August 2004 Donnelly was found guilty of harassment under the PHA and issued with a restraining order for 12 months.In February this year, Donnelly appealed, but the original conviction was upheld and the restraining order extended until the end of 2006. "The judge commented that the original conviction was sound," says Garland, "and that the appeal had been lodged maliciously and mischievously, to further intimidate and harass the witness — ie, me." Even so, support from elsewhere was harder to find: on a gay website, Garland found a thriving debate as to whether she really had been a victim. One person wrote, "Rosie has gained much more useful publicity here at the expense of a genuine admirer."Such misperceptions are rife, as Sheridan points out. "Some stalkers, such as those who fantasise that their victim feels the same way, don't see that what they are doing is wrong. They are likely to be suffering from some type of mental illness. But those who target an ex-partner are usually hellbent on revenge and destruction. They know what they are doing, but hide behind a smokescreen. A lot of onlookers would think an ex-partner just wants to sort it out because they are heartbroken."No matter what type of stalker they were targeted by, every victim I spoke to told me they feared they would be killed, sooner or later. For women who have left violent men, this is not an unfounded fear.So what can be done? Police and psychiatrists agree that the most important thing when dealing with a stalker is not to have any contact. "If he calls you 100 times," says Lorraine Sheridan, "and you let your machine pick up and on the 101st call you can't stand it any more and you yell into the receiver, 'Don't call me again', all you've done is teach him it takes 101 calls to get a response from you." But in terms of prevention, she is clear there is little anyone can do: "The only effective way to deter against stalkers is never to have a romantic relationship, and never to go out in public."MP Vera Baird wants more early intervention in domestic cases that could result in dangerous stalking behaviour. "I have seen murder cases in which a man utterly dominates his spouse and is, at the same time, very emotionally dependent on her. It is a dangerous combination — he will take action to stop her gaining her freedom, because he cannot live without her. If she goes, he will stalk her. In either situation, if he thinks she will really get away, he will kill her."Since the introduction of the PHA, and the growing body of research into stalking, the situation in the UK has improved. Some other European countries have a comparatively long way to go. Dr Gian Galeazzi, who is conducting research into comparative responses to reports of stalking in the UK, Denmark, the Netherlands and Italy, says that in Italy, where stalking is not a criminal offence, police officers are significantly less likely to think there is a risk of violence than in similar cases in the UK.He also believes that unless the public is educated about the realities of stalking — and unless myths about mad strangers being the most prevalent form of stalker are dispelled — any legislation will be only minimally effective. "Twenty per cent of stalking victims have suicidal tendencies, because they believe nothing will be able to protect them. They believe it's all a bit of a joke before it happens to them; they are simply unprepared to deal with it. We need to educate them and the professionals about how serious a crime it is in order for legislation to be properly drafted and applied."In California, stalking became a crime only in 1990, after actor Rebecca Shaeffer was murdered by an obsessive fan. Wayne Maxey, a police officer and expert on stalking investigations in San Diego district attorney's office, visited Scotland Yard in 2000 to advise British police on how early intervention in stalking cases involving former partners can reduce the number of domestic homicides. "We have saved lives by doing proper risk assessment at the offset in these cases," says Maxey. "Rather than look at ex-partner harassment as low-level crime, we see it as a potential murder and treat it very seriously. As a result, our domestic murder figures have decreased."Thames Valley police could benefit from the San Diego model, although assistant chief constable Francis Habgood told me that several recent cases have led police to revise their domestic violence policy, and that it is now "much improved".Following the stalking and murder of Yvonne Heap by her ex-partner Nahid Akhter in April 2003, Thames Valley has been piloting a risk-assessment project in order to educate officers about warning signs in domestic violence cases.Heap had contacted the police shortly before her death, but her work number was mistaken for a home number, and officers were unable to contact her that evening. An appointment was later arranged, but she was killed before it took place. Earlier this year Akhter pleaded guilty to manslaughter but was convicted of murder, and sentenced to a minimum of 11 years in jail. "These are very complicated cases," says Habgood. "We need to keep on reiterating the facts to officers, and refreshing their learning."The pilot, launched in March 2004, came too late for Julia Pemberton, who also lived in the Thames Valley area. In November 2003, she was shot and killed by her estranged husband, Alan. In the 15 months between their separation and her death, Pemberton regularly made threatening phone calls and sent letters warning Julia that he would destroy her life. He glued the locks to the house.Julia had notified the police of Pemberton's threat to kill her, kept a diary of the abuse, and also taken out an injunction against him. Ten days before she died, she told her brother, "Don't forget, he's coming after me." When she heard Pemberton shoot and kill their 17-year-old son, William, and smash his way into the house, she hid in a cupboard and dialled 999. Pemberton shot her, and then himself.Despite the house being flagged as a high-risk address (Julia had seen a domestic-violence counsellor some months earlier), it took police almost an hour to arrive at the scene, and it was nearly seven hours before they entered the house. At the inquest last September, the coroner ruled that it would have made "no difference" had the police entered the house earlier, as Julia and William were already dead.Earlier police intervention could well have made a difference in this case. Julia Pemberton knew she was being stalked, and had reasonable fear of her life. Jim Gamble, the Association of Chief Police Officers' spokesperson on domestic violence and harassment, admits the police have a long way to go — not least in telling victims they are victims. "A quarter of stalking victims don't believe stalking is a crime," he says. "A third think it's a crime, but don't think they can do anything about it. It's like with domestic violence 20 years ago — we have to get people to realise they are victims of a crime."This is borne out by Sheridan's research on public perceptions of stalking and harassment. "We asked victims in a survey, 'What did you think stalking was before you were stalked?' One third thought it was just celebrities, almost half thought only nutters did it, and a few others thought it was a media fuss about nothing, or a way to get dates.""The most common form of stalking is after the break-up of a relationship," says Gamble. "The victim will suffer a war of attrition. I'd like to educate stalkers so they know that, if they do it, they should end up with a criminal record. We can then target our resources towards those chronic and persistent cases where there is serious danger involved."Many stalkers hide behind a respectable veneer. This concerns Gamble: "In cases of domestic violence, the perpetrator will look for avenues to continue that violence after the relationship has ended," he says. "Groups such as Fathers4Justice need to ensure their members are credible individuals. Otherwise, you will get some individuals representing the cause who are abusers. They might then use the campaign to gain access to the partner and/or the children, to further the abuse."Sheridan is keen to put the effect on the victims at the forefront of any discussion about stalking. "The problem is that stalking falls between many stools. If you are sexually assaulted by your stalker, go to Rape Crisis; if your stalker is an ex-partner, Women's Aid. People don't understand how devastating it is. They don't recognise it as serious on its own. Victims sometimes are relieved when they are attacked and therefore have proof."Julie Holland is one stalking victim who has no faith in the police or the legal system. She left her violent partner, Danny Hill, two years ago. During their time together, he threw her downstairs while she was pregnant, punched a hole in her skull, fractured her ribs countless times, and kicked her so hard in the face he dislocated her eye from its socket. He was convicted of assault and spent eight weeks in prison, but like many other stalkers continued to harass her with phone calls and letters.Holland has moved house twice and built a 10ft-high fence around her back garden, fitted extra locks to interior doors, and covered her roof and drainpipes in axle grease. "Whatever I do, he will always be a part of my life," she says. "I have had to give up two homes because police said they could not guarantee my safety.For 11 years he has tortured me by always making sure I know he's around and can get away with stalking me. I don't go out any more at night because I am frightened of seeing him. He has caused misery for all my family, and the police seem unable to stop him. They say they can't even give him a warning, because they can't be sure it's him making the calls."Hill routinely contests the injunctions Holland has secured against him with the help of a local women's refuge. "He shouldn't be allowed to," says Holland. "He is a known violent offender and stalker. I need the police to keep him away from me, but they can't. My 13-year-old son goes to bed with a hammer every night."Sheridan has to think for a while when I ask her to tell me about the cases that stick in her mind. She tells me about a woman who was stalked for more than 40 years. When she died, the stalker went to her funeral and then began harassing her daughter. Then there is the case where a recently widowed elderly woman befriended a man from her bridge club, who then began stalking her.When she took out an injunction against him, she came home one evening to find the exhumed remains of her husband on her doorstep, with the stalker telling her, "I wanted to see what he's got that I haven't." The perpetrator was given a conditional discharge. The victim was later sectioned and spent months in a psychiatric ward.But these are the cases that get reported — the shocking, unusual ones with a touch of the macabre about them. The ones we rarely hear about, unless they result in a murder, are those that begin with domestic violence and sometimes never end. The victims I spoke to told me their lives were stolen, taken away from them, and would never be the same again.When Julie Holland's son decided to testify in court against his father, as a witness to his mother's assault, he was petrified. But he wanted to make his point, and told the judge what everyone should know about stalking. "When I'm 16," he said, "I'm going to make my dad piss his pants with fear, just like he's done to my mum."