A mother who killed her teenage daughters while they slept, stabbing one of them 39 times, has been convicted of murder.Davina Baker, 16, and Jasmine Baker, 13, were killed in a frenzied attack at their home in Stretham, Cambridgeshire, in June 2007.The court heard that Rekha Kumari-Baker, who had taken her girls on a shopping trip to the Lakeside centre in Essex that day, killed her children to "wreak havoc" on her ex-husband. John Farmer, prosecuting, told the court there was "much contention" between the 41-year-old waitress and her ex-husband over the care and custody of their children.  Rekha Kumari-Baker, who murdered her two daughters, Davina and Jasmine, in their beds Photograph: Cambridgeshire Police/PAKumari-Baker admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility but denied murder. But the jury at Cambridge crown court convicted her of murder after deliberating for 35 minutes.She used two kitchen knives in the attacks, targeting her eldest daughter first. Evidence showed that Davina tried to resist. Her mother stabbed her 39 times until sure she was dead, then went to Jasmine's bedroom and attacked her in a similar fashion.After the killings she got dressed and went out twice in her car before ringing a friend, who was a special constable, to say: "I have done something terrible."In a note left at the murder scene, Kumari-Baker said her children would "not be a burden to anyone anymore". She referred to the end of her marriage to David Baker, the father of her daughters, and the break-up of her relationship with boyfriend Jeff Powell. "I didn't want them to get hurt like I did," she wrote. "Jeff hurt me so much I cannot explain."An inquiry has been launched into the roles played by teachers, doctors and social workers in the years leading up to the killings. The court heard Kumari-Baker told teachers she "wished Davina dead" three years before she stabbed her daughters and had complained of depression to doctors and social workers.In a statement by David Baker, read by his brother George outside the court, the girls' father said he thought about his daughters every day and "all their love and closeness for each other"."Part of my heart was taken when they died and I long for the day when we shall be reunited," he said. "Time has passed since their deaths but my sense of loss and pain has eased little. I was robbed of my daughters by an act of calculated viciousness by a woman who, having given life to them, in her vindictive mind believed she also had a right to take that life from them. She will now pay the price for this."The senior investigating officer, Detective Inspector Jim McCrorie, said only Kumari-Baker could know the real reasons for "such a vicious and deliberate attack"."Davina and Jasmine were innocent young teenagers who were killed by the person they should have been able to trust most in this world," he said. "In 25 years in the police service I have never before investigated such an upsetting or sickening crime. I am simply pleased that it has now been concluded and hope that this may give some solace to family and friends of both girls."Kumari-Baker is due to be sentenced tomorrow.