Sex offenders who prey on adults with learning disabilities and young children are to be brought to justice under a groundbreaking scheme to be launched throughout England and Wales next month.At present, cases are often dropped because prosecutors believe victims are mentally incapable of answering questions in the witness box or simply too young to understand.But from April trained intermediaries will be available to assist when children and other vulnerable witnesses are interviewed by police and give their evidence in a criminal trial. The go-betweens have already been piloted in six areas where their services have been widely welcomed by police, judges, lawyers and witnesses' parents. They have enabled children as young as four to tell their story in court and offenders to be convicted in cases which would not otherwise have got off the ground.The 130 intermediaries recruited so far - mainly teachers, speech and language therapists - have met strict selection criteria and have been trained by the Inns of Court school of law, which also trains barristers.The intermediary initially assesses a prospective witness and provides a report to help police and prosecutors decide whether the witness should be interviewed by police or give evidence in court. The report also advises whether an intermediary is needed and explains the witness's communication difficulties.This alerts police and lawyers to the need to keep their questions simple. In court, the go-between will flag up problems if a question is too difficult and the lawyer will rephrase it, or the intermediary may put it into simpler words.Sex offences were the largest group of cases covered by the pilot, but others included physical assaults, attempted murder, abduction and burglary. The scheme covers adults whose quality of evidence is likely to be affected by a mental disorder, learning difficulties or physical disability. Children under 17 are eligible.Children may find it difficult to communicate because of trauma or behavioural problems. In one study more than 80% of young witnesses reported symptoms of stress before trial. Some 50% said they could not understand some of the questions fired at them. Some barristers find it hard to come down to a child's level and witnesses as young as four have been asked questions using the words "allegation", "exaggerate", and "I put it to you".In one case, a man pleaded guilty on the eve of trial to raping a child with severe learning difficulties and was jailed for eight years. The crown prosecutor in the case told Joyce Plotnikoff and Richard Woolfson, who evaluated the pilot for the Ministry of Justice: "Without the intermediary, we would not have had a case. Justice was done, thanks to the intermediary scheme."