Myra Hindley was on the verge of facing fresh murder charges when she died, the inquest into her death heard yesterday.Home Office pathologist Michael Heath told the hearing at Highpoint prison, where the Moors murderer spent her last years, that she died of bronchial pneumonia and hypertension. She had suffered from poor blood supply to the heart, a result of blocked coronary arteries. The inquest was adjourned for a jury hearing, on a date to be announced. Greater Suffolk coroner Peter Dean offered his condolences to the families of Hindley's victims. "We should not, in our thoughts, forget the families of those who died in such tragic circumstances many years ago," he said. Detective Sergeant Adrian Powell was called to West Suffolk hospital at 5.20pm on Friday. On Saturday, he formally identified the body to the pathologist. He said: "She had a history of health problems including osteoporosis, angina and respiratory problems and was always a known heavy smoker." Hindley was admitted to Bury St Edmunds hospital on October 14 with chest pains and released to prison the next day. She was hospitalised on November 12 and her condition deteriorated. Greater Manchester police said yesterday that new charges were being considered against Hindley. A file was being prepared by the crown prosecution service which could have led to her being charged with the murders of Keith Bennett, 12, and Pauline Reade, 16. New murder charges would have thwarted any hopes she had of winning her freedom through the European courts. Her legal battle followed a ruling by the European court of human rights in June which said home secretaries had no right to determine how long killers were kept in jail. Hindley and her former partner Ian Brady, now 64, were jailed for life in May 1966 for the murders of Lesley Ann Downey, 10, and Edward Evans, 17. Hindley was also convicted of shielding Brady after he killed John Kilbride, 12. Greater Manchester police said they and the CPS were contacted by Winnie Johnson, the mother of Keith Bennett. "Since then, we have reviewed the situation with regard to the possibility of further criminal charges, including examining the evidence from the 1960s and 1980s alongside specialists from the CPS." A report will be produced. Police have refused to say when Hindley's funeral will take place, but she is expected to be cremated within the next few weeks. Andrew McCooey, Hindley's solicitor, said she was a Christian and was entitled to a Christian service. He said she had reformed and had regretted her part in the murders. "I have visited many criminals in prison over the years but she struck me as one of those few who truly are genuinely remorseful for her crimes," he said. The funeral and the scattering of ashes would not necessarily take place on the same day. "We are expecting a flurry of interest but scattering the ashes is different to having a gravestone," he added. He will be among the group of 12 family and friends, including Hindley's mother Nelly, 82, and her former lover Nina Wilde, who will attend the funeral. Brady, who has been on hunger strike for three years, was said to have shown no emotion when told of Hindley's death. Winnie Johnson said it would have helped her if Hindley had faced more murder charges - as she may have been able to finally find her son's body. The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday November 20, 2002It was an assumption that, as this article's heading said, the inquest into the death of Myra Hindley was told that the police had prepared a file on possible new murder charges. Manchester police did say that but not at the inquest.