A man who is believed to have killed his wife and two children before taking his own life was described last night as having been an "abusive monster" toward them.The body of Aram Abdul Razaq Aziz, 32, was found at Watermead country park in Leicestershire on Friday evening, before the bodies of his 24-year-old former partner and their two children were discovered the following afternoon around two miles away at a flat in Leicester.They were named as Joy Small, her son Aubarr, three, and daughter Chanarra, two. Their deaths are being treated as suspicious by Leicestershire police, although officers said they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the case. The force confirmed that it had received a complaint from Joy Small several years ago, after she was allegedly doused with lighter fluid by her partner.Jennie Bland, 27, a friend and neighbour of Small, said that Small had at that point ended the relationship with Aziz and had sought help from police, including getting a panic button installed. However, Bland fell out with her friend on discovering in November that Small had resumed the relationship with her former partner."She got back with him after being so strong when he poured petrol on her and tried to set her alight," she added."He beat her all the time. The time he poured petrol on her, he threw a mirror at her son. He tried to stop her seeing her friends – that's why he didn't like me. He was an abusive monster."She said Small had kept the resumption of her relationship a secret amid fears that her children would be taken from her if anyone knew they were back together.Bouquets and a pink and blue teddy bear were left close to the flat on Jersey Road where the bodies of Small and her children were found. A message read: "To a friend, u'll be sadly missed so much, sleep tight." Others said: "To a beautiful lil girl, Taken so soon, sleep tight," and "To a lovely little boy, taken so soon, sleep tight."It is thought that Small had moved to Leicester from Sheffield.A neighbour, who did not wish to be named, said of Small: "She was amazing, she was so placid. Someone would say something to her and she just wouldn't say anything. I met her when I was taking my best friend's kids to school and she needed a hand with the pushchair. She's such a nice woman."She said she had last seen her on Thursday afternoon with her children and that she had seemed fine.Another neighbour who lived opposite the Jersey Road flat said that she had returned home at 3pm on Saturday to find a number of police cars and an ambulance gathered in the street. She added: "My first thought was, 'What's Aram done? Has he hurt the kids or Joy?' I didn't think it would be all of them."A spokesman for the Independent Police Complaints Commission said that it had had contact with Leicestershire police but, based on the information that was available, the case had not been formally referred.Postmortem examinations are due to be carried out today.