Natasha Hogan needed 10 minutes to compose herself properly after the verdict was read out. Even then, she couldn't read the statement she had written, though her words left nobody in any doubt about her feelings towards her ex-husband, and their six-year-old son, whom he had killed."It has left me feeling that Liam lost his young life for nothing," she said. "I accept that an act in a moment of complete madness was uncharacteristic of John, but to have done this to our children is unforgivable. I know that we all miss Liam but it is [my daughter] Mia and I that are left to rebuild our lives without a loving, caring son and brother."That moment of complete madness came on August 15 2006, when John Hogan jumped 50 feet from a four-storey hotel balcony holding his son and two-year-old daughter.The rebuilding of Mrs Hogan's life will continue in the UK, while Hogan, cleared of murder, was ordered into specialist treatment in Greece, though his doctor thought this may not take long.Last night his psychiatrist, Professor Ioannes Nestoros, said: "If he goes to a good hospital and has good psychotherapy maybe he could leave in about a year's time as an outpatient."The order to send Hogan into hospital care came at the end of an emotional two-day trial in which he had claimed to have no recollection of jumping from the balcony shortly after his wife had told him she wanted a divorce.As the verdict was returned at the criminal court in Chania yesterday, Hogan, 33, gasped "I'm innocent" and burst into tears.Across the courtroom, Mrs Hogan slumped and held her head in her hands.As he was led from court in handcuffs, he was asked if he was pleased with the verdict. "How can I be pleased when my son is dead?" he replied.A jury of three judges and four lay people ruled that Hogan should be hospitalised indefinitely until doctors conclude he is no longer a danger to himself or his family. Speaking in a slurred voice caused by his dosage of anti-depressants, he had insisted that one day "I will be a father to my daughter again". He told the judges and jurors on the bench: "I feel no guilt because I did not do it."This person you see before you is not the person who jumped from the fourth floor. I already have my son's forgiveness and God's forgiveness."Paraskevi Kiraleou, the presiding judge, said after a deliberation that lasted 40 minutes: "His responsibility was diminished. He was incapable of murdering his son and he needs to be in a psychiatric unit for therapy."Hogan's defence lawyer, Dimitris Xyritakis, said last night: "He is not guilty but they think that he must be kept for a short period in a hospital, because they think he is a danger to himself and others. He is very happy. All his members of the family are with him. This is the right verdict. He is now a prisoner of doctors not of police and judges."The court's decision turned on whether the judges believed Hogan was psychotic at the time of the incident.Yesterday he set out to persuade the jury that he was a loving father who had been driven mad by his wife's decision to leave him.Breaking down in tears in front of the judge, he said: "I have never loved three people more than my ex-wife and my two children. They were the world to me ... I was the best dad those children could have. Every time I was with them we did something special, take them to a park, take them swimming, take them to a farm."The incident, the court heard, happened during a "make-or-break" holiday for Hogan and his wife. They had flown with their children to the beachside Petra Mare hotel in Ierpetra, on Crete's south coast.Their marriage was on the brink of collapse and Mrs Hogan was already investigating divorce procedures. Their relationship was closer to that of brother and sister than husband and wife, Hogan said.Their sex life lacked emotional intimacy, he complained. The marriage had been in trouble for several years.Hogan had once threatened to burn down the family home in Bradley Stoke, Gloucestershire, if they ever split up and the couple went on a similar holiday to Prague to try to save the marriage in 2003.During the trial Mrs Hogan was questioned about "flirty" emails which Hogan had discovered in 2005 and she said they had talked about divorce, but he had not been able to accept the prospect.Four days into the holiday, Mrs Hogan told her husband she planned to divorce him when they returned home. Hogan insisted they should leave immediately and made arrangements for flights home through the travel agent First Choice. But he could only arrange for three tickets. That triggered a furious row in the hotel room over who should accompany the children. Each insisted it should be them."I was in a panic, in a state of distress," said Hogan. "I thought that I was going to lose everything ... What I was trying to do [over] those four days was make somebody love me that didn't love me."He said his final memories before plunging from the hotel balcony were sitting with Liam sleeping in one arm and Mia on his other arm.Again and again Judge Kiraleou and prosecutor Helena Papanikolopoulou pressed him to recall his jump and every time he replied: "I can't remember."He said: "I jumped over a wall, I had my children in my arms. I don't remember. A sane John Hogan would not have done what he did that night so please don't judge me for that one incident and if there is any way I could bring my son back I would."Mrs Hogan's version was different. She said she made a disparaging remark about how he was packing his case and Mr Hogan reacted angrily and had "a crazed look in his eye". Moments later, he jumped."The next thing I saw was Liam, just lying there in a heap," she said. "I just went into nurse mode. I couldn't see his injuries. I was looking at his face thinking 'ABC. I want you to live. ABC - airways, breathing, circulation. Let's concentrate on this.' I knew he was dying. I glanced at John. He was over to the right and I thought he was dead. I thought, 'Good. Fine. Just leave him alone and concentrate on my son.' "Hogan said he was hallucinating in the ambulance immediately after the incident. In interviews with his psychiatrist he also said he believed he was on the ground floor at the hotel and could simply walk out with his children and that he was taking them "to paradise".The Hogan family has a history of tragedy and severe mental health problems. Hogan was prescribed medication and psychotherapy to treat panic attacks prior to the incident.Two of his brothers, Stephen and Paul, killed themselves. When he was 17, Stephen killed himself shortly after the death of his father from multiple sclerosis. Paul, who suffered from manic depression, leapt from a bridge in Bristol in 2004.Hogan's elder sister, Gabrielle, said John was the man everyone came to rely on in her family after the death of their father.Hogan had tried to kill himself at least four times since his arrest."My son was in paradise in heaven," Hogan said in court explaining his suicide attempts. "I wanted to be there, cuddle him, put an arm round him and tell him how sorry I am."He will continue his treatment in a hospital in Athens and was due to take a ferry to the mainland today.Mrs Hogan, an accident and emergency nurse, has married Richard Visser, 41, a former colleague. She said yesterday that she was planning to rebuild her family's life away from the media spotlight. There were reports she may start a new life in Australia.