Damilola Taylor may have died accidentally after cutting himself while playing with a broken bottle rather than being the victim of a deliberate stabbing, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.Opening the defence case, Courtenay Griffiths QC said Damilola's final words: "I'm okay, I'm okay" sounded like those of a boy trying to play down what had happened because he knew he had done wrong. Mr Griffiths also claimed that records of calls made from mobile phones proved the two brothers who are accused of murdering 10-year-old Damilola were nowhere near the scene of his death. He said the calls, which were made more than a mile from where the 10-year-old died at the same time as the 999 call reporting the boy's injuries was received, "blew apart" the case against the pair. The prosecution claims Damilola was stabbed in the left thigh with a broken beer bottle as he walked from a library to his home in Peckham, south London, in November 2000. But Mr Griffiths - representing one of the brothers, who can only be identified as Boy A - told the jury Damilola's death may well have been an accident. He said the jury would hear from two people who claim they saw a small black boy playing with broken glass at the same spot and same time as Damilola was supposed to have been attacked. He would also call an expert who would examine the theory that Damilola's injuries may have been caused accidentally. Mr Griffiths asked the jury to consider carefully Damilola's final words as he lay dying. If he had been the victim of an attack, counsel suggested he would have been more likely to have told those who tried to help him: "There is a gang of boys just round the corner who did me in." His actual words, Mr Griffiths argued, were "more consistent with a child who had done something he was not supposed to do, playing with a bottle and ending up injuring himself ... You can understand a child saying: 'I am okay' because he wants to brush the incident under the carpet". Turning to the evidence concerning the phone calls, Mr Griffiths reminded the jury that the first of several calls made from a SIM card - an identifiable mobile phone card - belonging to Boy A in Bermondsey was timed at 4.47pm. At that time the 999 call reporting Damilola's injury was being made in Blakes Road, Peckham, more than a mile away. Mr Griffiths said the jury could deduce that the brothers were together. He said: "Unless they had been beamed about as if in Star Trek they were not there." The mobile phone records, he said, provided "hard, cold evidence". He added: "They come from computer records - they are totally objective, totally unchallengeable." Mr Griffiths criticised the way the crown had handled the case, saying the "emphasis" had changed since the trial began in January. When the crown first set out its stall, he said it was "selling fruit", but was now in the "used car business". The cases against two of the four defendants who were originally put on trial collapsed after the evidence of the key prosecution witness, a 13-year-old girl codenamed Bromley, was thrown out by the judge, Mr Justice Hooper. He ruled that her story that she saw the murder of Damilola was "embellished with lies" and "demonstrably wrong". Mr Griffiths said Bromley's evidence was the "lynchpin" of the prosecution. After she was "comprehensively destroyed" the prosecution came to rely more heavily on the testimony of two custody officers and a string of inmates who claimed that while they were on remand the brothers confessed to being involved in Damilola's death. The jury had to ask itself if the alleged confessions could be regarded as "accurate and reliable". Mr Griffiths said much of the evidence of the inmates was "inconsistent" and "contradictory". He also criticised the police investigation, saying police had simply arrested the "best bad boys" in the area where Damilola died. Officers had then set a "trap" for them by planting listening devices in the cells where they were held and posting an officer in the corridor outside. This suggested "desperation", Mr Griffiths said. Mr Griffiths said Boy A would not be called to give evidence as the case put before the jury did not require an answer. He said: "We say the case of the prosecution has collapsed." The judge warned him that "the jury may draw such inference as appear proper" from Boy A's failure to give evidence. The brothers, 16, deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The case continues.