Soon after dawn on a sunny Thursday, Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers set out for the strangest day's work ever done by a Lord Chief Justice. In place of wig and robes, he had been told to wear blue jeans and trainers and to report on time for his stint of hard manual labour. He had been warned he might be frisked to ensure he had no mobile phone, iPod or alcohol, and that he must obey orders. For seven hours, he would be treated as a convict.In a first in British legal history, Lord Phillips had asked to do a day's unpaid work as part of a community order under which offenders avoid jail by doing 'payback' projects. He wanted to prove that non-custodial sentences are the right alternative for many to prisons, now so overcrowded he considers it 'difficult or impossible' for them to rehabilitate offenders and prevent re-offending.The experiment took months to arrange. Phillips wanted secrecy, and the day had to be cancelled once because of a possible leak to the media. 'Someone got wind of it and I was anxious to be absolutely incognito,' he said. 'I didn't want this to be seen as some sort of publicity stunt.' He agreed to speak to The Observer later, as part of his first major interview since he took office a year ago.We begin with the day he caught an early train to Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, to be picked up by Thames Valley Probation Area staff. His supervisor and his medium to high-risk workmates, who included a fraudster and a burglar, had no idea of his real identity. Nor have they since been told.'My cover had been arranged,' he said. 'I posed as a shipping solicitor convicted of driving with excess alcohol and sentenced to 150 hours' unpaid work and 18 months' disqualification.'The most senior judge in England and Wales - told to wear a yellow fluorescent jacket for safety reasons - was driven to the Lakes in Bletchley, a run-down council estate where vandalism and antisocial behaviour are rife. He and his three workmates were ordered to scrape the moss from two filthy seating areas and clean them up before repainting a burnt-out underpass daubed in graffiti and clearing surrounding weeds.Though the 68-year-old Phillips swims in icy outdoor pools all winter and treks in the Himalayas, he found the work demanding. His normal day might involve chairing the sentencing guidelines council, or sitting in judgment on the gravest issues to face the courts. He was, for example, head of the panel of three appeal judges that confirmed as unlawful the government's control orders under which terror suspects were monitored and confined to their homes.His unpaid work posed a very different challenge. 'I was sweating away, doing the weeding. After a tea break we brushed and washed down the inside of the underpass, attacking the black ceiling with buckets of water and squeegees. It was pretty foul work. The passageway was fairly revolting. Someone had set fire to a wastepaper basket, so the ceiling was coated in soot and the dirt ran down my arms.'Some passers-by who saw the men's 'Community Payback' sandwich board shouted at the Lord Chief Justice that his efforts were useless. 'They asked why we were bothering to clean the place up when it would be just the same tomorrow.' Others were encouraging, including a gang of small boys who demanded to know what crimes the men had committed. 'Until then there hadn't been a lot of chitchat or eye contact, but the offenders readily admitted what they had done,' Phillips said. 'I thought it was a very good lesson for these boys.'He was allowed a short lunch break in which he ate a cheese and tomato roll prepared by his wife and read The Sea, by John Banville. His three workmates shared a copy of the Sun'I could see how my fellow offenders were doing; they worked hard. One asked for black paint so he could paint the bottom bit of the tunnel properly. We were obviously providing a service to this community. I wish I could have done a dozen different projects to compare them, but this one showed how a scheme could work well. Afterwards an official from the local authority came to see what we had done and was impressed. A local police sergeant complimented us. I felt a degree of pride. We all did.'Though Phillips has claimed that the wigs they wear in court do not prevent judges being in tune with other people's lives, he hardly makes a fetish of this himself. Apart from a BlackBerry, which he left at home as instructed, he carries no electronic gadgets, nor has he listened to Arctic Monkeys.His decision to try 'life on criminal street' will astonish those who see Phillips as one of the most cerebral occupants of his office. His arguments for restricting prison to dangerous and serious offenders could also provoke fury from newspapers that have already branded him the 'muggers' mate' over court guidelines that young, first-time robbers may escape prison if they use or threaten only minimal violence.Was he talking about the person who demands an iPod and claims to have a weapon? 'Or the kid who is standing next to him, almost as a bystander,' he said. 'The majority of these young, first-time offenders have not been to prison in the past. The idea that one should send them all to prison is misconceived. I'm concerned about being attacked as "a liberal". I like to think that I am liberal, but that is not the same as being soft on crime. The idea that [using] alternatives to custody is being soft is wrong.'Most of these people are inadequate. If you put them inside they can't make people's lives a misery until they come out and re-offend. [They do so] because you haven't addressed the reason they are such a menace. The public must be educated to distinguish between the brutal, dangerous offender and the inadequate who offends to get money for drugs.'His support for tough community penalties, which often include drug or mental health treatment, or a curfew, coincides with an impending crisis. The Home Secretary has been told that every jail place in England and Wales may be full this week and that prisoners will have to be housed in police cells.Phillips warned that prisons can no longer offer rehabilitation. 'Those interventions are rendered difficult or impossible if prisons are as full as now. And emergency measures of keeping prisoners in police cells are highly undesirable.' Are prisons - full of the mentally ill and drug-addicted - simply social dustbins? 'I think they are, to some extent.'It's also a matter of pure economics. It's madness to spend £37,000 a year [on keeping someone in jail] when by spending much less on services in the community, you can do as good a job. Statistics show there is not much difference on re-offending rates, but even a 10 per cent improvement is a start.'Phillips sees no long-term solutions in John Reid's plans for an extra 8,000 jail places, while putting more resources into community punishment would 'give long-term benefits'. But 'courts will not use non-custodial sentences unless they are persuaded the services are there, and properly resourced'.During his own day's work, Phillips was told there was no public money for sealant needed to protect the tunnel he had repainted until the police chipped in, and that another community project had been abandoned because of a refusal to hire a portable toilet. 'It is particularly unfortunate if projects cannot be undertaken for want of relatively modest funds for tools and materials or Portaloos. Community work is much less expensive than prison places, and it must make sense to provide the resources.'He fears jails may be on the brink of disorder, and that young Muslim inmates are being radicalised by al-Qaeda sympathisers. 'Yes, of course I am worried by that. If a place is overcrowded and there's a nine-month waiting list for the course you want, you get anger that can lead to disturbances.'Has Phillips, a regular visitor to the Home Office during Charles Clarke's tenure, seen much of Reid? 'I've only had one meeting so far. [He later amends this to two.] It was very early days, and he accepted he had a lot to learn. We were trying to explain to him the role of judges, and I think he appreciated it.'Phillips was said to have been enraged by Reid's demand, after a public outcry, that the Attorney General refer to the Court of Appeal the sentence passed on a paedophile, Craig Sweeney, who was told he could be considered for parole after serving five years of a life sentence. Was the Lord Chief Justice worried by this potential clash between the government and the judiciary? 'Yes,' he said. 'I think that particular incident, with a Home Secretary recently in office, reflects an area of sentencing that is very difficult to get your mind round.'So Reid acted through ignorance, not intent? 'I think it would be understandable if the Home Secretary had not understood the complexities of that case,' Phillips said, before warning that such a constitutional error must not occur again. 'I am not saying I approve of Home Secretaries weighing off about sentences when a remedy is available, which is to refer [the matter] to the Attorney General.'Is the Human Rights Act safe from ministers? 'I don't think it likely anyone will try to mess around with the Human Rights Act. It's an important and successful part of the legal structure.' But Reid is reported to be heading for a showdown with the judiciary over plans to strip some terror suspects of the automatic right to be protected from torture.Does Phillips see any scope for rebalancing the torture prohibition and overriding considerations of national security? 'So far as torture is concerned, there is no scope for balancing. There is an absolute prohibition on torture and on evidence that may have been obtained by torture. That absolute is essential if we are going to fight terrorism, because the battle is ideological. You have to stand by human rights because that is the ideology in which we believe. If we abandon that we abandon a crucial weapon.'So the courts will never repatriate people if they face a risk of torture? 'The test is absolutely clear. Is there a real risk that if a person is sent to country X, he would be subjected to torture or inhumane treatment? There is no scope for bending the facts to give effect to policy.' And issues of national security would never alter that rule? 'No. It's critically important that judges apply the law as it is.'This is his strongest warning against potential ministerial meddling, but he holds other controversial views. He is, for instance, concerned at over-rigid sentences. 'There are one or two areas where judges would like to have a discretion that has been removed,' he said. One was the mandatory five-year minimum for having a gun: 'There have been cases when the firearm is a souvenir someone's father had during the war.'He is also concerned about the growing number of breaches of antisocial behaviour orders. 'Asbos are imposed for very long periods; it's asking a lot of young people to make them comply for two years. You need to be very careful before you send someone to prison for breaching one... If you ask whether it is realistic to expect a young, antisocial person to comply and the answer is no, you're building up trouble.'For a Lord Chief Justice who has spent a year sidestepping controversy, these are robust interventions. He denied this was a time of unprecedented tension between ministers and judges. 'Occasionally an inappropriate comment has been made,' he said. 'But that does not make it the battleground some parts of the media would like to suggest.'It remains to be seen whether all ministers will applaud Phillips's secret awayday. It is unheard of for a Lord Chief Justice to feel so strongly about draconian misuse of custody that he masquerades as a drink-driver and serves the community to prove his point.In a week when Britain's prisons finally face the prospect of putting up the 'full' sign, there could be no stronger warning of a system in crisis.The CV Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers, Lord Chief Justice1962 Called to the bar; 1978 took silk; 1982 appointed a recorder, or part-time judge.1987 Joined High Court; on to Court of Appeal in 1995.1999 Became law lord.2000 Made Master of the Rolls, senior judge in Court of Appeal's civil division.2005 Succeeded Lord Woolf as Lord Chief Justice.Lord Chief Justice duties: Tells Parliament judiciary's views. Oversees judges' training. With Lord Chancellor investigates complaints against judges. Gives judgments in appeals. Heads Sentencing Guidelines Council.Interests: Pioneer of computer use in court. Cycles to and from assignments.