One of the great lies of British politics is the claim of the right to be the strongest opponents of crime. It is the right, not the left, that has taken every opportunity over the last two decades to cut police numbers in London. It's happened again today.During the period of John Major's premiership, the last time the Tories were in charge of London's policing, officer numbers in London fell from 28,000 to 26,677. What we needed then was an increase in police combined with a programme of getting officers into communities where Londoners wanted to see them – the best way to improve police understanding of what's happening in our neighbourhoods and to break down barriers between the police service and the public. This principle underscored the expansion of police officer numbers during most of the last decade.After eight years of expansion, the Tories are now repeat-offending over London's police, reviving the policy of cuts. Today, Boris Johnson's second budget for the Met sees a drop in the mayor's spending on the Met of £16.4m – or 2.48%. There will be a net cut in police numbers of 455 officers between now and the end of the last year of Boris Johnson's fourth budget. Borough commanders must make budget cuts of 5 or 6% year on year. One such commander told this paper that "we are having to lose staff and that is a painful situation".This is despite the announcement today that GLA officers have found a council tax windfall of £5.7m – which the mayor has ruled out using to protect police numbers.Johnson's chief of staff Simon Milton recently told the BBC's Tim Donovan  that "There will be more police when Boris's first term comes to an end in 2012 than there were when he arrived". To arrive at this figure he has to include all the extra police recruited from my last budget and exclude all the police Boris Johnson will cut from his last budget. It is a sleight of hand.When Gordon Brown told MPs that Johnson would cut the police Johnson accused him of misleading the House of Commons. It now turns out that it was the other way round.We should adopt the principle that if there are existing police officer posts and they are doing work that could be done by civilians, those police posts should be redeployed to the front line. The brutality of the budget squeeze under Johnson makes this impossible. The commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Sir Paul Stephenson, told Victoria Derbyshire on 5 Live last week: "I think we've got to be honest about it. Going back many years civilianisation saw the recruitment of skilled but also cheaper employees, and then we could relocate cops outside on the streets. Those days have gone. If we recruited civilians to do a job now that will not be letting a cop go out onto the streets. That will be a one for one change."Johnson's team repeatedly say the issue on police numbers is "quality not quantity". That itself indicates where they want to take to us. The emerging policy in London is not reallocation of existing police posts to the beat but cutting police officer posts altogether.The combination of the cuts being demanded of borough commanders, the pressure on the finances overall and the reduced base of total police officers raises a more fundamental issue: fear that London's successful community policing will be unpicked by the Tories.My own guarantee is that, if I were to be re-elected as mayor, I would reinstate the minimum standard of the currently existing safer neighbourhood teams if there is any watering down of their deployment.Richard Barnes, now deputy mayor, may well have let the cat out of the bag in the runup to the 2008 mayoral election when he said:  "Some wards you would term as 'safe', yet they have full safer neighbourhood teams twiddling their thumbs … At the moment there is a commissioner and mayoral edict that SNT shouldn't be abstracted from their wards. There should be a core number within each ward but they should be a borough resource." That's a recipe for breaking up the dedicated police teams in our neighbourhoods. The impact would almost certainly fall most heavily in outer London.The question was blown wide open at the assembly's budget debate today when Johnson refused to provide a guarantee that these teams will remain in their present form. The safer neighbourhood teams are the backbone of policing in London. They should be defended not broken up and reallocated.