The government's race watchdog announced an investigation into police racism yesterday and said official acceptance of bigots in the ranks existed despite the words of condemnation.Trevor Phillips, the chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, said the time had come for "external independent scrutiny" of each of the 43 forces in England and Wales. It will be the second time since 1998 that the police will be in the dock over racism. The Hutton-style official inquiry, with the CRE using its statutory powers for the first time against the police, comes four years after the Macpherson report made a string of recommendations designed to crack down on institutional racism. Last week's BBC1 film The Secret Policeman, which revealed officers bragging about their racism, showed that much more needed to be done, Mr Phillips said. He told an audience of black police officers: "They knew what they were doing and they clearly existed in a culture of official condemnation, but tacit acceptance of their racism.We mean to stop this once and for all." After dropping his bombshell with Britain's top police officer, Sir John Stevens, sitting just feet away, Mr Phillips told the Guardian that the public reaction of shock to the BBC exposé meant the CRE had to do something. "Even if we thought it was perfect, most police forces haven't carried out Macpherson," he said. "This is a different exercise at a different time. "What we are going to say is that there are things required of you to do your job professionally. We are going to define those and lay them down." The inquiry will examine whether race relation laws are broken during police recruitment, in training regimes and in schools for cadets. It will also investigate the monitoring of conduct, the management of police behaviour, and the way forces are held to account. It will not look at deaths in custody or stop and search policy. Mr Phillips won the home secretary's agreement for the investigation on Wednesday, which will be conducted by a small panel backed up by lawyers and investigators. Mr Phillips said parts would be held in public and pledged initial recommendations by next spring. He said several factors made the inquiry necessary. These include: · The fact that the number of complaints of racism from officers about the police had doubled in five years; · The string of complaints about racial incidents at training schools; and · The revelation that anti-discrimination training at one force which admitted being institutionally racist had been so poor that it risked breaking the law. He said decent officers feared to speak out against the "evil" of racism in the ranks. "The racists will only stop when we visit them with the same fear they want to visit on our minority communities." Chris Fox, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said: "Forces will extend the fullest cooperation to this important work, which we hope will be carried out swiftly."