Three men who filmed themselves gang-raping a 16-year-old girl before dousing her in caustic soda were today sentenced to between six and nine years in jail.The girl, who has learning difficulties and a mental age of nine, was lured into a disused flat being renovated in Tottenham, north London, and repeatedly raped over two hours. She had agreed to go there for sex with a man she knew because she thought it would make her popular, she told Wood Green crown court in north London.Rogel McMorris, 18, now living in Stockwell, south London, was jailed for nine years for rape and grievous bodily harm.Jason Brew, 19, from Tottenham, was jailed for six years and Hector Muaimba, 20, from Walthamstow, was given eight years for rape and robbery. Stephen Bigby, who was charged with rape, was stabbed to death in a gang fight in Oxford Street before he could face trial.Judge Shaun Lyons said the girl's life has been "ruined" and she would have to live with "major, major" physical difficulties."The life of this girl changed irretrievably on 9 January last year," he said. "It changed for the worse. In her eyes and [those] of her mother's her life was ruined. The most severe injuries followed the attack with caustic soda. She has been left with severe post-traumatic stress disorder and scarring to 50% of her body. It is doubtful what form her life will take and whether she can operate fully as a young woman."In a statement the victim said: "I have tried to forgive them for what they have done, but it is so hard. I have to think about what has happened. At this stage I don't know where to begin. I hope one day they will feel sorry for what they have done to me."The men had used their mobile phones to record the suffering of their victim, who cannot be named. They could be heard laughing during the attack. Her attackers – possibly as many as 10 of them – had hoped the powerful corrosive would destroy forensic evidence.The court heard that McMorris poured the caustic soda over her whole body after she resisted the attack. They then fled.A neighbour who heard the girl's cries found her with clumps of skin coming off her body. She was rushed to hospital with more than 50% burns and doctors feared she might die. A year on, she is permanently disfigured, faces further surgery and skin grafts and continues to undergo counselling for nightmares and panic attacks."The trauma, stress, depression and hopelessness have all been too difficult to bear," the victim's uncle said outside the court. "We know the sentence imposed on the perpetrators of this hideous crime, whatever and however we feel about it, will not bring sufficient justice and healing to the victim."