Detectives investigating the murder of a Muslim student who was stabbed 16 times as she walked to university in Essex warn it would be "deeply unhelpful, wrong and dangerous" to conclude she was targeted because of her religion.In an attempt to calm tensions over the unexplained attack, Essex police said it was not known at this stage if the murder of Nahid Almanea was a hate crime.Chief constable Stephen Kavanagh and Nick Alston, the Essex police and crime commissioner, said: "The murder of Nahid Almanea in Colchester on 17 June is a sad and distressing crime. Essex police will continue unrelentingly to pursue all lines of investigation to bring her killer to justice."There has been some commentary on social media and in newspaper and website headlines suggesting that Nahid Almanea was killed because of her religion. This is simply not known at this stage and jumping to conclusions is deeply unhelpful, wrong and dangerous."The warning came a day after police confirmed they were investigating whether Almanea may have been targeted because of her religion.Almanea, a 31-year-old PhD student who arrived in Britain at the beginning of the year, had been walking alone to her University of Essex campus on Tuesday morning. At the time of the attack, she was wearing a full-length robe known as an abaya and a hijab headscarf. A 52-year-old man was released from police custody with no further action on Thursday night as the hunt for the killer gathered pace.The killing has sparked threats of violent revenge on social media websites including Facebook and Twitter, which police officers are monitoring as part of the murder investigation. One of the online threats came from a jihadist purportedly fighting in Syria.The Twitter account of Abu Rashash Britani, which has been suspended, called for a "revenge attack in the UK against those enemies of Islam n [sic] Muslims" and added: "These kuffar [non-Muslims] getting out of hand, dare they touch a #Muslimah. I call upon any brother to take up a knife and kill as they did #colchester".Detectives have not ruled out a link between the student's murder and that of James Attfield, who was stabbed more than 100 times in an unexplained attack in a nearby park on 29 March.In their statement, Kavanagh and Alston said: "Very sadly, we have now had two murders in recent months in Colchester. James Attfield, a young, vulnerable white man, was killed on March 29. Nahid Almanea, a young Muslim woman, was murdered two days ago."We would urge everyone to work with Essex police, who will, supported by local communities, do everything possible to find the person or people responsible for these awful crimes. We know that everyone in Colchester will come together, and remain strong and united in ensuring that the town and the district continues to be safe and welcoming to all."Sara Khan, director of British Muslim women's human rights organisation Inspire, criticised police for saying within hours of the murder that it may have been religiously motivated."I think it was slightly premature to say that until they have concrete evidence to prove that was the case," she said.Khan said she had been contacted by British Muslim women who were concerned about being abused in the street in the wake of the murder. "We get a lot of women telling us on a daily basis how they fear doing ordinary things like standing at a bus stop. Especially when anything anti-Muslim is in the media, you see this spike of abuse. It's incredibly worrying."I've had social media contact [from British Muslim women] saying , 'We are fearful. It's going to make us extra anxious for the next couple of weeks while the story is in the press'. It's a real fear that they have."