Northumbria police top the national league for use of Taser stun guns, according to the latest quarterly figures from the Home Office.Published today, the figures show that Tasers were used 250 times by specially trained units between January and March 2009 – compared with 187 times during the previous three months.The quarterly statistics are the first to be released since all police forces were authorised to give Tasers to non-firearms officers who have been trained to use the stun guns.Earlier this year the Home Office authorised the police in England and Wales to buy an extra 6,000 Taser guns at a cost of £8m. The decision followed a 12-month trial in 10 forces to extend their use to trained frontline officers.The Tasers fire needle-tipped darts up to 6 metres (21ft) and deliver a disabling, 50,000-volt shock. They provide police with a non-lethal alternative to firearms when dealing with violent criminals. But Amnesty International has warned that the stun guns are potentially lethal.The figures published todayshow that Tasers have been used in 4,818 incidents since they were introduced in April 2004. In the vast majority of incidents it was enough for the police officer to draw the Taser or to "red dot" (aim at) the offender to defuse the situation. But the statistics show that they were actually fired in 1,407 incidents and used to "drive-stun" in a further 185. Drive-stun is when the device is held against a person without firing the darts, and is intended to cause pain without incapacitating.The top five forces for Taser use since April 2004 are Northumbria (704 times) followed by the Metropolitan police (700), West Yorkshire (345), Humberside (184) and Avon and Somerset (173). Northumbria serves a population of 1.4 million, compared with more than 7.5 million served by the Met.Northumbria police used Tasers in 147 incidents in the first three months of this year, compared with 71 times by the Met.A Home Office minister, David Hanson, said he was determined to give the police all the tools they needed to tackle violent crime. "Tasers have helped to defuse dangerous situations where people could have been seriously injured or even killed," he said. "Often just the threat of the device is enough. On many occasions, drawing or aiming a Taser has proved enough of a deterrent."But the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Tom Brake, said they should only be used by a few specially trained officers and not be standard issue. "The government has put large numbers of Tasers in the hands of police officers without any debate," he said."Given the increase in Taser use and the fact they have killed hundreds of people in the United States, we must have a full public debate before we slip any further down the slope to fully armed US-style policing."