A mechanic has been jailed for a minimum of 27 years for raping and strangling a trainee lawyer in an act of “unspeakable wickedness”. Peter Kibisu, 24, attacked Elizabeth Nnyanzi, 31, in her bedroom after a night out. He then tried to cover his tracks by reporting her death on 14 August last year after a full day’s work at a BMW dealership. It was only after his story about an intruder at the family home in Harrow, north-west London, unravelled that Kibisu admitted his crimes.The tearful family of Nnyanzi gathered at the Old Bailey, where Kibisu was sentenced to life with a minimum term of 27 years. The judge Richard Marks QC said: “She was a quite outstanding young woman of immense talent and ability with a life of huge potential ahead of her. She was variously described as caring, tenacious, hard working, beautiful and graceful.”He told Kibisu: “What you did that morning was truly shocking. Your actions were those of unspeakable wickedness and it is frankly hard to comprehend how you could have done that to anybody, still less a young woman like her.” Mark Heywood QC, proseucting, said the defendant had been living with the Nnyanzi family for about nine months, during which time Nnyanzi regarded him as a much younger “cousin”. At the time of the killing, her family members were all away and she was alone in the house with Kibisu. Heywood said: “The defendant returned home to where he was living with very close family friends having been out for almost the entire night.“He was very probably affected by drink and in the very short time before he then left once more – no more than one and a half hours – he took very grave advantage of those who had given him a home by first sexually attacking and then killing Elizabeth Nnyanzi, one of the daughters of the house who was then in the property in her bedroom.” He tried to cover his tracks by sending a text message to the victim en route to work saying: “Sorry I had to leave. I think you were in the shower at the time.”At about 6pm that night, Kibisu dialled 999 to report that he had come home from work and found Nnyanzi not breathing. On arrival, officers found her lying dead in her bedroom wearing a jumper dress and underwear that had been put on inside out.The patio door was ajar and tool marks suggested an intruder, while Kibisu appeared to be in “extreme distress, crying and sobbing”, the prosecutor said. Officers found he had noticeable marks on his face, neck and arms which he put down to work-related injuries and his barber. Kibisu went on to break the news of Nnyanzi’s death to her sister Cressida, who then contacted other family members. He was initially interviewed as a significant witness but was arrested within days for the murder, the court heard. A pair or bloodied boxer shorts belonging to the defendant were found in a bin and Kibisu’s DNA was found under the victim’s broken fingernails, showing how she had tried to fight him off during the attack. One neighbour told police he heard high-pitched noises coming from an upstairs room of the house on the morning of Nnyanzi’s death. They were at first “shocked” and then seemed in “panic or fear”, with the phrase “oh my God” being used repeatedly.