A knife-wielding murderer who targets lone women joggers in public parks could strike again, police in north London warned yesterday.The alarm was sounded by Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Shatford, who revealed striking similarities in two attacks, the latest of which occurred on Friday evening. Officers are linking the fatal stabbing in February of American artist Margaret Muller, 27, in Victoria Park, Hackney, to the wounding of a 39-year-old woman in Clissold Park, Stoke Newington, less than two miles away. "While we don't wish to be alarmist in any way I would ask people, particularly women, using parks in the area to be alert and aware of their surroundings," Mr Shatford said. "On each occasion, a knife has been used... I will work on the assumption the person who killed Margaret is also responsible for this attack until we can prove otherwise." He said Friday's attack, like the killing in February, "was totally motiveless and there was no indication of robbery or sexual assault as the cause". Both women were petite, Mr Shatford added as he stood near the scene of Friday's attack in Clissold Park. Whoever carried out the knifings "clearly needed to feel that he had power over his victim". The life of the latest victim was saved only by the presence of a doctor who was walking in the park with her children. After receiving first aid for a severed artery, the victim remained in a critical condition. Mr Shatford said: "On Friday evening just after 5pm a 39-year-old professional lady was jogging in the park by the lakes when she was made to feel uneasy by a young man of whom we have a very, very vague description at the moment." He was thought to have been white, wearing a hooded top and in his early twenties. "At some stage that individual ran up behind her and knifed her in the torso. "The lady had a scuffle with this individual, ran away and managed to escape from his grasp. [She] then became conscious of getting wet around where she thought she had been thumped and felt immediately unwell and fell to the ground. "Very, very shortly after, a lady doctor in the park with children went to her assistance... because of that prompt action by the doctor it probably stopped this from being an actual murder investigation." Five people were arrested, but later released, by police investigating the murder of Miss Muller. Fifty officers have now been drafted in to the investigation. The latest victim, under police protection in her hospital bed, is described as being "extremely anxious about what happened ... knowing her attacker is still out there she is feeling very vulnerable". No weapon has been recovered.