They work with the efficiency and drive of a big corporation. Markets are grown, career paths followed and at the helm sits a figure of unquestioned authority. According to new government-sponsored research, many of Britain's criminal youth gangs could exist, in other circumstances, as models of commerce and their leaders might be hailed as captains of industry.Instead, the report reveals in unprecedented detail how their operations are drawing a generation of youngsters into the life of drugs, guns and lawlessness which is blighting Britain's inner cities. The research focuses on Nottingham, where a number of so-called black-on-black shootings and the emergence of a string of gangs has prompted widespread concern. At the request of black community groups and with funding from the Home Office's active communities fund, a team led by researcher Ian Joseph spent four months talking to black youths in three areas of Nottingham and the professionals desperate to stop them becoming involved in violent conflict. Mr Joseph's study establishes that gangs are forming on three levels. At the top of the structure are "economic" gangs. These are highly professional and are behind major crime, such as big-time drug smuggling and distribution. They have a strict hierarchy and a structure which mirrors legitimate businesses. Those considered to be good workers are formally promoted to more responsible and more lucrative roles. Economic gangs make vast sums and use extreme violence where necessary to protect their markets. At the bottom of the structure are "peer" gangs, loose collectives of youths who come together through friendship, family ties or geographical affiliation. They are not involved in major crime or violence but many commit nuisance offences. In between the two are "precursory" gangs - peer group gangs which evolve so that at least some of their operation mirrors the structure and scale of activity seen in economic gangs. They commit lesser offences, such as small-time drug dealing, burglaries, muggings, shoplifting and car thefts. The research sees Nottingham as merely typical of many inner-city areas. Other towns were also examined, though in less depth. One 17-year-old told researchers the drift to criminality was logical. "When I see them robbing and shooting, I know it 'cos the little benefits can't feed you ... and buy all them games and things the youngsters want these days."  Vulnerable Those seen as particularly vulnerable are the "strong-willed" children of single mothers who themselves have few support mechanisms, those who have no male role models or authority figures, and youngsters involved in custody struggles. Deprivation and a lack of adequate support from statutory agencies, including schools, are other prime factors. Researchers found many of those drawn to gangs have traits which lead to success in mainstream society - "ambition, innovation, hard work, drive" - but instead they drift into or opt for "alternative lifestyles". "They attached symbolic meaning to conspicuous consumption; for most the failure to acquire these confers on them low status. They were very aware of social and economic factors they saw as preventing them from making it and legitimately acquiring these tokens of success." Most youths had clear ideas on the difference between right and wrong yet continued, despite the risk of being physically harmed or brought to justice. "Gangs are seen by many as a means to an end, providing the potential to quickly and easily make large sums of money. The potential costs and benefits of gang involvement are carefully calculated." Drug dealing, in particular, is regarded as profitable on all levels. Apart from the income, it carries "symbolic status". One 19-year-old told researchers: "You would see the big man and look up to them 'cos they would be dress crisp, have a nice ride and carry respect. You wanted to be like him. When you are young and hanging with your click and he ask you to do him a favour and drop something off, you are glad. You get big up and he gives you ready cash." Researchers found that street knowledge is prized above all. "Knowledge of how to acquire stolen goods, being a drug courier, the possession of an offensive weapon (even if it is not used) brought social kudos with peers and a label of being streetwise and capable." They discovered very young children becoming hooked in this way. One respondent told researchers about a 10-year-old who was working as a drug runner. Girls are also being sucked in. Many are in their own gangs and compete to associate with the wealthiest and most successful male collectives. Having a baby with a prominent member of a male gang is seen as a way of sharing in his wealth and status. Legend, aka Kama Kazi, is a 23-year-old rapper and a youth worker in the St Anne's area of Nottingham. He says his contemporaries lack the grounding and knowledge of their culture which would equip them to deal confidently with mainstream society. "Two years ago I was one of the people I am trying to help now," he said. "People don't understand why they walk the streets and carry guns. It is because they have a sense of hopelessness. We all want the same things. We want a mansion and a nice car. It is about convincing them that there are more options and other ways of getting those things." Legend says young men feel trapped. "The common misconception is that people who sell drugs or carry guns want to do it, but that's not true. By the time someone has robbed them or put a gun into their mouths while stealing their drugs, they want a way out." Mr Joseph, who will release the report in the autumn, said only action at community level would have an impact. "These young people need the positive input of significant adult figures in their lives. They also need diversions at a much earlier stage. They have potential, but the solutions need to come from communities themselves. Too often there is a top-down approach imposed on them. Unless communities receive help to devise their own solutions that work from the bottom up, the future may be very bleak indeed." · Serious Youth Conflict, Action Research Consultants: email info@arconsultants.eu.com Drugs, guns and lawlessnessThe gangs Peer Arrangements informal. Alliances forged at school, in neighbourhoods or at youth clubs. Often involved in nuisance offences. Precursory Often progress incrementally from the recreational activity of peer gangs to more serious crime and the more rigid structure of economic gangs. Economic Tightly knit groups with strict hierarchy. Involvement only possible through link to existing criminals. Recruits must prove "motivation, confidence, intelligence, charisma, physical strength and agility". Senior members achieve enormous economic gains from business deals and may have legitimate businesses. Some have national or international connections. The violence  Small-time drug dealers are responsible for most shootings, although the brutality used by economic gangs will be most extreme. This can include ceremonial shootings, torture and cuttings to the face. Many such incidents are never reported to the authorities as that would prompt investigation. Extreme violence used for retribution or betrayal. Knives might be used to support another gang member involved in a feud, although personal rows can involve entire gangs fighting each other.