Police in 180 towns and cities were preparing today to hand out £80 on-the-spot fines to people found urinating, vomiting or fighting in the streets, as emergency services braced themselves for the drunken climax of the office Christmas party season.Surrey police said it would order "Black Friday" offenders to clear up their mess while military-style mobile medical units were being prepared in Swansea and Cardiff pub quarters.Paul Evans, the head of the police standard's unit, said "there will be consequences" for those who sell and consume alcohol irresponsibly. "This is a period where people tend to drink more. We are not being Grinches or killjoys, but we want this to be a safe holiday season," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Licensing minister Richard Caborn said: "The message is stark and simple. If you brawl in the street, urinate in a doorway or are sick in the kerb, you could be slapped with an £80 fine. We're not messing around. We want decent, law-abiding people to be able to get home safely from their Christmas and New Year's parties." The Home Office crackdown focuses on more than double the number of locations targeted in a similar move in the summer that led to over 5,600 arrests, and police have since been given tougher powers to deal with drunken yobs. They can now impose on-the-spot fines for under-18s caught buying alcohol and those selling it to them, and the penalty for drunk and disorderly behaviour has been increased from £50 to £80. "We know that the concerted blitz to tackle alcohol-fuelled violence and sales to under-18s over the summer worked," said Home Office minister Hazel Blears. "The levels of serious violence decreased in the 92 policing areas that took part and many in the alcohol industry were prompted to act more responsibly, abandoning 'all you can drink' type promotions and reviewing their policies on not serving alcohol to under-18s.""Christmas is a time when people should be able to have a few drinks and enjoy themselves, but that should not be an excuse for violent and anti-social behaviour by a minority, spoiling enjoyment for everyone else," she added. In Guildford, Surrey, police said a "water bus" initiative would be in operation. A water tanker will be on hand and people found urinating or being sick in the streets would be given a brush and told to clear up after themselves.Paramedics in Swansea and Cardiff were setting up military-style mobile units in an attempt to take the strain off over-stretched A&E units.In the summer campaign, police visited more than 30,500 premises of which 4% were found to have committed an offence. Of 1,864 sting operations on targeted establishments, 45% of on licence premises and 31% of off licences were found to be selling to under-18s. Police issued 4,081 fixed penalty notices, made 5,658 arrests and confiscated alcohol from 3,292 under-18s.