The chip van is doing a roaring trade, as is the ice-cream vendor. The hot dog man was here earlier, but soon sold out and he has gone to fetch fresh supplies. A quiet side street has become a makeshift taxi rank, bringing fresh waves of onlookers to the scene. In all, more than 100 spectators have gathered in the sunshine outside a rundown end-of-terrace house in the once prosperous mining and steel town of Merthyr Tydfil, south Wales, to watch the unfolding of the macabre event that has rapidly become the hottest show in town.It began in March with the discovery of the remains of a new-born baby in the attic of a house on the edge of the town's notorious Gurnos estate, but peaked last week when the bodies of two more infants were found in the nearby home of a retired nurse and community activist, Ann Mahoney. Mrs Mahoney, 63, was arrested on Tuesday in connection with the discovery of the first body and questioned for three days before being charged. Wearing a smart dark blue suit and gold-rimmed glasses, the pensioner spoke only to confirm her personal details during a hearing at Merthyr Tydfil magistrate's court on Friday. She was charged with concealing the birth of her own child by secretly disposing of its body. The charge comes under the Offences Against the Person Act. The offence is alleged to have taken place between 1 January 1951 and 20 March 2005. Mrs Mahoney has been released on bail and, rather than returning to her home on the Gurnos estate, will be living in a bail hostel for her own safety. She will have to observe a strict curfew and must report to a police station on a daily basis. She will return to court on 19 May. Mrs Mahoney has lived on the Gurnos estate all her life. She is well known for her community work, most of it involving young people. She had set up the local football team. A few years ago she won a crime prevention citizen of the year award. Some residents refer to her as a 'pillar of the community' and praise her good works. Others have a different opinion of her. 'She was a bit of a gossip,' said Samantha Ongun, 24, who lives nearby. 'It's ironic because [if she were here], she'd be the person doing the most talking about it.' The police investigation is continuing and attention is now being focused on the house in Crabapple Close, where Mrs Mahoney lived for 30 years, raising her two daughters. Three years ago she moved a few hundred yards away to Penyfan Close, where the body of the first baby was found. Just before Christmas she moved again to her current home in Forsythia Close. It was here where the bodies of the last two babies were found. Police have not yet identified these two babies or their mothers. The back garden of the house at Crabapple Close backs onto a field and the simple metal fence provides little cover for the police search team. The public are able to look on as officers drill a series of holes and use tiny red flags to mark the areas identified for investigation. A spokesman for South Wales Police said they hope to be able to erect a screen before full excavations begin.Despite the excitement among the crowd, residents of the Gurnos are angry about the fact that their home is once again in the news. The estate is vast - the third largest in Europe - but is also one of the most deprived areas of the country, with disproportionately high unemployment and many families living just below the poverty line. Perched on a hill overlooking the lush green valleys, the estate is so large that different areas of it have entirely different characters. The area where the first body was found is new, built 10 years ago. Part of a quiet cul-de-sac of red-brick homes, all the properties have burglar alarms and most have nearly new cars in the driveways. Properties here change hands for around £80,000 - well below the national average but still almost twice that of homes in other parts of the estate. It is a trouble-free mini-community. 'It's a very cosy area,' says Christopher Evans, a nursing assistant at the nearby hospital. 'We all know each other pretty well. It's hard to believe something like this could happen in this part of the Gurnos.' Higher up the hill in older parts of the estate are pockets of deprivation where drugs and crime are rife. This part of the estate continues to suffer from the economic and social blight that began when the traditional industries of coal and steel were closed down in the Eighties. When The Observer visited the estate, an old car driven at speed by two boys not more than 12 years old was racing around, terrifying some of the residents. Over the years the estate has become synonymous with trouble, but in 1995 it became the site of one of the most notorious murders in Welsh history. Dianne Jones, 21, and her daughters Shauna, two, and Sarah Jane, 13 months, were killed in an arson attack on their home. The door of the flat was ripped off and petrol poured into the hallway and ignited. Late last year South Wales police carried out one of their biggest-ever drug operations on the Gurnos, arresting 16 dealers who were accused of turning the estate into a virtual no-go area. The dealers received a total of 97 years' imprisonment. Four of them were members of the Seal family, who turned their home into a fortress-like crack den responsible for dozens of sales each day. Matthew Seal would make crack in the upstairs bedroom, which was sealed off from the rest of the house. His mother, Pauline, brother Paul and sister Julie were in charge of dealing with the customers. The deals would take place in front of the youngest member of the family, an 11-year-old girl. But one resident objected to the negative image of his home. 'The problems we have here are no worse than those you get anywhere else,' said, Mark Davies, 42. 'There were bad problems in the Seventies and Eighties and some of the stigma still sticks. But I've been here 11 years and it's the best place I've ever lived. If it was really as bad as people say, I'd have moved years ago.'