Mothers accused of killing their babies may be spared prosecution and dealt with outside the criminal process, the new director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald QC, has suggested. Mr Macdonald said there was "an attraction" in the way such cases were handled in some European countries, where they bypassed the courts. "In other jurisdictions, these cases don't come into the criminal justice system. They go before a family law panel," he told journalists at his first briefing on future plans for the Crown Prosecution Service. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, has ordered a review of 258 cases in the last 10 years where a parent or carer has been convicted of killing a child under two. Mr Macdonald has pledged to review the 15 pending prosecutions personally to decide whether they should go ahead. The review follows an appeal court judgment quashing the conviction of Angela Cannings for murdering her two baby sons. Lord Justice Judge said prosecutions should not be brought in future if reputable medical experts disagreed about the cause of death and there was no other cogent evidence. Mr Macdonald said: "One can hardly imagine a worse miscarriage of justice than a woman who has lost her baby, is then convicted of murder, and then sentenced to life in prison." He said that in civil cases there were sometimes joint expert witnesses who would not give evidence for either side but would come to an independent conclusion. But in criminal cases, the view has always been that the defendant is entitled to fight his or her corner and instruct his or her expert witness. Mr Macdonald asked: "In an adversarial hearing where you have experts on each side, how is the jury to determine which expert is right?" He had asked chief crown prosecutors around the country to do a trawl of pending cases. "Where a chief crown prosecutor takes the view that he or she wishes to proceed, it has to come to me. No case can go ahead unless I approve it." It was unlikely that all the cases would involve cot deaths, as in the Cannings case. Some would be battered baby cases, he said. Mr Macdonald called for care in legislating for the proposed new offence of "familial homicide", to avoid criminalising battered women who are too cowed by a partner's violence to identify him as the killer of their child. The new offence of causing or allowing the death of a child, contained in the domestic violence, victims and witnesses bill, is intended to close a loophole which allows parents to get away with murder by blaming each other or remaining silent about the child's death. With no evidence as to which parent inflicted the injuries, both must be acquitted under current law. Mr Macdonald said: "It's quite difficult to design a defence to cater for the case where the woman herself is battered." Care had to be taken to avoid criminalising "a category of defendants the public doesn't want criminalised". His warning echoes comments by the Labour peer and criminal QC Helena Kennedy during the bill's second reading debate last December. She told peers she had represented a battered young woman on trial with her partner for causing the death of a baby. "She was terrorised by a deeply violent, psychopathic man. Eventually, evidence came to light showing she was so traumatised that she was unable, even at the police station, to feel free from his power and to speak of his behaviour. She was in such terror of him. "When someone is so tyrannical, there could be a failure of justice if both partners are automatically convicted on the basis that they remained silent. "I hope that in committee we will tease out that charge to allow for circumstances in which there clearly is domestic violence of such a level that one of the partners might feel incapable of speaking out."