In the summer of 1966, at the age of 14, Graham Wilmer fell in love. He met 14-year-old Nicky Allen through her brother Martin, his closest friend from his Catholic school. Nicky recalls today how "Graham and I walked by the river, held hands, stole the occasional kiss. He was attractive and fun and clever."Graham remembers it with the same happy nostalgia. "I was in love for the first time. I was in heaven." At the time he was also enjoying life at the Salesian College in Chertsey, Surrey, a private school run by an order of Catholic priests called the Salesians. Today it is a state school known as the Salesian School. The regime was harsh: "Minor misdemeanours were punished by beatings of one sort or another, by hand, fist, belt or cane."One day Nicky realised he had gone cold on her. She was upset, but she was young and beautiful, and there were plenty more fish in the sea. It was to be more than 30 years before she learned why Graham suddenly felt too dirty and ashamed to touch her. He was withdrawing from her brother Martin's friendship, too. His school work went to pieces. He sank to the bottom of the class.What happened to him was this. At the end of that summer of 1966 when Graham and Nicky were in love, Graham returned to school and a young science teacher called Hugh Madley befriended him, taking him for rides in his car and coming to his home to give him extra maths lessons. It was the start of two years of regular sexual abuse. The 21-year-old teacher warned his 15-year-old pupil that if he told anyone, he would not be believed.In the summer of 1967 Madley persuaded Graham's parents to let him take the boy on a camping holiday in South Wales. Graham did not want to go, but his parents must have felt that the friendship of this caring young teacher might have a good effect on their increasingly wayward and miserable son. There the tearful schoolboy was regularly required to perform sex acts with his teacher.The next year a dreadful tragedy brought Graham to a crisis point. Nicky's brother Martin was injured playing rugby, and died two days later. Martin's father asked Graham to be an altar boy at the requiem mass. This created a dreadful dilemma. If Graham served at the mass, he would be expected to receive holy communion. But every Catholic knew that it was a terrible thing to receive communion while in a state of mortal sin. So, at last, he went to confession, and told one of the Salesian priests his story. The priest asked him to repeat his story outside the seal of the confessional, so that he could take the matter further. Graham agreed.He was interrogated by three priests: the headmaster, the rector, and a third, Father Wiliams, who, though Graham did not know it, was the head of the Salesian order in Britain. Williams asked strange questions: when Graham had started to masturbate and whether he had sexual fantasies about other boys. It seemed designed to suggest to Graham that the whole affair was his fault.Williams then took a series of incredible decisions. He told Graham to mention the matter to no one (even his parents remained unaware). Though Madley owned up, Williams simply asked for a promise that he would not do it again. He gave Madley a job in another school, the Salesian school in Battersea, south London, where he taught until he taking early retirement on health grounds, seven years ago.When Graham failed most of his O-levels that summer, the school refused to let him come back and retake them. There followed years of dead-end jobs and failed relationships with women.Eventually he stumbled into a job he was good at: writing corporate books and brochures. A lot of his clients had a military connection - and Wilmer, a jovial man who had played rugby when young, seemed to thrive in the macho atmosphere. He met his wife, Barbara, they had four children, and he told no one his secret. He buried it so deep that he almost thought it was gone.But in 1998, the day after his eldest son left home to go to university, he burst into unaccountable tears. "I was staring at the computer, and nothing was happening." It was clear that he had suffered a serious nervous breakdown. Barbara, a teacher, knew that, for a time at least, she would be the family's only breadwinner. When she finally prised the secret out of him, she saw that he would not rest until he had brought Madley to justice.Today the present head of the Salesians in Britain, Father Michael Winstanley, admits the abuse. "We have apologised for what happened." But it has taken all Wilmer's obsessive anger to bring the institution to this point. When he first contacted the school, in 1998, he spelled Madley's name incorrectly as "Madely" and the school wrote back saying it had no record of ever employing a teacher with that name. Three years later the Salesians were still trading on this error. A case summary prepared by their lawyers for a mediation in 2001 between them and Wilmer said: "It is a matter of concern to [the Salesians] that at the outset of Mr Wilmer's complaint he was unable to recollect correctly the teacher's name."This document also says that the Salesian order "does not accept liability for any claims which are Mr Madley's responsibility". Those of the priests who were still alive could not remember a thing, apparently. The order offered Wilmer £20,000 if he signed a document promising to take the matter no further. He thought of the huge debts that he had built up in the three years he had been unable to work, and took the money.But he pursued Madley. The teacher confessed what he had done in a series of letters, then in telephone conversations with a friend of Wilmer's, which were secretly recorded, and finally in interviews with the police. He was sent for trial in 2004.Now Wilmer felt an urgent need to tell Nicky Allen why he had so suddenly gone cold on her. He traced her through the old girls' association of her convent school. She was now married with four children and four grandchildren. She was pleased to see him, and went to Madley's trial to support Wilmer.The trial collapsed on a technicality. Since Madley was clearly distressed, and claimed to have attempted suicide, the police, according to the judge, ought not to have interviewed him without "an appropriate adult" present. The telephone conversations were not evidence since they had been recorded without his knowledge. This left only what Mr Justice Reid called "the testimony, for what it is worth, of Mr Wilmer". And he was "extremely unimpressed" with Wilmer. The justice that he had sought almost obsessively for six years was snatched away from him.So he wrote a book, Conspiracy of Faith, in which he told the full story and named Madley. The Salesians tried to block it on the grounds that Wilmer had promised to stay quiet when he accepted their £20,000, but it was published in February. Madley's local newspaper quoted him as saying: "I was prepared to go to prison for it. I think I did it." The Salesians then pledged £10,000-a-year for four years to the Lantern Project, the charity Wilmer has set up to help adult victims of child abuse.But the Lantern Project may simply presage more woes for the Salesians. It has been flooded with allegations from other former pupils of Salesian schools. I asked Winstanley if Madley was the only child abuser employed in Salesian schools. There was a long pause before he replied: "He is the only abuser who has confessed."Madley, now a 63-year-old bachelor, sounded as if he was weeping for much of the hour I spoke to him on the telephone. He claimed that since the newspaper article appeared, he has been spat on in the street, and told me of suicide attempts.He agreed that he had sexually abused Wilmer, but insisted that the 14-year-old had led him on. "I dispute that I initiated things back in 1967." Why did the Salesians gave him a job in another school? "I can only think that Father Williams trusted me never to do it again." He insisted that he has kept this promise.Contrary to the trial judge's assessment, I found Wilmer as impressive a witness as I've met. Much of the time he sounds like what he was before 1998 - a writer who mixes largely with soldiers and businessmen, bluff and entertaining. When he talks of Madley and his tortuous dealing with the Salesians, his voice becomes lower, his sentences longer, and his devotion to the detail, his ability to quote verbatim from a mountain of letters and documents, signal the depth of his obsession.In the small garden of his house in New Brighton, Merseyside, is a one-room office, built with a lottery grant, which houses the Lantern Project. Above his desk, among the family pictures, there is a picture of one of the project's first clients. "We couldn't save Liam, he killed himself, but his family are still close friends," he says.Wilmer takes no income from the project. He has found a new profession: fostering children and training other foster parents in the management of damaged children. He took on the first three children in 2005, and two of them are still with them. They are now nine and 12. "Those two are now stabilised," he says with satisfaction. · Conspiracy of Faith is published by Lutterworth Press. The Lantern Project is at www.lanternproject.org.uk