The key to the current prisons "crisis" is not to build two more prisons - as has been announced by the home secretary, John Reid, but rather to close some down. And let's not just start with closing two, but aim much higher and suggest that 30 should be shut. And, by shutting these prisons down we would in all likelihood see the crime rate fall, and by investing in community penalties deliver better value for money for the taxpayer.Seems extraordinary, doesn't it? How can closing prisons and stopping sending offenders to jail actually reduce the crime rate?In fact, this argument isn't extraordinary at all, but is based on a careful analysis of everything that we know about prisons and their relationship - or otherwise to the crime rate, the impact of a prison sentence on future offending, and the benefits that we as a society gain by investing in community punishments.Take, for example, the impact that a prison sentence has on future offending. We now know that one out of every two adult men and four out of every five young offenders have reoffended within two years of leaving prison, largely because prison can do nothing to overcome their drug and alcohol addiction; their lack of work skills; their homelessness; their chaotic and often despairing lifestyles, and that prison further stigmatises and excludes them from society. Nor does prison help over half of those who are currently incarcerated in the sentenced prison population to overcome the fact that they have a reading age of less than 11.Look at those figures again and stop and think about what they mean in relation to any argument that supports building more prisons. Would you invest in two more hospitals that killed one out of every two of its patients? Would you invest in two more schools that failed to teach four out of every five of its pupils to read and write? Of course not. Figures like these reveal that prison is a failed social institution and that we should have nothing to do with increasing their number.But of course, there's politics to think about. Closing prisons does not win votes - well, at least not now, although I would remind Dr Reid that a previous home secretary (Winston Churchill) did just that and went on to become prime minister.Between 1908 and 1938 the prison population of England and Wales halved from 21,000 to just over 11,000 - the longest, sustained period of decarceration that the world has ever witnessed. That decrease can be attributed to many factors - from the personal commitment of politicians such as Churchill (who had himself been imprisoned), to the impact of the imprisonment of middle-class conscientious objectors to the first world war who would go on to help found the Howard League for Penal Reform.Whatever the cause, the reduction in prison numbers between 1908-38 meant that over 30 prisons had to close. If we could do it then, I see no reason why we can't do it now - all we need is a reforming home secretary.