On New Year's Eve 2000, two men walked into a Catholic church in Castries, the capital of the Caribbean island of St Lucia. They doused the congregation with petrol and set them alight. The priest, Father Charles Gaillard, was burned to death, and a nun, Sister Theresa Egan, beaten unconscious with a torch and killed. During the trial, the two men claimed to be Rastafarian prophets told by God to carry out the attack because of corruption in the Catholic church. The murders were, according to the judge who three years later sentenced Kim John and Francis Phillip to be hanged, two of the worst in the island's history.Yesterday, Edward Fitzgerald QC succeeded in his attempt to convince the privy council (the final court of appeal for many former British colonies) that the death sentence should not be carried out. The decision did more than save two lives; it will change criminal jurisprudence across the English-speaking Caribbean.Fitzgerald, who staunchly opposes capital punishment, seems to relish defending, if not the indefensible, then some of the most loathed people ever to appear in court. In the past, he has represented the child killer Mary Bell; Moors murderer Myra Hindley; Jon Venables, one of the killers of toddler James Bulger; Maxine Carr, former girlfriend of Soham murderer Ian Huntley; and Abu Hamza, the controversial Muslim cleric. In each case he argued his clients' anonymity should be guaranteed when they were released so that they could rebuild their lives. "Some people ask, 'Why are you spending your life defending terrible people?'" says Fitzgerald, who spends much of the interview pacing restlessly around a conference room table at Doughty Street Chambers in London, preoccupied with looming cases. "The answer is that everybody is entitled to a fair trial. It would be terrible if we stopped defending people because they're unpopular." Furthermore, "the legal process is an attempt to civilise our emotions of revenge. Anything that's against lynch law seems to me to be a good thing."This principle has governed his representation of his most controversial clients, Hamza and Hindley. Last year Fitzgerald twice defended Hamza, the former imam of Finsbury Park mosque, against charges of inciting murder and racial hatred. He argued that it was impossible for Hamza to get a fair trial when a hate campaign had been whipped up against him, and handed out copies of the Qur'an to jurors, explaining that it was the source of all Hamza's words. He told them: "It is a big ask to say that quoting the words of the Qur'an amounts to an incitement to murder." He added: "Hamza has said things which most people will find deeply offensive and hateful. But he is not on trial for describing England as a toilet or denouncing democracy or dreaming of a caliph in the White House. There is no crime of simply being offensive." But last February an Old Bailey jury rejected Fitzgerald's arguments and convicted Hamza, who was jailed for seven years. In November, Hamza lost his appeal against his conviction. Later this year Fitzgerald hopes to get it overturned at the House of Lords.Does he not believe in retributive justice - punishment for its own sake? "Punishment is legitimate and expiation is probably good, but that isn't the end of the story. There are two views. One is that if you change during punishment, civil society should recognise that change by giving you the opportunity to be released. Which is my view. The other is that the fact that you've changed is good for you, but it doesn't necessarily mean you should be let off your punishment. I believe that people do change."The chambers, founded by Geoffrey Robertson QC, have been described as the powerhouse of the liberal legal establishment. Their barristers include leading human rights advocates Baroness Helena Kennedy and Keir Starmer. "Like a lot of people here, one wanted to work with prisoners and mental patients. That remains something that makes me want to get out of bed in the morning."In the Hindley case, Fitzgerald told the law lords: "There is no dispute that her crimes were of the utmost gravity and deserving of punishment. But there is uncontradictable evidence that she has reformed and presents no danger to society." He argued that when Hindley was jailed in 1966 for the murders of Lesley Ann Downey and Edward Evans, as well as for helping Brady in the killing of John Kilbride, the judge handed down a life sentence, but that did not warrant her being jailed until her death. In particular, Fitzgerald argued that to allow a politician, rather than judges, to decide how long a murderer should serve before they can apply to the parole board for release breached the guarantee of a fair trial.Ultimately, Fitzgerald's advocacy made little difference to Hindley, who died on November 15 2002, having been in prison for 37 years. Days later, the then home secretary David Blunkett agreed to hand over to judges his power to set minimum jail terms for convicted murderers, after seven law lords accepted Fitzgerald's argument and ruled that the home secretary's role breached the European convention on human rights.In defending Hindley, Fitzgerald was following his grandfather-in-law, the seventh Earl of Longford, Frank Pakenham. Longford was a Labour cabinet minister and social reformer who campaigned until his death in 2001 for Hindley's parole and was branded "Lord Wrongford" by the tabloids for doing so. "He wasn't at all the kind of nutty Christian he is portrayed as," recalls Fitzgerald, whose wife, Rebecca, is Longford's granddaughter and whose mother is Lady Antonia Fraser. "He had a philosophical and political passion for reformation. He was very interested in [Richard] Nixon, who had reformed."Was he inspirational? "Gosh, absolutely," says Fitzgerald. Longford was a founding member of the New Bridge, an organisation set up in 1956 to help prisoners stay in touch with society and ultimately integrate into it. "I have always been interested in this kind of thing, but undoubtedly Frank Longford encouraged me to keep going. There are times when you think you will move away from this area of law and he convinced me not to."Does he not accept that some criminals will always be too dangerous to release? "Of course! But we have fought for hearings at which, when people are to be released, the panel asks questions to find out which ones are really dangerous. Often the one who lies low, is plausible, gets out. The one who kicks up a fuss demanding their rights is often not dangerous, but they rarely get out because everybody finds them too annoying."Fitzgerald specialises in judicial review, criminal law, mental health law and European human rights law and has worked on some of the grimmest cases ever to be heard in British courts, becoming in the process one of the most respected international advocates. Since being called to the bar in 1978, he has won many professional awards, the latest being Human Rights Silk of the Year at the Chambers and Partners Bar Awards in 2005. When in 1998 he won an award for his contribution to criminal justice, Lord Justice Schiemann said: "He could have made a fortune had he chosen to devote his talents to other fields of practice." Not to mention become a judge.But Fitzgerald has not. Instead, he has remained true to the concern for prisoners' rights, young offenders and the possibility of rehabilitation that inspired him as a young man. "I went to Downside Abbey, which is a monastery school, and I was, and am, very religious [he is a devout Catholic]. Like everyone else I have my doubts from time to time, but my beliefs affect how I approach my professional life." After graduating with a congratulatory first in Literae Humaniores (classics) from Corpus Christi, Oxford, and after qualifying for the bar, he spent six months as a drama master at a borstal. He returned to the bar for pupillage and then did an MPhil in criminology before working on Caribbean death-row cases.For years he has defended those sentenced to death, and has only lost one death-row case, in which nine members of a Trinidadian drug gang had their final appeal to the privy council rejected last year. He recalls getting a stay of execution 20 minutes before a client was due to be executed. "If we hadn't got that stay, I might well have resigned from the bar. It was awful to contemplate someone going to their death. The one thing I'm pretty sure I'm right about is that the death penalty is a bad thing. In Belize I fought successfully against mandatory death penalties. One now sees some of these people who were scheduled for execution, some of whom are now out, living perfectly useful lives, some of whom are still inside but completely reformed." He strongly opposed Saddam Hussein's hanging. "One is banging on about human rights violations under Saddam, but then you commit a human rights violation in indulging in this execution. Also, in order to kill someone, people have often to work themselves up into a state of inhumanity. It's not a surprise that the guards taunted him. But it just shows how the death penalty brutalises us."The idea that it's going to be some sort of clinical exercise in justice is a dream. It appears death was swift in Saddam's case. But it isn't always. Death by hanging should be outlawed as cruel because death is not always instantaneous and people sometimes die by strangulation, which takes several minutes." Fitzgerald has argued in Caribbean courts that lethal injection is more humane than hanging, though chiefly because he knows that the former is unconstitutional in many Caribbean countries."Hanging has turned Saddam into a martyr when he was just a sordid and brutal dictator." What would he have preferred Saddam's fate to be? "The International Criminal Court, which deals with some of the worst criminals, does not have the death penalty, but after 25 years there is a judicial review when, if the prisoner has been cooperative and repented, they can be released. Even if there were good reasons for Saddam to be tried locally rather than at the ICC, they should have used this model."When we meet, Fitzgerald is preparing his appeal to the privy council in the case of 14 Grenadians who were sentenced to death for killing the Caribbean island's socialist prime minister, Maurice Bishop, and other members of his cabinet during a coup. The death sentences were commuted to life imprisonment, but Fitzgerald argued that the sentence of natural life was unconstitutional and that irregularities in the initial trial merited an appeal against conviction. The privy council will rule on this case later this year.But the most controversial cases he is currently involved with concern the extradition of terror suspects. "The law lords say that you can't detain people without trial, so Blair says: 'We're going to start deporting them to torture regimes. However, we're going to do it with assurances of good treatment.' If you look at all the big extradition and deportation cases now, they're all about whether you can accept those assurances." Fitzgerald's contention is that often one cannot. At the high court in July last year, for example, when he represented Babar Ahmad and Haroon Aswat, who were fighting extradition to the US on terrorism charges, he argued that Washington's assurances should not be accepted. Ahmad was accused of running websites inciting murder. Aswat faces a US trial on charges of plotting to set up a camp in Oregon to train fighters for war in Afghanistan. Fitzgerald argued that they could be classified as "enemy combatants" by President Bush, which would allow indefinite detention without trial, possibly at Guantánamo Bay. In November, Ahmad and Aswat lost their high court appeals.Fitzgerald argues that in the past "our courts have been quite robust about not permitting the deportation of people who face death or torture," but argues that that changed with the so-called Algerian case involving a 39-year-old terror suspect, known only as "A", who claims he was "mentally tortured" while he was imprisoned without trial in Belmarsh prison. "The idea was that we can now rely on the Algerians not to kill suspects if they return. But we argue that with unreliable regimes you can't monitor them if they go back." Fitzgerald gives me a sidelong glance and adds: "I have to stop being quoted there. One doesn't want to say anything that will help me lose another appeal."Did he get depressed about losing these cases? "Yes. And in the past year or two I've lost a hell of a lot of cases, but some aren't over." He hopes to be able to take the appeals of Hamza, Ahmad and Aswat. "Whenever I think of something that's gone wrong, we're usually still trying to put it right." And that, he argues, is always a possibility in Britain, for all the failings of its judicial system - indeed, along with his faith in a merciful God and the human capacity for personal redemption, Fitzgerald has faith in British justice. "When you've been in other countries where the system doesn't work and the judges really are unfair, you realise that there is a process going on here, with an exacting dialogue. There is a chance that injustices will be exposed".