The government is battling to stave off a humiliating defeat in the House of Commons as rebel Labour MPs threaten to defy the whips on controversial plans to overhaul the probation service.A defeat this Wednesday at the third reading of the offender management bill would be seen as a serious blow for New Labour and evidence the Prime Minister's authority is waning.'This is one of the most important bills in this session of parliament,' said John Grogan, one of the rebels. 'It's about the involvement of the private sector in public services and in that sense it has much wider implications.'Labour defeats in the Commons have been rare since the party came to power in 1997. Its last high profile defeat was in January 2006, when it failed to overturn amendments imposed by the House of Lords to limit the scope of the incitement to religious hatred bill. In November 2005 it lost a crucial vote to extend the length of time suspected terrorists could be held without charge to 90 days.Whips have warned the dissenting group that a defeat could trigger a vote of no confidence in the government. Home Office ministers led by the Home Secretary, John Reid, are trying to win them over and further meetings are planned this week. But last night it appeared Reid was reluctant to make concessions. 'We remain committed to the bill as a means for improving the delivery of probation services and reducing offending rates,' said one source close to Reid.The Home Office argues introducing market forces into the probation service would create competition, to the benefit of taxpayers. But Napo, the trade union for probation officers, says it would compromise public protection as private firms supervising offenders in the community would look to cut costs. 'The bill will destroy the National Probation Service and introduce a pseudo-market,' said Harry Fletcher, Napo's assistant general secretary.So far 43 Labour MPs have signalled they will support an amendment, tabled in the name of Neil Gerrard, to exclude core probation tasks from the bill. Reid is against such a change. 'I'm still hopeful that we can get an agreement,' Gerrard said. 'We're getting warm words from ministers but we're not hearing anything from them in terms of the amendment.'The Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are not opposed to allowing market forces into probation but are pushing for it to happen at the local rather than national level. Both parties have said they will not support the bill in its present form. If they oppose the bill and are joined by more than 37 Labour MPs the government will lose its majority.The vote comes at an awkward time, with Cabinet due to reach agreement this week on splitting up the Home Office. This would see the bill switched to the portfolio of Lord Falconer, the Constitutional Affairs Secretary. Reid would see his empire effectively halved, leaving him with areas such as terrorism, security and strategic policing. Probation, prisons and the criminal justice system would go to Falconer's department.