The relative of a woman who was injured in what was then the worst shooting spree in British history opens the door, steps out into the drizzle, and closes it quietly behind him. "Twenty-three years and it still gets brought up," he says heavily. "Wherever you go."As soon as his wife saw a reporter step on to their drive, the man says, she scarpered to the back of the house. No, he says, he won't talk about Hungerford, that awful, surreal day in August 1987 when a 27-year-old local man, Michael Ryan, shot dead 16 people, and injured a further 15, around this affluent market town in rural Berkshire.Hungerford does not want to remember its massacre. And it does not want to be remembered for its massacre. Asking some of its 6,000 residents about the events of 19 August is like conducting the dreaded death-knock – where a reporter is tasked to visit the home of the newly bereaved – on an entire town. Most people are not grief-stricken but angry that their friendly little town is a byword, around the world, for mass murder."I was there. It's gone. People want to try to forget about it," says an elderly woman on a quiet residential road that Ryan terrorised. Is that the best way? "I think so," she says firmly.When news broke of Derrick Bird's shootings in Cumbria, the residents of Hungerford knew what was coming next. Their hearts sank when they saw the TV vans return. "Oh God, they are not going to bring that up again?" exclaims a shopper, when told I am from the media.Everywhere I turn, the town seems to have set its mind on forgetting. Shortly after the shooting, some residents wanted a granite memorial in the town centre; instead, a small plaque was placed at the entrance to the football club on the edge of town. "1987 tragedy memorial" it says, obliquely, and lists the names of the 16 dead. The 17th, Ryan himself, is not mentioned.There was a memorial service on the 20th anniversary of the tragedy but there is not a special service every year. Instead, on 19 August, the names of the dead are read out in church and the flag on the town hall flies at half-mast. Twenty-three years on, most victims' families have moved away. Destroyed homes have been rebuilt. The secondary school where Ryan holed up and turned one of his guns on himself was repainted and reopened for the autumn term as usual that year. One teenager who went there reveals he did not know his great aunt was killed by Ryan until he watched a recent documentary on the shootings. Only then did his parents tell him.Is Hungerford's determination to forget the best way to deal with the trauma? "Most people don't want to talk about it or remember it," says Ron Tarry, 84, sitting in his bungalow a block from where Ryan roamed. Tarry, who was mayor at the time, is willing to talk about the tragedy. He still regards it as his duty to politely field every intrusive media request. "You go all over the world and say you're from Hungerford and people say 'Michael Ryan' and '16 people were shot dead' – it's not the association a nice town wants," says Tarry. "The story of Michael Ryan doesn't do Hungerford credit. It makes it out to be a lawless town."This approach seems very English and rather repressed; Hungerford appears most troubled by its own reputation. Only gradually, after a day spent in the town, do I realise how unreasonable this judgment is. Just as the press has praised the quiet dignity of people in Cumbria while privately bewailing the absence of media-friendly outpourings of emotion, so I was unfairly expecting Hungerford to instantly serve up its grief and trauma to me, a complete stranger, after 23 years.Following their initial refusals, however, most begin to talk a little bit. And then their memories – of where they were on that day, of what they felt, of what happened next – tumble out, and it is as if I am not there at all and people are back in 1987, reliving the awful vividness of that day. At one point Jack Williams, another former mayor of the town, pauses. "I'm just sitting here with everything going through my mind," he says, calmly enough, but looking not far from tears.'He was a bit of a loner'Michael Ryan was the only child of Dorothy and Alfred "Buck" Ryan. Buck "was a bit of a tyrant [at home], so I'm told," says Williams, who knew Ryan's father through Buck's work as a building inspector. Ryan's mother worked at the local hospital. Ryan did labouring work, dressed in combat fatigues and was obsessed with guns. Given a job clearing footpaths in the town, Ryan would turn up carrying his rifle. "That's a pretty unnerving thing to do," says Williams. Hungerford is home to plenty of country sports enthusiasts and a thriving gun shop, so while Ryan may have been "an oddball", he hardly stood out. Tarry knew him by sight. "He was a bit of a loner. People say 'I knew Michael Ryan well', but when you talk to them, you realise they didn't know him at all."Shortly after midday on 19 August, Ryan approached Susan Godfrey, who was picnicking in nearby Savernake Forest. He marched her away from her two young children and shot her 13 times in the back. Then he climbed into his silver Astra and drove towards Hungerford. Stopping at a petrol station, he shot – and failed to kill – an attendant. Arriving home at South View, a dead-end street at a high point in Hungerford, he shot his dog, doused his house in petrol and set it alight. He got into his car, couldn't start it, and so shot it up. He then set off on foot, with two semi-automatic rifles and a handgun, meandering on to Hungerford's common and then back on to residential streets, shooting people at random.He shot dead his mother, Dorothy, who had arrived on the scene to speak to her son. He killed a dog-walker who had raised his hands in surrender. Many of those he shot were left dying or injured on the streets. Local people still talk about criticism of the police – just like in Cumbria. While most say these criticisms were unfair, one man, who prefers not to give his name, angrily describes how officers would not let ambulances or residents through roadblocks to treat the injured because Ryan was still firing on everyone. The telephone system in the town collapsed and the police operation was chaotic, but television news carried live pictures from helicopters. There was simply no precedent for Hungerford.Everyone from that day knew, or knew of, those who were killed and injured. Jack Williams remembers Betty Tolladay, who had a house on the edge of the common. She remonstrated with Ryan for, of all things, making such a racket with his guns. He shot her through the hip but she survived. "She ended up the rest of her life in great pain, in a wheelchair," says Williams. "These are the people you don't remember. Brave lady, she was. Sort of lady who would shout over the hedge if you were making a noise – that's fine as long as you don't have a Kalashnikov in your hand." That sounds like a joke but it was reality on that day in Hungerford.Shortly after the shootings, Tarry and his wife Beryl went to six funerals in one day. They were left most upset by the service for Sandra Hill, who was 22 and had only been in Hungerford to visit old school friends for the day. "Michael Ryan shot her for no reason whatsoever," says Tarry, still sounding baffled. "All the young people were there," says Beryl of the funeral. Hill's parents "never felt the same again", she says. At the 20th anniversary service, Hill's mother told Beryl: "We ought to be surrounded by grandchildren by now, but it hasn't worked out right."Thinking of words to console the people of Cumbria, residents of Hungerford will not say any good came out of such a black day but their grief was turned into a desperate, and positive, energy. "The next morning we were up at 5am thinking, what do we do now?" says Beryl. "It wasn't in the rules – how do you deal with a shooting?" At first, officials advised a buttoned-up approach. Tarry went to Hungerford's small police station and asked what he should do. "A police constable there said, 'Don't visit the families – leave that to the professionals.' After a couple of days, it soon became obvious that wasn't good advice at all," Tarry says. So the mayor and his wife ignored the instruction; victims' families wanted to talk to people they knew. "When we got there, people said, 'You took your time, come in,'" remembers Beryl.'It wasn't the same for weeks afterwards'For the next fortnight, their phone rang every minute. It was not merely the media. Members of the public with no connection to Hungerford would call the mayor with their own tales of misery. "People kept telling me their troubles – 'You think you've got troubles, what about this?'" says Beryl. Strangers told her how their husband had been murdered and there had been no public sympathy for them. "People pointed out [this] injustice, which I suppose is quite right," says Tarry. They did not ask for money, they just wanted to share their suffering. When Williams was mayor in 1990, he was phoned in the middle of night by the mayor of Aramoana, New Zealand, after a gunman killed 13 people there. "He wanted to talk and talk and talk about it," Williams says. "It will always trigger things if you get a multiple killing, especially if it occurs somewhere where there's a small community."On the morning after the shooting, people milled around the town hall. "It used to spook you when you came in here," says Colin Lee, 76, walking up the high street. "People were more subdued. It wasn't the same for weeks afterwards." And yet the tragedy also brought the town hall "to life for the first time", says Williams. "During the period of the tragedy, while we were fundraising, it was alive every day." The volunteers did not just collect donations; they listened.My first impression may have been that Hungerford bottled everything up, but Williams puts me straight: "Pretty well everybody in Hungerford is a gas-bag. We had two good pensioners; they sat in the town hall all day and listened to people. Opening up the town hall gave everybody the chance [to talk]. Talking is one of the essential features. You must talk."The then prime minister Margaret Thatcher surprised residents by visiting Hungerford the following day. "People said it was just a photo-opportunity, but it wasn't – she seemed to have a tremendous sympathy," says Tarry. "She had the common touch," adds his wife. Donations poured in. Two children held a garage sale and gave £25; Andrew Lloyd Webber held a fundraising concert in Newbury and raised thousands. One local woman quietly donated £10,000. A victims' fund, set up with help from those who had created a similar fund after the 1985 Bradford City stadium fire, raised £1.25m."The beneficial effect lasted months, if not years," says Tarry. "There was this great spontaneous reaction. People wanted to help because they knew the victims and they also felt it's our reputation, it's Hungerford. It's one of our townsmen who did it." Did residents feel, oddly, responsible? "They felt we were all in it together and we had to do something about it. For that reason, they did feel responsible."'Now it's history'David Steffe, who owns Howards Pet Care opposite Hungerford police station, grew up in the United States. He was working in Newbury in 1987, and remembers turning on the television to check the new video-conferencing system he had just set up when he saw footage of the unfolding tragedy. "For the first four or five years, people were still willing to talk about it but now it's history," he says. He received emails from American friends after the Cumbria shootings. "They assume it's routine, like it is in the US, when in fact we've only had three in 25 years, and the whole country gasps for days after something like this."Is he puzzled that the reaction here is less emotional than in the US? Steffe corrects me. "People don't give their opinions as easily as Americans do, but whether they are less emotional, I don't know. It's just more difficult to drag it out of them. They don't offer their opinion so easily, but it's there all right."In 1876, I learn, two policemen were brutally murdered by poachers in Hungerford. "That's akin to the battle of Hastings now – it's part of our history, and now Michael Ryan is part of our history. It happened, it was awful, but life moves on," says Williams. "Which is just as well, because it can be a raw wound. Chaps like you come back and keep dredging it up. You scratch it and draw blood. But that's your job."The current mayor of Hungerford has been in touch with counterparts in Cumbria, offering help. People in Berkshire don't presume to give those in Cumbria advice, just support and sympathy. "All I can say is it will pass," says Williams. "Time will heal. You must grieve. You mustn't bottle things up, and must not be afraid to cry."