In the early hours of the morning last summer, Bilal Abdulla, an Iraqi doctor who had been working in Glasgow, sat in a small room in the Newham hotel, in east London, and took out his mobile phone. For the past hour and half, the 29-year-old diabetes specialist had been frantically dialling two numbers he hoped would trigger the first in a wave of car bomb attacks designed to kill hundreds of people and terrorise thousands more across the UK.But something had gone wrong. The homemade bombs - left in two Mercedes cars parked outside a busy nightclub in London's West End - had failed to go off.Sitting in his first-floor hotel room on Friday June 29 2007, Abdulla knew he was now locked in a deadly race with officers from MI5 and SO15, the Metropolitan police's counter-terrorism unit. Could they catch him and his fellow plotter, Kafeel Ahmed, before the terrorist cell managed to launch a second wave of attacks?Executing the planLess than 24 hours earlier, Abdulla and Ahmed, an Indian engineering student, had driven from Glasgow in the two Mercedes cars which they had carefully packed with more than 2,000 nails, petrol, gas canisters and homemade detonators.Just before 1.30am, Abulla was caught on CCTV parking his car outside the Tiger Tiger nightclub in Haymarket, one of the West End's busiest nighspots. A few minutes earlier, Ahmed left his vehicle in nearby Cockspur Street, where prosecutors say it was positioned to kill those fleeing the first explosion.Inside the club, more than 200 people were enjoying a corporate cocktail party. Another 165 were attending an 18th birthday celebration. Hundreds more were enjoying an early start to the weekend. None of them were aware that just yards away Abdulla and Ahmed were attempting to launch the first in a series of "spectacular" attacks designed to bring terror to Britain.But the would-be bombers had made a crucial error. The detonators consisted of mobile phones wired to a light bulb that was surrounded by match heads. A phone call was intended to trigger the homemade device, igniting the vapours swirling inside the cars. But the mixture of petrol and gas was too thick, there was not enough oxygen for the bombs to explode. Security sources say that if the car windows had been opened the bombs could have gone off.But as Abdulla and Ahmed left the vehicles, they had no idea about their mistake and once they were a safe distance away the pair attempted to trigger the bombs, calling the mobile phones that had been left in the front of the car up to four times each.Eventually, the detonator in the Mercedes outside Tiger Tiger was partially ignited and smoke began to fill the car. But after more frantic calls, Abdulla and Ahmed realised the main devices had failed and left the area separately on cycle rickshaws, meeting up just after 2am on nearby Edgware Road.Escape from LondonTheir plans were now in tatters. The unexploded car bombs would soon be discovered and the attackers knew they contained a wealth of forensic evidence that would lead detectives straight to their door.The pair had first met in 2004 and 2005 while studying in Cambridge. Over the next few years, their opposition to the US-led invasion of Iraq hardened and by the beginning of 2007, they had devised a plan to bring mass murder to the streets of the UK. The men had conducted a dry run in London visiting other possible targets including the Old Bailey and the City, and prosecutors said they were also considering attacks on music festivals in Cambridge, Leeds and Manchester.