Police last night arrested a man on suspicion of murder after an office worker died and another was seriously injured in a suspected bungled hostage-taking at the offices of a recruitment agency. One middle-aged man was shot and fatally wounded at the agency on an industrial estate in New Inn, Pontypool, while three others were stable in hospital.A 52-year-old Cardiff man was later arrested on suspicion of murder, attempted murder, and false imprisonment, after armed officers surrounded a house in Rumney. Gwent police confirmed the incident was related to the events that took place 20 miles away in Pontypool. Police declined to say what the motive for the attack may have been. Some residents said they had been told that the incident began as a robbery. Armed officers were called to Driverline 247, a transport recruitment agency, just before 1.30pm. It is believed four people were taken hostage. According to witnesses, a shot was heard and smoke was seen coming from the two-storey building. Police believe the attacker fled in a car, leaving the fatally wounded man and three others in the smoke-filled building. The man who died is believed to have been married and in his 40s. Neighbours said it was like a scene from the television detective show Miami Vice. Bill Pinkstone, manager of Tyroplan engineers, said: "There are police around all over the place - I've never seen anything like it. It is shocking that it can happen so close to you. We've been told there was a robbery and that someone was taken hostage before being shot. Then the place was set on fire. We saw one person being taken out on a stretcher." The man in his 40s was pronounced dead at the scene. Another man was taken to the Royal Gwent hospital in Newport with head injuries. Two others were taken to the same hospital suffering from smoke inhalation. The offices and neighbouring businesses were cordoned off while scenes of crime officers arrived at the scene.Roger Thomas, steward of a neighbouring social club, said: "It has been crazy around here with all the police. "One of their helicopters landed on our field at just before 2pm because it is the closest spot to the fire."Driverline 247 employs five staff, and was set up eight years ago to recruit HGV and van drivers for businesses. It delivers for dairies, bakeries, frozen food companies, car manufacturers and in the building trade.Chief inspector Huw Nicholas of Gwent police said: "We are doing everything in our power to locate the offender."New Inn councillor Graham Smith said he was shocked at the incident in a "quiet residential area which is mainly pretty peaceful".A spokesman for the Royal Gwent hospital said that the three injured men were all in a stable condition.