The man who bludgeoned Irish student Karen Buckley to death with a spanner in Glasgow and attempted to dispose of her body in a vat of chemicals has been jailed for a minimum of 23 years.Alexander Pacteau, 21, branded “truly evil” by the family of his victim, admitted the crime last month at the high court in Glasgow.Judge Rita Rae sentenced him to 23 years for the murder of the 24-year-old, who was on a night out in the city with friends in April when she was preyed upon by Pacteau.Lady Rae said Pacteau had carried out a “brutal, motiveless attack on a defenceless young woman”.Rae continued: “I find it extremely difficult to find words appropriate to describe the dreadful crime to which you pleaded guilty. Karen Buckley was a young woman in the prime of life. “To you she was a stranger who appears, tragically, to have accepted a lift in your car. Within a matter of minutes, for some inexplicable reason, you destroyed her young life.” The judge said Pacteau had gone to extraordinary lengths to conceal what he had done and told a “tissue of lies” to police investigating her disappearance.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karen Buckley was on a night out with friends in April when she was attacked by Pacteau. Photograph: Crown Office/PABuckley’s parents John and Marian travelled from Cork to see Pacteau plead guilty on 11 August and were in court again on Tuesday. The qualified nurse had only been in Glasgow for a few months before her killing. She had recently left her job at an Essex hospital and moved to Scotland to study for a master’s degree in occupational health therapy at Glasgow Caledonian University. Buckley was described as an outgoing woman whose life revolved around her family and friends.Pacteau, who described himself as a self-employed sales consultant, has a previous conviction for printing counterfeit money. It emerged after his conviction that he stood trial in 2013 at the high court in Paisley accused of attempting to rape a woman in a Glasgow lane. He was found not guilty of the charge. In the early hours of 12 April, he met Buckley outside the Sanctuary nightclub in the city’s West End and drove her to nearby Kelvin Way, where he grabbed her neck and delivered about a dozen blows with a spanner. He visited a number of shops to purchase caustic soda before placing her body in the bath at his flat. On trips to High Craigton farm on the outskirts of the city, he burned a mattress and clothes before buying a barrel, placing Buckley’s body inside and locking it in a storage unit he had rented.Pacteau initially claimed to detectives, who identified him from CCTV footage, that they had consensual sex at his flat and she had fallen and injured herself on the bed frame. His solicitor. John Scullion QC. said he could offer no rational explanation for his actions.A statement issued on behalf of Buckley’s family said: “Today’s life sentence will not bring our beautiful Karen back. Our little angel has been taken from us forever in the cruellest of ways. We mourn for her every day. It will however ensure that women are safe from harm from the truly evil coward who took our beautiful Karen’s precious life. I hope that he is never released and spends every day in prison haunted by what he did.“Marian and I would again like to thank the people of Scotland and Ireland, the Irish garda and the Scottish police and prosecution service for all their help and support in bringing Karen’s killer to justice. We appreciate most especially those who keep us in their thoughts and prayers.“We all want to move on and try to piece our lives back together. We have three wonderful sons and we need to be there for each other as a family. We would be grateful if we can now be left alone to grieve and our family’s privacy be respected. Karen is at peace now and we know that she is in heaven looking down on us and helping us.”