Police are to be stripped of many of their powers over the collection of data on criminals following the serious failings in checks revealed in the Soham murder case.The reforms will ensure that the existence of 'soft intelligence', such as accusations of rape or child abuse, will be flagged up on the central Police National Computer along with convictions and cautions. New applicants for jobs working unsupervised with children could also be expected to give a fingerprint sample to be checked against the national fingerprint database. The controversial move will lead to a sharp reduction in police control over the records, which will pass to the Criminal Records Bureau, set up in 1998 to vet the backgrounds of people applying for new jobs. A report by Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary circulated to police forces in 2000 listed a high number of failings including patchy training on the use of the Police National Computer and badly stored data. The report came three years before a breakdown in intelligence gathering allowed Ian Huntley, the caretaker convicted of killing Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman last week, to secure a job at the school site where the two girls attended, despite a series of serious sexual allegations against him. Last night Cambridgeshire police revealed their frustration that when they originally asked for police checks to be made on Huntley by Humberside police they came back as 'clean'. It was later discovered that Humberside police, which covered the area where Huntley lived before moving to Cambridgeshire, were aware of a number of allegations of under-age sex and a rape investigation against Huntley. In an interview with The Observer, Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Stevenson admitted that he could not explain why there had been such a breakdown in communications between the two police forces. Asked to give a reason for the inability of Humberside to provide the right records, he said, 'I can't.' He also revealed that the Home Office had intervened to promote an officer within Cambridgeshire Police because they were so concerned by the lack of senior staff within the force. Tom Lloyd, the Chief Constable of Cambridgeshire Police, was on holiday at the time of the murders in August 2002 and did not return until a number of days after the girls had gone missing. The latest Criminal Justice Act gives Home Secretary David Blunkett new powers to decide what information is contained in the highest level 'enhanced' checks for the most sensitive jobs. Ministers have realised that the current system of checks would not have prevented Huntley from getting the job in Soham because it relied too heavily on the discretion of individual police forces about the level of 'soft' information to disclose. In the Soham case, Humberside Police failed to pass on allegations against Huntley in Grimsby when he applied for a job in Cambridgeshire. Under the new system, the information that such allegations exist would be held centrally. Home Office documents seen by The Observer reveal that an independent review of the CRB has urged radical changes to the system: 'It is recommended that the Police National Computer files are 'flagged' to denote the existence of intelligence information on any individual held at local force level and not included in convictions recorded on the Police National Computer. This would reduce radically the number of enhanced disclosure checks referred to local police forces.' Civil liberties organisations are concerned that there could be serious implications for personal privacy if staff at the CRB, which is run by the private company Capita, are given access to such information or even notified of its existence. A spokesman for Liberty said: 'We have no problem with allegations being passed to a third party where child protection is an issue. But we must recognise that there are are also thousands of unfounded allegations. Given the record of Capita, there are serious concerns about the ability of private companies to manage this information.' Superintendent Chris Stevenson admitted that he could not explain why there had been such a breakdown in communications between the two police forces. Asked to give a reason for the inability of Humberside to provide the right records, he said, 'I can't.' He also revealed that the Home Office had intervened to promote an officer within Cambridgeshire Police because they were so concerned by the lack of senior staff within the force. Tom Lloyd, the Chief Constable of Cambridgeshire Police, was on holiday at the time of the murders in August 2002 and did not return until a number of days after the girls had gone missing. The latest Criminal Justice Act gives Home Secretary David Blunkett new powers to decide what information is contained in the highest level 'enhanced' checks for the most sensitive jobs. Ministers have realised that the current system of checks would not have prevented Huntley from getting the job in Soham because it relied too heavily on the discretion of individual police forces about the level of 'soft' information to disclose. In the Soham case, Humberside Police failed to pass on allegations against Huntley in Grimsby when he applied for a job in Cambridgeshire. Under the new system, the information that such allegations exist would be held centrally. Home Office documents seen by The Observer reveal that an independent review of the CRB has urged radical changes to the system: 'It is recommended that the Police National Computer files are 'flagged' to denote the existence of intelligence information on any individual held at local force level and not included in convictions recorded on the Police National Computer. This would reduce radically the number of enhanced disclosure checks referred to local police forces.' Civil liberties organisations are concerned that there could be serious implications for personal privacy if staff at the CRB, which is run by the private company Capita, are given access to such information or even notified of its existence. A spokesman for Liberty said: 'We have no problem with allegations being passed to a third party where child protection is an issue. But we must recognise that there are are also thousands of unfounded allegations. Given the record of Capita, there are serious concerns about the ability of private companies to manage this information.'