The fatal stabbing of a 14-year-old boy in a small village school was an "almost unbelievable" tragedy, the school's governors said today. Violence in the classroom or the playground had never been an issue before, said John Stevens, chairman of the governors of Birkbeck school, in North Somercotes, near Louth, Lincolnshire. Teaching unions today called for the government to investigate school security to prevent a repeat of the incident. The youngster has been named locally as Luke Walmsley. Police are expected to officially identify the boy later today. Mr Stevens told BBC Breakfast that he did not know Luke personally but understood he was good at sport and "a great member of the school pupil community". Luke was flown to Grimsby hospital by air ambulance after yesterday morning's incident, but was later pronounced dead, Lincolnshire Police said. A 15-year-old fellow pupil was still being questioned at Skegness police station today. Mr Stevens said serious violence had not been a problem at the school. "Obviously there have been the odd occasions when there's been a little bit of, say, bullying, but there has never been anything of this scale, it's never worried us. There's never been any suggestion ... that we would have something so serious and devastating as this." The priority now though, he said, was offering staff and students the support they needed. "The atmosphere last night was very subdued in the village. Everybody is very shocked at what has happened and very concerned that something like this should happen in our community," he said. "What we want to do is make sure any child who has problems receives the help that they need." Today local residents were placing flowers outside the entrance of the school, which will remain closed until Friday. Jane Cole, deacon at the local Methodist church, said the "close-knit" community in the village was "very much in shock". "The community here in North Somercotes is very friendly, it's a very close-knit community," she told BBC Breakfast. "Wherever you go, people are shocked." Headteacher Gary Loveridge left the school without commenting to waiting reporters yesterday. Lincolnshire police chief constable Tony Lake visited the school yesterday and spoke to the headmaster. A spokesman said: "Mr Lake has pledged the full support of the force for the school in what will be a very traumatic time for the students and staff."The fight with another pupil in which Luke was stabbed is thought to have started in a corridor. The school was closed immediately and all 276 pupils sent home, many in a state of shock. The area was sealed off as police began their forensic investigations. A post-mortem was being carried out by a Home Office pathologist at Grimsby hospital. The National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers today called on the government to act fast to improve all school security. Chris Keates, the union's deputy general secretary, said: "This is an horrific event. It is a tragic example of how the increasing use of weapons in crime on the streets is spilling over into the once relative calm and security of schools. "This tragedy demonstrates again that violent incidents are not confined to urban areas. NASUWT will today be writing to the secretary of state calling for the joint DfES/Home Office school security working party to be reconvened to review whether measures already in place are sufficient, reasonable protection against the growing weapon-carrying culture."David Hart, general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers, said the incident would "send shockwaves through the school system". "My reaction is one of utter horror," he said. "It does demonstrate very clearly the fact that although this level of violence is very rare, there are an incredible number of youngsters who are willing to sign up to the knife culture and bring an offensive weapon into school."