Five members of a "ruthless" family gang responsible for stealing over £80m worth of property from British stately homes have been jailed for up to 11 years each.The Johnsons - described in court as "highly organised" - targeted houses across the country in their efforts to steal precious antiques and collectables.One raid on a country house in Ramsbury, near Marlborough, Wiltshire, was reported to be the UK's biggest ever private burglary.In total, experts estimate the family stole goods worth more than £80m throughout the south of England.The prosecutor, Paul Reid, described them as an "extensive and highly organised gang". He told a jury that the group was "ruthless in their intention to acquire high-value property" from country houses. Richard "Chad" Johnson, 33, and Daniel O'Loughlin, 32, were jailed for 11 years. Michael Nicholls, 29, was given 10 years; Albi Johnson, 25, was given nine years; and Ricky Johnson, 54, was given eight years. All five were found guilty of conspiracy to commit burglary between April 8 2005 and October 13 2006 following a month-long trial at Reading crown court.The group was sentenced in January this year but the case can only be reported for the first time today after the conclusion of other proceedings against them. During their trial, the court heard how the Johnsons plotted their ambitious raids from a static caravan park in Evesham, Worcestershire.They burgled some properties while the owners were at home, and in one case two victims sat in their kitchen completely unaware of the raid. In February 2006, the gang robbed the home of the property tycoon Harry Hyams at Ramsbury Manor, Wiltshire. Reid told the court: "This has been described as the most valuable domestic burglary ever committed in this country. The collection is described as priceless. "There is a difficulty in putting a value on antiques and antiquities – some of them very precious and very rare – but it is tens of millions of pounds." Two months later, detectives found an Aladdin's cave of treasures in an underground bunker at a field owned by an associate of the Johnsons near Stratford-upon-Avon. Inside were black bins containing pieces of porcelain stolen from the Hyams estate – about a third of the total haul. Some of the antiques had been damaged. Among other thefts, the Johnsons burgled Warneford Place, the former home of the James Bond author Ian Fleming, set in 1,000 acres in Sevenhampton near Swindon and owned by the formula one advertising tycoon Paddy McNally, who once dated the Duchess of York. Other victims included Sir Philip Wroughton, the lord lieutenant of Berkshire. The group staked out some of the country mansions for weeks to pinpoint their entry and escape. They would break in wearing balaclavas and escape a few minutes later in stolen cars.Ricky Johnson was described in court as the father of Chad and Albi, and uncle of O'Loughlin. Nicholls was described as the partner of Johnson's daughter, Faye.