A significant new witness has given detectives in the Damilola Taylor murder hunt hope that they can arrest and charge his killers, police sources said yesterday.The witness has described seeing 10-year-old Damilola being confronted in Blake's Road, Peckham, south London, by a group of youths. A scuffle took place which led to Damilola falling to the ground just a few hundred yards from his home on the North Peckham estate. The youths ran off. Officers are convinced that the witness has provided the breakthrough which they have been working for since Damilola was stabbed at 4.45pm on November 27 last year. No other witness has provided such specific information about a confrontation in Blake's Road at around the time of the murder. Officers, led by detective chief inspector Trevor Shepheard, intend to make one last appeal to those who saw the attack to speak voluntarily, if only to be eliminated from the investigation. "We are closing in," said one officer. "The net is tightening. This is a last days of the sale offer. "If someone was there but was not involved, then come forward and tell us. If it was an accident, tell us. Or we will come knocking at your door." The source added: "We are at a critical stage of the investigation in terms of making a possible arrest and charges. We want to secure all the evidence we are able to secure. We are in constant touch with the crown prosecution service.'' Significantly, the new witness remembers exchanging words with a Scotsman who was also in Blake's Road at the time of the attack. Officers are wondering whether the man was the same Scot who rang Crimestoppers to say he had seen an incident in a nearby road involving a young boy and a group of youths. "We need to speak to this Scotsman once again," said a source. "It is vitally important we get clarity on this issue." A third person is also known to have been in Blake's Road when Damilola was stabbed. He was wearing a green jacket, jeans and was balding. Persuading witnesses to come forward when there are gangs in the area, including one known as the Peckham Young Boys, has been one of the major tasks of the murder squad. "There is a constant background of intimidation that exists on the North Peckham estate,'' said a source. "It can be bullying, stealing or threats of violence." However, in recent weeks officers feel they have begun to win the confidence of people who have provided important evidence. Damilola was stabbed in his left leg as he walked home from an after school computer class at Peckham library.