A hitman who flew from Thailand to murder a frail Surrey woman on behalf of her former husband was told today that he was likely to spend the rest of his life behind bars.Paul Cryne, a former bodyguard originally from Manchester, believed he would get away with the "perfect murder".Having blown a fortune on a flamboyant lifestyle in Thailand, he was paid £30,000 by Graham Birchwood, 54, to murder Sharon Birchwood, 52, at her bungalow in Ashstead, Surrey, in December 2007.Jailing Cryne, 62, for life after he was convicted of murder at the Old Bailey, Judge Jeremy Roberts said he must serve at least 28½ years. "You may well spend the rest of your life behind bars. If you do, I am afraid that will be the consequences of your own actions," said the judge.Birchwood stood to gain a £475,000 "pot of gold" from the will of his former wife, who had remained devoted to him despite their divorce in 1989. He had married his secretary, with whom he has two children.The court heard Birchwood was £150,000 in debt and facing bankruptcy.Realising he would fall under suspicion if she were murdered, he needed someone "prepared to do such a deed without being noticed, who could disappear without even attracting the attention of police", said Mark Dennis, prosecuting.Cryne, who once set a world record for underwater swimming with scuba equipment, moved to Pattaya in the 1990s after receiving a £500,000 payout after a boat accident in the Maldives. After living the high life, the money ran out.He had accrued debts of £11,000 when, through the expatriate community in Thailand, he was met and hired by Birchwood, who was jailed for life last year with a minimum term of 32 years.In 2005, Cryne was cleared by a Thai court of murdering another Briton, Robert Henry, who was shot six times, after prosecution witnesses failed to turn up for his trial.But it was a crime committed in Britain in 1972 – when he was convicted for holding a girlfriend hostage and jailed for seven years – that led to his arrest for this murder.Sharon Birchwood, who had ME, was strangled and left on her bed "cruelly trussed-up" with parcel tape and electrical cord, the Old Bailey heard. Cryne left few clues and flew back to Bangkok three hours after the killing.But DNA found at the scene matched that on a cup at Birchwood's mother's house where Cryne had briefly stayed. On the cup there were fingerprints, which were linked to his 1972 conviction.Detectives traced Cryne to Thailand and he was extradited."The police were able to unravel the plot, thereby frustrating the otherwise perfect murder," said Dennis.The judge described Sharon Birchwood's murder as the carefully planned execution of a vulnerable woman. "One can only imagine the mental and physical suffering she must have undergone in the last few minutes of her life while you tightened that electrical cable around her neck until she was dead."Cryne was aware of Sharon Birchwood's devotion to her former husband, the judge said. "You allowed yourself to become an instrument of his betrayal of her. You were in this together – he as the organiser and you as the hired killer."The court heard that Birchwood thought all he would have to do was "keep a cool head" and had delayed for three days before going to find the body and calling 999. He was standing outside with a cup of coffee when the ambulance arrived.Cryne, who boasted of his ability to incapacitate a person with one blow, turned to the jury as he was led away and said: "Innocent man".Detective Chief Inspector Maria Woodall said: "Sharon lived a quiet, harmless, ordinary lifestyle, burdened by ill-health and living in rather poor conditions with little social life and no known enemies. She was totally betrayed by the greed of the man she had married and been devoted to for 30 years."Birchwood made the callous decision that his ex-wife must die and then set about a ruthless plot which he hoped would distance himself from this evil crime. He involved Cryne as part of this devious plan."