It is frightening prospect for any of us to think that we might be confronted with a burglar in our home. We all want to feel safe, especially at home, and we are entitled to feel that we, our families and our possessions are protected by the law. But Anne McIntosh's article (Fighting for victims, Oct 28) misrepresented the rights that any victim of crime already has.Be reassured: anyone who is a victim of crime has the right to use any reasonable force they think necessary in the heat of the moment to protect their home or business, their family or their property. That right applies equally in your own home, if you are attacked in the street, or if you intervene to prevent someone else from being a victim of crime.It is fortunately a rare event for someone to be burgled. You are less likely to be a victim of burglary today than you have been for 20 years. It is also extremely unlikely that a burglar will be armed and violent - a burglar carries a weapon in only about 1% of cases. But people still ask the question: if I am confronted by a burglar what can I do?I want to reassure people that in these situations the law is on your side. Under the law you are entitled to use reasonable force to protect yourself, The law does not expect you to make fine judgements over what you do in the heat of the moment, and will take account of the fact that you may be scared. You do not have to wait to be attacked, so long as you are acting reasonably and proportionately to defend yourself or others, or your property.So injuring a criminal while defending yourself or your property will not automatically mean you will face criminal charges. If you have acted in reasonable self-defence and the intruder dies you will still have acted lawfully - indeed, there are several such cases where the householder has not been prosecuted.What is not allowed is taking revenge, or attempting to punish a criminal yourself. That must be a job for the police and our courts - something I'm sure Anne McIntosh would agree with. Of course in some cases the police may have to investigate a serious incident - that is part of their job, and it's completely reasonable to expect that, especially if someone has been seriously injured or has died. And if they did not, criminals might, for example, use an alleged burglary to cover up a fight between drug dealing gangs for example. But I must stress that cases in which occupiers of private property have been prosecuted for acts of violence committed against intruders are extremely rare - anecdotal evidence suggests no more than a handful of cases in the last 15 years. Even then, those are cases when the violence used was really extreme and excessive in the circumstances - going way beyond self-defence.People worried about their rights don't just have to take my word for it that the current law is fine. The Crown Prosecution Service and Association of Chief Police Officers have issued a short leaflet called "Householders and the use of force against intruders". It explains the law in plain language and deals with people's main concerns and the questions they most often ask, such as: "Does the law protect me?", "What is 'reasonable force?'", and "How will the police and CPS treat me?"If you are worried about this issue, look at the leaflet, or talk to the police. Anne wrote last week that "the law must be on the side of those people who choose to defend their property using reasonable physical force." Anyone who reads the advice of the police and the CPS will realise that this is already the case.· Fiona Mctaggart is a Home Office undersecretary of state with responsibility for the criminal justice system