The case of Myra Hindley, a macabre Jarndyce for our times, may be in its endgame. Last week, judges in Strasbourg stripped David Blunkett of his right to keep murderers in jail once the parole board has recommended their release. A forthcoming appeal to the House of Lords by two convicted murderers will remove more of the Home Secretary's depleted powers to interfere on sentencing.It may also clear the way for Hindley's freedom, assuming you discount two obstacles. The first is Mr Blunkett. The second is the hatred she supposedly inspires in a public constantly reminded of the Moors Murders. Imagine, once again, the thin, tape-recorded pleas of a child approaching death. Listen to the cry, from a bereaved and shattered parent, that Hindley should never go free. Confected venom and real sorrow do not alter, but Hindley has moved far beyond her own script.She is a cultural symbol whose image is less mutable than Greek statuary. The scowling pout and the bleached bouffant, recreated in children's palm prints for Marcus Harvey's painting in the Sensation exhibition, are ours to play with but never hers to change. When moral panic is endemic, and impertinent Euro-judges crush our metric martyrs and pollute our law, Myra Hindley offers to the frightened Right a solid, imperial measure of absolute evil.Myra-haters think she is their worst nightmare. They delude themselves. She is their icon of reassurance; their talisman of an ordered universe for as long as she serves a Promethean term demanded by those who will not countenance redemption. Hindley atoned for her sins some time ago. Her function now is to pay the price of other people's. That is not to play down her crimes; cruel beyond understanding. But she has served 37 years, three times the average life sentence. The various tariffs imposed on her expired long ago, and she is categorised 'low risk'. More alarming than the prospect of Hindley's freedom is the debate surrounding it. Although eschewing the 'rot-in-hell' mindlessness rolled out by the Daily Express , the Daily Mail chastises allegedly sub-standard Strasbourg judges who set this hare running. 'In some of their countries, justice is nothing more than a sick joke,' the paper complains. 'And yet they sit in judgment on our law.' But Strasbourg is not some alien jurisdiction. The Human Rights Convention, as applied there, was drafted by English lawyers to observe the common law. The court's working language is English and its top officials British. Whether the legal system that imprisoned the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six is as infallible as the right-wing media thinks is another matter. It is, in any case, unlikely that Strasbourg will decide Hindley's case now that emerging domestic remedies replace a once-dead end. In March 2000, the House of Lords ruled that she was 'uniquely evil' and should remain in jail for life. Six months later, the Lord Chief Justice offered a different perspective. He had, he told me, informed a previous Home Secretary 'that you could not say she could never be released. It is not performing your statutory duty to say: Life must mean life.' Lord Woolf's view was taken as the clearest indicator that Hindley might hope for freedom. Woolf also predicted that the Home Secretary, no longer entitled to set tariffs for juvenile killers, would soon have to relinquish his power in all adult cases. Two years have passed, and Mr Blunkett last week served notice that he would do no such thing. If necessary, he would seek a domestic law to preserve 'the power of Parliament'. His statement was greeted with derision. What could he do, when any legislation derogating from the Human Rights Convention would be immediately overturned by Strasbourg? The general suspicion (and Woolf's best hope) was that all Home Secretaries thwarted by Europe on sentencing issues tend, as David Waddington and Michael Howard did, to bluster and cave in. Mr Blunkett does not intend a climbdown. Nor does he want to thwart human rights law. Instead, he is planning something more insidious than his rabid Tory predecessors could have countenanced. If British judges look like usurping what he mistakenly sees as his rights on individual cases, then Mr Blunkett is thought to be 'not philosophically opposed' to setting out sentencing far more rigidly in law. In other words, judges might be legally obliged to give life-means-life tariffs to the worst offenders. Strasbourg, whose remit does not cover sentencing frameworks, could do nothing to block Mr Blunkett's wish to curb judicial discretion; a desire unlikely to have been dimmed by Lord Woolf's new sentencing guidelines, issued on Friday. The package, including a move to end whole life terms and cut the minimum sentence for murder from 14 years to 12, was greeted with dismay by the Right. The fact that Woolf was acting on evidence that murderers are too harshly punished compared with other violent offenders seems neither here nor there in the current climate. All Home Office signals suggest a belief that incremental changes in the law offer proof of over-powerful judges strangling democracy. But that is nonsense. As Paul Cavadino of Nacro says, we are the only Western democracy with a mandatory life sentence for murder. No other country in the Council of Europe permits its politicians to meddle in individual cases. The defunct power to which Mr Blunkett clings is the toolbox of dictators, not of democrats. Our judiciary, as Cherie Booth recently pointed out, is an old boys' club. The parole board has become an under-staffed shambles. Even so, the justice system is very far from the power-crazed autocracy of Mr Blunkett's vision. Woolf, for his part (and leaving aside his putsch on mobile phone muggers), has navigated human rights developments with dexterity. His handling of the Bulger killers' tariff and his subsequent review of 88 other children were conducted against a backdrop of ludicrous press coverage suggesting that juvenile murderers would be sprung back on the community like greyhounds from a trap. In fact, Woolf has ratified most trial judges' recommendations. Still, if he reviews the cases of 22 adult whole-lifers, as logic decrees he must, the same hysteria will apply. The notion, already being floated, that Rose West or Peter Sutcliffe will shortly be moving to a street near you and me is the folklore of those who want a Home Secretary to look macho on their behalf. Mr Blunkett's talent in this department is one of many reasons he should back off the judges' terrain. The argument that confidence in the judicial system will slump if public opinion is not obeyed holds good only if you accept that the mood is for cruelty and retribution. There is another, stronger, strand of popular demand. Its subscribers think that the mark of a just nation is how fairly it treats its most culpable and most loathed. They wish that Mr Blunkett would offer real justice to asylum seekers, reform the hellhole prisons that destroy so many lives and leave judges to do their job. As for Myra Hindley, she poses far less public risk than a Home Secretary intent on nobbling the law. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk