The Police Federation of England and Wales is expected to announce today that its members have rejected the Home Office's proposals for reform of pay and conditions.Police sources said last night that the ballot of the federation's 127,000 members, which will be announced at a press conference in London this morning, had resulted in "a strong no vote". The turnout is thought to have been between 80% and 90%.Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said last night he understood that it was "a massive no vote"."Police men and women don't like bullies, and Mr Blunkett has tried to bully us all the way along. I know that our members were incandescent at his treatment of them. It comes as no surprise to me that they have voted in this way. Mr Blunkett has brought this on himself. He has nobody else to blame." The result will not come as a surprise to the David Blunkett, the home secretary - he was expecting federation members, officers below the rank of superintendent, to turn down the package. It will not put him off pressing ahead with the police reform bill, which is now going through parliament, so a stand-off seems inevitable. Federation members were voting on proposals drawn up before Christmas which called for cuts in regular overtime rates and an extension to the working week. In return, officers were offered some extra cash, £400 on top of basic salaries from April next year, and a re-structuring to allow them to move up pay scales quicker. There was also £1,002 extra for officers at the top of the pay scale and one-off annual payments of between £500 and £5,000 for those "working at the sharp end and those undertaking the most difficult and demanding jobs". Mr Blunkett has said the new system would give officers "a fairer system of pay, particularly with those doing demanding jobs". But talks about the changes have been marked by hostile clashes between the sides. The federation has argued that the proposals are unclear and said there was widespread concern in the ranks about the level of compensation. The relationship between Fred Broughton, federation chairman, and Mr Blunkett, reached a low in recent weeks. Mr Broughton claimed the home secretary, whose combative style has riled some officers, had portrayed his members as "inefficient and lazy, forever being accused of going off sick for no reason". He said Mr Blunkett had "deeply insulted" officers who were already "feeling undervalued, overworked and unsupported". Mr Smyth has called on his members to work to rule, and some federation members have even demanded changes in the law to reintroduce the right to strike. The Home Office refused to discuss the ballot last night, saying it would be inappropriate before the federation had formally announced the results. The national federation set up 250 voting booths in police stations across England and Wales for the ballot, which took place on February 6. Police officers with two Scottish forces have already overwhelmingly rejected proposals to alter pay and conditions. The Grampian and Northern constabularies were the first Scottish police federations to return the results of a ballot on the issue.