The mother of a student murdered because she dressed as a goth made an impassioned plea for tolerance yesterday after a teenager was convicted of the murder of her "original, brave and intelligent" daughter. Four other members of a drunken gang admitted taking part in the attack in a small Lancashire town's park, which left 20-year-old Sophie Lancaster's body unrecognisable and her boyfriend Robert Maltby with permanent injuries.Two of the killers who had not been identified during the trial because of their age were named on the orders of the judge as Brendan Harris, 15, who had denied murder, and Ryan Herbert, 16, who admitted it. They will be given mandatory life terms later next month, when sentences will also be passed on two youths aged 17 and one aged 16 who admitted assaulting Maltby, a 21-year-old art student.After the verdict at Preston crown court, reached in less than four hours by a jury of nine men and three women, Lancaster's mother Sylvia, 52, described the devastation left by "blinkered prejudice" about the way her daughter and Maltby had chosen to look."I stand outside this house of justice today, not as Sophie's mother, but as her voice," she said. "Her voice that was cruelly silenced in a single mindless act. I have lost an adorable and adoring daughter, but her death has also ruined the lives of those responsible, as well as the lives of their families. Today, more than ever, we need to show respect, compassion and tolerance for those whose appearance and culture differs from our own."The court heard evidence of the "animal-like" ferocity of the gang who had binged beforehand in Stubbylee Park, Bacup, with Harris alone admitting drinking two litres of cider, a bottle of Stella Artois lager and "quite a lot of" peach schnapps. Lancaster and Maltby had crossed paths with the five on their way home from a friend's house in the early hours last August, initially having a chat and offering the youths cigarettes. Then, according to four teenage witnesses, who were praised by Judge Andrew Russell QC for defying gang loyalties, someone shouted "let's bang him" and Harris landed a flying kick on Maltby's head. He was then stamped on and beaten unconscious and when Lancaster cradled his head in her lap and begged them to stop, Harris launched a volley of kicks into her face. When paramedics arrived, after a 999 call from a distraught teenage girl with the gang that was played to the court, they could not tell Lancaster's sex and both victims were covered in blood and prints from their attackers' boots. Both were in comas and Lancaster died 13 days later without recovering consciousness. It emerged after the verdict that Harris, who admitted starting the frenzied attack because he was "drunk and showing off", had been convicted of kicking and stamping on a 16-year-old youth in April last year. He and Herbert, who was also involved, were given six-month community sentences.Robert Maltby said after the verdict that Lancaster, who was on a gap year before starting further education with the eventual aim of an English degree, was his "entire world". He said: "She was very, very warm. Just wanted to make friends with everyone really, and that might have had something to do with why we started going out and sadly might have had something to do with what happened the night we were attacked."Det Supt Mick Gradwell, of Lancashire police, accused the parents of the gang of "appalling" behaviour in the run-up to the trial. He said that Harris and his mother had laughed and joked so much during initial interviews that detectives had to speak to the boy's solicitor."There was a total lack of parental control and I really don't think they have taken completely seriously how repulsive this incident was. "Sophie's mother also commented to us that the three defendants who were convicted of assaulting Robert Maltby were sniggering at her outside court before the start of the trial."