One of two men accused of holding 15-year-old schoolgirl Kayleigh Haywood prisoner before she was murdered has denied trying to sexually assault her while she was asleep at his home.Luke Harlow told a jury that the allegation and a claim that the attempted assault prompted Kayleigh to flee partially clothed into the street were “complete lies” put forward by her killer. Harlow, 28, has admitted grooming Kayleigh online and engaging in unlawful sexual activity with her, but claims he “nodded off” in the hours before she left his house in Ibstock, Leicestershire. A trial at Nottingham crown court has heard that Kayleigh was raped and killed by landscape gardener Stephen Beadman after she “escaped” from Harlow’s home in the early hours of Sunday 15 November last year. Beadman, 29, has admitted rape and murder but he and Harlow deny falsely imprisoning Kayleigh from around 9pm on Saturday 14 November. Giving evidence on the eighth day of his trial, Harlow was asked a series of questions by Beadman’s barrister, Anthony Metzer QC. Asserting that Harlow had tried to rape Kayleigh while she was asleep, Metzer asked him: “What I suggest happened is that you and Mr Beadman had a fierce argument because Mr Beadman was trying to stop this happening.” Harlow answered: “That is one of Mr Beadman’s many lies.” He went on to deny that he had punched Beadman in the stomach. Metzer claimed that the row, lasting between 30 and 40 minutes, woke Kayleigh up; she was informed what it was about and then wanted to leave. Harlow responded: “All of that’s complete lies. I wasn’t awake.” Responding to questions from his own counsel, Gary Bell QC, the former warehouse and call-centre worker told the court he was ashamed of grooming Kayleigh and had been “stupid and irresponsible”. Asked how well he knew Beadman, Harlow replied: “Not that well. We grew up on the same council estate.” Bell then asked Harlow if he had thought Beadman was capable of carrying out the “terrible” offences committed against Kayleigh. “No, not at all,” Harlow said. “I would never have let him in my house if I thought he was anything like that.” Both he and Beadman were “quite drunk” on the night Kayleigh was killed, Harlow said, adding that his evening ended when he went to sleep on a mattress in his lounge. The following morning, Harlow told the jury, he woke to find Kayleigh had gone and walked to Beadman’s home to see if she was there. Explaining why he had not immediately contacted the police, Harlow told jurors: “I didn’t think anything bad would have happened to her. I just thought she would be back at some point to pick her stuff up.” Jurors have been told that an arm on Harlow’s glasses was found to be broken when he was contacted by police who were attempting to trace Kayleigh, whose body was found on 18 November. Officers also noted that he had a bruised knee, a small injury to the side of his eye and a “finger print” grip mark on his arm. Explaining the knee injury, Harlow told the jury: “I fell over on the Friday night when I got out of bed to get a drink. I basically tripped and scraped my knee.” Of the bruises to his arm, the defendant added: “They had been there a few days. I think it was when I was round at one of my friends and we was messing about, just pratting about.” Harlow will continue giving evidence on Tuesday. 