A millionaire's daughter who drove a gang of looters around London during the riots last August is facing a jail sentence, a judge has said.Laura Johnson, 20, an Exeter University undergraduate from Orpington in Kent, was found guilty of burglary and handling stolen goods by a jury at inner London crown court for her part in a spree that involved thefts from branches of Comet and Currys in south east London. She was joined at the court by her mother and father, Lindsay and Robert Johnson, both company directors. After the verdict, Mr Johnson said his daughter was considering appealing against the conviction.The jury of eight men and four women had heard how Johnson came to chauffeur a group of looters through London on August 8 after she set out early in the evening to deliver a phone charger to her friend Emmanuel Okubote, 20, a convicted cocaine dealer and thief.When she arrived at their meeting point in Catford, south London, he jumped into the passenger seat and a group of others climbed into the back seats.In a statement to police, Johnson told how she was instructed to drive from one place to another over several hours as violence spread across the city. When she stopped, her passengers, most of whom she claimed to have never met before, looted shops and robbed people at knifepoint. She told the court she was ordered to act as Okubote's driver and was too frightened to report the men or flee."I didn't get the impression they were the sort of people you say no to," she told police. "I suppose there's a fear of them, there's a general knowledge that these are just not the kind of people who you don't go along with, especially when they are sat in your car and have an idea of your family or registration plate."The court was shown CCTV of Johnson pulling up at a petrol station in Sydenham, where Okubote filled the car with fuel. She said that although there had been no direct threats to her until that point, she felt she could not get away.She said the men in the back of the car had been talking about violence and they were amused by the reactions of people they robbed.She said: "In terms of stabbing, they used the terms 'getting wetted' or 'boaring' somebody, and they kept saying people were 'going to get fucked up'."Jurors heard how Johnson began a close friendship with Okubote, known as T-Man, during the summer after being introduced to him by a friend she met while a mental health unit outpatient. She sent a series of flirtatious messages to Okubote in the hours before they set out on their drive through the Catford, Hither Green and Charlton areas of London.Johnson was on trial with a 17-year-old accomplice who cannot be named for legal reasons. Following conviction, Judge Patricia Lees told them: "You have both been convicted of serious offences. These are aggravated by the fact that they were conducted in the timeframe of serious civil unrest in London last summer. This spree of burglaries and handling stolen goods, which you both were willing participants in, will attract in my mind the likelihood of an immediate custodial sentence."Johnson and the 17-year-old were both convicted by the jury of stealing electrical goods from Comet at Greenwich retail park. They were cleared of stealing a television from Currys at Stonelake retail park. The teenager had previously admitted burglary by stealing alcohol and cigarettes from a BP garage in Charlton.Johnson was also convicted of handling stolen goods – a TV looted from Currys – but cleared of a burglary charge involving the theft of cigarettes and drink from the garage. She was also acquitted of handling these items. Both were granted conditional bail.Another teenager, Alexander Elliott-Joahill, 18, pleaded guilty to burglaries and handling stolen goods in connection with the spree.Exeter University said in a statement it will await the sentence, due to be handed down on 3 May, before it decides whether to take additional action against Johnson.Okubote is currently in custody following a recall to prison for possession with intent to supply. He has not stood trial in connection with this case.Speaking after the trial, Detective Sergeant Mark Gilchrist said: "We are pleased with the result of this investigation. Laura Johnson went out on the evening of the 8th of August with the intention of stealing from local stores and joining in the mass disorder and looting."We continue to investigate and pursue those involved in the August disorder and are still trawling through a large volume of CCTV footage. Suspects are being identified on a daily basis which is leading to further arrests and court appearances."