The second-term cabinet reshuffle announced last night projects David Blunkett, the new home secretary, to the first rank of British politics.The sprawling and illogically structured Home Office, seen as one of the failures of the first term and indeed of the past 20 years, is now expected to narrow its focus on to fighting crime. Many of its responsibilities, including horseracing, will be scattered elsewhere. Data protection and freedom of information may go to the Lord Chancellor's Department. Foxhunting laws are expected to migrate to the new rural affairs department. Emergency services and electoral law may also leave Mr Blunkett's overloaded red box. But the MP for Sheffield Brightside has won his fight to take charge of drug policy, arguing that the "war against drugs" is integral to the fight against crime. John Prescott, the deputy prime minister, moves from the bloated Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions to the Cabinet Office. He will retain the title of deputy prime minister, deputising for the prime minister on some of his less important overseas visits and chairing a number of cabinet committees, including on civil emergencies. He will also oversee the government's fight against social exclusion, although in practice most of this work is undertaken by the civil servants in the prime minister's social exclusion unit. A lengthy internal wrangle appears to have been resolved with the Treasury retaining control over public service agreements, detailed achievement targets agreed between the Treasury and individual Whitehall departments. Some had pressed for the Cabinet Office to oversee delivery of the 500-plus targets. Instead Gordon Brown will chair the key cabinet committee responsible for target progress chasing. Nevertheless, Tony Blair will also set up a policy delivery unit within the Cabinet Office likely to be run by a businessperson. One task for the unit will be to reorientate the civil service from policy formulation to delivery on the ground. New financial incentives for civil servants are also expected. Speculation that Nick Butler, a Labour-supporting oil executive, will take the job was discounted. Jack Straw will transfer from the Home Office to take over Mr Prescott's power base. He is expected to retain control over the regions, meaning that Mr Prescott will not oversee the introduction of regional assemblies, a cause he has championed for over a decade. In a potentially significant move for environmentalists, it is expected that the DETR will cede some powers over the planning process to the enterprise-minded Department of Industry. The Labour manifesto trailed the move by promising to speed up the planning process, citing the delays over Heathrow's terminal 5. Stephen Byers will remain at a beefed-up department, discreetly pushing the business case for the euro. Mr Blair has also decided to merge the world of work, welfare and pensions, in an effort to strengthen the welfare to work drive. The working age agency, bringing together the employment service and benefits offices, will be within this department. The reorganisation also means that the Department for Education loses responsibility for employment, but not skills or vocational training. Employment and education were merged by the Conservatives as recently as 1992. Estelle Morris, the expected new education secretary, may have a more focused department, but Mr Blair will be on her back if performance of secondary schools does not improve at a comparable rate to the improvements in primary standards. The other big public service department, health, will continue to be led by Alan Milburn, a man Mr Blair trusts. The new Department of Rural Affairs will have to work hard to prove it is more than a change on the nameplate. The Ministry of Agriculture has already lost responsibility for food safety after the establishment of the food standards agency. But it will now wrest control over some countryside, wildlife and environmental protection issues, including rights of way. Foxhunting is an additional important responsibility. It is not now expected that the still relatively new Department of Culture, Media and Sport will suffer dismemberment. It will oversee reform of communications regulation. Inside No 10 there are also important changes. Alastair Campbell, the prime minister's spokesman, is to step back from the limelight, replaced by a civil servant. The No 10 policy unit, often reduced to firefighting in the first term, will be restructured. Useful linksResults Ask Aristotle about your constituencyTalk about itWho should lead the Tories? Should Hague have quit?VideoSee Hague make his resignation statementElection headlines Triumphant Blair reshuffles cabinetHague: I quit Comment and analysisGeorge Monbiot: Labour's victory rings hollow Austen Chamberlain: history's first Hague