Secret Home Office papers released last night under the Freedom of Information Act throw new light on Michael Howard's performance in his infamous grilling by Jeremy Paxman during which the BBC Newsnight presenter asked him the same question 12 times.The interrogation during the 1997 Tory party leadership contest centred on the allegation that when Mr Howard was home secretary he had overruled Derek Lewis, then director general of the Prison Service, and instructed him to suspend the governor of Parkhurst prison after a mass breakout of category A prisoners. Paxman repeatedly asked Mr Howard: "Did you threaten to overrule him?" The papers released by the Home Office last night at the request of Mr Howard appear to amount to only a partial vindication of the Tory leader's famous denials to Paxman. They include transcripts of three meetings between Mr Howard and Mr Lewis on January 10 1995 - the day it was decided that the Parkhurst governor should be suspended. They also show that Mr Lewis had been privately warned by the top civil servant at the Home Office: "This is all getting white hot and I don't want it to become nuclear." They show supporting evidence from the then permanent secretary at the Home Office, Sir Richard Wilson, that Mr Lewis had first raised the need to suspend John Marriott, the Parkhurst governor. But the top Home Office civil servant confirms that Mr Lewis had changed his mind and suggested the governor should be moved to another job instead of being suspended, and indeed argued with Mr Howard that it would be unfair to remove him. The papers show that on the same day Mr Howard was telling the Commons that Mr Marriott was being removed that afternoon, the governor had actually been told by a Prison Service official hours before that he was not being suspended and would not be immediately moved from the prison. The confidential papers do show that Mr Howard did ask the top Home Office civil servant if he had the power to overrule the Prison Service director general. In a confidential note for the record dated October 1995 - 10 months after the suspension - and addressed to Mr Howard, Sir Richard recalls: "You also had a word with me in private after the meeting to ask for advice on your formal position in relation to the question of suspension: was this a matter solely for Derek Lewis? could you instruct him? what was your locus? ... "I advised you against any attempt to give an instruction or to intervene on the question of suspension. You accepted this advice." Sir Richard states that he does not recall making any threat of any kind to Mr Lewis. But Mr Howard was "understandably angry about the way in which the matter was being handled". Sir Richard also reveals that he did warn Mr Lewis going into one of the three meetings. "I added words to the effect that 'this is all getting white hot and I don't want it to become nuclear'."