A coroner ruled yesterday that a widow who "went out like a light" while being treated by the serial murderer Harold Shipman had been unlawfully killed.Sarah Ashworth, 74, died at home in Hyde, Greater Manchester, in April 1993 and her body was exhumed five years later during police inquiries into the deaths of Shipman's patients. Shipman was jailed for life in January after being convicted of killing 15 mainly elderly women but was not charged with murdering Mrs Ashworth. The verdict by the south Manchester coroner, John Pollard, cannot by law distinguish between murder and manslaughter nor name a killer. But it will encourage the families of other patients who died while in Shipman's care to hope for similar verdicts. Inquests on another 25 patients are to be held this year and next. Jane Ashton-Hibbert, leader of the families' support group and granddaughter of Hilda Hibbert, one of Shipman's patients, said: "I'm glad that it has gone on record that this was an unlawful killing, which is quite an unusual verdict." Mr Pollard announced his verdict after saying he would set aside the death certificate issued by Shipman and recording that Mrs Ashworth died of heart failure. He listed nine similarities between Mrs Ashworth's death and those of Shipman's 15 known victims. "I find it impossible that it is more likely than not that Sarah Ashworth died of natural causes," he told the inquest at Tameside magistrates court. "The only plausible explanation for her death is that she was unlawfully killed and that is the verdict I shall record." In a statement, a spokesman for the family said: "The search for the truth about their mother's death has been a painful experience and they would like to thank everyone concerned and especially the families of other victims for the support they have received. "No verdict will bring Mrs Ashworth back but the family are now pleased that the record has been set straight." In his summary, Mr Pollard asked why, on the day Mrs Ashworth died, Shipman had collected from a pharmacy a prescription for 30mg of morphine. Mr Pollard described it as a lethal dose for someone apparently dying of heart failure. He said Shipman told relatives that Mrs Ashworth had fallen back on her bed and gone out like a light. But expert witnesses said people with heart failure did not die so suddenly. Earlier, Julie Evans, a forensic scientist, said that tests had shown that "on the balance of probabilities" there was morphine in Mrs Ashworth's body. A Home Office pathologist, John Rutherford, who carried out the postmortem examination, said giving morphine to someone with a respiratory condition was a "contentious" treatment because the drug depressed respiration. "I would perhaps describe it as going against conventional recommended medical practice," he said. He agreed later that it was dangerous. Because of the risks, opiates would usually be given in hospital where life saving equipment was available. Given Shipman's account of Mrs Ashworth's symptoms, he could see no reason for taking the drug to her home. Shipman's account of her dying was at odds with his diagnosis of heart failure. "I find it very surprising," said Dr Rutherford. Shipman chose to make no use of the video link which had been established to allow him to watch the inquest and cross-examine witnesses from Frankland prison in Co Durham during the two-day hearing.