A Latvian who raped and murdered A-level student Jeshma Raithatha was today told by a judge at the Old Bailey he would never be released.Viktors Dembovskis was given three life sentences for raping and killing the 17-year-old in Greenford, west London, on May 16 last year. He attacked her as she made her way home from school three days before her 18th birthday.Dembovskis had been previously convicted in Latvia in 1990 and 1999 for raping two women at knifepoint.Ms Raithatha's family wept in court after he was unanimously convicted by the jury after a total of three hours deliberations. "You have not displayed one jot of remorse for the appalling crimes you committed against that girl or the consequences to her family," Judge Peter Beaumont told Dembovskis. "You killed her so you could get away and you very nearly did. For behaviour as appalling as that there is only one sentence - a life sentence from which you will never be released." Dembovskis had throttled the teenager until she passed out and could not fight off the sex attack. He then knifed her so she would not identify him. Four days after the murder Dembovskis fled the UK and was later extradited from his home country to stand trial back in London. The details of his previous offences were given to the jury as the prosecution said it showed he had a "propensity" to sexually assault women. Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw said Dembovskis had chosen a "den" in Sudbury Hill where vegetation was so thick that neither he nor his victim would have been visible to anyone passing. "He was armed with a knife, no doubt that was produced to ensure that his victim did not shout out or scream. "He abducted her shortly after 3pm. By 4pm she was dead. She was powerless to resist and she managed only to scratch the defendant before she lost consciousness," said Mr Laidlaw. While unconscious but still alive, he raped her. "When the sexual act was over - for that was plainly the reason for the abduction - he stabbed her to death," said Mr Laidlaw. Four days later Dembovskis fled the country. But swabs taken from his victim matched his DNA. He also left a dark blue fleece behind at his home. In it were two necklaces which had been stolen from Ms Raithatha and were stained with her blood. Her parents, Manjula and Suresh Raithatha, asked outside court how he had been allowed into Britain. "The man who took Jeshma's life in this senseless manner has a violent past. He had spent time in prison in his own country. "We have to ask how and why this came about - what checks were made about his background before he was allowed to set foot on British soil?" Ms Raithatha was described as a caring, responsible, sensitive and friendly young woman - happy in her school and social life, the jury heard. She played both the clarinet and piano and was about to take her A-levels. Judge Beaumont said the family "will have to live with the loss of their child for the rest of their lives". He told Dembovskis that he had read statements from them "not only of the daily anguish they suffer but the devastation your actions caused them. "They have had, thanks to you, the ordeal of having to endure a two-week trial in which you have twisted, lied and cast about for any excuse you could think of to avoid your responsibility for the abduction of a 17-year-old girl as she made her way home in broad daylight on an afternoon in suburban London." Jeshma had nothing to defend herself with - "and why should she have had? All she had done that day was go to school, dropped off by her mother and then do a little shopping", the judge said.