A jagged crack runs down the screen of a television set turned on its side. Ransacked drawers spill from the chest in the corner. Two halves of a torn Johnny Mathis album cover stare back indignantly from a carpet randomly strewn with plastic flowers, while an LP, Jack Jones's 20 Golden Greats, has been snapped in two. Mathis and Jones belonged to a distant era when the airways of Radio 2 oozed with soothing crooners and soft strings. To the teenagers here at what is known as The Burgled House Project, it would be grans' music. Even great-grans' music. And that's the point of the carefully recreated chaos behind the blue and white tape with "Police Line: Do Not Cross" written along it. "Stop and think, young man; it might be your gran," could be a slogan for this attempt to bring young offenders face to face with the consequences of their behaviour. "We're trying to get across to them that our actions have a reaction," says Felicity Brangan, a project youth officer at Groundwork, the community regeneration group. "When they break in, looking for money, they don't always realise the devastation that they leave behind, and how it can blight people's lives," adds John Grimshaw, a restorative justice coordinator at the Manchester youth-offending team. The two organisations are partners in this project under the umbrella of the city's burglary reduction programme. "It's not just about teenagers facing up to the consequences of their actions," Brangan says. "We're also trying to show how we're all inter-connected and hoping to build up some trust between the generations." Beyond the grilled windows of this large corner-house are streets more typical of inner-city east Manchester. Rows of Victorian terraces look, from a distance, like the set of Coronation Street. But that would be too trite an analogy. This is real life in 2003, not a cosy Soapland where pensioners and cheeky Jack-the-lads mingle happily in street-corner pubs. Many of the older generation stay behind their lace curtains after dark, frightened to step outside. They do, though, come to the community house on the corner to play bingo during daylight hours. And if the young offenders are on the premises at the time, then Brangan and Grimshaw are only too happy to engineer some contact between the two groups. "At the moment, the lads are painting wooden plant-pot holders," says Brangan. "We're going to fill them with flowers and give them away to local pensioners in the front garden on a Saturday morning." It will offer a chance for small-time thieves on court referral orders to make some reparation to their community. Who knows? It may also lead to conversation between those who rarely meet. Youngsters, it is hoped, will learn that people of their grandparents' age have homes, gardens, and feelings worthy of respect. One or two pensioners might even discover that these kids are not monsters. More likely, they're damaged adolescents capable of being helped back on to the straight and narrow. "You can't give up on young people," Grimshaw says in reply to a suggestion that some of the older generation might regard schemes such as this as a soft touch. "What else should we do? Lock them up and wait for them to come out and start reoffending again? They've made a mistake and you have to try to help them get back on track." There are around half-a-dozen teenagers downstairs, painting plant pots under the supervision of an artist called Beckie. She's just made them a cup of tea and they have declined an opportunity to do their work out in the garden. "It's freezing," says Steve, 14, who has a habit of resting his head on the table at regular intervals, like the dormouse in Alice in Wonderland. Steve has been excluded from school for hitting a teacher. When asked what he makes of the burgled room upstairs, he shrugs. Joe, 18, is more forthoming. "I like it so much here that I'm coming as a volunteer," he says. "I've done my court order - clearing war graves and that - so I don't have to come. I feel sorry for the 22-year-olds that I used to knock around with. They never had a chance of coming to somewhere like this." Across the table, 16-year-old Sean nods solemnly over his paintbrush. "If I wasn't here," he says, "I'd be on the PlayStation all day round at my girlfriend's house, waiting for her to come home from work." As it is, Sean is hoping to go back to schoool in the autumn to complete his GCSEs. And the youth-offending team has secured Joe a place helping on a football coaching scheme for six- to 11-year-olds. Both seem capable of avoiding some of the wrong turns outlined on the road map that Brangan has drawn on the landing upstairs. At the centre is the Make-Your-Mind-Up Roundabout and, running off it, options such as Dole Drive, College Road and Prison Bypass. Any youth still pondering whether or not it is advisable to keep out of prison will find food for thought in the room adjoining the burglary scene. One side has been done up to look like a cell, complete with iron-framed bunk, regulation clothing laid upon it and various functional plastic utensils lining the window sill. "This has all come from a real prison," says Grimshaw. On the other side of the room is the Freedom Wall, decorated in bright sky-blue with fluffy clouds. Attached to it or to the ceiling above it are mobile phones, basketball hoops, football shirts - representations of the pleasures that are denied to those inside. On the cell side, the walls are institutional grey. Young offenders are invited to scrawl upon it what they might miss most were they to take the wrong road and finish up in somewhere as depressing as this. "My mates". "My family". "My mum". One contribution was rather less promising: "Not bothered. Don't care." We should never give up on young people. But sometimes they give up on themselves. · Steve, Joe and Sean are all pseudonyms.Signs of successThe Burgled House Project has been going for just six months, financed by a grant of £39,000 from the government's neighbourhood renewal programme. "It's unique to Manchester," says the city's burglary reduction programme manager, Jacqueline McStocker. "We wanted something that would appeal to young people visually. There also had to be some direct benefit to the community. So we've tried to promote better ways of securing property and we've [targeted] younger children who are not yet involved with crime, but could easily be dragged in." She accepts that it is too soon to say whether the scheme has been a success, but youth-offending teams in other parts of the city are already clamouring for projects of their own. Before the year is out, McStocker says, there will be a proper evaluation of the effects on the community and reoffending rates. "A project like this can't be judged in isolation," she says. "It has to be seen in the wider context of health, welfare, housing and education. But sometimes attitudes need to be changed before they can access further education and training."