A serial rapist who claimed he was "under the control of a higher satanic power" was given 10 life sentences yesterday for 15 months of attacks across north London and Hertfordshire.Jailing Petros Anthia, 35, a Greek Cypriot builder, for a minimum of 25 years, Judge John Bevan, QC, said he should be released only when he was "physically infirm." Four weeks into his trial at St Albans crown court, Anthia pleaded guilty on Tuesday to 10 charges of raping six women and three counts of causing actual bodily harm to three other women. Four counts of intent to commit buggery will remain on file. All nine of his victims went through the trauma of giving evidence. Anthia stalked his victims wearing a mask and he was caught only after the meticulous piecing together of forensic evidence. In 1999 he was charged with raping a French woman, but was acquitted at the Old Bailey when the traumatised woman refused to give evidence. Despite that acquittal, his DNA was stored on the national police database and detectives were able to identify him as a suspect after gathering DNA samples from his seventh victim. He was finally forced to admit his guilt when police arranged for the French woman - known as Miss B in court - to give evidence to the latest trial via video link. Detective Chief Inspector Mark Ross, who led the Hertfordshire police investigation, said: "Unfortunately there were two other attacks before we stopped him. Since his arrest by Hertfordshire officers, he has shown no remorse. "He has a complete disregard for women and sees them merely as sexual objects to be violent and aggressive towards. I have no doubt that if we had not arrested him, the attacks would have been even more serious and could have led to murder." The court was told that Anthia had more than 20 previous convictions for indecent assault and violence against women in Cyprus. He began offending at the age of 13. He told Cypriot police when interviewed by them in 1992 on a charge of indecent assault: "Sadly I have not yet learned my lesson. I want to be put on a course of treatment so I can be delivered from this passion that controls me. I am under the control of a higher satanic power, I believe there is witchcraft here." He came to Britain in 1998 after serving a prison sentence and married a British Cypriot woman. He has two daughters, aged 14 and six. Anthia's victims, aged between 19 and 35, were all walking alone at night down dark and secluded streets. Between January 2003 and April 2004, three were raped in Arnos Park, Enfield, north London, and the others in Barnet, Hatfield and St Albans. The women were attacked from behind, punched in the head and throttled to the point of unconsciousness. During the attacks, Anthia even demanded to know whether his victims were "enjoying it". All the women remarked on the man's foreign accent. Besides the DNA breakthrough, police forensic experts found pollen samples which placed Anthia at the scene of the attacks. Metallic samples from his clothes matched samples from the victims' clothing. Mobile phone evidence also placed him in the areas at the time of the attacks. Sentencing him, Judge Bevan said: "You are beyond reform or correction. I am sure that these rapes are as much about violence as they are about sex. Many of your victims were strangled into near unconsciousness. They all thought they were going to be killed and were all petrified." If Anthia had been found guilty by a jury he would have received a life term, the judge said. "Serial violent rape is sim ply unacceptable in a civilised society. "And women are entitled to know that the courts will do all in their power to get that message across." The judge went on to praise the bravery of Anthia's nine victims in coming to give evidence during the first half of his trial. "Their courage in coming forward and reliving their ordeal should be noted," he said. "It was frankly the sheer weight of numbers of witnesses giving identical testimony which built up an overwhelming case. Each of the nine has good reason to be grateful to the other eight."