A flagship government project to speed up the criminal justice system by providing advanced electronic links between magistrates courts is on the brink of being abandoned, raising the prospect of another humiliating information technology failure for ministers.The Lord Chancellors' Department will decide this month whether the troubled £319m Libra project can be salvaged, but an internal memo seen by the Guardian reveals that officials have failed to come up with an affordable solution despite months of discussion with the private sector contractors, Fujitsu Services, formerly known as ICL. The core of the Libra project, central to ministers' election promise to cut long delays in processing criminal cases, was to allow case files to be transferred instantly between the 400 magistrates courts as well as police, prisons, the probation service and other agencies. But, in a development certain to reignite concern about the use of the private finance initiative to fund large scale IT projects, Fujitsu will still be paid more than half of the contract's value even if does not deliver the core case management application. Under the contract, the company is entitled to the bulk of the payments for installing new PCs and Microsoft Office software originally intended to support the new case management infrastructure. The latest fiasco has outraged magistrates court staff. Rosie Eagleson, general secretary of the Association of Magisterial Officers, said: "If the core system is not delivered, we're right back to square one, except that enormous sums of public money will have been expended to deliver hardware and software that's available off the shelf at PC World." Last August, the Guardian revealed that staff in many courts were having to work with two computers on their desks instead of one, using the new PCs for basic tasks such as word processing while relying on their old computers, installed 10 years ago, to access casework. At the time, the Lord Chancellor's Department insisted this was a temporary situation which would "ease the eventual rollout" of the case management application, then promised within 18 months. But the latest internal memo, details of which are revealed today in Computer Weekly magazine, suggests that the core application is unlikely ever to materialise. The collapse of the project would leave staff having to rely on the three existing types of caseworking systems - known as legacy systems - some of which date back to the 1970s. The unsigned memo, dated April 2002, says discussions are continuing with Fujitsu but a fallback position is being discussed that would involve abandoning the common case-working system linking all magistrates courts and instead establishing "commercial arrangements for delivering a robust, standard national system based on the best of the legacy systems". Libra's failure would also have serious repercussions for the criminal justice system. At present, case files on defendants, convicted or on remand, are distributed mostly by post or fax, according to the national audit office which found that half of ineffective hearings are due to poor liaison within or between courts and other agencies. The project has been dogged by problems since its inception. The original PFI deal with ICL, signed in 1998, was worth £183m, but two years later the company renegotiated the terms, increasing the length of the contract from eight to 12 years and raising the value to £319m. Last night, the Lord Chancellor's Deparment said its discussions with Fujitsu were confidential but it was determined to provide courts with modern IT systems.