The son of dance music star Goldie was given a minimum 21-year jail sentence today for his part in gang rivalry that turned lethally violent.Jamie Price, 23, who belonged to Wolverhampton's notorious Firetown Crew, was given a life sentence for stabbing a disabled rival to death two years ago.Goldie, real name Clifford Joseph Price, was not in court to see his son jailed, but he has previously said of the tragedy: "I tried to give him opportunities; I told him that I'd pay for anything he wanted to do. But he went the other way."Jamie Price reacted without obvious emotion as sentence was passed by Judge John Milmo QC. He was convicted yesterday at Nottingham crown court of murdering Marlon Morris, an associate of a gang called the Pendeford Crew, which had clashed with Firetown members.The verdict came at the end of a retrial after an earlier hearing at Wolverhampton crown court collapsed last year over issues involving CCTV evidence.Milmo told Price, who also uses his father's nickname: "The background here is gang culture. The refusal of gangs to accept the law of the land, coupled with the desire to impose their own anarchic ways, cannot be tolerated by society. In a case of this kind there are no winners, only losers. Everyone involved here has lost, and lost in a very significant sense, whether the sentence is one of life or one of death."The trial heard that the murder shocked Wolverhampton, where Morris was chased through the city centre by Price before being stabbed four times. The blows were so hard that Morris's shoulder blade was scored, and one fatal thrust went through his heart.The victim, who wore his left arm in a sling after a motorbike accident, had been drinking with friends and was unarmed when Price spotted him shortly before 3.30am. The murder took place in Broad Street, the centre of Wolverhampton's late-night clubbing.The judge told Price that he must serve a minimum of 21 years before consideration for release.After the hearing, the family of Morris, who left a one-year-old son, Rico, said that they were pleased with the outcome. A statement from the family read by Detective Constable Allison Smith said: "Today has seen justice for Marlon and whilst it has been a long and difficult journey, it is the right result and enables closure for our family. We also want to say that we are not the only victims here. The family of Jamie Price will also be suffering."