Cyberstalking is now more common than physical harassment, according to new figures due to be released next week, with many victims finding themselves pursued by complete strangers online.The first study of its kind to look at the extent and effect of cyberstalking, taking in social networking sites, email and mobile phones, has revealed the profile of perpetrators to be radically different from those who pursue victims face-to-face. Victims surveyed by Echo (Electronic Communication Harassment Observation), at Bedford University, reported that their harassers were more likely to be a complete stranger or a casual acquaintance than a former partner.Another major finding was that nearly 40% of cyberstalking victims are men. Past studies have identified women as much more at risk from face-to-face stalking.Most of the victims surveyed were aged 20 to 39, although ages ranged from 14 to 74, with teenagers reporting social networking sites as the environment in which they were most likely to be harassed.Dr Emma Short, psychologist and co-author of the study, launched last September with the backing of the Crown Prosecution Service, said the crime was not taken as seriously as it should be: "There is a lack of understanding of the impact of this behaviour. One of the biggest questions was, 'Is there psychological harm?' Worryingly, a third experienced this. Not just stress, but a clinical record of psychological harm."There have been threats to kill. They give the impression that they know where their victims live and can get at them physically. There is a lot of damage to or loss of reputation, people being compromised by false allegations. I spoke to a teacher who was followed through chat rooms and the net by someone claiming to have met him through a child porn site. He had a very supportive head but it went on for several years. He never found out who or what their intention was."Another victim was bombarded with vivid images of violent rape. It is often unclear what the stalker aims to get out of it, other than causing "misery and distress", she said.The pattern of harassment is different between male and female victims, she said, with men targeted by strangers more than women. Around 37% of men were stalked by a stranger, compared with 23% of women. Only 4% reported being stalked by a former partner, compared with victims of face-to-face stalking, where around half are former partners, according to Echo.The largest category of all victims where the perpetrator was a stranger did not know where they had come from, how they were targeted and never found their of those who pursued them, the survey founidentities. One in five said the offender targeted them via social networking sites and 16% via blogging forums. Only 4% came from online dating.Short, who surveyed 250 victims though a questionnaire, said while it is clear that a third of all victims reported clinically recognised symptoms of PTSD, men and women often reacted differently. "For women the fear is of physical violence to themselves and then to their families or children. For men, they are afraid of damage to their reputation."The population who harass online are different to the population already understood as harassers by the police and the legislators, so the risks are unclear."Echo is launching a website at beds.ac.uk/echo which goes live on Monday.The British Crime Survey 2006 estimates up to 5 million people experience stalking each year, but there are no official statistics on the percentage cyberstalked.Last week MPs called for an overhaul in the laws governing such crimes, so that both stalking and cyberstalking is legally defined. The Protection from Harassment Act 1997, the law most used to deal with stalking, has not been updated since the explosion of social media, and does not include online stalking.At the launch of a parliamentary campaign on the issue, most victims reported that they were unable to get the police to take it seriously; that police found it extremely difficult to gather evidence or were met with a lack of understanding of how best to use the law.A report by the National Stalking Helpline, due out next week, National Stalking Awareness Week, is expected to reveal that more than half of all calls to the helpline are those who have been harassed online or by mobile phone.Harry Fletcher of Napo, the probation Union, said that areas such as stalking through social networking sites and the use of the internet to damage reputations were poorly understood by police and not properly defined in law. It is often difficult to get information from internet service providers and proving attribution can be difficult as stalkers have multiple untraceable means of accessing the internet.Fletcher called for a change in the law to "catch up with technology". He said: "There needs to be training for police and probation into the nature of stalking, the nature of stalking behaviour and how to investigate, particularly internet crimes."'It was terrifying'It started with a notice on an online bulletin board he knew Joanne would see: her name, her husband's name, their address, email and telephone number. Then, to show he was watching, small details about her family would appear – updates her children had posted on their Facebook sites, with comments such as "X doesn't seem to be very happy today".A series of false allegations followed. That Joanne and her husband were paedophiles who had sold their daughter to him for sex; that Joanne was a drug dealer and had been involved in criminal activities at work.The harassment consumed Joanne, 47, and her family, but police failed to take it seriously, she says. "It was in the hands of a community support officer. They just thought I was a hysterical woman. He put us though hell. It was terrifying. One Monday I got up and I couldn't do anything but cry. I thought he was going to kill me."They knew who he was, a casual acquaintance with a grudge, but it was only after attacks on their car began, causing £3,000 of damage, that he was arrested and charged with harassment, criminal damage and falsifying an alibi. The harassment charge was dropped in a plea bargain and he was sentenced to 200 hours' community service plus costs for criminal damage.Joanne wants a "more robust law" so that stalkers can be convicted and punished appropriately. "Otherwise people like him will continue to be allowed to make people's lives a misery."What to do if you have experienced harassment or stalkingAdvice from the Electronic Communication Harassment Observation (ECHO) is as follows:Report – as soon as you are concerned contact your local police and the stalking helpline on 0300 636 0300, or visit www.stalkinghelpline.orgSupport – seek support from groups such as Network for Surviving Stalking (www.nss.org.uk)Evidence – gather evidence including times and means of stalking. Save any texts, emails, Facebook messages, screenshotsYou should then assist police AND report to the network provider/ISP/Facebook. The service providers may not be able or willing to help, but you must log the complaint.ECHO, at the University of Bedford, is conducting research into stalking and is interested in hearing from victims. www.beds.ac.uk/echo