Once again the beleaguered probation service is shouldering the blame in a high-profile murder case. In the cases of Damien Hanson, convicted last December of murdering John Monckton, and Yousef Bouhaddou, convicted last week of murdering Robert Symons, both had been released early "on licence" and were supposed to be reporting weekly to probation officers during the time they committed their offences. Adrian Thomas, Michael Johnson, Jamaile Morally and Indrit Krasniqi, four of the six men convicted of the kidnap, rape and murder of Mary-Ann Leneghan were serving community sentences under probation supervision when they attacked the 16-year-old. Though the situations were different, the issues are the same. In the cases of Hanson and Bouhaddou, the parole board had dossiers of information to consider before deciding to release them. People should be concerned that a major part of that information included, "progress in custody including any offending behaviour work undertaken".Measuring a prisoner's progress is now so depersonalised that it is easier than it has ever been for the prisoner so inclined to "play the system". Monitoring and reporting on a prisoner's progress used to be a job that required considerable interpersonal skills and professional confidence. Cases were discussed in depth and information shared. Gaining a prisoner's trust was a big part of the process, but good report writers were not afraid to challenge the prisoner face to face about all aspects of their behaviour. The idea was to get people to think deeply about why they were in prison. Above all, before any recommendations were made, reporting staff made sure they knew the prisoner well. That was how they protected the public. When "offending behaviour" courses were introduced in the mid 90s, coinciding with the rapid increase of prison numbers, it was the beginning of the end of authentic relationships between prisoners and staff. Courses such as those on anger management, victim empathy and enhanced thinking, overseen by prison psychologists, brought a new level of cynicism to prison wings and landings. Overcrowding and limited access to constructive activities like education and work skills training made prison life even less bearable and attitudes hardened. For many, positive engagement with prison authorities became pointless and not worth the effort. The new way was simpler. The more offending behaviour courses a prisoner attended, the more "boxes ticked", the more chances a parole application had of succeeding. Since the parole board is trained to be impressed with "offending behaviour work" how could it argue if the system declared an offender to have addressed their "risk factors" by undertaking the appropriate courses?Consequently, the probation service has to supervise people that nobody in prison has ever really got to know. Under-resourced and overstretched (according to the national association of probation officers, the service in London is operating with a staff shortage of 160 officers and all the while caseloads are increasing), probation officers also have no hope of getting to know the people they are supposed to be supervising, beyond what the parole dossier, based largely on the person's "progress" in prison, tells them.And the nature of the probation service has changed radically over the last 10 years. Instead of supervising "clients", probation officers supervise "offenders". Where once they were akin to an official friend, offering support, advice and encouragement, now they are primarily a policing agency, responsible for "enforcement" - a politically influenced development that has led to a new cynicism of the kind that now exists in prisons. Like Hanson and Bouhaddou, the killers of Mary-Ann Leneghan had to report weekly to a probation officer. They knew that all they had to do was to turn up and make sure their boxes were ticked. There was no "relationship" with probation worthy of their respect. Whatever the failings of the system, however, nobody should be under any doubt that the people who were responsible for the murders of John Monckton, Robert Symons and Mary-Ann Leneghan were the people who were convicted.