A gang of youths have been jailed for killing a man with the mental age of nine as they tried to mug him at knifepoint.Jamal Jones, 17, was caught on CCTV stabbing Dean Mayley in the heart after stopping him in the street and demanding his mobile phone on the afternoon of 7 February.He denied he meant to seriously hurt the 24-year-old when he lashed out with the blade but following a trial at the Old Bailey jurors found him guilty of murder. He was jailed for life with a minimum of 15 years.Three other teenagers who provided backup in the attempted robbery in Greenford, west London, were also jailed.Sentencing the four, Judge Martyn Zeidman QC told them: “It was Jamal Jones who plunged the knife into Dean’s heart. But make no mistake, you all have blood on your hands. You each played an important part in this event and you did so knowing that Jamal had a knife and realising that he might stab Dean with it. Put bluntly, now Dean is dead and it’s your fault.”The judge described Mayley as a “kind, innocent and vulnerable young man”.Reading from a victim impact statement by his mother, Donna Mayley, the judge added: “The loss of our lovely Dean has ripped our family apart. It is hard to comprehend that we will never see him again.”During the trial, the court heard that Mayley was killed because he did not hand over his phone to the robbers. He had learning difficulties due to a brain disorder called microcephaly and probably did not fully understand what they wanted, jurors were told.The CCTV showed three hooded figures surround Mayley before one of them stabbed him with a knife. Miguel Leiba, 17, from Hanwell, and Ryan Beresford, 19, of Acton, blocked the victim’s path and Michael Mensah, 18, from Greenford, drove them to and from the scene.All three were cleared of murder but convicted of manslaughter and also found guilty of the attempted robbery of Mayley. Leiba, who was 16 at the time of the offence, was jailed for 14 years for manslaughter and eight years for attempted robbery, to run concurrently. Beresford was sentenced to 15 years for manslaughter and eight years for attempted robbery, to run concurrently.Mensah was jailed for 15 years for manslaughter and nine years for attempted robbery, to run concurrently. He was also found guilty of an earlier robbery, on 28 January, and was sentenced to two years for that offence, meaning he will serve a total of 17 years.