During a nine-day hearing the appeal court heard a mass of complicated and detailed evidence about the circumstances which led to Siôn Jenkins being convicted of murdering his foster daughter Billie-Jo and the legal fight to clear his name.The appeal was brought on three grounds - that a vagrant known as Mr X may have killed Billie-Jo; that the defence at the trial had been unfairly deprived of the chance to call Mr Jenkins' two eldest daughters; and that new scientific evidence undermined the case against Mr Jenkins. Here is a summary of the three grounds and the rulings on them by the three appeal court judges, Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Curtis and Mr Justice Wakerley. Mr X - grounds rejected One of the most baffling aspects of Billie-Jo's murder was a piece of black bin bag found stuffed deep into her left nostril. Mr Jenkins' team sought to make much of a psychotic vagrant identified only as Mr X who was in the area at the time. He had a fixation with sealing openings to keep out imagined poisons. When police arrested him two days after Billie-Jo's death he tried to stuff pieces of blue plastic into his mouth and nose. The appeal judges were not impressed by the Mr X argument. Lord Justice Rose said forensic evidence and sightings of Mr X at around the time of the murder made it "implausible" that he could have killed Billie-Jo. Because he had an odd attitude to plastic did not mean that it was he who stuffed the bin bag into Billie-Jo's nose. The Mr X point was also undermined by Anthony Scrivener QC, who represented Mr Jenkins at the trial. He told the appeal that Mr X had been investigated by the defence at the time and eliminated. The daughters' evidence - grounds rejected Mr Jenkins' lawyers argued that the defence at his trial had been unable to call his daughters, Annie, then 12, and Lottie, 10, to give evidence, although they had been with their father on the afternoon of Billie-Jo's murder and may have been able to offer him an alibi. It was claimed that they had not been called because Mr Jenkins' then wife, Lois, had persuaded them of their father's guilt after police told her he was definitely the killer. The appeal judges accepted that parts of Annie's evidence might have helped their father, in particular her claim in a police interview the day after Billie-Jo's death that she spoke to her foster sister as she, Lottie and Mr Jenkins left the house - after the prosecution says the girl was dead. But the judges also pointed out that "important details" of Annie's evidence conflicted with Mr Jenkins' account. There was also a danger that she might disclose damaging facts, such as the discussions about the afternoon of the killing she had with her father of which Mr Jenkins took "copious" notes. The judges ruled that Mrs Jenkins had not "got at" her daughters, highlighting that Lottie - or Charlotte as she now prefers to be called - had told the court when she gave evidence: "Nothing my mother said to me made me think my father might be guilty." Unusually, Mr Jenkins' orig inal barrister, Mr Scrivener, was called to give evidence to the court over why he did not call the girls. The judges concluded he had shown a "reluctance to call the girls manifest over many months". Scientific evidence - grounds succeededAt a first failed appeal in 1999 Mr Jenkins' team argued that even if Billie-Jo had not been breathing strongly enough to cause the spattering of blood on her foster father's clothes a "passive" spray of blood could have been forced out of her nose after a blockage in her airways, behind which blood had gathered, was cleared. But the court accepted the crown's argument that such an effect could only have been achieved if the blockage was in her upper airways. The pathologist who carried out the post-mortem examination on Billie-Jo said he found a blockage only in her lower airways and the appeal failed. A few days before the latest appeal began Professor David Denison, a forensic pathologist, examined slides of Billie-Jo's lung tissue for Mr Jenkins' side and spotted the presence of interstitial emphysema, a condition in which air is forced under pressure into the membranes which separate the lobes of the lungs. The court was told that the presence of the condition was consistent with Billie-Jo fighting for breath as she was attacked, causing an increase in air pressure in her lungs which was maintained by a blockage in the upper airways. This gives more weight to the theory that Mr Jenkins could have been hit by a spray of blood when the blockage was released.