In 1989, the number of sexual offences recorded by the police shot up. Conservatives were appalled by the moral decline. Gay activists noticed the striking number of homosexuals who were being arrested and became as angry as their enemies. 'Is England going to the dogs?' they cried. 'Is England turning into a hetero's police state?' countered the gays. Neither side had the courage to ask the truly tough question: 'What the bloody hell is going on in Slough?'Annual crime figures shouldn't jump wildly. A country doesn't become more violent or dishonest overnight. Yet the numbers on the front pages said that all kinds of new fears of predatory men and rape appeared to be justified.The Home Office's statisticians took a hard look at their data, and noticed a peculiar increase of 500 in the number of arrests for indecency. Odder still, 350 of the arrests had been made in Slough or, more specifically, in the public conveniences in Slough town centre.In 1988, there had been just six. Within a year, Slough had become the San Francisco of the south, the Sodom of suburbia. The Home Office dug deeper. Its researchers found that one of the local police commanders had firm views on the homosexual question and had ordered handsome PCs to go to the lavatories and arrest any man who tried to seduce them. The purge of Slough's lavatories sent recorded indecency offences in Britain back towards the highs of the 1950s, when homosexuality was illegal. Until, that is, the policy changed and Thames Valley Police pulled its men out of the cottages.Slough's gays carried on cruising, but their assignations were no longer recorded. The crime figures depended on what the police were looking for and what the police counted.It's worth knowing what the decisions of one officer in one town can achieve when the endless fight about the true level of crime returns. Last week, another round was slugged out. Crimes recorded by the police showed Britain to be a lawless country. For the first time, more than one million people were the victims of a violent attack. Homicide, sex crime, gun crime and violent robberies were all up. Naturally, the Conservative party and press concentrated on these dreadful figures.On the same day, the British Crime Survey was released. It contained the cheering news that crime was down by 7 per cent in the past year and had fallen by 44 per cent since its peak under the Tories. Home Office statisticians told the Guardian that the return of peace to the kingdom was 'quite extraordinary and historically unprecedented, at least for the last century'. Charles Clarke was so struck by the findings that he only had the time to mention the figures from the police in passing and somehow forgot to say that they claimed that violent crime was up. The Daily Mail was so impressed by the police figures that its reporter only had to time to mention the figures from the British Crime Survey in passing and then only to note that critics had 'rubbished' them.The temptation is to mutter something about lies, damned lies and statistics and to move on to the next business. Richard Garside, of the Crime and Society think-tank, once put it well when he said: 'Seeking a definitive figure for crime levels is akin to asking how many beetles there are. Though in principle the question is answerable, in practice no definitive answer is possible.'It's true that if you think about what should be recorded as a crime for too long, you will surely go mad. The government often does. Apparent rises in the numbers of carjackings or street robberies lead it to pull the police hither and thither as they take officers away from serious work to tackle whatever is the fashionable crime of the moment in the papers.But contradictory though they often are, the figures aren't worthless. The Home Office explained away the apparent rise in violence the police had seen as the result of changes in recording and reporting practices. Perhaps they were. But the fact remains that one million people said that they were on the receiving end of aggression and, given the surge in binge drinking, that isn't such a surprise.The British Crime Survey has all kinds of gaps. Its researchers only interview people aged 16 or over, so they don't deal with crimes against children. Because interviewees talk about their experience as victims, there's no discussion of the crimes they're likely to have got away with - shoplifting, the taking of illegal drugs, pilfering from employers. Conservative think-tank Civitas plausibly suggested that the survey failed to count 10 million crimes, which is some shortfall.None the less, it is a remarkable poll. Whereas newspaper pollsters usually interview only 1,000 people, the Home Office researchers interview 45,000 and make great efforts to ensure they find a random sample. Given the staggering falls in unemployment and the depressing sight of people putting bars on their windows and turning their homes into prisons, it shouldn't be a surprise that the motive and opportunity for many of the burglaries of the Thatcher years have disappeared.The figure which should make headlines but rarely does is the detection rate which measures the butter-fingered police's inability to catch criminals. The average officer solves just one crime a month at present. Until that changes, it's unlikely that anyone is going to feel secure.At the time of writing, the police are trying to prevent crimes which would be better described as atrocities. The anti-terrorist campaign will consume vast resources. Yet its success or failure will barely register in the crime figures. The cops have all the men and money they want for now.But this war is for the long term and it would be good for ministers to resolve not to pull officers off the case when the headlines switch away from Islamism to deal with the latest fear - mobile phone thefts, carjackings or, indeed, cottaging in Slough's lavatories.Going to war in the classroomFor a Prime Minister whose place in history will be determined by his reaction to 11 September, Tony Blair has a blind spot about religion. He doesn't understand its power to divide and incite and assumes that all true practitioners are like the Anglo-Catholic priests of middle-class London: upright men who do good works and wish no one ill.The National Secular Society learned with despair but no surprise that the government could not be deterred in pressing ahead with faith schools by something as trivial as attacks on London by religious fanatics.Surrounded as I am by New Labour's Islington supporters, I can understand the insouciance. Most parents I know want to send their children to religious schools. They don't believe in God for a moment; they just go to church and lie to vicars so their children can get away from the abysmal state system and have what is a selective education by any other name. Where's the harm in that? But it's a far cry from Islington to the slums of the north. The bombers came from what is becoming a typical Muslim community. They were Kashmiris living in Leeds's segregated streets which might as well have been official ghettos.Now the government wants to reinforce separation with Muslim schools for brown pupils and Christian schools for white ones.David Trimble told John Humphrys recently that the greatest blunder after partition was to allow Catholic and Protestant schools to survive. He might have added that the mainland is repeating Ulster's murderous mistake.At least a few Labour members realise that we're heading for disaster. Dave Edwards, a former mayor of Coventry, resigned from the party after 52 years because it had approved a plan to allow a wealthy Christian fundamentalist to open a city academy. 'I feel like bloody crying,' he said. I suspect that many more tears will be shed.Confused? You will be...A warning arrives from the Stop the War Coalition. It wants to 'make it absolutely clear' that Germaine Lindsay, one of the suspects in the 7/7 murders in London, 'is entirely unconnected with Lindsey German, the convenor of the Stop the War Coalition. Any suggestion of any connection between these two individuals is both false and libellous.'Of course, but how could such a terrible mistake be made? Last year, when decent members of the left were supporting the Iraqi democrats and trade unionists who were being blown to pieces by the bombers of the far right, Ms German prepared a statement which called for 'an end to the occupation [and] recognises once more the legitimacy of the struggle of Iraqis, by whatever means they find necessary, to secure such ends'. Although the 'peace' movement abhors the murder of civilians in London, it seems less queasy about the murder of civilians in Baghdad.We're happy to make things clear.