A policeman wept in the witness box yesterday as he denied he had planned to rape a drunken woman with a colleague.Mark Witcher, 30, wiped away tears when it was suggested that he and fellow PC Andrew Lang, 30, had "cooked up" the plan to attack the mother-of-three at her home in Godalming, Surrey. He and Lang deny raping and indecently assaulting the woman on September 20 last year after she had reported being the victim of an attack outside a nightclub in Godalming. The woman had got into their marked patrol car and searched for the attacker before she was taken home. During cross-examination at Winchester crown court, Richard Onslow, prosecuting, suggested that Mr Witcher and Mr Lang had planned to rape the alleged victim when they got out of the car to discuss it during the search for her attacker. Mr Onslow said that was the reason why in both their police interviews neither of the de fendants said that anything was mentioned as they had sex with the woman. Mr Onslow said: "I am suggesting that you went to that house with the intention of having sex with her." Mr Witcher: "Definitely not." Mr Onslow: "You and Lang cooked up a plan while you were out of the car to take her back to her house and have sex, that's what you did isn't it?" A crying Mr Witcher replied: "No sir." Mr Onslow put it to the constable that he had forced the woman to have sex while Mr Lang blocked an escape route. Mr Witcher, of Drayton, Hampshire, and Mr Lang, of Whitehill, Hampshire, also deny three charges each of misconduct in public office. During his evidence Mr Witcher said he had found the woman attractive and had noticed the then 23-year-old had big breasts, and that he had called her a "lusty busty northerner" in jest when she was in the back of their marked Vauxhall Astra. He told the jury that the woman, who cannot be named, was excitable and drunk when he met her in Godalming High Street after reports of a disturbance outside a nightclub. He said the atmosphere in the car was friendly, jokey and flirtatious. "She said to us 'I have never been with two policemen before'. I took that as being in jest. I replied back 'Well, you can tell your friends you have'." The three then went back to her house and the atmosphere changed. "Myself and the woman were face to face with each other and we both kissed each other on the mouth," he said. Antony Chinn, defending, asked: "Was that something you expected?" Mr Witcher replied: "No, it was not. I believe I put my hands around her waist, if not her backside." They then started to have sex. The alleged victim was extremely drunk, having consumed 12 vodka and Red Bull drinks, the jury was told. The woman was wearing a suede skirt just below the knee, a black cotton shirt and black high-heeled boots. The prosecution alleged that the two officers attacked her in the lounge of her home while her young children and a male babysitter slept upstairs. The woman said she did not scream for fear of waking her children but told Mr Witcher and Mr Lang to stop. After the attack the officers were said to have thanked the woman before leaving. At the police station they boasted to colleagues over the coming weeks before one officer informed the Police Standards Department and the investigation was launched. DNA tests on the woman's skirt found semen stains belonging to both men. The alleged victim made her complaint after she was visited by Surrey police officers investigating Mr Witcher and Mr Lang's misconduct while on duty. The case was adjourned until today.