An armed robber mistakenly released from a high security prison has been posting taunting images of himself online next to police vans and enjoying a pint.Ryan Byrne, 34, was freed from Wandsworth prison in south London up to 18 months too early. He had been jailed for nine years after a violent robbery at a Boots store in 2007.Byrne and three other people wearing balaclavas – including his brother Darren – stormed the store armed with a 2ft machete, locked workers in the room and stole £3,800 from the safe. But according to the Sun, the robber was mistakenly released last week while he was enjoying a cigarette in his cell.A source told the paper: “Byrne was sitting in his cell having a cigarette last Wednesday when he was told he was free to leave. He couldn’t believe it. But he didn’t protest and has been enjoying his freedom.”Since his release, Byrne has been posting a series of pictures of himself online. The photo of him posing with a police van was taken last Saturday night, possibly in London’s Chinatown, and the picture of him in the pub is thought to have been taken on Monday.The Sun (@TheSun)Armed robber mistakenly freed from jail early has found this way to taunt police http://t.co/CCCTBDksof pic.twitter.com/aycs3sO1mKJuly 22, 2015Byrne, originally from Hammersmith, west London, was released on licence from his original sentence in 2011 but was imprisoned again for breaching conditions. Police last night checked his mother’s house in Acton but he was still on the run. “It’s not his fault they let him out early. It’s hugely embarrassing for the Prison Service,” the source added. “What if he goes and commits another violent crime?”The Prison Service said it was investigating Byrne’s release. He is described as white, 5ft 11in and of medium build, with blue eyes and a goatee.A spokesman for the prison service said: “Releases in error are very rare but regrettable occurrences. The number of incidents have fallen significantly in recent years with figures down by a quarter compared to 2009/10, but every incident is taken extremely seriously and we are not complacent.“We are investigating this incident. The recapture of this prisoner is now a matter for the police.”