The son of a sub-postmaster was shot dead by a gang of masked men who were trying to rob his parents' shop, a court heard today.Birmingham crown court was told how 29-year-old Craig Hodson-Walker was shot in the chest at the post office and village store in Fairfield, near Bromsgrove, Worcestershire, on the morning of 9 January. His attackers were armed with a 9mm automatic handgun and a sledgehammer as they burst into the store at 8.20am.Hodson-Walker's father, Kenneth, was shot in the leg but survived. This was "a matter of luck rather than judgment" as there had been "an attempt to shoot him in the same way as his son", prosecutor Timothy Raggatt QC told the jury.He later warned jurors that they would have to watch CCTV footage from the shop that showed the incident and that it had "alarming and somewhat frightening features". He urged them to be as dispassionate as possible when considering the footage and said he was not seeking to frighten them."This was a planned attack by men who were going armed when they went to attack the Fairfield store," said Raggatt. "They went with a loaded gun, everyone on the team knew it and they were prepared to use it. All that Craig Hodson-Walker had done in terms of what led to his death was attempt to defend his parents, who were both in the store at the time, from a group of men who had chosen to attack it."The four defendants – Anselm Ribera, 34, and Adrian Snape, 25, from Birmingham, and brothers Christopher Morrissey, 32, from Sheldon, and Declan Morrissey, 33, from Solihull – all deny murder and attempted murder.The prosecution portrayed the defendants as a ruthless, determined group."It is the crown's case that [the gun] was in the hands of Anselm Ribera at the time, but of course it does not stop there because it is in effect a team weapon," said Raggatt. The other three defendants "knew perfectly well" that Ribera had a gun and was prepared to use it, Raggatt said.Raggatt said the crime was ruthlessly carried out with great determination. "But this was all in vain… they didn't get what they were after, but they took the life of a young man in a thoroughly needless but obviously and wholly deliberate fashion," he added.He said that three of the men had gone into the post office with the plain intention of robbing it. "They were masked effectively, they were gloved and they were thoroughly covered up," he said. Outside in a car with its engine running and the doors open was the fourth man, Snape, who pleaded guilty to a charge of attempted robbery at an earlier hearing.The jury heard that £20,000 was locked in a safe on the premises, but that it was on a timelock and would not have opened until 9am – 40 minutes after the shooting.The three other defendants deny attempted robbery. The Morrissey brothers both deny a separate count of robbery relating to the theft of a VW Golf on 31 December 2008 from a house in Solihull. Raggatt said size-five shoe impressions taken from the porch, the VW Golf and the scene at Fairfield matched Nike trainers worn by Declan Morrissey. A compact disc found in the stolen Golf had a fragment of his fingerprint, the court was told.The trial continues.