A man who murdered a Harrods shop assistant and buried her body in a shallow grave in a London park was jailed for life yesterday. The body of Egeli Rasta, 27, originally from Estonia, lay undiscovered on Mitcham Common in south London for 12 days in July 2006.Garath Davies was found guilty of her murder in November and yesterday Judge Richard Hawkins ruled that he should serve a minimum 23 years.The court heard that Davies, 23, of Mitcham, had been chainsmoking cannabis and was "very stoned" on the day Rasta was killed. He told police: "I'm afraid I might have done it. I can't remember."After murdering Rasta he fled with her mobile phone and clothes inside his rucksack. He used the phone to send texts and pictures of his dog to a friend but ignored desperate calls from Rasta's boyfriend who was trying to find out what had happened to her.When police arrested Davies nine days later at the home he shared with his mother they found a kitchen knife covered in blood. Rasta's mobile phone was in his trouser pocket. Jurors were told that although it was not clear exactly what had happened, the evidence pointed to a "sexual motive" for the killing.They heard Davies had constructed a den in the copse where the body was buried and police found numerous condom wrappers and his DNA on empty beer cans. The judge said: "I am driven by the circumstances of this case to conclude that it has sexual motivation and involved sexual conduct."The court heard that Rasta, who was "fit, athletic and quite strong", lived near the common and would often jog and sunbathe there. She disappeared on July 4, a day after working a shift at Harrods in Knightsbridge, central London.Mark Ellison, prosecuting, said Rasta's body was so badly decomposed that the pathologist was unable to establish the cause of death. Sally O'Neill QC, defending, said there was no evidence the killing was premeditated. It was "something that happened on the spur of the moment for reasons that no one will ever know", she told the court.The victim's mother, Sirje, said her daughter had wanted to become a social worker. "This horror will never end for me and my family," she added.Yesterday Detective Chief Inspector Dave Garwood said: "I would have - and more, the family would have - loved, for him to tell us what really happened, so they could have known what happened to Egeli. But they'll not know, because he's refused to ... accept any involvement."