A major investigation was under way yesterday after a man was accused of escaping from a secure mental health unit and raping a schoolgirl.Questions were raised over how Darren Harkin, 20, was able to abscond and why no warnings that he was on the loose were given by the police.Avon and Somerset police were reviewing their handling of the case and referred the matter to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). The secure unit, Hayes hospital, was also trying to establish how Harkin had been able to flee.Harkin is alleged to have escaped from the unit, in the village of Pilning, near Bristol, on Saturday. On Sunday in Chepstow, 25 miles away, a 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped twice.Harkin appeared before magistrates in Chepstow on Tuesday charged with escaping from lawful custody, burglary of a Bristol house and two counts of rape. He was remanded in custody to be committed to Newport crown court on February 14.Harkin was detained at the age of 12 "without limit of time" following a hearing at Bristol crown court in 1991. He was to receive 24-hour psychiatric care and have the opportunity to continue his education, take part in sports and maintain regular contact with his family.Mr Justice Toulson explained to the teenager: "As you know, I have decided where you should go. I have been helped in this by a lot of work that has been done by your legal team and by a lot of doctors."I'm satisfied that the right thing is that you should go to this hospital for whatever time might be necessary and that's the order I'm going to make."Police spokesman Wayne Baker said yesterday: "We've undertaken a full review of all of the circumstances surrounding this case and we've also voluntarily referred the matter to the IPCC. As such, and given that criminal proceedings are also under way, it would be inappropriate to comment further."Hayes is an independent hospital for up to 12 adults with an autistic spectrum disorder. It is owned and managed by the National Autistic Society.A spokesman confirmed that a patient had absconded on Saturday. He said: "On the evening of Saturday February 2 a service user absconded from the hospital. The police were alerted immediately. The individual was picked up by police in Chepstow on Sunday morning and subsequently charged with rape. He has been charged with a separate offence of burglary. No other details of either incident are available at this time and both police and internal investigations are ongoing."Local MPs expressed concern. David Davies, MP for Monmouth, said: "This is horrendous news and I shall be writing to the hospital demanding answers."Dan Norris, MP for Wansdyke, said the case was "disturbing". He added: "There clearly needs to be some inquiry so we can learn lessons in the future."