By the time Tony Martin faces judge and jury on a murder charge next spring, most of us will need reminding of the details. After all, reports of lots of other horrific crimes will have grabbed the headlines in the months between the fatal shooting of a teenage burglar one August night on Martin's isolated Norfolk farm and his trial.However, for 12 people in particular, the less they absorb of the pre-trial media coverage and comments on the incident in which Fred Barras, 16, died, and his fellow intruder Brendan Fearon, 29, was wounded, the better. They are the jurors who will have to decide if Martin is innocent or guilty at Norwich crown court. In criminal cases media reticence is ensured by the rules on contempt which prohibit publication of anything which carries substantial risk of serious prejudice to the course of justice. However, comment is permissible if there's a broad issue of public interest on which a case may hinge and the risk of prejudice would be merely incidental to the discussion. For instance, what degree of force should you be allowed to use if intruders break into your home? It's a grey area that some high-profile lawyers are exploiting. Even the Law Society admits that the boundaries are being pushed back all the time. Lawyers are getting lippier on behalf of their clients who in turn are asking for a wider range of services - from organising the defence and handling the press to finding an agent who can sell the story to the tabloids. "Yes, but we are dealing with crisis management," says Mark Stephens of London law firm Stephens Innocent. "We've moved on a stage from when lawyers stood on the steps outside the court and made a statement." Until recently, criminal defence lawyers didn't make much of a noise in the media. It was mostly personal injury specialists who used publicity on their clients' behalf. Initial press comment on the shootings must have made gloomy reading for Martin's lawyers. The farmer was described as a gun-owning middle-aged bachelor with three rottweilers for company on his 350-acre farm, living in fear of burglary in an area of increasing rural crime. Enter celebrity publicist Max Clifford. Already, he has arranged for the Mail on Sunday to interview Martin's elderly mother, Hilary; he has written a column for the Times explaining his involvement and what he wants to achieve, and he has taken part in radio programmes. He has mentioned (but is not organising) a support fund for Martin, and he has waived his own fee as a consultant, usually a minimum of £10,000 a month. "We contacted Max Clifford in the first week because we were absolutely deluged by the press," says Michael Ballinger of Leicestershire-based solicitors M&S. The partners have no training in media relations, and Ballinger feels that it is best to bring in experts, "because lawyers would inevitably cock it up". "In an ideal world, the media would shut up and not report on cases until they'd been heard. But it's naive to think that the press do not influence the outcome of cases; you have to keep them on-side," says Ballinger. "It is our job to make sure that our client is not getting an unfair trial because of a hostile press." Tony Martin's supporters realised they could make media discussion of the issues underlying the prosecution charges work in his defence. The probity of conducting a campaign in advance of the trial depends crucially on whether the publicity will ultimately influence the jury. Paul Gromett, the lawyer approached for advice by the family of the youth who died, Fred Barras, worries that a professional media campaign on behalf of the defendant could subliminally affect the way the jurors reach their verdict. So just what does Clifford hope to achieve? He says he identified with the defendant and hopes he escapes a custodial sentence. He adds that the incident, which he sees as a tragedy for all concerned, highlights a problem which frightened householders have been contacting him about for years: fear of being attacked in their own homes and concern about how to defend themselves. The present case "gave me a platform to get something across", says Clifford. This is an age-old problem, and if Clifford is giving it a public airing now, it is unlikely to be abstract altruism - discussion is bound to focus on the Martin case, even though Clifford is playing strictly by the legal rules and not disclosing anything he should not. "It's very difficult to score if you haven't got a ball," he concedes. Clifford's involvement in the Martin case has been making waves. "Is there going to be a new occupation, legal spin-doctor?" asks Paul Gromett. Clifford counters that many lawyers themselves are not shy when it comes to seeking publicity. For the public climate in which a trial takes place does matter. Even a judge might not be immune to outside influence, however subtle. And jurors live in a less insulated world. However, Mark Stephens, who believes that existing rules on how far lawyers can go are quite sufficient, points out that the media can do a lot of harm even without anybody trying to manipulate it. In a celebrated case in 1993, his clients Lisa and Michelle Taylor had their convictions for murder quashed on appeal because of sensational and inaccurate reporting.