The former attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, was uncharacteristically unequivocal in his criticism yesterday of the government's attempt to bring in 42-day detention without trial.Speaking at the offices of the City law firm he has recently joined, he condemned the proposal. "I haven't seen any evidence to go beyond 28 days," he said. "And I've looked at it very hard at the time, and you just can't have a situation in which you can keep people in for as long as it takes."Goldsmith has already said that if Tony Blair had succeeded in getting a 90-day detention through parliament, he would have felt obliged to resign. So if he were still in his old attorney general's office, would he feel the same way about a 42-day time frame? "Yes," he said firmly, and repeated it: "Yes."He said he had studied the problems that the police encounter in dealing with terrorism, with complex computer technology, difficult encryptions to crack and the time it can take to translate voluminous material from foreign languages. But even so, "you shouldn't keep people in without trial longer than you need to. It's a basic civil liberty." He said: "I find it hard to see how once you've got to 28 days and haven't found enough evidence to charge them, that things are going to change fundamentally."However, he thought that if someone could be held on a minor charge, and the judge did not grant bail, they should still be allowed to be questioned for longer. Even if the person were released, there was no reason why investigators should not continue to look for more evidence. He firmly believes that his view is prevailing: "There seems to be quite a consensus about this being a reasonable approach." The director of public prosecutions is already part of that consensus.What did he make of the home secretary's suggestion that parliament would still have some scrutiny over any case where someone had been held for as long as 42 days? Goldsmith virtually dismissed the idea as unworkable. "I'm waiting to hear the detail of how this could be done." But detailed scrutiny would be difficult, he said. "I think parliamentary scrutiny is hugely important and one of the great things we have in this country. But it isn't necessarily the right way to deal with individual cases, while they are going on."Why was he so strongly opposed to extending the deadline? It was not, he said, that 90 days would have been unlawful, with a judge to oversee a case, but "I thought it was wrong. I thought it was unnecessary and I believe these things are very important. You may sometimes have to make inroads into things people regard as traditional and fundamental values, but you should only do it if it is necessary to do so. And it is not just wrong, but counterproductive."He also expressed doubts about the proposed bill of rights. How would it mesh with the Human Rights Act, which he supports? What could be added to improve it? He suggested certain rights to have policies assessed, but foresaw problems with granting any "socioeconomic rights" that could cut across political decisions. "As a democracy, I believe decisions about scarce resources should be made in parliament."Goldsmith is conducting a review of citizenship for the prime minister, delving into those very values, asking what citizenship should confer and how to give people a stronger sense of belonging. Do we need six different kinds of citizenship, a hotch-potch leftover from empire? Is the current written test right yet? Should citizenship ceremonies by more magnificent? He has not decided.Controversy will dog every step he takes. The latest was over his throw-away suggestion that parts of the national anthem could do with rewriting, such as the "knavish tricks". "Well, perhaps the Guardian should run a competition for some new verses," he said, before hastily withdrawing the suggestion, as he considered Guardian readers' mocking and ironic tendencies.· This article was amended on Saturday December 8 2007. The writer this article was Polly Toynbee and not, as the byline said, Polly Curtis. This has been corrected.