One in six gay or bisexual people – about 630,000 individuals – has been victim of a homophobic hate crime or incident in the past three years, according to a report to be published this week.The alarming findings, based on a YouGov poll of 2,500 gay people and published in the Gay British Crime Survey 2013, will reinforce calls for the problem to be taken more seriously.The poll, commissioned by gay rights charity Stonewall, found that two-thirds of victims of hate crime did not report the incident to anyone. More than three-quarters did not report it to the police. Fewer than one in 10 victims who did report hate crimes to the police said it led to a conviction. And half of victims who reported a hate crime to police said it was recorded with no further action taken.There are also concerns about the attitude of the wider criminal justice system to homophobic hate crime.Just a quarter of those who reported a crime or incident to the police were referred to a support group. And only one in five gay or bisexual people said they were confident that their police and crime commissioner would do something to address the problem in their region."No one should live in fear of verbal or physical violence just because of the way they were born," said Stonewall's deputy chief executive, Ruth Hunt. "Despite radical steps to make police forces more accountable to the public, these figures show the disturbing levels of violence and intimidation faced every day by lesbian, gay and bisexual people in Britain. Most victims don't report abuse and, if they do turn to the police, they have low expectations that anyone will listen or act."However, in a sign that the police are keen to be seen to be taking the problem seriously, the survey will be launched at a seminar on Tuesday at New Scotland Yard by the Metropolitan police commissioner, Bernard Hogan-Howe. The seminar will also see the launch of a guide to help police and crime commissioners tackle homophobic hate crime.The Stonewall survey found that one in 10 of those who had experienced a homophobic hate crime or incident had been physically assaulted. Almost a fifth of victims had been threatened with violence. One in eight experienced unwanted sexual contact. Half of hate crime perpetrators were said to be strangers and aged under 25.The picture that emerges from the survey is of a society in which many lesbian, gay and bisexual people feel unsafe in their homes and in their community. Two-thirds said that they felt at bigger risk of being insulted or harassed than heterosexual people. A quarter said they had felt a need to alter their behaviour so as not to be perceived as gay in order to avoid being the victim of crime.Many are repeat victims. Just over a third who had been insulted, intimidated or harassed said it had happened on four or more occasions.A burgeoning concern is the rising level of online abuse directed at gay, lesbian and bisexual people. One in 20 said they had been the target of homophobic abuse online in the past year, including 7% of those aged 18 to 24. Almost half of those aged 18 to 24 had encountered homophobic abuse directed at someone else.Stonewall is calling for better training of police officers and control room staff to identify and record hate crimes. It also said there was a need for both the police and crime commissioners to engage more meaningfully with the gay community."Britain's gay taxpayers contribute some £700m a year to the cost of policing," Hunt said. "While there's been some real progress in tackling hate crime in recent years, this evidence demonstrates starkly just how much more needs to be done."