A 25-year-old British man who was working as a football coach in America has been stabbed to death in New York.Mike Jones, originally of Tarleton, Lancashire, was attacked in the early hours of Sunday morning, a spokesman for the New York police department (NYPD) said. He was found with a severed ear and stab wounds to his torso and neck.Jones, who coached juniors with the New York Red Bulls, was declared dead on arrival at Bellevue Hospital, New York. NYPD said officers answering an emergency call had found Jones on the street near 25 West 14th Street. He confirmed a "homicide investigation" was under way and CCTV footage of a suspect was released to the media.John Parkinson, treasurer of Tarleton Corinthians, where Jones was a former player, said everyone knew him as "Jonesy". He said: "We are trying to come to terms with it. He was a genuine lad, no trouble. He was not a lad who would look for trouble or anything like that. He is not the sort of lad that would be up to no good … It's a big shock to us. We are stunned."Parkinson said his wife Betty, who is the chair of the club, had been to see his parents and that they were "in a state of shock". He said Jones had been with the senior team from the age of 17 until he went to the US on a scholarship. "He came home around November time and played football with us. So he kept in touch with everybody. He was just one of the lads."The New York Times reported that Jones coached children aged from seven to 13 for a New York Red Bulls youth training programme. The Red Bulls are one of the leading teams in US Major League Soccer (MLS).A spokesman for the New York Red Bulls said: "We are aware of this tragedy and on behalf of the entire organisation, want to send our most heartfelt condolences to Michael's family, friends and loved ones. He was a tremendous individual, a fantastic coach who loved soccer and a terrific friend for many of us. This is truly a sad day for our soccer community and we will do our utmost to help authorities in their investigation of this case. Our thoughts and prayers are with Michael's family at this time."A spokesman for the Foreign Office said: "We can confirm the death of a British national in New York on 7 October. We are in touch with the local authorities and are providing consular assistance to the family."It is understood that Jones is a former pupil of Tarleton High School and former student at Edge Hill University, Southport.