A former managing director of Yorkshire Water who was once embroiled in a "fat cat" pay row with the Treasury has been appointed head of the Home Office's new police standards unit, earning a salary of £200,000 a year.Kevin Bond, a police officer for 18 years before turning to the private sector, will be responsible for identifying failing command units in forces across England and Wales. Mr Bond, 51, will start next Monday. He is currently employed as managing director of the European division of a US-based environmental engineering firm. The Home Office yesterday acknowledged that Mr Bond will be paid significantly more than anyone else in Whitehall but said it had to match private sector wages to ensure it got the best man for the job. In 1998 when Mr Bond was still at Yorkshire Water, he was awarded a performance related £298,000 salary, up 69%, while workers were getting pay rises tied to inflation. This and a series of other increases for executives from the former public utilities infuriated the chancellor, Gordon Brown. He criticised large pay rises and warned he was considering changing the law to penalise "boardroom excess". The Home Office said Mr Bond would not be classed as a special adviser but as a full-time government employee working a 36-hour week. His pay is higher than the normal maximum payable to civil servants, which currently peaks at £179,000 a year for departmental permanent secretaries. It is also above the prime minister's salary of £165,418 a year. The home secretary, David Blunkett, earns £119,979. The Home Office stoutly defended Mr Bond's £200,000 wage, saying the task of setting up the police standards unit was considerable. The initiative, which echoes the home secretary's attempts to tackle failing schools when he was education secretary, will allow Mr Bond to identify police units that are not up to scratch and demand remedial action if they fail to cut crime. Mr Bond, a former chief superintendent in West Mercia, will also highlight areas of "best practice" to encourage the adoption of successful techniques nationwide. "While his salary is relatively high in Whitehall terms, it is not when you look at the private sector," a Home Office spokeswoman said. "We believe he is the best person for the job. If we want the best person we must be prepared to pay for that person. He has a good track record in the public and private sectors." The president of the Police Superintendents' Association, Kevin Morris, welcomed the appointment. "If the government wants to entice people from the private sector they are going to have to pay significant sums to get them. We were surprised they appointed someone with any background in policing."From our point of view, his policing experience will be advantageous because he will understand how things work, and also disadvantageous because we won't be able to pull the wool over his eyes." But Norman Baker, Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said the government "had not adequately justified the extraordinary salary attached to this appointment".