Two men convicted of the notorious Glasgow 'ice cream war' killings walked free from the court of appeal as innocent men today after their third bid to clear their names succeeded.Thomas "TC" Campbell, 51, and Joe Steele, 42, were convicted and jailed for life in 1984 for the murder in a house fire of six members of a Glasgow family, including an 18-month-old baby.The pair have always claimed they were the victims of a "grave miscarriage of justice," and today the lord justice clerk, Lord Gill, sitting with lords MacLean and Macfadyen, told the men: "Your convictions are quashed and you are free to go." Members of the packed public gallery burst into applause as the judge told the men they were free. "It has been a long hard slog, very difficult to get here," Mr Campbell said outside court. "I just have a sense of relief that at least my struggle is over. It has been a living nightmare for us all and now half the battle is over, but we have still no justice for the Doyle family." The appeal was allowed after the case was reviewed by Scotland's criminal cases review commission, a body set up to examine alleged miscarriages of justice. Today's verdict hinged on new evidence brought forward by expert witness Professor Brian Clifford. "Our conclusion is that any jury hearing Prof Clifford's evidence would have assessed the evidence of the arresting police officers in an entirely different light," Lord Gill said. "The evidence of Prof Clifford is of such significance that the verdicts of the jury, having been returned in ignorance of it, must be regarded as miscarriages of justice."At the trial, a statement said to have been made by Mr Campbell to police after his arrest was central to securing his conviction. The appeal heard last month that the statement was written in the notebooks of all four officers with a high degree of similarity. But Prof Clifford, a professor of cognitive psychology at the University of East London, told the appeal court there was serious doubt surrounding the possibility that all the officers would have been able to recall the statement in such an identical manner. The third man involved in the appeal, 50-year-old Thomas Gray, who was simultaneously jailed for 14 years for attempted murder, was also bidding to clear his name but the appeal judges upheld his conviction. Andrew Doyle, 18, and his family became victims of the ice cream wars when he refused to bow to intimidation and give up his van route during a dispute said to be connected with a lucrative drugs distribution trace on various routes in Glasgow. After a 27-day trial at the high court in Glasgow, Mr Campbell and Mr Steele were convicted of the murders and jailed for life by Lord Kincraig in October 1984. They lost their appeals against the conviction in 1985 but continued to maintain their innocence for the next 20 years. In August 1996, both men were granted the right to appeal and they were given bail, but appeal judges ruled that their case did not meet the guidelines for hearing new evidence, and they were immediately re-imprisoned.  In December 2001, the men were granted interim liberty pending today's appeal. "After 20 years of hunger strikes, prison breakouts, demonstrations, political pressure, solitary isolation, prison beatings and legal fight after legal fight, TC Campbell and Joe Steele are finally free from a life sentence," said Mr Campbell's lawyer, Aamer Anwar."The term used to describe this case will be miscarriage of justice, but it was more than that, it was a malicious prosecution by Strathclyde police ... we demand a full independent inquiry into Strathclyde Police, into the allegations of corruption."The greatest miscarriage of justice, he added, was that there had been no justice for the Doyle family and he called for the murder inquiry to be reopened."If the killers are still out there, they should be brought to justice and it is as simple as that," he said. Asked whether he would be seeking compensation, Mr Campbell said: "There is no compensation for a tragedy of this magnitude. There is no compensation for society robbed of justice for over 20 years." "Nothing can redress the wrong that has been done in my eyes. All I want is peace. I want to move away, settle down with my family and get on with my life," he said.