Ian Huntley yesterday told the jury trying him for murder that he went beyond "the point of return" when he decided not to call the police following the deaths of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman.In his third day on the witness stand, the caretaker, who denies murdering the two, continued to maintain that Holly died in an accident in the bathroom of his home in Soham, Cambridgeshire. On Tuesday he admitted for the first time that he had killed Jessica, but said he did so accidentally as he placed his hand across her mouth to stop her screams. Asked by his counsel, Stephen Coward QC, how he had seen his position in the days afterward, he replied: "I just think that I had gone beyond the point of return. Nothing I could do could change what had happened - nothing could change me not calling the police." Mr Coward asked: "Was there any moment between August 4 [the day last year when the girls died] and going with the police where you thought there was an opportunity to turn back?" Mr Huntley replied: "No, none." The caretaker, who previously told the jury that his memories started to come back following an attempted suicide in prison, said he "felt very ill" as the memories returned and "couldn't get the words out" to explain what had happened to his solicitor. "It took me a couple of weeks to be able to tell him, and then when I did tell him I was sick," he added. Asked why he could not get the words out, Mr Huntley said: "Because of what I remembered." He told the court he had "just felt numb" as he disposed of the bodies and "the whole thing just felt horrible." He also said that while he had tried to seem calm on the night of the deaths, inwardly "I was in turmoil. My hands were sweating and shaking." But in cross-examination earlier in the day, Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, accused Mr Huntley of telling a "pack of lies" to the press and police to protect himself. Mr Latham asked: "You are quite capable of making it sound like you are telling the truth, aren't you, Mr Huntley?" The defendant replied: "I'm telling the truth up here." He admitted he had acted in a cold and "totally cynical" manner in telling journalists that he hoped the girls would return safe and well. When Mr Latham accused him of expressing "bogus concern", the defendant replied: "No, I was concerned about what had happened." Mr Latham pressed him, saying that it was "bogus concern" to say that there was a glimmer of hope that the girls were still alive. "Oh, that bit, yes," replied Mr Huntley. He also claimed he had approached Holly's father following the girls' disappearance "to apologise to him. Which is what I did". The court has heard that he told Kevin Wells: "I'm sorry, I didn't know Holly was your daughter."