The former business partner of Louise Mensch says he has accepted a police caution five months after being arrested on suspicion of viewing or possessing indecent images of children.Luke Bozier, who has also been an e-campaigns manager for the Labour party, said he had never been a paedophile and that some of the allegations made against him after a private email account had been hacked were false.Ending what he called "six months of sheer turmoil", Bozier said he was pressing police to investigate the hacking and was also considering setting up a campaign to raise awareness of sex addiction. In January, he claimed Mensch had been "covering her back" by publicly distancing herself from him after the allegations and reporting him to police.Mensch denied at the time she had been disloyal to Bozier but said she felt a duty to report him to police after reading internet allegations. Their business, Menschn – a Twitter-like social networking site – shut soon afterwards.Cautions are given to adults aged 18 or over for minor crimes. Those receiving them have to admit an offence and agree to be cautioned. Those who do not agree can be arrested and charged.Although a caution is not a criminal conviction, it could be used as evidence of bad character if the person went to court for another crime.The Metropolitan police have confirmed that Bozier received a caution on Friday, a fact Bozier revealed in his own blogpost on Sunday. He said "malicious parties" had hacked into a private email account in December. It included "messages of a sexual nature", which were private, and "painful detail about my addictive sexual history", he wrote.The alleged hackers went on "to not only manipulate the information they found, but to add extra, incriminating false information which painted a much more serious picture of my private sex life", said Bozier."I have co-operated endlessly [with police], including having all of my computer equipment, Blackberry and iPod forensically investigated for the last six months. On December 7, in a haze of shock and despair at the destruction my life had taken overnight, I sat in a police interview room at Charing Cross and went over my history of pornography use. I admitted to once or twice having seen non-sexual photos of teenagers at or over the legal age of consent," said Bozier."I did not know at the time that photos of people over the age of consent in swimwear – the same content used to sell all sorts of commercial products with advertising – was considered 'child pornography', up until age 18."He said he was the father of two little girls. "The worst of the content applied to my name was untrue. I am not and never have been a paedophile," said Bozier. "I defend the right of grown men and women to find teenagers at or over the age of consent sexually attractive – that is their choice."He added: "I have had my pornography use looked at by the state in painstaking detail. What did they conclude? That there was nothing to prosecute me for. Based on my admission of viewing 16-year-olds in bikinis, I was offered, and have accepted, a police caution."Bozier later told the Guardian: "Police haven't gone into much detail on the emails etc but it was accepted that they would likely be inadmissible considering their source. I'm now pushing the police to investigate the hacking, and am considering a large financial reward for information that leads to a prosecution."Six months of sheer turmoil have ended, and that's taking a while to sink in … Politics is off the table. Party politics in this country is so vicious, and I think my time is best spent elsewhere. My book on sex addiction is out in June, and I'm thinking of setting up a campaign to raise awareness of the condition and its consequences."Bozier had previously claimed he had been fast-tracked by the Conservatives for a seat at the 2015 election, although this has been denied by a party official.