Thousands of former military personnel are being arrested in Britain each month, many for violent crimes, new figures obtained by the Guardian suggest.Over the last two months, 232 former service personnel were arrested in one police force alone, a third for violent offences. The majority were young men, mostly between 18 and 29. Almost 40% of those detained were unemployed.It is the first time that veteran arrests have been systematically recorded, and the data will put pressure on the government to tackle the growing numbers appearing in the criminal justice system.Kent police, who gathered the data as part of a pilot to cut offending and re-offending by veterans, said the figures were significantly higher than had been expected. They could be, an underestimate since former military personnel, who stand to lose their pensions if convicted, could be reluctant to reveal their service record.Veterans groups and police involved in the scheme said they believed the data revealed an alarming picture of veterans offending. If the pattern in Kent proved similar for all 43 police forces in England and Wales, it could mean that as many as 60,000 former military personnel were being arrested annually.Today, Elfyn Llwyd MP (pictured), who is chair of the justice unions' group in the Commons, said: "If the Kent police figures are reflective of what's going on throughout the UK, then we have a massive problem … We should put as much effort into debriefing [personnel] and helping their adjustment into society. It could be as simple as helping with debt management. It needs to be done properly. At the moment, there are beacons of good practice and deserts of bad."There are no official statistics on numbers of veterans in jail. A study last year by the Ministry of Justice and Ministry of Defence, excluding reservists and under-18s, estimated 2,500 veterans, or 3% of the prison population. But surveys by the National Association of Probation Officers (Napo) put the number at 8,500, with a further 12,500 on probation or parole.Llwyd, leader of Plaid Cymru, will present an action plan, on cutting veteran offending and re-offending, to the involved ministries this month.Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the probation staff union Napo, said of the arrests: "If they're risking their lives for their country, they should be offered help to reintegrate into the community. The root causes of much of the offending is their failure to make the transition from the highly structured, adrenaline-led military life into the community and they need help, support and counselling as a matter of urgency."The Kent scheme was pioneered by Colin Back, a police constable who also volunteers for the veterans charity, SSAFA. Back said: "I thought it would be about 30 a month coming through custody suits, and we got 22 in the first day."Hertfordshire police are planning to adopt the Kent scheme, and Back said he had had inquiries from Hampshire, North Yorkshire, North Wales, Cheshire, and the British Transport police.