Nick Davies follows a long tradition of saying that trafficking is not a big problem and so no action should be taken to deal with it. I have always been of the view that anyone coerced into selling their body experiences unacceptable abuse of their human rights. That is as true if 10 women are coerced, as if 100 are.The law I have campaigned for seeks only to protect women who have been subject to such exploitation. It would make it an offence for someone to pay for sex where the person providing the sex was coerced. A previous draft of the law was claimed to put at risk prostitute women who paid a maid to help them be safe. Now there is no possible ambiguity about the proposed offence. It only occurs where a woman has been subject to exploitation such as force, threats or deception. It is sad that the Guardian has joined the campaign to protect men from prosecution where they pay women in such circumstances for sexual services.This is rape, yet, as we know, men are rarely prosecuted for rape, even more rarely when the victim is a prostitute. I know of no case in the UK of a successful rape prosecution where a woman has been forced into prostitution. That is why the offence has been structured so that if the prosecution can show a woman has been subject to exploitation and the man has paid her, he is offending.If we continue to have laws which are ineffective and do not do enough to help women leave prostitution, we will see, when the Olympics come to London, the same explosion of criminality and sexual exploitation as has been seen during major sporting events in other countries, especially in the countries where prostitution has been legalised. Next month the Lords has a chance of putting in place a law which could prevent that.Fiona Mactaggart MPLab, Slough• Trafficking figures are subject to a margin of error because many victims don't come forward; of those who do, many are afraid to give evidence, meaning that perpetrators are often charged with different crimes. I launched a campaign to stop the Met Police from closing its dedicated unit for human trafficking two weeks ago. Hundreds of people have signed the petition, including Keith Vaz MP and several of my colleagues here in the European parliament (www.ipetitions.com/petition/specialtraffickingunit/index.html).Mary Honeyball MEP Lab, London• Nick Davies seems to defend the view of the managers of the sex business that men should not be held accountable and the focus should be, as presently, on prostituted women. In Sweden where the law does put the onus on male demand, the level of trafficking has declined sharply. The current bill offers an attenuated form of the Swedish system. Men who pay for women's sexual services should be held responsible.Denis MacShane MPLab, Rotherham