A former tax inspector was jailed for six years today for a £1m blackmail plot against the supermarket giant Tesco.Philip McHugh, of Clitheroe, Lancashire, sent 76 letters threatening to bomb Tesco stores across Britain last summer.The 52-year-old also threatened to contaminate the retailer's products if it refused to comply with his demand for money.Sentencing him at St Albans crown court today, Judge Marie Catterson said McHugh was guilty of a "sustained effort" to extort money from the chain."Stores such as Tesco which supply the public with essential everyday goods must be protected by the law," she said. "This was by no means the perfect crime. But for all its flaws, this was a sustained and serious effort to extort a large sum of money from Tesco."McHugh, who was addicted to online gambling and had debts of £37,000, began his campaign in May last year with a series of letters sent to Tesco offices in Dundee.He threatened to contaminate food in its stores unless he was paid £100,000.Later, when this tactic failed, McHugh sent increasingly threatening letters to the chain's headquarters in Hertfordshire. He demanded that executives transfer £200,000 into his bank account or he would put caustic soda in yoghurt sold in the store.When this tactic also failed, McHugh sent hoax bomb warnings to 76 Tesco supermarkets, warning of what he called "Black Saturday". He said bombs would go off on Saturday July 14.As a result, 14 Tesco superstores including branches in Clitheroe, Port Talbot, Grimsby and Glasgow were closed, costing the supermarket chain an estimated £1.4m in lost revenue.After the bomb hoaxes, McHugh again wrote to the chain's executives demanding £200 a day, and an overall figure of £1m."I'm absolutely desperate and blood will flow if you do not cooperate," he wrote. "And I WILL destroy your business and others will pick up your customers."McHugh, who lived with his Russian wife and her two children, set up a bank account to receive the money, but was only able to withdraw £200 a day. At that rate, it would have taken him more than 13 years to withdraw the full £1m.McHugh was arrested in Clitheroe on July 23 after withdrawing cash that had been placed in the account as a lure. He pleaded guilty in November to three counts of blackmail and two of carrying out a hoax bomb threat.Speaking after the sentencing, Detective Chief Inspector Bill Jephson, of Hertfordshire police, which led the investigation, said the inquiry had been complex and challenging."Philip McHugh was a desperate man, out of work and without any means to make money," he said. "He didn't think twice or even care about the possible consequences of his actions. He became fixated and enjoyed the thrill of blackmailing Tesco."