In the year 2002-2003, Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells were two of the 1,045 homicides in England and Wales. What about the other 1,043?Here is an example of a homicide that never made the front pages. It barely made it into the national newspapers. At the same time as the Soham trial, on the same Monday morning in November, in another court at the Old Bailey, Ian Madden was scheduled to stand trial for the murder of his ex-wife, Lynn Burgess, the mother of his two small children. Lynn was the great friend of my sister-in-law, Norma French; the two had known each other since childhood. Lynn had died in the early hours of December 15 2002. She was 38; her son Ross was five and her daughter India was only just one.I look at her photograph, in a bright blue dress at a birthday party. She is slim, with abundant, curly dark hair and a direct and radiant smile. She looks very happy and very kind; very alive. "Beautiful," says Norma, "and with a beautiful nature, too." Lynn was creative and had a wonderful eye - she loved sewing; she made all the things for her wedding. And she wrote poetry in her spare time, including the poem she wrote for her wedding day, standing up to recite it in front of everyone. Lynn Burgess grew up in Scotland, studied French and German, then at 21 moved south - first to Cambridge, where she worked with an accountancy firm, and later to London. For several years she had a steady boyfriend called Jake ("The best fellow that ever happened to her," friends say) and seemed contented with her life. Then, in 1991, she met Ian Madden, an Indian IT programmer several years her senior, rich and charming. Jake didn't stand a chance. "He swept her off her feet; she was completely taken in by him. A lot of us were." In November 1993, Lynn moved into Madden's smart home near Canary Wharf, and in 1994 they married. Two years later, she became pregnant. In February 1997, Ross was born. Lynn always knew that Madden had been abused as a child, was aware of the seeds of violence in him and was anxious about the pattern being repeated with their own son. After the birth of Ross, their life together darkened considerably. Both were cast down and depressed. They went to Relate and then were both prescribed Prozac by their GP - though Lynn had never before been depressed. It seems more likely to her friends that she was oppressed. Her husband insisted that she stayed at home rather than return to work. He chose the clothes she should wear and even, bizarrely, tried to make her look nearer his age by ordering her to dye her glorious dark hair grey (while he dyed his grey hair jet black). What's more, his vigilance was becoming claustrophobically possessive and paranoically jealous: he would ring her several times a day to check up on her. By late 2000, Lynn was telling her mother that she was considering having another baby. She became pregnant early in 2001, and in November India was born. Lynn, everyone agrees, was a wonderful and adoring mother, but by then she knew her marriage was over, although she didn't articulate this for several more months. At Easter the following year, the four of them drove up to Scotland to visit her parents, David and Betty Burgess. Madden - who had been involved in several road-rage incidents before - terrified her with his dangerous driving and violent temper. They had a serious argument, and as soon as they returned home she went to her solicitors to start divorce proceedings. Madden refused to move out of their home. On the evening of September 6, three days after the decree nisi, and having failed to persuade her not to sign the decree absolute, he tried to strangle her. Maybe she would have died then, but five-year-old Ross threw a remote control at his father, which checked him for long enough for Lynn to take her children and run straight to the police station. Madden was removed from the house and charged with common assault. He was sentenced to 60 hours of community service. "The old Lynn returned," says Norma. She had been wretched and trapped, and now she was not. Now she could see what he had put her through and for the first time she could be honest about it to family and friends. She started to talk about going back to work - she wanted to train to become a teacher. She took up French jive. Her life was suddenly full of possibilities. At the end of November, after India's first birthday, David and Betty, who had been staying with Lynn since the attack, returned home to Scotland to prepare for Christmas. Lynn and her children were going to join them a few weeks later. On December 5 she went out for a meal with a businessman, whom she had met at her dance class - it was a casual date. The following Sunday, when Ross and India were with their father, she went for a walk with the same man and invited him over for dinner on Saturday December 14. Later, papers would call their relationship "an affair", but really it was simply three innocent meetings, and who knows if it would have led anywhere. Madden was violently jealous. He had access to Lynn's email account and, at the trial, computer experts showed that in the weeks after their separation he obsessively checked up on her, without her knowledge. On one day he logged into her account from early morning through to the early hours of the following day, adding up to a total of 177 times - that's a call every few minutes. He knew all about her arrangements to have a man round for dinner. He had also bought a bugging device. Now he could track her and he could listen to her. On the night of the dinner, he drove his car to the house, sat outside and listened. At one in the morning, her date departed. As he drove away, he noticed a car parked outside the house, with a man in the driver's seat. He doubled back to check up on him, but by the time he returned, the driver had gone, although the car was still there. The driver had gone into the house, where Lynn must have still been sitting downstairs. Madden strangled her. She scratched him desperately along the cheek, so that some of her nails were torn out, and with great presence of mind he cut the rest of her fingernails and then scrubbed beneath them, to destroy any evidence. Next, he went to the garage and fetched a rope. He made a noose, put it around her neck, draped the other end over a beam and back down, in a cool-headed but ineffectual imitation of suicide. Then he left the house, his dead wife and his two tiny children. The following day, Sunday, was his day of access, and he was going to take his children to see Jack And The Beanstalk On Ice. He arrived at the house shortly after 9am and said he saw "a shape" through the window. He dialled the emergency services and then knocked on the door. Nobody came. He knocked again and at last his son let him in and together they "discovered" the body of Lynn, lying on the floor tied with rope. At midday, the police arrested him. Madden was the estranged husband; he had a nasty fresh scratch down his cheek. DNA linked him inextricably to the scene. His car had been seen. In court, despite all the evidence against him, he denied emphatically that he had killed his ex-wife. Like Ian Huntley, he waited until he knew the hard facts of the prosecution case before deciding on his own thin thread of a story, which, though feeble, did enough to persuade at least some of the jury that he might not be guilty of murder but of manslaughter. They were unable to reach a verdict and the whole case had to be retried several months later. This time, there was a verdict: guilty. Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC said that the "case represents a tragedy of unimaginable proportion to all concerned" and, taking into account the aggravated nature of the murder, sentenced Ian Madden to life, with a minimum tariff of 18 years. The children, stripped of both parents at once and having to come to terms with the fact that their father murdered their mother while they slept upstairs, are apparently now doing well. They have a loving family and friends to help them through. Lynn's parents and her friends remain haunted by the young woman. She was a grown-up, not a 10-year-old, but for her mother and father she will always be their first-born, their only daughter, their baby. Lynn's death raises questions about our lukewarm reaction to violence against women, and they are being asked all over Britain every day. What was amazing, in this brutal, premeditated case, was the apparent resistance of the first jury to convict Madden of murder: they came close to convicting him of manslaughter, a finding so absurd that it hadn't even been mentioned as a possibility in the course of the trial, even by the defence counsel. And in the second trial, the conviction was obtained only by a majority verdict. Domestic homicides just don't have the emblematic quality of the death of children. When children die, the tragedy is purer; an essence of loss. Jessica and Holly were only 10, prepubescent little girls. This was crucial to our fiercely emotional response to their murders. We adored their innocence; they were our little princesses, as the condolence cards said. While Ian Huntley was a man of unravelled and brutalising sexuality, with a nasty catalogue of obscenities and abuses behind him, they were flat-chested, eager-faced, unblemished and blameless: perfect victims. Like James Bulger (whom the media persisted in calling "Jamie", further to emphasise his diminutive childishness) or Sarah Payne, they played an uncomplicated role in our imaginations, and unequivocally summoned all the fears we have for our own children. In the UK, a small handful of children (usually between five and eight) are killed by strangers every year. About 10 times that number are killed by people they know, usually in their home and by a member of their own family, while countless more are injured and abused there. But domesticity dampens our interest. A domestic murder is less bizarre and more discomforting than a stranger killing; less terrifying and yet more disturbing. The clean contrasts of the Manichean universe are what we respond to: good versus evil. On November 14 2002, just a few months after Jessica and Holly were murdered, 14-year-old Adam Morrell was killed in Loughborough. The last time Adam's family had heard from him was when he phoned his father days before his death to say that he was staying with friends. The "friends" were Matthew Welsh, the 19-year-old son of a policeman; Welsh's girlfriend, 17-year-old Sarah Morris; Daniel Biggs, 19; and Nathan Barnett, in his mid-20s. We don't know how Adam spent his final days. What we do know is this: the group had been drinking whisky, smoking cannabis and taking ecstasy that evening, and when Adam apparently threatened to inform the police about their drug use, they turned on him. "He was bringing us down," said Morris, while Welsh claimed he was irritating them by "going on about his girlfriend". Adam curled up into a ball and wept as they punched him, kicked him, stamped on him. He had boiling water mixed with sugar poured over his body. A pathologist said at the trial in Nottingham that the boy had suffered more than 280 injuries: one of the defendants said he was completely unrecognisable. Two of them played the game of paper-scissors-stone, to decide who would finish him off. Finally, the boy was strangled. Then the music was turned up in the small semi, to mask the sound of Adam's body being sawn into pieces. Three days after Adam was beaten and tortured to death, a group walking by the Grand Union canal in town found a black plastic bag wrapped in silver tape, floating in the water. Inside was a severed arm. Then a woman found legs in another plastic bag. The head was discovered by police divers at the bottom of the canal. Welsh was sentenced to at least 20 years in prison. Morris was cleared of murder, but jailed for four years for deliberately attacking the boy. Biggs was cleared of murder and inflicting grievous bodily harm, but sentenced to two and a half years in custody for conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Barnett was ordered to be detained indefinitely in secure accommodation under the Mental Health Act after he pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. This story has a sickening meaning, speaking to us about how people can behave without a shred of humanity and feel no remorse. If we want to understand human depravity and cruelty, we should look at what happened to Adam Morrell and at the behaviour of his killers, who egged each other on to torture him and played a game over his dying body. While Jessica and Holly's tale is closed off in its own sealed, small-town world, Adam's opens out on to a broader canvas of slaughter. Perhaps this is one reason why most of us have never heard of this desolating case - precisely because it was loaded with unwelcome meaning. Through one individual's tragedy, it is possible to glimpse the vast horrors of Rwanda, where neighbours raped, tortured and murdered neighbours in a feverish orgy of killing. We can glimpse the lynch mobs in Iraq, where small boys whooped around the strung-up corpses of western construction workers - and, of course, where American soldiers tortured and humiliated the prisoners at Abu Ghraib. In her book on war criminals in the Hague (They Would Never Hurt A Fly), Slavenka Drakulic writes that "the more I have occupied myself with the individual cases of war criminals, the less I believe them to be monsters". Rather, they are ordinary men and women. That is the horror. Ordinary people - people like us - turned into monsters. There is another reason why we cared so very much about Holly and Jessica, and not much at all about the slightly older boy. Adam had not been home for several days before he was killed. He was a young teenager, already cutting loose from his family, mixing with youths older than him, in a world of drugs and drink and mindless violence. He had left his childhood and had entered a murky world of provincial gothic, where unspeakable things take place in dreary semis on the edge of town. He was not snatched out of a happy, picture-book world into horror; he wandered into that horror by himself. There is none of the poignant, domestic detail in Adam's story, so that pity never translates into empathy. It happened "out there", in a squalid, brutalised world we don't want to imagine or understand. We don't take young Adam - tortured to death by people he called friends - to our hearts. We did notice Milly Dowler, the Surrey teenager who went missing in March 2002. Her attractive face beamed at us from newspaper front pages; there was national concern, a huge hunt. She was a girl. She came from a close, middle-class family in the suburbs. Her parents made anguished appeals for her return. There was a cute video of her singing at the ironing board. We knew what she stood for - decency, innocence, middle-class comfort. Martin Bright, in a thoughtful, disturbing piece in the Observer about all the cases we ignore, laid down the rules for "the missing persons game. Don't be a boy, don't be black, don't be working class. As for persistent runaways, children in care or teenagers with drug problems ... forget it." So we forgot Hannah Williams, a 14-year-old from Dartford in Kent, who went missing in April 2001 and whose decomposed body was found wrapped in tarpaulin in a disused cement works opposite Tilbury docks. Little attention was given to her death - just a few lines in the "news in brief" columns, and then silence. She didn't have the right profile. She wasn't middle class. Her mother was a single parent and wasn't, as one police spokesperson later said, "really press conference material". Hannah had gone missing before. So she disappeared, like a little ghost in the great ghost world of 100,000 children who go missing every year. And so we also forgot Daniel Nolan, 14, who went missing on New Year's Day 2002 from the seaside village of Hamble, Hampshire. He had been fishing off the quayside with friends. He was apparently a responsible boy with no history of running away; his disappearance was inexplicable. But he was a boy. Fourteen-year-old boys don't push the same buttons as 14-year-old girls. And so we forgot the black children, the boys, the drug addicts, the children from broken homes or with difficult backgrounds, the working-class children, the badly behaved children, the children who had run away before. When is a child not a child? When does childhood end and this thing called adulthood begin? How do we know? When, in November 1999, the glam-rock star Gary Glitter was cleared of indecently assaulting a 14-year-old girl nearly 20 years earlier, the judge said: "There is 14, and there is 14. Some 14-year-olds look like sophisticated young ladies and some 14-year-olds still look like little girls. You may wish to consider which category the girl was in ..." So many stories to confuse us: the 11-year-old Swiss-American boy arrested when a neighbour saw him "touching" his five-year-old sister, and who was handcuffed and locked up for six weeks in a detention centre; the trial of the 32-year-old teacher, Renate Williams, who was acquitted of having sex with her underage pupil and who, in turn, had accused him of bullying her - so the traditional relationship of teacher and student, adult and child, was turned on its head; the girls of 11, 12, 13, made pregnant by their underage boyfriends; the 15-year-old girl who gave birth unnoticed and stabbed her newborn baby to death; the prepubescent drug users; the falling age of first sex, the 100,000 runaways who dissolve into the doorways of our great cities ... These are tales of sex, violence, unhappiness and confusion, and they jar horribly with the way we like to imagine childhood. To be childlike, we think, is to be innocent and to possess a capacity for joy, immediacy, eagerness - the carefree sense of absolute possibility. Like Sarah Payne, running through the meadow; like James Bulger, putting his hand into the hands of his killers; like Jessica and Holly, skipping down the road together, towards their death. We recognise that adults can be cunning, lustful, greedy, deceitful and self-deceiving, sometimes cruel, often cowardly, burdened by their past. Yet we persist in imagining most childhood - at least, "proper" childhood - as simple: not scared, not lonely, not ashamed, not hard and not disturbed. But, of course, childhood is a construct. It changes with our times. Until the middle of the 18th century, children seemed to be regarded as faulty mini-adults in need of correction. In the portraits of 17th-century painters such as Van Dyck, they wear adult clothes, have shrewd, responsible expressions. Even babies have old faces. Now, children occupy the place in our imagination that women did in the late 1960s and early 1970s, as the guardians of certain virtues - purity, warmth, naturalness, gentleness, stability. Feminism tore apart that myth, and children became our last false hope instead: emblems of a goodness that was vulnerable and a purity that could be poisoned. Sara Payne, Sarah's mother, who has written about her daughter's murder in A Mother's Story, presents this view: "I never could imagine Sarah as an adult ... She was too innocent for this world." We are sentimental about children, we are scared of them, we want them to stay young, we force them to grow up. We are confused. The line between adulthood and childhood used to be tyrannically drawn - like the Berlin Wall, the two states were denied to each other, and in the authoritarian zone, the adults were the oppressors. But now it has collapsed. Children step over its rubble and into the grown-up world prematurely. (The creator of Teletubbies said not so long ago that childhood stopped at eight.) Adults step back into a state of culturally trendy immaturity.In February 1993, Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, both 10, took two-year-old James Bulger from a shopping centre in Liverpool and, after a walk of more than two miles, past dozens of passersby, arrived at a railway line. There they kicked him before battering him to death with bricks and an iron bar. It was clear almost at once that Venables and Thompson had killed James Bulger. What the trial turned on was how responsible the two boys were for their crimes. At 10, is a child a moral being? The 15-year-old boy whom teacher Renate Williams was accused of seducing was regarded in court as a child; Venables and Thompson, five years younger, were treated in court as adults. Although several people spoke out vehemently against 10-year-old children being caught up in a grotesquely inappropriate legal system, the majority of the public thought that somehow the two boys had forfeited the right to be thought of as children at all. They were un-children; they were monsters - more monstrous, it seemed, than adults who killed, because they were more "unnatural". The revulsion we still feel when women rather than men commit murders became revulsion squared. The arresting officer said: "You should not compare these boys with other boys. They were evil." Evil 10-year-olds; evil caretakers; perfect victims. We are caught between two ways of knowing children. Our cultural ideal is cutely sentimental. About half of all advertisements show pictures of children - wiping their bottoms with the gentlest lavatory paper, wrapped in towels made soft by fabric conditioner, running in a field made free by some insurance scheme. We still cling to the romantic view of a child whose delicious body is innocent of adult sexuality and whose mind is a blank. But this image also holds the dark side of innocence, which is the inevitability of its loss and its change. At the same time, our gaze is fearful and predatory and, under it, children have become erotically suggestive creatures. The blank space becomes the free space for adult fantasies. Childhood innocence suggests its opposite, violation. So, in the 1990s, the Miss Pears girl, advertising soap, was withdrawn: her glowing innocence was considered dangerously alluring, an image for dirty old men to drool over. At a deep level, we like to think of childhood as a kind of Eden, but we've filled Eden with coiled serpents. Though statistically we live in a safer world now than ever before, we see danger in every tree. We see what's there and what isn't there. We know too much about the fallen world. There are fathers who abuse their offspring. There are molesters outside the school gates. There are bullies in the playground. There are drugs around the corner. The more we desire to protect them, the more dangerous the outside world seems to our children - and so the more we desire to protect them. In the streets of Soham there are CCTV cameras now, to stop the very thing that has already happened and will never happen again - not there, anyway, and not like that. There will be a different man and a different place. Parents hold their children by the hand more tightly; they don't want to let them go. Letting go means relinquishing them to a world where the next Ian Huntley might lurk. Soham, like every other village and town and even city in the UK, is a safe place, but it doesn't feel safe any more. Childhood doesn't feel safe any more. There are monsters abroad, and monsters in our head · This is an edited extract from Soham: A Story Of Our Times, by Nicci Gerrard, published on August 19 by Short Books, priced £9.99. To order a copy with free p&p, call 0870 836 0875.