Offshore havens that refuse to hand over information on tax dodgers face an unprecedented campaign of economic sanctions by the world's most powerful countries, which may be agreed at the G20 summit in London next month.The campaign could see Britain targeting some of its own overseas territories including the Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands, where British banks and corporations use scores of subsidiaries to avoid tax.The blacklisting threat comes as opposition politicians in Britain call for a review of the tax haven dealings by banks being bailed out by the British taxpayer.Lord Oakeshott, Lib-Dem Treasury spokesman demanded at the weekend that ministers disclose how much banks' offshore activities were costing. "The government should not put a penny more into these banks before they stop biting the hand that feeds them," he said.The Tory shadow chancellor, George Osborne, made a statement saying: "While Gordon Brown claims he will deal with offshore tax avoidance, he is increasing the government's stake in banks that, like RBS, have offshore subsidiaries".The Guardian disclosed in its recent Tax Gap series, that Lloyds was "making loans subsidised by the British exchequer", according to revenue allegations in a current tax avoidance tribunal case over transactions with US insurance giant AIG and Bank of America involving hundreds of millions of pounds. The bank continues to refuse to explain the purpose of other large loans, totalling £4bn, many routed through the Caymans. It claims all its tax-linked activities are legitimate. Following the G20 preparatory summit in Berlin last week, officials are preparing a new blacklist of uncooperative havens. Other leading centres of secretive offshore activity including Liechtenstein and Panama are among more than 30 nations that have failed to sign agreements to hand over information about corporations and individuals who take advantage of their secrecy and their low taxes.Earlier lists which were prepared by the OECD, merely "named and shamed". Now, the G20 nations plan to promote a series of sanctions which are designed to deprive them of billions of dollars of business. Sanctions discussed include refusing to allow payments to a blacklisted haven to be deducted from taxable income. This would hit big corporations and banks who channel millions of pounds out of the taxman's reach by paying royalties, management fees, dividends and insurance premiums to their own offshore subsidiaries. Officials are working on a plan for international financial institutions to pull their investments out of the blacklisted havens. Brown is due in Washington on Tuesday for talks with President Barack Obama. The G20 is believed to be drawing up its blacklist from three overlapping groups of havens: those which still have no double taxation conventions, which allow nations to swap information on taxpayers in each other's jurisdiction; those which have refused to accept the idea of new Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs), which allow one nation to require another to dig out extra information on a suspect; and those which agreed in principle to TIEAs but have failed to sign them.