I started to learn the true value of fly posters in the late 80s while working at a theatre group in the East End of London. We had created the New Variety show, one of the first alternative comedy productions featuring original talents such as Julian Clary. The show moved around London, lurching from one small venue to the next, relying on a local audience filling the seats at short notice for its survival. Fly posters were the accepted mode of advertising for the arts - a traditional tool deployed in London since before the Victorian music halls - so naturally we used them, as did many of the capital's theatres, clubs and venues. Once I understood how important localised posters are to the success of events and the arts within communities, it dawned on me how significant a contribution they have made to British culture. Every city, even one as vast and dynamic as London, still (just about) has its communities. Connecting disenfranchised city folk to their locality through street media is crucial for myriad reasons. Flexibility, coupled with a fast turnaround, maintains the relevancy of fly posters, while the comparatively cheap cost involved automatically creates a democratic and accessible advertising option open to anyone. This forms a vital support mechanism for arts initiatives, smaller venues who seek to break new boundaries or inspired individuals just setting out to make their creative mark, be it in music or any one of the array of arts projects that London spawns. A street poster campaign can do that, and it's not out of the financial reach of many ordinary people. We must also consider the more recent shift in brand marketing towards adopting the fly poster to launch products, and understand why this too is playing a critical role in the continuation of our greatest cultural asset, the urban underground. Put simply, this form of street culture is the blood that courses through the city veins, keeping its creative heart alive. Newness, and all it brings, tends to be the preserve of the young. The heritage of the fly poster with its associations with a time when counter culture was just that, and not a brand-led exercise, provides our media-saturated, disaffected modern youth with an advertising format that they feel some kind of genuine ownership over. It has what marketing types call "cut through" and what the kids call credibility. It is common knowledge that in these commercially sponsored times, every creative innovation is soon followed by the arrival of commercial operators keen to pay for its development. This is no bad thing. It's the brands that invest in fly posters, wanting to talk directly with their audience in a way they can relate to, who also invest in our youngest and brightest artistic talent, making opportunities happen for kids when no one else cares about them or can afford to. From that perspective it quickly becomes apparent why brands need posters, and why we should find suitable means to ensure that they continue to have access to it. Posters have documented our evolving style, encouraging creativity in design and graphic art while showcasing everything from the typography of punk rock to the new art of the 80s. Without this influence where would London and the UK be, when you take into account how much of our commercial success is bound up in our recognised status as a global leader of youth culture? It is time to legitimise the fly poster and give such expressions of urban culture the space they deserve in our inner cities. There is a solution to the problems being attributed to posters - the mess, the cost of cleaning, the kind of anarchic feel they retain when unregulated. London should be looking to establish an authorised poster scheme. Already in action elsewhere in the UK, these schemes operate as a collaboration between councils, the community and the fly poster industry. City Centre Posters developed ground-breaking schemes in Cardiff, Swansea, Liverpool and Glasgow and there are others in Leeds and Sheffield. Not only do they eliminate illegal fly posters, they make 40% of the space available for advertising from local arts companies, events and charities at greatly subsidised rates. Authorised schemes transform shabby-looking poster sites into tightly managed, community-aware noticeboards. Councils have seen dramatic reductions, up to 80% in some cases, in the costs of cleaning up, while also supporting local arts and youth culture. It's a win-win option and one that continental Europeans have favoured for years. Why don't we do it too?·  Tim Horrix is chief executive of Diabolical Liberties, an ambient media advertising agency