The man accused of murdering the Briton Peter Falconio today insisted he had not shot him and disposed of his body in the Australian Outback.Bradley Murdoch denied killing the 27-year-old backpacker, but admitted he looked similar to a suspect on CCTV footage filmed at a Shell truck stop in Alice Springs, central Australia, a few hours after the alleged murder. Mr Murdoch told the Northern Territory supreme court, in Darwin, that his late father, Colin, and four of his friends had told him he looked like the man on the footage, but denied it was him. Rex Wild QC, for the prosecution, said: "The reason you deny you were at the truck stop is because it puts you in the frame for this murder." Mr Murdoch, who admits smuggling large quantities of drugs from Sedan, South Australia, to Broome, Western Australia, said: "No. I was not at the truck stop." The footage was recorded after the prosecution claims the 47-year-old had attacked Mr Falconio, of Huddersfield, and his girlfriend, Joanne Lees, of Brighton, on a road north of Alice Springs on July 14 2001. He denies killing Mr Falconio and depriving Ms Lees of her liberty and assaulting her after he allegedly flagged down the couple's camper van on a remote stretch of the Stuart Highway at around 8pm.The footage, taken in the early hours of July 15, shows a man driving a four-wheel drive car stopping to refuel. Prosecutors say Mr Murdoch was at the truck stop on his way back to Broome following the killing.When Mr Wild said the man on the video looked like Mr Murdoch, the defendant said: "It looks like a lot of people." On a second day of cross-examination, he denied shooting Mr Falconio and then wrapping his head in a denim jacket belonging to Ms Lees so blood would not stain his vehicle when he moved the body."You're a fastidious man ... you didn't want blood in your vehicle?" Mr Wild asked him. Mr Murdoch replied: "I never had Peter Falconio in my vehicle." Mr Murdoch denied targeting the camper van because he believed it was carrying a lone woman. He said he could not explain how a match to his DNA profile was found on a T-shirt worn by Ms Lees, now 32, at the time of the attack, on the cable ties allegedly used to tie her hands behind her back, and on the gearstick of the couple's van. Mr Murdoch has admitted he was in Alice Springs on the same day as Mr Falconio and Ms Lees, just hours before the attack, which happened six miles outside the tiny settlement of Barrow Creek. However, he said he had left the town at around 3.30pm and was about 370 miles away on the Tanami track, heading towards Broome, at the time of the alleged murder. He also denied that he had kept one of Ms Lees's hair ties - which the prosecution said had been found in his possessions - as a "souvenir" of the attack. Later, Dr Katrin Both, a part-time scientist with the forensic science centre in Adelaide, said she had concerns about the DNA evidence presented by the prosecution. She said she had heard evidence about a "low copy number" DNA technique earlier in the trial, and was worried about its reliability. On day 14 of the trial, Dr Jonathan Whitaker, a senior forensic scientist with the UK's Forensic Science Service, said he used the technique and had found a DNA sample on the cable ties was 100 million times more likely to have come from Mr Murdoch than from anybody else. However, Dr Both, an expert in DNA and evidence recovery, said she was concerned about the reliability of the results and their interpretation, mainly due to the small amounts of DNA involved.Mr Falconio, from Huddersfield, has not been seen since the night of the attack, and no body has been found. The trial, expected to finish at the end of this week or the start of next, was adjourned until tomorrow.