Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were likely to have been asphyxiated before their bodies were dumped in a ditch and set on fire, the Soham murder trial at the Old Bailey heard today.Prosecutor Richard Latham QC told the court that sexual assault of the schoolgirls by their alleged killer, Ian Huntley, could not be ruled out because their bodies had been in such a decomposed state when they were found.Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the girls, who disappeared from Soham, their home town in Cambridgeshire, on Sunday August 4 last year. The bodies were found on August 17. Mr Latham said that fibres matching those from the two 10-year-olds' red Manchester United shirts had been found on Mr Huntley's clothing. He said that, in total, including hair and fibres, there were 154 transfers between items belonging to Mr Huntley and those belonging to Holly and Jessica.Bodies 'were virtually skeletons'The girls' bodies had decomposed to the extent that they were virtually skeletons, the Old Bailey jury heard. They may never have been found because they were so well hidden at an isolated spot, the court was told.Only the smell of rotting flesh had led walkers to the overgrown ditch where the bodies had lain for up to 13 days. The ditch was often filled with water, but a farmer had opened sluice gates to irrigate a field and it had dried out.The bodies were found lying side by side, on their backs, in the ditch. It was off a remote track near Lakenheath air base in Suffolk, less than a mile from where Mr Huntley's father used to live. The Crown said that the accused knew the area very well. The Crown alleges that Mr Huntley smothered the girls and then dumped the bodies on the same evening that they vanished. The jury was shown pictures of a scorched wooded area. It was indisputable that the bodies found in the nearby ditch were those of Holly and Jessica, Mr Latham told the court.A Home Office pathologist, Dr Nat Carey, who carried out post-mortem examinations on the girls, had "excluded stabbing, shooting or other significant trauma", Mr Latham told the court. "A definite cause of death was impossible to determine, but asphyxia was the "most likely cause," the prosecutor added.Dr Carey had said that the bodies were likely to have been placed in the ditch soon after their disappearance, before rigor mortis had set in, the court was told.Mr Latham said: "The bodies of the two children were alongside one another ... Jessica was still wearing her bead necklace. Holly had her metal necklace with a 'love' inscription." He said that he would not show the jury pictures of the bodies. "They were covered in maggots and substantially decomposed," he told the court. Mr Latham suggested that anyone in a blind panic could have found plenty of places nearer than that area "where you can dump bodies". "You will consider just how clever is the place they were left," he told the court. "There was a substantial possibility that they would never be found." He said that part of a pocket and other small pieces of fabric had been discovered, and fitted with some of the clothes found in a hangar in the grounds of Soham Village College, where Mr Huntley had worked.Huntley 'linked to site where bodies found'The court heard mounds of chalk had built up in the area where the bodies were found. Traces of it were found on the underside of Mr Huntley's car and in its footwell. A scientist had also taken samples of pollen grain of plants which had a "unique appearance" under a microscope, and found several matches with Mr Huntley's car and shoes.The pattern of fire damage in the area was in line with that created by the use of a liquid accelerant such as petrol, the prosecutor said. Mr Latham said: "Huntley had possession of a red petrol can ... and that petrol can can be linked by the evidence to the site. [Huntley's] Fiesta can be linked to the track. Huntley can be linked to the site. It is his car, they are his shoes, the red petrol can is in the boot."Mr Latham said Mr Huntley would know the area as an "ideal place" to dump the bodies. He had headed there "thinking quite clearly and calmly, not in a panic trying to get rid of these bodies as quickly as possible", the jury was told. Fibres from girls clothes 'found in Huntley's house'The prosecution showed, using graphics, that five hairs from Mr Huntley's head were allegedly found on three items: a football shirt, a pair of knickers and a third material, unidentifiable from the screen. Fibres from Mr Huntley's clothing, carpets and other items in his house also precisely matched the fibre from which girls' football shirts were made, the QC said. Mr Latham said that one fibre from the carpet in Mr Huntley's car was found on Holly's shirt.The court heard that no fingerprint of either of the girls was found in the home shared by Mr Huntley and his then girlfriend Maxine Carr, 26. One of Holly's had been found on a box of chocolates she had given to Ms Carr, a former classroom assistant in the girls' class. The jury may believe "absence itself" supported the Crown's assertions that a major clean-up operation had taken place in the house, Mr Latham said. 'Careful and deliberate' behaviourAs he concluded the Crown's opening statements, Mr Latham said that the prosecution had to prove "the unlawful killing of a person" in the sense that it was not an accident or in self-defence. "Neither qualification has any relevance here. We suggest these were not two little babies. They were two fit 10-year-old girls - 10-year-old girls just do not drop dead," Mr Latham said. He said that if the girls were "strangled or somehow asphyxiated, you must think whoever was responsible must have intended to kill".The QC said: "That they died in the house is inevitable, given the categories of material mounted against him. He had the opportunity, he spoke to them just before they disappeared." Mr Huntley's behaviour was not that of a "confused man but the workings of a careful and deliberate man", the court was told. Mr Latham told the jury: "You may be asked by defence to examine whether it was some ghastly accident. If you are, we pose this simple question: two of them?"Carr 'told persistent, devious and detailed lies'Ms Carr, a former classroom assistant at the girls' school, denies conspiring with Mr Huntley to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender.Turning to Ms Carr's charges, Mr Latham said that she had known Mr Huntley was involved in the killings from the "very outset", and had told "persistent, devious and detailed lies" that had affected police inquiries. He said Carr's explanation about why she had lied was that, before she had met Mr Huntley, he had been falsely accused of a crime, and it was several months before the charge, or charges, against him had been dropped. The QC continued: "On that occasion, she understood that he had a nervous breakdown. When she heard on the Sunday he was the last person to see the girls alive, she did not want him to go through the whole thing again, being falsely accused, and so she had lied."Mr Latham said, however, that Ms Carr had been recorded telling Mr Huntley's mother, in a telephone call, that she had discussed lying with him on the Monday after the girls' disappearance. The call was made by Ms Carr to Mr Huntley's mother, Lynda, from Holloway prison. Ms Carr said Mr Huntley had told her that the two girls had come into the house because one of them had a nosebleed, Mr Latham said.In a second phone call to Mr Huntley's mother, Ms Carr said he had told her that both the girls had come upstairs in the house. One had been in the bathroom with her nosebleed, and the other had been in the bedroom, the court heard.The prosecuting counsel said the series of acts referred to was that she falsely claimed she was in the house, would have known if the girls had come into the house, and she would have known of any absence of Mr Huntley on August 4. Jury shown remains of girls' clothesThe jury was shown the remains of the schoolgirls' clothing.Yesterday, the court was told that an attempt had been made to set fire to all the clothing, which had been dumped in a bin in a hangar building at the college, where Mr Huntley had been a caretaker. Today, the jury saw pictures of items of burned clothing found in the bin, including a bra which Holly's mother had bought for her on the day before she died. Other items of burnt underwear were pictured, along with scorched training shoes. The court had already heard that some of Mr Huntley's hairs were found in the bin. It has already heard how Mr Huntley had tried to "sanitise" the car after the girls' disappearance and today heard how the car's seat covers had been removed. Huntley missing from the dockMr Huntley was not in the dock today. Trial judge Mr Justice Moses explained to the jury yesterday that he had left the dock in the afternoon because he was feeling unwell. Nothing more was said today about his absence from the dock, where Ms Carr sat alone.Mr Huntley denies murder. However, the court has heard that he is likely to accept that he was alone with the girls in his house when they died, and that he disposed of their bodies. He has admitted a single charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. The trial was adjourned until Monday next week, when it will continue and move to Soham. There, the jury will walk the last route that the prosecution claims the girls walked.