The reported attack on Soham murderer Ian Huntley by fellow life-sentence prisoner Damian Fowkes in Frankland high-security prison last week brings one of the more vile aspects of British prison culture once more to public attention. The idea that some prisoners hold any kind of moral authority over others is perhaps the most serious cognitive distortion to plague prison life in the UK.People outside rightly believe that there are rules in prison. Indeed, in any prison governor's office in any prison in the country, there is a big book entitled Prison Rules. But on a prison landing, in a prisoner hierarchy, there are no rules, other than those that determine the survival of the fittest. Not the fittest as in the most athletic, although a healthy measure of athleticism is certainly a helpful survival aid. But the fittest as Spencer and Darwin would have understood it – the most fitted to a particular environment.On a prison landing, this means the most treacherous, the most deceitful, the most manipulative, hypocritical and vicious.The manifestation of prisoner-on-prisoner violence may, on the one hand, be a result of heightened tensions and stress due to the mental and psychological pressures of being forced into the close proximity of hundreds of strangers, who are there in the first place for having behaved badly towards other people. To some extent, this type of aggression might be understandable. But the type of attack suffered by Huntley allegedly at the hands of Fowkes – just because, in the prisoner hierarchy, one person decides that another is lower down in the pecking order due to the nature of the other's crime – is indefensible.Such self-appointed vigilante attacks, most likely driven by the popular attitudes which reinforce the hypocritical prison value system and a prisoner's own self-loathing, appear to be driven by the desire to become known as the murderer of a murderer, rather than simply another violent offender.Despite bans and searches, unfortunately, blades can always be fashioned from a plethora of items available on a prison wing. The classic prison "shiv" – allegedly, the type used on Huntley – is a toothbrush with a razorblade soldered into the end. According to reports, such a rudimentary weapon came close to inflicting a potentially fatal neck wound on Huntley.Regardless of the protestations of the justice minister, Jack Straw, Huntley may well be compensated for the prison service's negligence in permitting the circumstances in which the assault took place to occur. And instead of becoming known as the man who killed Huntley, his assailant would then be notorious as the man who handed a cash bonus of thousands to a convicted childkiller. Crime never pays, but vigilante justice can end up paying – and for all the wrong reasons.