Police have continued to pile psychological pressure on the fugitive suspect in the Yorkshire multiple murders hunt yesterday, organising an emotional plea to him by the daughter of two pensioners who were stabbed to death.Catherine Wilkins had to pause several times as she indirectly asked Mark Hobson, 34, to contact detectives and end a five-day nationwide search. Holding up a photograph of her smiling parents, Jim and Joan Britton, whose murders have been linked to the strangling and battering of Mr Hobson's girlfriend, Claire Sanderson, 27, and her twin sister Diane, Mrs Wilkins said that her family's life had been made a "living hell". She told a media conference in York: "All I can say to whoever is responsible is 'give yourself up'. "You must know the damage that you have inflicted not only on your victims but their relatives who will have to live with this memory for the rest of their lives. "My parents were a frail elderly couple who lived a very quiet life. They were gentle, kind and liked by everyone in the village who knew them. They didn't deserve to die like this. "The question that we keep asking is 'why?' Why would someone want to attack a lovely elderly couple who could harm no one? "Why would someone want to take their lives and the lives of two young women? "Our family has been rocked by the horror of all this, as I am sure has the family of Claire and Diane at the senseless waste of human lives." Det Supt Javad Ali, head of the investigation, said that 300 reported sightings of Mr Hobson had been followed up and more than 30 premises searched. Detectives are also targeting pubs and off-licences as the divorced father of three, a former bouncer and dustman, has been described as by friends as a "virtual alcoholic" who will not be able to stay on the run without drinking. Officers are also checking scores of narrowboats and cruisers on a web of waterways near the village of Camblesforth, south of Selby, where the twins' bodies were found on Sunday morning. Mr Hobson is known to have an interest in boats and experience in exploring creeks along the river Derwent and canals in the flatlands of the Humber estuary. Mr Ali repeated warnings to people not approach Mr Hobson, who was described by neighbours in Camblesforth as having a "misleadingly charming side". He said that when the fugitive was last seen with Claire Sanderson at the Comus pub in Camblesforth, a week before she died, he had been described by fellow drinkers as being cheerful and in a good mood.