Two men conned vulnerable older people out of money and goods totalling more than £250,000, a court has heard.Abdul Mohib, 23, masterminded the plot from the bedroom he shared with his mother, posing as a detective and calling a total of 26 victims telling them he was investigating fraudulent activities on their bank accounts.Posing as “DC Robert Bain”, he convinced the pensioners to withdraw large sums of money from their accounts or to buy high-value goods such as Rolex watches using their credit cards, and then hand them over to a “police courier”. Mominur Rahman, 20, acted as a courier and collected money from the homes of those duped by the scam. On one occasion, a courier other than Rahman went to a crematorium where a 68-year-old victim was attending a funeral to collect £8,500 cash.James Benson, prosecuting, said: “The defendants were responsible for a series of high-value courier frauds, whereby victims would be induced into parting with cash or high-value items such as watches or jewellery. “In each case the victim believed that they were handing the cash or high-value item to a police officer for the purposes of a criminal investigation. But in fact they were handing the goods over to a person masquerading as the police or couriers.“Either the victim had been induced to go to a bank and withdraw the cash from a cashier, or the victim had been induced to go, for example, to a currency exchange and withdraw quantities of euros, or the victim had been induced to go to high-end jewellery stores and purchase items such as Rolex watches.”Southwark crown court heard that the victims were mostly in their 70s or 80s, and some were disabled. Some were targeted repeatedly over a number of days, with one 85-year-old giving £28,250 over a three-day period.In impact statements provided to the court, victims described being left “haunted” by the scam, saying they were no longer able to trust anyone claiming to be a police officer. One victim said: “I felt I had been hypnotised over the phone by the man who said he was a police officer.” Benson said Mohib carried out “skilful investigations” into the victims, learning how much money they had in their accounts and the sums available on their credit cards. The fraud came to light after one of the victims, 73-year-old Roy Emerson, was unable to buy a £19,200 Rolex in October last year because of an issue with his credit cards. When this failed, Mohib asked Emerson to withdraw €13,000 in two separate transactions the following day. But by this point the police were aware of the scam and gave Emerson a fake package of cash to hand over to the courier.The courier was arrested a short time after pick-up, and detectives found the packages stuffed down the front of his trousers. When Mohib’s home was searched, police found a number of mobile phones hidden under the beds, as well as a gold Rolex watch.Explaining how the fraud worked, Benson said: “There were methods employed that led the victims to believe that they were dealing with a genuine police officer.”The court heard that in order to reassure the victims that the call was genuine, Mohib suggested that they hang up and ring their bank or the police straight away. However, he would keep the line open by not disconnecting the call at his end, meaning that despite dialling legitimate phone numbers – such as 999 and 101 – victims in fact remained on the phone to the fraudster.Other suspects posing as bank officials and police operators would then pretend to answer the calls and would verify the bogus officer’s story.Although some of the money has been refunded to the victims, £88,300 of the £265,983 total remains unrecovered.Rahman, of no fixed abode, and Mohib, of Bloomsbury, central London, admitted one count each of conspiracy to commit fraud between 12 August and 23 October last year. They are due to be sentenced on Tuesday.