What is the criminal records bureau? Launched in March 2002, six months late, the criminal records bureau (CRB) checks the criminal background of all people who work with children or vulnerable adults in schools, voluntary organisations or professional bodies. It collates information from the police and government agencies. Allegations made against someone can also be recorded. The CRB is run by the private company Capita. Initially, Capita promised to respond to 90% of high-level enquiries - those required for the teaching profession - within three weeks.What does a CRB check reveal? The vetting system operates in two stages. Names are checked against the Department for Education and Skills' List 99, a confidential register of all people convicted or suspected of child abuse. Once this has been checked, contact is made with police forces in every area of the country in which the applicant has lived or worked for details of any relevant convictions. Checks are also made for any convictions that may have expired under the 1974 Rehabilitation of Offenders Act, as well as any cautions, warnings or reprimands. In addition, checks are made from local police intelligence to find, for example, details from a child protection case conference. For minor convictions, it is up to a headteacher to decide whether they affect a teacher's suitability. What preceded the CRB? Before the introduction of the CRB, applicants were only checked against List 99. What went wrong with the CRB? The service has faced problems from the outset. Computer difficulties stalled the official launch of the system and when it was finally up and running it was inundated with applications. An emergency rescue plan had to be implemented two months after launch to help meet the demand. Computer operators in India were employed to input the details for 35,000 candidates, and eventually, for teachers, the service was suspended. Vetting returned to the old system of List 99, with a more thorough check to follow when the CRB was up to speed. The Home Office said it needed some "breathing space" to get back on top of things. In July 2002, a new government act made it compulsory for all new and existing nurses to be checked through the system, adding further pressure. What happened next? When charges were first brought against school caretaker Ian Huntley and classroom assistant Maxine Carr in connection with the murders of two pupils, Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, in Soham last year, the DfES and the Home Office, which is responsible for the CRB, decided to reinstate the double system of checks provided by the bureau. It drafted in 100 extra staff to its Liverpool offices - mostly from the passport applications department - to ensure full checks were made. In September 2002 thousands of teachers remained unchecked at the beginning of term. Pupils at a handful of schools were turned away for the first week of term while staff went through emergency checks, without which they can't legally work with children. The crisis was one of a series that led to the resignation of the then education secretary, Estelle Morris, in October last year.And now? Earlier this month, CRB fees were more than doubled, from £12 to £28 for a standard level disclosure and £33 for a more complex "enhanced" check. Ministers have also proposed that the 10,000 registered organisations that use the service, including companies and charities, pay an annual fee of £300 to raise a further £2.4m net. At present they pay a one-off fee of £300 on registration. The backlog of applications has been reduced from a high of 76,000 to 1,000 more than six weeks old. CRB now processes 50,000 applications a week - meeting its target of completing 90% within two weeks for standard checks and four weeks for enhanced checks.