William Hague will today make a controversial intervention in the debate on law and order by attacking the Macpherson report into the killing of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence.The Tory leader will call for a restoration of sweeping stop-and-search activities even though they were criticised in the report for being used disproportionately against black people. In a Centre for Policy Studies lecture today, he will claim that Sir William Macpherson's report, with its allegations of institutional racism inside the Metropolitan police, has damaged the morale of the force and contributed to a fall in police numbers in London. Mr Hague will attack the way he claims the Home Office used the report to bring about a reduction in stop-and-search powers in London. The Tory leader is expected to say: "It is time to take on and defeat the liberal elite who now want us to believe the police are all racist." The Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens, has recently claimed that there is a crisis in his service, blaming the fall in police numbers and the "self-inflicted" wounds of the Lawrence inquiry. Sir William's criticism of the police for misusing stop-and-search powers was one of the most contentious aspects of his report. Last night Sir William expressed sadness that Mr Hague had chosen to target the report and rejected any suggestion that it had been responsible for damaging morale in the force. "To say two years after the report that police morale had been damaged is a condemnation not of the report but of the police," he said. "If anyone bothered to read the report they would see that at no point did it recommend a reduction of proper stop-and-search. But of course we were critical of discriminatory stop-and-search. We still are." Imran Khan, the Lawrence family's solicitor, said: "The problem has not been the report itself, but the failure of the police in implementing the recommendations." What do you think?Talk about itRelated special reports Tories in oppositionMacpherson reportSpecial report: Stephen LawrenceRace in BritainRelated stories14 December: Lawrence report hit Met morale - government12 December: Paul Foot - the Met is guilty 11 December: inquiry into 'racist' unlawful arrests' 9 December: Sikh policeman's record payout in 'hate mail' case Stephen Lawrence murder: chronologyChannel 4 video 24 February 1999: the Macpherson reportUseful links What Hague said when the report was publishedMacpherson report: summary Macpherson report: full text Macpherson report: the 70 recommendations in full Macpherson report: search Home Office response to Macpherson report Met response to Macpherson report Stephen Lawrence family campaign Commission for Racial Equality Met report on recruiting ethnic minoritiesCentre for Policy Studies