Sion Jenkins was cleared of murdering his foster daughter Billie-Jo today after an Old Bailey jury was unable to reach a verdict during eight days of deliberations.Relatives of Billie-Jo's natural family screamed abuse at the former deputy headteacher after the jurors said they could not make a decision in the second retrial, despite being told by the judge, Mr Justice David Clarke, that he would accept a majority verdict. Pandemonium erupted outside Court Seven after Mr Jenkins was freed and the crown prosecution service said he would not face a third retrial for the 1997 killing of Billie-Jo at the family home in Hastings, East Sussex.As Mr Jenkins left the court he was attacked by two female relatives of Billie Jo's natural family who ran along a corridor in the court building and began hitting him. During a brief resumption of court proceedings, Mr Justice Clarke was told that "blood was drawn".Mr Jenkins finally emerged from the court building at 1.30pm and launched a withering attack on the police for its "wilfully blind and incompetent" investigation. "It has taken more than nine years of struggle for me be standing here. It has been a terrible ordeal and I find it difficult to take it in," he said. "Billie-Jo's murderer has escaped detection because of the dreadful errors of the police investigation and their single-minded and desperate determination to convict me at all costs. "They have been wilfully blind and incompetent. The murder investigation must me reopened immediately with a new police team who will put their energy into finding Billie-Jo's killer."Mr Jenkins, 48, of Lymington, Hampshire, was jailed for life in 1998 for murdering 13-year-old Billie-Jo in February 1997. An appeal failed in 1999 but a second appeal was successful and a retrial was ordered by the Court of Appeal in 2004. The jury in that retrial, which lasted for three months last year, was unable to reach a verdict and a second retrial was called. Mr Jenkins has always denied murdering Billie-Jo, who was battered over the head at least 10 times with an iron tent peg while painting patio doors at the family home in Hastings, East Sussex. He told police he found his foster daughter in a pool of blood on the patio where she had been painting doors at the family home. But he became the prime suspect after police discovered that his life was a lie, with his school job obtained using fake qualifications. One of the fiercest legal battles in British justice followed and cost an estimated £10m. Mr Jenkins was to tell the jury it had cost him his family, his home and six-and-a-half years of his freedom. Mr Jenkins, who was given bail in August 2004, has since remarried and lives in Lymington, Hampshire. His former wife, Lois, who gave evidence against him, and their four natural daughters, now live in Australia. Mr Jenkins argued that the case against him was built on 150 tiny blood spots on his clothing which he said were caused by air being released from Billie-Jo's lungs as he moved her after finding her lying bleeding on the patio.After 39 hours and 10 minutes deliberating, the jurors today told the judge that they were not going to agree on a verdict. Shortly afterwards, the crown prosecution service said he would not face another retrial.There were screams of abuse in court from Billie-Jo's natural family after the judge said he was discharging the jury.During the melee which followed Mr Jenkins' exit of the court room, the defendant received several blows while trying to shield himself with his arms. One of the attackers, who was wearing a long black coat, was able to hit him repeatedly just yards from the courtroom door before plain clothes police involved in the case stepped in and restrained her. Another screamed abuse."We feel like the system has let us down and I took matters into my own hands and I very much enjoyed myself. Revenge was lovely," Maggie Coster, told reporters outside the Old Bailey before being escorted back into the building by police.Speaking outside the court, Sarah Jane Gallagher, said: "The CPS [Crown Prosecution Service] has considered the case again as a whole and decided Sion Jenkins should not face a further retrial. He has therefore been formally acquitted."She said the role of the CPS was to examine the evidence and determine whether there was a realistic prospect of conviction and whether it is in the public interest to bring criminal proceedings. "When the jury could not reach a verdict last year, we were faced with the difficult decision of whether we should take a highly unusual course and seek a third trial," she added. "We had to consider not only whether witnesses would be prepared to give evidence at a third trial, but also the effect of all the hearings on their recollections and how accurately they could remember events that happened nearly nine years ago. "We used every method at our disposal to the full, including the latest forensic techniques that hadn't been available at the earlier trials. I am satisfied that the CPS fulfilled its duty under the Code for Crown Prosecutors and the decision to try Mr Jenkins again was correct."The assistant chief constable of Sussex police, Geoff Williams, said the force would do everything it could to bring her killer to justice. "I think we need to take time now to reflect on today's outcome, but I would say this - a case such as this is never closed ... I think the public would expect the police to do all they reasonably can to bring her killer to justice. "This therefore remains an unresolved murder case. It will as a matter of course be subject to review, which we will conduct with an open mind. If any person has any information which can shed new light on the death of Billie-Jo, I urge them even at this stage, to talk to the police."