Police foiled what could have been the largest robbery in UK history yesterday when Scotland Yard's flying squad swooped on robbers trying to grab gold valued at £40m along with £40m in cash.Seven men were arrested in a stakeout involving more than 100 officers. One suspect is still on the run. The gang, whom detectives believe to be part of an organised criminal network, reversed a white Transit van at high speed, bursting through the rear shutter gate of a cargo warehouse on the outskirts of Heathrow airport. Stunned staff dived for cover when the men threatened them with a handgun, knives and cudgels, and tried to force their way through to an inner safe, where tonnes of bullion and the banknotes were stored. The thieves planned the raid in meticulous detail. They had paperwork to gain access to the site, and knew exactly when to strike - at 10am, just after the Swissport warehouse on Bedfont Road had taken delivery of the gold bullion, which had been flown in from overseas. Taking the ramming of the shutter gate as the signal for action, armed officers from the Metropolitan police's elite S019 unit stormed the warehouse and surrounded the men, forcing them to hand over their weapons. Officers blew out the tyres of the white van with Hatton rounds, specially designed shotgun cartridges used to disable vehicles and shoot doors off their hinges. No other shots were fired by the police or the gang. Flying squad officers then moved in to seize the would-be robbers. One officer received minor injuries during the ensuing scuffle. Hijacked Six of the men were arrested but two escaped and hijacked another vehicle. One later gave himself up to police nearby. The other, who ran off, is still at large. The driver from whom the vehicle was taken was not hurt. Those arrested, who are in their 30s, are being questioned at several west London police stations. Detective Superintendent Barry Phillips, of the flying squad, would not say whether police officers had infiltrated the gang. But he confirmed that Scotland Yard had been monitoring the group for several weeks. Mr Phillips said: "In preventing this at tack, we have foiled what would have been one of the biggest robberies ever committed in the UK. We believe that these men were part of an organised criminal enterprise. "It is clear that a lot of planning and preparation went into the attack but the Met's flying squad was one step ahead of the team for some time." Swissport bosses also knew the raid was about to happen, but staff in the warehouse were taken by surprise. A spokesman for Swissport confirmed the gold bullion and cash had been flown in yesterday but would not say where from. "This has obviously been a very shocking experience for many of our members of staff," he said. "Some are very upset and counselling has been arranged for them." The attempted robbery mirrors one of the most notorious crimes of all time, the 1983 Brinks Mat robbery, where thieves got away with £26m-worth of gold from a Heathrow warehouse. But they were caught and most of the gold was eventually recovered. Graham Seaby, a former Scotland Yard detective who advised Heathrow airport on security for five years, said the gang probably had inside information. He did not think it would be too hard to recast the gold, using a furnace, and ship it abroad to sell on the black market. A spokeswoman for the London Bullion Market Association said that as most interbank gold trading was carried out on paper, gold shipments were relatively rare, although they did take place from time to time. "For gold bars to be accepted for delivery in London they must carry the official stamp, date and serial number from the refinery where they were made," she said. "The movie image of robbers tossing gold bars to each other is unlikely, as gold is very dense and not easy to transport. The most common size are 400 ounce bars, which are extremely heavy. "Thieves would have to melt the bars down and recast them, difficult but not impossible with the right equipment, but not something you would do in your backyard overnight. If this gang had been successful, all legitimate markets would be on the alert. "But it's possible it would be shipped abroad and passed on somewhere where standards may not be as stringent as in London." Jeremy Kidd, trading manager of Baird & Co, a bullion trading firm based in Hatton Garden, London, said gold could be disposed of more easily than banknotes or diamonds, as it became relatively untraceable once recast. "There is strict government legislation on dealing, which we follow very carefully," he said. "But there are probably some dodgy dealers who would take bars without serial numbers." Yesterday's police operation, codenamed Cartwright, was part of Operation Grafton, a Met Specialist Crime Directorate initiative, in partnership with Thames Valley police, Surrey police, Customs and the National Criminal Intelligence Service and others to tackle crime at Heathrow airport.Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur, head of the Specialist Crime Directorate, said: "A professional team of armed robbers has now been removed from society. "This is an excellent example of the flying squad, supported by armed officers from S019, ensuring security in and around Heathrow is maintained."