Police are hunting a 57-year-old man in connection with a murder after a woman’s torso was found in a suitcase. Lithuanian Vitautas Jokubauskas had been renting the property in Peterborough where the body was discovered with no arms, legs or head, Cambridgeshire police said.The body has not been identified but detectives are also looking for a woman, believed to be Jokubauskas’s Lithuanian partner, who is only described as being aged about 40, slim and with black hair. Jokubauskas was last seen on 30 May when he was taken to work in Huntingdon by a friend. The torso was discovered when police attended an address in Peterborough just after 12.30pm on Friday. They had been called by the landlord of the property after other tenants raised concerns about a nasty smell coming from a room that used to be occupied by the factory worker. A cordon has been put up while officers conduct detailed forensic investigations. Police have released a picture of Jokubauskas, and are looking into the possibility that he may have fled to eastern Europe, or Ireland, where he is known to have connections. The body has been removed from the house and a post-mortem examination is due to take place at Peterborough City hospital on Monday. Detective Chief Inspector Adam Gallop from the Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire major crime unit, said: “We are very keen to trace Mr Jokubauskas and we are clearly very concerned for the welfare of his partner, who has also not been seen for some time. “Investigations are ongoing to determine where this murder took place, and our priorities are to locate Mr Jokubauskas and identify the body. “I would urge anyone who thinks they have seen Mr Jokubauskas or recognises the description of his partner to contact police as soon as possible. Anyone who sees him should not approach him and should contact police immediately.” He added that the murder was being treated as an isolated incident. Anyone with information should contact the Beds, Cambs and Herts major crime unit on 101, or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555111.