The sentence of the law passed upon Ruth Ellis, found guilty of murder, "will be carried into execution at 9am tomorrow," stated a notice posted upon the main gates of Holloway Prison, London, last night. It was signed "Harold H Gedge, acting Under-Sheriff of the County of London" and "C Taylor, Governor."Late last night police reinforcements arrived at Holloway Prison to disperse a crowd of about five hundred that had gathered outside the gates. Inside the prison Mrs Ruth Ellis, who is due to be hanged today for the murder of her lover, David Blakely, was visited last evening by her parents, Mr and Mrs Neilson. It was their second visit of the day.An eleventh hour move for a reprieve was made at yesterday's meeting of the London County Council, when 35 members signed a petition organised by Mr Donald Chesworth, Labour member for Kensington South.Earlier yesterday, Mr Victor Mishcon, a solicitor and former chairman of the L.C.C., had a 90-minute talk with Mrs Ellis then drove to the Home Office, where he remained for 50 minutes. It is understood that he did not see the Home Secretary.It was stated last night that a telegram had been sent to the Home Secretary by Mr Frank Owen, who was Liberal MP for Hereford from 1929-31. It said: "I put this point. Mrs Ellis had a miscarriage three days before she committed murder. If she had given birth to a child and killed it she would have escaped the death penalty under the plea of infanticide, the justification presumably being that her mind had been unhinged by the birth. As it is, she shot her lover. Could her mind not have been unhinged by reason of the miscarriage? I beg of you to make a last moment decision of mercy."It was on Easter Sunday, when Ellis waited outside the Magdala pub in Hampstead, north London, and then shot her philandering lover in a jealous rage. As well as firing several shots at Blakely she fired into the pavement and one shot ricocheted upwards and wounded a woman passer-by. Ellis pleaded not guilty to the murder of Blakely, with her defence claiming that her actions had been provoked by him. Ellis did herself few favours when she gave evidence at her trial. Asked what her intentions were as she fired the gun, she replied: "It was obvious that when I shot him I intended to kill him." The jury took 23 minutes to find her guilty. Ellis later refused to appeal, stating that: "I do not want to live."