The teenager bullied into hiding the gun used to kill schoolboy Rhys Jones was unaware that the weapon had been used to commit murder, Liverpool crown court heard today.A youth who cannot be identified was giving evidence in the trial of Sean Mercer, 18, who is accused of shooting 11-year-old Rhys. The jury watched a second day of police interview recordings with the 17-year-old witness, who has been given immunity from prosecution in exchange for his evidence.The witness said he was given the Smith and Wesson .455 revolver by Mercer 20 minutes after Rhys was shot dead in a pub car park on his way home from football practice in August last year. The gun, which was wrapped up in a red and white carrier bag, was then concealed under blankets in the dog kennel at his Croxteth home. But it was only later that night, during conversations in an MSN internet chat room, that he heard about the rival gang shootings at the Fir Tree pub, and realised he might be concealing the murder weapon. "I started putting things together," he said. "I was thinking that he's give me [the gun] and I wondered if he had fired at them [because they are] from [Norris Green] and he has missed or something." Asked why Mercer had chosen him to hide the weapon the witness answered: "I thought they used me as a safe house or something because I've never been in trouble with the police and I don't go out. I think they thought, 'We'll use him and the police won't have a clue where it is.'" The witness said he was too frightened to refuse Mercer's demands. "I was just scared to say no because you think to yourself, 'Well, he might have done that to a little kid so what could he do to me?' He's not going to think twice, like." Five days after the killing, one of Mercer's co-accused, Boy K, who is charged with assisting an offender, came to his house and hid the murder weapon in the loft.The next time the witness heard from Mercer was around a month later, after his home had been raided by police, when the murder weapon was recovered. At the time he was abroad and he said Mercer rang his mobile phone and said: "Your door's been kicked in". The witness said Mercer continued to phone him but he was too frightened to take his calls.Mercer got through to the witness on Christmas Day and the two had a conversation, which the witness described as surprisingly friendly."I thought he was going to be saying things like, 'where do you live now?' and, 'you best not grass on me'. But he wasn't. I don't know whether he was trying to talk nice in case the police could hear the conversation," he said.Mercer went on to inquire about the his mother's health and then told the witness "not to keep looking over [his] shoulder." He also tried to reassure the witness, saying: "Don't think they are following you because they're not." Asked why he thought Mercer had been friendly, the witness said: "I don't know really, I thought he was trying to play the innocent one." Sean Mercer denies murder. His six co-accused, James Yates, 20, Nathan Quinn, 18, Gary Kays, 25, Melvin Coy, 24, Boy M, 16, and Boy K, 17, deny assisting an offender.