Naomi Campbell flew into a rage at cabin crew over a missing suitcase and assaulted police officers who were called to remove her from a plane, a court was told today.The 38-year-old supermodel accused the pilot of racism, kicked and spat at the officers and threatened to sue them after she was removed from a BA jet at Heathrow on April 3.Campbell pleaded guilty today at Uxbridge magistrates court to four charges, including two counts of assaulting a police officer.The court heard that the row was sparked by the disappearance of a bag containing a dress Campbell was contracted to wear during a television appearance. The incident came at the height of the baggage-sorting chaos that blighted the opening of Heathrow's Terminal 5.Such was the star's fury, a fellow passenger moved out of the first-class cabin for his own safety as Campbell hurled a torrent of abuse at the crew before turning on three police officers drafted in to help defuse the situation.Melanie Parrish, prosecuting, said the plane's captain, Miles Sutherland. had taken the unusual step of talking to the model personally after hearing that one of her bags was missing. As he tried to explain the situation, Campbell was heard shouting: "I can't believe you have lost my fucking bag. Bring me my fucking bags now." She told him to leave the aircraft, get her bag and show it to her. When he reeled off a list of options open to her, Campbell snapped: "How dare you tell me what my options are? You are not leaving until you find my fucking bags." When he walked away, she shouted: "You are a racist, you wouldn't be doing this if I was white." Two high-level BA staff were called in, one trained to deal with difficult situations, the court heard. "Miss Campbell was clearly upset and explained to them the reason why this was so awful for her was that she was contracted to wear a particular Yves Saint Laurent outfit on a US chat show and it was in the bag that hadn't been loaded," Parrish said.As staff tried to reason with her, the model shouted into her mobile phone: "They have lost my fucking bags, get me another flight, get the press, get me my lawyer." She refused to leave the plane, shouting "Fuck you, fuck you, captain" and "Fuck off, I have paid £5,000 for this. I have a right to be on this plane." Violence erupted when three police officers arrived to escort her from the jet. PC John Eastwick was struck on the arm with the star's phone and spat on, and PC Charles Campling was struck in the thigh with her "formidable platform boots with stiletto-style heels", the court was told.As they arrested her for assault, Campbell shouted at the officers: "You are only doing this because I am black and famous. It is because I am a black woman. You are all racists. I am going to sue you. I am going to fuck you. I am going to sue you like a motherfucker."Campbell's lawyer, Richard Nicholls, said his client was "genuinely apologetic" towards the police officers but not "quite so sorry about British Airways".He said the situation had not been caused by drink but the loss of her dress. "It's not like a pair of flip flops and shorts were lost, these were working clothes - it's like a worker not having his tools. It would not have been a problem if her luggage had not been lost. This was not just a trip to LA, she was also going the mother of her friend's funeral." It is not the first time the supermodel has had a run-in with the law. Three times in the past eight years Campbell has pleaded guilty in court to hitting her staff with mobile phones. In one case, her housekeeper was left needing four stitches in her head.Last year, a New York court ordered Campbell to spend five days mopping floors and cleaning toilets, as well as attending anger management classes, as punishment for hitting her maid with a phone.It is understood that since the incident, Campbell has been banned from all BA flights.The hearing continues.