 Bobby Cummines, 49 Sentence: 12 years Crime: armed robbery I was convicted for my first offence at the age of 16. From then on it was a downward spiral of increasingly serious offences. I did a seven-and-a-half-year sentence, and some years later a 12-year sentence for armed robbery, which took me to most of the maximum security units in the country. Education was what worked for me in prison. I went to Maidstone prison, where they had a brilliant education department and I started an Open University degree. They helped me explore why I was so different from everyone else, and why I was involved in violence from a young age. I had some good education officers and a probation officer at the time who was a good man and helped me work out what I was doing and where I was going. But it was the individual officer rather than the probation service that helped. They basically did nothing for me. It wasn't that they didn't care, it's just the workload was so big that you only got five minutes. It was only the fact that I came out, got married and had a lovely little daughter that I turned my life around and took any job I could, working up from there. When I came out, I was really affected by my record. At first I told the truth, but as soon as that happened the door was shut on me. So I thought to myself: "OK, there's only one way to do it. Don't declare it." So I didn't. Which caused another problem because then I had to make up a whole history of where I'd been for the last 12 years. Then I got little bits of jobs, cash in hand, those sorts of things. People saw I was good and wasn't offending, so they gave me more. I did a lot of voluntary work with ex-offenders and I got the volunteer of the year award from the Society of Voluntary Associates. Eventually, I got a full-time job and from then on I stayed in the workplace. I was made redundant but didn't go back to crime. I just got another job. I'm well on my way now. It was mostly done with support from my now ex-wife and friends I met working. When a job came up, they'd say: "Bob's good. He can do that." They trusted me, and I moved on.