Weekend jails will be introduced nationwide, the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced in his speech to Labour's conference today.Under the scheme those convicted of relatively minor offences will serve part-time sentences to allow them to work for the rest of the week, Mr Blunkett explained to delegates in Brighton.The move, which has been piloted in two areas, has angered anti-crime campaigners who argue new prisons are needed. But Mr Blunkett did pledge another 1,300 new jail places to take the total increased capacity over the next year to 3,700. These will come from refurbishment of existing buildings and new facilities on current sites. The home secretary also announced an 8.4% increase in funding for prisons and probation services to pay for more than 1,800 more probation officers by 2006. And to counter the growing threat of terrorism, Mr Blunkett pledged to increase spending on security by £90m. The bulk of this will be spent on recruiting new special branch officers to work alongside MI5. The increase means the counter-terrorism budget has increased by 50% since September 11 and will have doubled by 2008. Mr Blunkett also promised to publish long-awaited proposals for a new offence of corporate killing.He told the conference: "No-one should be able to get away with gross negligence and the death of others in the way that this has been the case for far too long."Other announcements from Mr Blunkett include a New Year blitz on crack houses and the naming and shaming of youngsters who breach antisocial behaviour orders (asbos).Under-18s can currently be named when an order is passed but not when they are back in court for breaching it. With an election looming Mr Blunkett was targeting Tory leader Michael Howard's record as home secretary.People were a third more likely to be a victim of crime when Mr Howard was in the job, he told delegates. Norman Brennan, of the Victims of Crime Trust, attacked the plans for weekend jails as "an elastoplast on a festering wound"."If we are to have any effect on violent crime and gun crime and serious crime which is out of control, the government must stand up and be honest and say they have failed and make sure the appropriate new prisons are built," he said. The assistant general secretary of the probation union Napo, Harry Fletcher, welcomed the announcement of 1,800 new probation officer posts as a "welcome start".But he pointed out that government figures showed 4,700 extra staff were needed by 2007 to fulfil existing and new duties."It's essential the government is seen to support the use of community penalties in order to increase court and public confidence," he said.