The search for the truth about what really happened to 10-year-old Damilola Taylor began again yesterday as the two remaining teenagers accused of his murder were acquitted at the Old Bailey amid angry recriminations about the police inquiry and the enduring sadness of the schoolboy's family.Damilola's parents Richard and Gloria Taylor admitted they were shocked by the not guilty verdicts on the two 16-year-old brothers and were still being "tormented by the burning questions" of who killed their son and why. But Christopher Hartnell, a solicitor acting for the brothers, said "common sense had shone out" of the jury's decisions, and accused detectives of fitting a case around the two boys because they were under pressure not to repeat the fiasco of the first Stephen Lawrence inquiry. There was even talk of bringing charges of malicious prosecution against Scotland Yard, he said. Relief for the defendants came at 11.31am yesterday, almost 14 hours after the jury had started its deliberations. As not guilty verdicts were read out on each of the three counts - murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob - the boys' worried faces slowly crumpled, and one of them burst into tears. On the opposite side of the Old Bailey's court 12, Richard Taylor put his head in his hands. His wife slumped back in her chair. She stared at the boys as they walked out of the room to freedom. It was the final act of a 55-day trial that began with harrowing details of Damilola's last moments and descended into near farce with the petulant and ultimately discredited performance of the prosecution's star witness, a 14-year-old girl known as Bromley. This much is known about what happened to Damilola on November 27 2000: on his way home from Peckham library he suffered a deep wound to his left leg as he walked along Blakes Road. Bleeding heavily, he staggered to a stairwell on the North Peckham estate and collapsed into the arms of a workman, who held him as he died. Relying heavily on Bromley's "eyewitness" account, the police had accused four boys of surrounding Damilola and stabbing him with the end of a broken beer bottle. By the time the prosecution case had finished, two of the youths, a 17-year-old known as boy C and a 15-year-old known as boy D, had been acquitted. But the brothers - described in court as boy A and boy B - had made 31 "cell confessions" while they were on remand last year at Feltham young offenders' institution. Jurors had to decide whether this was strong enough to discount mobile phone evidence which suggested the boys were not at the scene, and the claims of a defence witness who said Damilola's injuries could have been caused by accident. Courtenay Griffiths QC, who acted for boy A, said Damilola's death "wasn't a confrontation as described by the police. It was a little boy on his own, playing with glass, who cut himself". The confessions had been made to "make themselves appear tougher than they were to deter the bullies". Mr Hartnell described the admissions as the "tales told by young people incarcerated at young offenders' institutions, [which are] academies of bullying and braggartry". He said he was 100% sure that Damilola's death was an accident. It is thought that the jury's not guilty verdicts are the first acquittals in a high-profile Old Bailey murder trial in the last 30 years. None of the accused boys, who all have previous convictions for a series of relatively minor offences, gave evidence. They did not have to explain why they gave false alibis for where they were on the day Damilola died. Instead, they watched as the prosecution case crumbled under cross-examination and benefited from rulings from the judge, Mr Justice Hooper, that highlighted his concerns about the frailty of the evidence. The turning point of the trial was his decision to strike out Bromley's evidence on the grounds that she was a fantasist whose lies in the witness box made her testimony completely unreliable. He also ordered that a cell confession by boy A to social worker Ann McMorris - regarded by police as "dynamite" - should not be put to the jury because it was blurted out whilst the teenager was in state of high emotion. The Taylors left the court yesterday minded by representatives from the Express newspaper, which is paying them £40,000 for an interview. A statement issued through their solicitor, Neil O'May, said: "[They] came to this court to understand and know the truth of why Damilola died. They wanted to know who killed him and why he was killed. "Sadly they feel that the court proceedings have brought them no nearer to these burning questions that continue to torment them. They feel the court proceedings let them down." The Taylors are intending to stay in Britain rather than return to Nigeria because "they feel there is still undone business". Scotland Yard yesterday defended the decision to use Bromley, even though she had a history of dishonesty. "If we hadn't called her, it would have been an even bigger scandal," said a police source. "Imagine the outcry if the boys had been acquitted and then it emerged that we had an eyewitness who was never called. She is a street girl who was ripped apart by four Oxbridge barristers." The police were supported by the home secretary, David Blunkett, who said they had "done their utmost to ensure they responded quickly and effectively in a very difficult situation".