The parents of a medical student murdered in an unprovoked stabbing demanded tougher sentences for knife crime yesterday after their son's 17-year-old killer was handed a jail term that could see him freed by the time he is 32.Michael Lynch was sentenced to life imprisonment at Woolwich crown court for the murder of Daniel Pollen, 20, but Daniel's parents, Terry and Josie Pollen, claimed the punishment was not harsh enough and said sentences for knife crimes were "unacceptable".Daniel and fellow student Andrew Griffiths were waiting in a car park for a lift home from Daniel's sister after a night out celebrating Andrew's birthday when they were approached by Lynch, 19-year-old Timmy Sullivan and Michael Onokah, 25.What followed was described by Mr Griffiths yesterday as "a 70-second frenzy" which saw Daniel first dazed by a blow that shattered his jaw, and then knifed in the heart.The wound was just two inches deep but the second-year Southampton University medical student bled profusely and died within seconds. Mr Griffiths, a medical student at Durham University, survived after he was stabbed, had his jaw broken and his mobile phone stolen.The assault at 2am on July 8 last year was captured on CCTV and Lynch's accomplices, Sullivan and Onokah, were yesterday given indeterminate sentences and told they would each have to remain behind bars for a minimum of five years.Lynch pleaded guilty to murder and wounding with intent at earlier hearings, and was stated to have a string of previous convictions including a racist attack with a ballbearing gun. He was on bail for burglary at the time of the attack.Christopher Kinch QC, prosecuting, told the court the attack "formed a sustained and coordinated piece of violence that was as brutal as it appeared to have been senseless. We are no nearer to a clear explanation for the gratuitous and unprovoked violence on two entirely innocent young men".Mr Kinch said: "Michael Lynch has jumped in and punched Daniel on the side of his neck. Onokah and Lynch are circling around Daniel in a predatory fashion. Onokah is seen throwing a punch to the left side of Daniel's face."Michael Lynch, meanwhile, is reaching into his pocket, the question being, is this the first sign of the knife being carried? Daniel Pollen's reaction, with arms outstretched in a gesture entirely peaceful, is non-aggressive."In a statement Terry and Josie Pollen said: "The verdicts, and sentences imposed can only provide us with a measure of justice, as Daniel's killer could be free in some 15 years."This surely must be a concern for us all. Harsher sentences must be imposed, that create a real deterrent to the casual possession and use of a knife, then no more innocent lives will be lost."Mr Griffiths also called for a change in the law, with tougher penalties for those caught carrying knives."Knives can and do destroy lives," he said. "The police can only do so much. The law has to change, to make it a more serious offence to carry a knife, with punishments reflecting the associated gruesome crimes. Because of a knife my life will never be the same again. They have taken my best friend from me."