A combination of cheap alcohol and parents who abdicate responsibility for their teenagers mean police are engaged in a "constant battle" against antisocial behaviour and violence, a chief constable warned yesterday.Cheshire's Peter Fahy spoke out just days after the death of Garry Newlove, 47, who was killed outside his home in Warrington after confronting a gang.Two 15-year-olds and a 16-year-old appeared before Runcorn youth court yesterday charged with his murder. They have been remanded in custody for a week and cannot be named for legal reasons.Neighbours said they had been trying to tackle antisocial behaviour for more than a year and Mr Newlove, a father of three, had met officers to discuss youth disorder and the possibility of setting up a Neighbourhood Watch.Mr Fahy was on patrol for part of Friday evening, the night Mr Newlove was attacked, and saw his officers trying to control disorder and street drinking. He said yesterday: "Garry's tragic death has reopened an important debate on the causes of antisocial behaviour and how we all need to address the problems caused by a minority of young people. Every night of the week Cheshire officers are engaged in a constant battle against antisocial behaviour and alcohol-induced violence."Groups of young people gather, sometimes in large numbers, and officers constantly break the groups up, seize alcohol, take names and send letters home to parents."When we have evidence, we prosecute. Parents should be the key to tackling this problem. They are responsible for their children - and that responsibility is not abdicated when they become teenagers. Parents need to provide an understanding of what is right and wrong, a sense of social responsibility and guidance through these key years." He said this is "sometimes forgotten by a small number of parents".Mr Fahy said much of the alcohol is supplied by adults, including some parents. "Young males, in particular, are far more aggressive and prone to using violence when they have been drinking." He said alcohol is too cheaply and readily available and young people can't handle it.He would like increases in the price of alcohol, particularly high-strength beers, and he would like it to be easier for a whole town or city to be designated a no-drinking area.