Scotland Yard's attempt to prosecute one of its most senior black officers was doomed by errors, bureaucracy and questionable decisions, according to a new report.A review into Operation Helios, the ill-fated £7m investigation into allegations against Superintendent Ali Dizaei, has found that officers were warned by the Crown Prosecution Service about techniques used to pursue the officer but went ahead regardless. Documents released for the first time show that one lawyer, on being consulted about tactics, warned the Metropolitan police that it risked breaching Supt Dizaei's human rights and prompting claims that it was "out to get him at all costs". Many lines of investigation were pursued into the officer's personal and professional life which the report says "could be interpreted as being part of a fishing expedition". In a strongly worded report, the reviewers, two retired senior detectives, say Supt Dizaei was unfairly dripfed with the allegations levelled against him. Independent advisers selected to assist the Met with its investigation were required to do so on the basis of partial information. The oversight process was so burdensome that reviewers say it may have slowed the investigation. The inquiry should have been subject to regular and formal review but this did not occur. On subsequent examination, crucial records which should explain key decisions were sparse or non existent. The report also reveals how the CPS initially pursued one charge at the Old Bailey on the basis of flawed evidence supplied by the Met. It describes how Scotland Yard chose to concentrate its efforts on an expensive undercover operation when credible evidence existed of a more straightforward offence, involving telephone threats Supt Dizaei made to a former girlfriend, which he has since admitted. Despite being the target of investigations for almost five years, Supt Dizaei was acquitted of two relatively minor charges at the Old Bailey in 2003. "This case had a considerable cost for the taxpayer. It also affected the confidence of the public in our policing and caused massive trauma to me, my family and my community," he said yesterday. The report was commissioned by the Morris inquiry, an examination into professional standards and employment matters in the Met. It says Scotland Yard's department of professional standards was right to begin an investigation after receiving allegations that the officer was involved with drugs and had intervened to prevent a speeding prosecution for a third party, claims which turned out to be unfounded. But as inquiries continued, detectives compiled a list of 20 possible criminal or discip-linary offences, most of which came to nothing. The reviewers say the case began on shaky foundations. "Many of those who were able to provide the evidence would, if they made statements, end up incriminating themselves," the report says. "Others were of poor character themselves and still others had left the country and were reluctant to return." Officers used an "integrity test" to gauge Supt Dizaei's honesty, despite the misgivings of legal advisers, one of whom said the plan would cast the Met as "agent provocateur". Reviewers have subsequently been "unable to establish any worthwhile evidence or intelligence to suggest any criminal activity by Supt Dizaei during this period of time". One lawyer warned the Met that its operation was hampered by "the lack of firm information that the target is currently involved in criminal activity". A Scotland Yard spokesman said it had received the report but added that it was not a thorough review. The force was mindful that the case was live because of the discussions within the Independent Police Complaints Commission and the Morris inquiry.