Confused about who was going to end up as prime minister earlier this week? Imagine how the fake identity card company felt which produced documents for The Observer and security company CPP.To show how easy it is to obtain fraudulent documents using anyone's details, CPP applied for four official-looking proofs of ID using David Cameron's name and Gordon Brown's photo. As you can see, the results of this unlikely coalition are pretty convincing.Michael Lynch, identity theft expert for CPP, took just half an hour to apply for a national identity card, a provisional motorcycle licence, an international driving licence and a European works permit.He says: "If you type 'fake identity cards' into Google it will come up with thousands of results, with some offering cards for as little as £2 each. You can apply for cards using whatever information you want – details of real people are freely available on the internet through social networking websites like Facebook and Linkedin."Fake ID cards are commonly used by teenagers wanting proof that they are old enough to get into clubs. But they can have far more sinister uses: Lynch knows one woman whose father used her identity to apply for several mortgages in her name. She is still trying to extricate herself from the resulting financial mess.CIFAS – a not-for-profit fraud prevention service – said there has been a 20% increase in identity fraud in the first three months of 2010 compared to the same period last year, with 27,000 victims. Far more fraudsters are making use of the victim's current address, which because it is genuine, is more difficult to detect.Lynch says it is impossible to completely protect yourself, because there is so much information available publicly from sources such as the electoral registers and the internet. Linkedin has proved particularly popular with fraudsters, he says, because it is used by many small and medium business owners – who often have several bank accounts. Others use it to store their CVs – a rich source of information. Lynch says people in Kensington and Chelsea are at the highest risk of identity fraud, presumably because it is home to some of the richest people in the UK.It is, however, possible to make it more difficult for fraudsters to access your personal details:■ Limit the amount of information about yourself and your friends that you upload to social networking sites, and upgrade the security setting to the highest possible ("only friends" in the case of Facebook). If you store your CV on Linkedin, make sure only you can access it.■ Be careful about who you accept as a friend. A fraudster can easily establish an identity using a friend's name.■ Keep changing your passwords and PINs. Do not disclose them to anyone.■ Don't respond to "phishing" emails. These will typically purport to be from a legitimate service provider or retailer, pretending to be doing something in your favour, but asking you to click on a link and provide personal or financial details. If you are worried it is not a genuine email, ring the service to check, or initiate your own email rather than hitting reply. The vast majority of services will not ask you to provide information in this way.■ Make sure your wireless network is secure so strangers cannot use your internet address. You could find the police knocking on your door because your internet protocol address has been used to download child pornography.■ Keep your anti-virus software updated. Lynch says: "It's amazing how many people spend up to £100 on software to protect their PCs, but then never update them to enable them to combat the latest viruses."■ Don't access internet pornography sites – if you must, do not click on links that enable software to be downloaded on to your PC. Many have been set up specifically to infect computers with viruses known as Trojans. Some enable the designer to record all your key strokes and learn your passwords and other sensitive information.■ Visit www.identitytheft.org.uk and www.getsafeonline.org for more tips on using the internet safely.■ Be extra careful if you live in a property where other people could have access to your mail. Arrange for your bank and credit card companies to send valuable items to their local branch or Royal Mail collection office.But what if your identity has already been stolen? How can you tell? First, check your bank account and credit card statements, looking for any payments you don't recognise. Don't look only for big transactions – Lynch says many fraudsters stick to small payments in the hope they won't be noticed.Watch out for mail arriving at your address from credit card and loan companies: welcome letters or statements indicate someone has taken out credit in your name. Other warnings are debt collection agencies chasing you for money you have not borrowed, and being refused credit. Check your credit report through credit rating agencies to see if any debts have been taken out in your name.Finally, if you think your mail is being stolen or a mail redirection has been made without your knowledge, call the Royal Mail: 08457 740 740.