A teenage schoolboy shrugged his shoulders and handed a teacher a bloodstained flickknife moments after stabbing a 14-year-old rival through the heart, a court heard yesterday.Witness accounts of the tragedy at a rural school in Lincolnshire last November were given by pupils through a video link to a jury at Nottingham crown court. They described the horrific turn of events after a routine science lesson at Birkbeck high school in North Somercotes when Luke Walmsley, a popular boy who was good at sports, was suddenly attacked. A 16-year-old boy who cannot be named for legal reasons denies murder. The prosecution alleges that the stabbing came as the climax of a simmering quarrel following a fight at the school between the two boys. Yvonne Coen QC, prosecuting, said that the accused boy had openly threatened to knife Luke several times and had risked losing face, and risked classroom mockery over "talk not action". The first of a series of pupil witnesses, who also cannot be named, said: "We were stood outside the prep room. Luke came out of the science room. "It looked like (the defendant) punched him, but when he pulled the knife out I realised it was blood splattered up the side of my face. I saw the knife because he put it behind his back. The teacher asked him what he'd got behind his back and he pulled the knife out." Another pupil told the jury: "I reckon he cracked his rib. When it (the knife) went in, I heard it crack. It was really quick and sharp. A really hard blow. I felt sick." A third teenager who was in the corridor at the time said: "(The defendant) got this knife out of his back pocket and he was flicking it about. I went 'What are you going to do with that?' "He said: 'You'll find out in a minute'. Seconds later, Luke Walmsley came out and he just stabbed him. That was it. It was all over. "(The teacher) said 'What have you got in your hand?'. She said it twice. He said 'Nothing, nothing'. Then he got out the knife. It was all bloodied and I knew what had happened." The court heard Luke was recorded on school security cameras clutching at his blood-stained chest with his alleged killer just behind him. He was treated at the scene by a GP and teachers and subsequently flown by air ambulance to hospital in Grimsby, where emergency surgery failed to save him. The trial, which is expected to last three weeks, continues on Monday.