Leayon Davi Dudley, a labourer from Acocks Green, Birmingham, was today found guilty at Stafford crown court of the murder of one police officer and the manslaughter of another after ramming their patrol car with his van following a high-speed chase.The 39-year-old was sentenced to life for the murder of Leicestershire PC Bryan Moore, and a further 15 years, to run concurrently, for the manslaughter of PC Andrew Munn. Passing sentence after almost 12 hours of deliberation by the jury, Mr Justice McCombe told Dudley that he had committed "appalling offences". "The verdicts indicate that the jury are clear in their mind that you deliberately drove at that police car on the night in question," he said.Dudley had rowed with his ex-girlfriend after a party before jumping into a van and speeding off in the early hours of August 15 last year. A police officer spotted him driving at 70mph, 40mph over the speed limit, and followed with blue lights flashing.Dudley slowed down to the speed limit, but refused to stop and instead drove onto the M42, where a number of police cars and a helicopter joined the pursuit. At one point, a police Range Rover pulled alongside Dudley's Transit van and indicated to him to pull over, but he gesticulated at the driver and swerved across the carriageway. The five-mile chase ended when Dudley saw a patrol car make a u-turn in front of him. He mounted the pavement and sped towards the vehicle, smashing into it at more than 80mph, setting it on fire and killing the two officers who had just stepped from it. Munn, 37, took the full impact of the van and was killed instantly. Moore, 39, died several hours later in hospital from "massive injuries". Dudley was taken to Leicester Royal Infirmary, where he was treated for relatively minor injuries and found to be almost twice over the legal drink-drive limit. The judge also addressed Moore and Munn's families, friends and colleagues, saying that he commended each of the officers for trying to prevent other road users from being hurt. "They unhesitatingly attempted to take action which almost certainly prevented, in fact, injury or even death to more members of the public," he said.Moore joined the police force at the age of 18, and had spent 21 years with Leicestershire police. His death has left his wife Sarah to care for their three children, aged 13, 11 and 10. Munn, who had been with Leicestershire police for six years, left his wife Allison and two children, aged nine and three.