The mother of Shannon Matthews was last night charged in connection with the alleged abduction of her daughter, according to West Yorkshire police. Karen Matthews, 32, will appear before magistrates in Dewsbury today charged with perverting the course of justice and child neglect following two days of police questioning. Matthews reported her daughter missing on February 19, triggering a 24-day search for her nine-year-old daughter - an operation described by West Yorkshire police as the biggest of its kind since the hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper.Shannon was discovered in the base of a bed at an address a mile from her home. At a news conference at Dewsbury police station, Crown Prosecution Service lawyer Peter Mann said: "The CPS has continued to work with police in connection with this case since Shannon was found on Friday March 14. Shannon's mother, Karen Matthews, was arrested on April 6 and has been interviewed by West Yorkshire police. "Having carefully considered all of the evidence provided in the file by West Yorkshire police, we have decided that there is sufficient evidence and have authorised that Karen Matthews be charged with perverting the course of justice and child neglect. She is in the process of being charged and will appear before Dewsbury magistrates court tomorrow morning. We will continue to keep this case under constant review." Four members of the child's family have been arrested in connection with her abduction, including Michael Donovan the uncle of her 22-year-old stepfather Craig Meehan.Donovan, a 39-year-old computer operator formerly known as Paul Drake, has been charged with abducting Shannon and holding her against her will.He is recovering in Leeds prison after being found in his cell with slashed wrists. Last week, Meehan's sister, Amanda Hyett, 25, who lives next door to Shannon's mother, and his mother, Alice Meehan, 49, were arrested in connection with the alleged abduction. Hyett was questioned on suspicion of assisting an offender and Mrs Meehan on suspicion of attempting to pervert the course of justice. The two were released on bail.