The gunman Derrick Bird failed to reply to a number of phone calls, phone messages and texts from a trained police negotiating team during his three-hour rampage through West Cumbria, an inquest heard.The shootings, on 2 June last year, were the worst incident of the kind since the Dunblane massacre, in March 1996, in which 16 schoolchildren and a teacher died.Bird killed his brother, his solicitor and 10 other people, and injured 11 more before turning the gun on himself in woodlands at Boot. During his journey through West Cumbria, he took potshots at walkers, tourists, cyclists, motorists and a 15-year-old girl.Craig Lory, an experienced police negotiator, repeatedly sent text messages to Bird, 52, and attempted to contact him on his mobile phone while he was driving around and shooting at passersby. Bird did not reply to the messages.Inspector Lory told the inquest at the Energus centre in Lillyhall, Workington, he had attempted to chase after Bird's vehicle on foot after witnessing him shoot a taxi driver, Paul Wilson, in the face outside a disused church on Scotch Street, Whitehaven.Moments before that, the inquest heard, Bird "never said a word" while killing Darren Rewcastle, a taxi driver, and shooting two other taxi drivers.At 10.55am, Lory attempted to ring Bird's mobile phone for the first time – but there was no reply."I left a message and texted him asking him to stop what he was doing and contact me, but I received no reply," he told the inquest. "I continued to attempt to ring him for the next two and a half hours. At 1.30pm, Derrick Bird was found dead. At no point had contact been made with Bird by the negotiating cell."He said his main role had been to secure the safety of the public and ensure no one else was hurt. "This was a spontaneous incident the like of which I've never come across in my time as a police officer," he said. "I have been a serving police officer for 20 years."Asked what made it so unusual, he replied: "I think how quickly it was moving, how brazen the offender was, and how much information was flowing into us in such a short period of time."Speaking about the moment he saw Bird shoot Wilson in the face, he said: "I don't think I grasped the full gravity of what I had just seen. I didn't see the gun. In hindsight, I don't know if I would have run after the vehicle quite so doggedly if I had."Wilson told the inquest he initially thought Bird had fired a blank at him, and that he was "being a daft bugger" and "playing a prank".He said he did not realise he had been shot and was concerned only about the whereabouts of his Bluetooth earpiece, which he later found lying broken into five pieces on the pavement, having been blown out of his ear."As I turned the corner, I noticed Derrick's taxi in the nearside lane coming towards me. I thought nothing of it and I carried on to the police station. He stopped next to me and called my name."I looked directly at him and I took a few steps towards him and ducked down to look into the passenger window. As I ducked to look at him, he fired. He called me over and shot me."At the time he shot me, I was no more than a foot away from his taxi. I heard the blast and saw the flash before I realised what it was. I felt a gush of wind and my Bluetooth earpiece was blown out."There was a policewoman running towards me and a few other people asking if I was OK. I lifted my hand up to my face and realised it was covered in blood and I had been shot."He said he had no idea why Bird had shot him.Phillip Coyle, who saw Bird kill Rewcastle and shoot another taxi driver, Donald Reid, in the back, said: "It was strange, as Bird never said a word. There was no shouting. He just kept the gun locked in his shoulder and appeared calm, raising the telescopic sight to his eye."Derrick Bird appeared to be a quiet person, and he kept himself to himself. He liked to read books when he was waiting in his taxi."The inquest has previously heard that Bird told a friend weeks before the shootings that Whitehaven would be "as famous as Dunblane".The inquest hearing continues.