The Crown Prosecution Service today defended its decision to bring the case against Barry George, saying it was "fit to be put before a jury"."Mr George now has the right to be regarded as an innocent man, but that does not mean it was wrong to bring the case," said Hilary Bradfield, the CPS reviewing lawyer. "Our test is always whether there is sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction - it would be wholly wrong to only bring cases where we were guaranteed a conviction."George stood trial for a second time for Jill Dando's murder after the court of appeal decided his conviction was "unsafe". The lord chief justice, Lord Phillips, ruled the 2001 conviction must be quashed after hearing fresh scientific evidence. The evidence concerned a single particle of firearms discharge residue (FDR) found in the pocket of George's Cecil Gee overcoat a year after the murder, which happened in April 1999. In 2007, when the retrial was ordered, Phillips, sitting with Lord Justice Leveson and Mr Justice Simon, said the jury had been "misled" over the evidence relating to the particle."It is impossible to know what weight, if any, the jury attached to the FDR evidence," he said, adding that the court had now been told it was "just as likely that the single particle of FDR came from some extraneous source as it was that it came from a gun fired by the appellant". He continued: "Witnesses and other witnesses from the Forensic Science Service told the court of appeal that this was not the right conclusion to draw from the discovery of the particle of FDR. "It was, in fact, no more likely that the particle had come from a gun fired by Barry George than that it had come from some other source." This was George's second legal challenge to an Old Bailey jury's 10-1 majority verdict that he shot Dando. He lost his first appeal in 2002, but his case was taken up by the criminal cases review commission, an independent body that investigates possible miscarriages of justice. Mr Justice Griffith Williams excluded the FDR from the retrial, agreeing that it was inconclusive.