 2.56pm BST Afternoon summary• Philip Hammond, the defence secretary, has said that women could be allowed to serve in combat roles in the armed forces. Speaking at a press gallery lunch, he said he had ordered an immediate review of the current rules.Christopher Hope (@christopherhope)Military is "last bastion of male chauvinism" says defence secretary Philip Hammond, saying more women and BME troops needed #pressgalleryMay 8, 2014Christopher Hope (@christopherhope)BREAKING Women soldiers should be allowed to bear arms, defence secretary Philip Hammond announces #pressgalleryMay 8, 2014Christopher Hope (@christopherhope)Philip Hammond says urgent review starts today on women bearing arms. Result due by end of the year. #pressgallery #newsklaxonMay 8, 2014Jane Merrick (@janemerrick23)Hammond has asked chief of gen staff to review role of women in army paving way for women on frontline for first time = US, France, IsraelMay 8, 2014Jane Merrick (@janemerrick23)As long as women are fit enough they should join frontline, says Hammond. Issue of fitness not gender #pressgalleryMay 8, 2014Tom Newton Dunn (@tnewtondunn)The military chiefs "embrace the idea" of female troops in combat roles, says Hammond. "It's getting away from the principle of gender".May 8, 2014• Downing Street has signalled that it does not want to intervene in the row about the labelling of meat products with information about religious slaughter techniques, saying this is is a matter between retailers and restaurants and their customers.• Labour has said older women are being failed by the Government's flagship employment scheme, with just one in 10 being helped into work. As the Press Association reports, some 97,520 women over 50 were on the work programme by last December, but payments to providers for finding them long-term jobs were made for only 9,310, its analysis found. Since the coalition took power, the number of unemployed women in that age group has risen by 45%, the Labour research showed.That's all from me for now.But I will be back later, doing a separate blog covering the BBC's Question Time. The panelists are: Ukip leader Nigel Farage, Conservative chairman Grant Shapps, shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna, the Lib Dem peer Shirley Williams and Green MP Caroline Lucas.For some reason Farage and Lucas aren't currently listed as guests on the Question Time website, but Ukip tell me Farage is definitely on.I'll launch that blog shortly after 10pm. 2.05pm BST Here's a politics afternoon reading list.• Josh Lowe at Prospect describes a Ukip rally. The crowd in Portsmouth don’t care about the seemingly racist remarks or the gaffes. Not because they are racist themselves—the Ukip supporters I speak to aren’t fruitcakes or loonies—but because they don’t like the press. Most think the papers are out to get Farage, looking for scandal wherever they can find it. “Papers thrive on reporting controversy,” says John, an eloquent 18-year-old-medical student who reveals that he and most of his friends will be casting their first ever votes for Ukip next month. “Can you think of a better way of stirring up controversy than saying there’s a racist party on the rise?”Portsmouth’s Guildhall exudes a faded grandeur: blue and gold carpets line the floor, shabby velvet curtains hang from the walls. As the meeting begins, we are treated to three short speeches from Ukip European election candidates. The message throughout is clear: the party is more a popular uprising than a political organisation. Hampshire County Councillor Ray Finch, the first speaker, tells the crowd: “All of the other parties and the political and media elite are terrified. They’re not terrified of me, they’re not terrified of any of our candidates, they’re not even terrified of Nigel… You know who they’re terrified of? They’re terrified of you.” We are exhorted to “join the People’s Army,”—Ukip’s new buzzphrase, their equivalent of Labour’s “One Nation” or the Tories’ “hard working people.”The hall is not completely full (all 1,200 tickets were booked but I see a smattering of empty chairs) but eyes are firmly to the front. The crowd sit in rapt silence, except for the moments when they burst in perfect unison into applause. Most popular are cracks about the “ugly” Tories in Waverley Borough Council, attacks on big corporations, and a tirade on the evils of zero hours contracts.• The Polling Observatory launch their first forecast for 2015. The predictions we get by applying these methods to current polling since March 2011 are shown in the figure below. Our forecast model has consistently predicted a very close result – the Conservative vote share is expected to recover from its current level of around 32%, rising to around 36%, within half a percentage point of Labour, whose poll share is not expected to change much from current levels. In vote share, the result is close to a dead heat – the Conservatives are currently forecast to have 36.1%, and Labour 36.5%. The Liberal Democrats are forecast to recover some ground from their current polling position, but still put in their weakest performance in decades, with a forecast vote share of 10.1%.• Mike Smithson at Political Betting says Labour is losing some of the Lib Dem voters it attracted after 2010.• And George Eaton at the Staggers says this explains Labour's new anti-Clegg video. 1.12pm BST Lunchtime summary• Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, and Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, have both signalled their support for Conservative plans to introduced mandatory jail sentences for offenders caught for the second time in possession of a knife. But Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, told his LBC phone-in that he was opposed to the proposals, which he claimed could lead to youngsters being turned into hardened criminals as a result of being jailed.• Labour has said that it will give MPs an opportunity on Tuesday next week to back its plans to stop letting agents from charging fees to tenants. • Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, has said the government should allow the Bank of England to review the Help to Buy scheme. He was speaking after three former chancellors said the scheme should be scaled back. Balls said: When even former Conservative chancellors are warning of the risks of rising housing demand not being matched by rising housing supply, it's time for the current chancellor to listen.With house-building under this government at its lowest peacetime level since the 1920s we urgently need action to boost housing supply - Help to Build alongside a reformed Help to Buy. If not then, as Lord Lamont himself now admits, housing will become even more unaffordable for the young people this scheme was supposed to help.George Osborne should allow the Bank of England to immediately review the details of the scheme, including the very high £600,000 ceiling. • David Cameron has told allies he will not resign as prime minister if Scotland votes for independence in an effort to ensure Scots do not think his future as Tory leader is on the ballot paper this September, it has emerged.• Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, has asked the chief medical officer to review three industry-funded studies in favour of homeopathy, emails released under freedom of information laws have revealed. 12.35pm BST You can read all today’s Guardian politics stories here. And all the politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today’s paper, are here.As for the rest of the papers, here’s the PoliticsHome list of top 10 must-reads, here’s the ConservativeHome round-up of the politics stories in today’s papers and here’s the New Statesman’s list of top 10 comment articles.And here are three stories I found particularly interesting.• The Daily Telegraph says the next Conservative manifesto will propose ending automatic early release for violent criminals.  Violent criminals will lose their right to automatic early release from prison under plans being drawn up by the Conservatives in the wake of the Skull Cracker case.  The Telegraph has learnt that the Conservative Party manifesto for the general election next year will promise to reform rules that mean violent and sexual offenders are eligible for release halfway through their sentences.  Instead of becoming eligible to be freed automatically, offenders would have to earn the right to be considered for release by building a record of good behaviour and participation in rehabilitation activities.  The final decision to release prisoners before the end of their sentences would be taken by the Parole Board. • Jason Grove and John Stevens in the Daily Mail says Ed Miliband is being told that this campaign messages do not appeal to voters in the south of England. Ed Miliband must stop ‘banging on about the bedroom tax’ or risk losing the election in the South of England, senior Labour figures have warned.Candidates from key target seats across the South staged a revolt during a private meeting with Mr Miliband – telling him that Labour will lose unless it adopts a more ‘aspirational’ message.• Andrew Grice in the Independent says Progress, the Labour pressure group, has decided to drop the New Labour label. The 2,000-strong pressure group is to be relaunched as the party’s mainstream grassroots body in a symbolic break with its past as the cheerleader for the Blair project.“We have to move on,” said John Woodcock, MP for Barrow and Furness, who was elected chairman of Progress this week on a ticket to abandon its “New Labour” branding. He defeated Phil Wilson, Mr Blair’s successor as MP for Sedgefield and one of the “famous five” in the constituency who helped him win the nomination as Labour candidate and launch his political career. 12.04pm BST Boris Johnson, the London mayor, has also attacked Nick Clegg for his stance on knife crime. As the Evening Standard reports, the Conservative mayor is supporting the Conservative party's proposals. (That may not sound surprising, but Johnson doesn't always support Downing Street.)Here's the Johnson quote. Nick Clegg is wrong.I do believe it’s vital that we work to educate and rehabilitate those caught up in the culture of knife carrying.But equally it is imperative that police and the courts are given every support to tackle the scourge of knife crime. That means backing this amendment not ducking the issue. 11.32am BST For the record, here are today's YouGov GB polling figures.Labour: 37% (up 2 points from YouGov yesterday)Conservatives: 34% (no change)Ukip: 13% (down 1)Lib Dems: 8% (down 1)Labour lead: 3 points (up 2)Government approval: -18 (up 1)According to Electoral Calculus, this would give Labour a majority of 32. 11.01am BST Ed Miliband says Labour in principle backs Tory plan to toughen the law on knife crimeEd Miliband is campaign in the north west of England today and he has been speaking to the BBC's Norman Smith. There were to news lines.• Ed Miliband said that Labour in principle backed the Conservative plans for mandatory jail sentences for offenders caught carrying a knife for a second time. I don't agree with Nick Clegg. I think we do need tougher penalties for knife crime. Labour has been consistently arguing that this is an issue that needs to be looked at, and we definitely do want to use the legislation to strengthen the law, and we are definitely sympathetic to the issue of mandatory sentences after a second offence. We need to make sure it's done in the right way, but that's where we stand. The public want to know that we are going to sent a strong message to people who carry knives repeatedly that actually it is not acceptable.• He said Labour would force a vote in the Commons on Tuesday on its plans to ban letting agents from charging fees to tenants. It would table an amendment to the consumer rights bill, he said, and challenge the government to support it, or to vote it down.  Ed Miliband Photograph: Richard Kaminski/REX 10.42am BST Nick Clegg's LBC phone-in - SummaryHere are the main points from Call Clegg• Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, backed Conservative plans to toughen the law on knife crime - and said that Nick Clegg was wrong to oppose them.• Clegg said that the Conservative plans could increase crime. The proposals would lead to some offenders, like young girls coerced into carrying knives, going to jail, where they would be criminalised, when other punishments would be more appropriate, he said. The more you chuck people into prison, without any ability for judges to make their own minds up about what is the appropriate sentence to fit the crime - we've done this in the past, previous governments have done this, Labour did this, they chucked more and more people in prison - what happens is you end up creating this revolving door where you get more crime created, rather than less crime.• Clegg dismissed Ed Miliband as "the missing man in British politics" because of his failure to speak out on Europe. Clegg was responding to Labour's latest video branding him the "un-credible shrinking man". Clegg laughed it off, saying it was inappropriate particularly from Ed Miliband, who is the missing man in British politics. In a European election campaign he has not breathed a word about the issue we are supposed to be debating, which is whether we are in or out of Europe. They have obviously got money to burn.Clegg also claimed he had not seen the video.• Clegg suggested the Nigerian government had been too slow to ask for help finding the schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram. We've agreed to send a small team to help them out. The French are also sending experts, the Americans are sending experts, that's what we're doing. Could that have been done the day after these girls disappeared? Well, arguably it could have been done, but we can only react to the requests made by the Nigerian government. We can't just fly into another country and solve a problem of this complexity.Asked if President Goodluck Jonathan should have acted earlier, Clegg did not criticise the president directly, but he did say he would understand why relatives were "absolutely livid" that the Nigerian authorities did not respond to the abductions more quickly. I think it's really, really difficult for politicians like me to start providing wisdom with hindsight, and from a distance, to something which is as complex and as difficult as all of this. But I can totally understand - who wouldn't? - that if you are the sister, the brother, the aunt, the uncle, the mother, the father of one of these girls, you would be absolutely livid that there was not an apparent reaction from the authorities more quickly. It has only been because these families have been so brave, to demonstrate and make their voices heard, that the rest of the world has woken up and action has been taken. • Clegg said that he did not think legalising drugs was a "magic wand" solution to the problems posed by drugs. Reaffirming his support for a royal commission, he said Britain was losing the war on drugs. He said he wanted public policy to be led by evidence, and that there should be more focus on treating the medical aspects of addiction. But he was not backing legalisation, he said. I don't actually think, by the way, that legalisation is the magic wand answer to all this.  Nick Clegg hosting his LBC phone-in Photograph: /LBC 9.53am BST Met chief backs Conservative plans to toughen law on knife crime - and says Clegg wrong to oppose themHere's the quote from Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner.• Hogan-Howe said he supported Conservative proposals to toughen the law for possession of a knife. Nick Clegg was wrong about this, he said. Hogan-Howe said mandatory minimum jail sentences sent out a very clear message to gang members, and that this had had an impact on gun crime. I'm afraid I don't agree with [Clegg]. There sometimes can be an excuse, or a reasonable excuse, for carrying a knife; people who are working, electricians, obviously they need to carry knifes. We all understand that. And occasionally somebody, by mistake, might take into the street a knife that they had at home or at work. We all understand that.But where we are getting gang members, or young people, carrying knives and there is no excuse, then that's a serious matter for me. And I'm afraid knives generally do one thing, which is they either wound people, and if they wound people they might kill them. So for me it's vital we send a clear message to our young people.And the final thing I'll mention, about six to eight weeks ago I visited Feltham, the local young offenders' institute and talked to some gang members there and was asking them, 'We seem to have seen less carrying of guns, why is that?' They said, 'Because we know we'll get five years, minimum sentence for carrying a handgun - five years.' I said, 'What about knives?' They did not know what the sentence was. So I think they do hear simple messages. They've heard it about guns. I think they need to hear about knives.   Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA 9.40am BST It's over.The best news line did not come from Nick Clegg, but from Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner. Nick Ferrari played a clip of Hogan-Howe telling LBC earlier that he agreed with the Tory plans (which Clegg opposes) to toughen the rules on knife crime.I will publish those quotes, and a summary of all the other main points, shortly. 9.36am BST Q: What do you think of the Labour video about you?Clegg says he has not seen it yet. He has been told he needs to avoid the Downing Street cat.Nick Ferrari plays a clip.Clegg laughs (perhaps a little too loudly). They spend money on this, he asks. He says Ed Miliband is the invisible man in this campaign. He has said nothing about Europe, the subject at the heart of it.Q: So is the image it presents true?No, says Clegg. 9.34am BST Q: We need more open prisons. What we don't need is people from closed prisons being sent to open ones. [This is from a prison officer.]Clegg says open prisons have been around for a long time. They are a gateway between prisons and normal life, he says.Q: Should Michael Wheatley (the "skullcracker") have been in an open prison?Clegg says he supports the move Chris Grayling is taking to toughen up the regime for open prisons. 9.30am BST Q: Why do you snub the Queen?Clegg says that is nonsense. He is a big fan of the Queen's.Nick Ferrari says he met here at a function last night. She is "incredibly switched on", he says. 9.29am BST Q: Is the AstraZeneca deal good for Britain?Clegg says this is exactly what the government is looking at now.The government decided to protect the amount of public money that goes into science. That is why it is being very "exacting" in its talks with Pfizer. The government has to remain neutral, he says.Q: The French are more hostile to takeovers like this.Clegg says we have taken a view as a country that generally it is good to be open to people wanting to pour money into the country.But that does not mean it won't protect special industries, he says.It would be easy for a company like Pfizer to ignore what a government wanted.That is why the government wants to know that the assurances that Pfizer is giving are binding. 9.26am BST Q: What has the government been doing over the last few weeks about the missing schoolgirls in Nigeria?Clegg says it is hard for governments outside Nigeria to address this. Britain is sending a small team to Nigeria. The French and the Americans are too.Could this have been done the day after the girls disappeared? Perhaps, says Clegg. But you cannot just send people in if they are not invited by the government.Q: Should President Jonathan have done more?Clegg says it is difficult to make a judgment from a distance.But he can understand why the families of the girls are so distraught.Q: Do you support the use of special forces?Clegg says he is not going to comment on that.It is good that the Nigerian government is now seeking more help.Q: Is there a financial edge to this? We intervene in other places.Clegg says it is not as simple as that. Nigeria is a large, populous country. There are no easy solutions. 9.21am BST Q: A poll at the weekend showed the Lib Dems behind the Greens. What can we do about it? [This was from a Lib Dem.]Clegg says he should go out and knock on doors. When people hear what the Lib Dems have achieved, they will be more positive.Some Lib Dem ideas are not popular. Clegg cites his position on knife crime, or drugs, or Europe.But we can't stop saying what we believe in, he says.He says he will be in the north west today campaigning. 9.19am BST Clegg says the drugs laws are not working.The drugs industry is a multi-million pound industry. The drug deals are playing cat and mouse with the authorities.We should ask ourselves if we are winning the campaign against drugs, he says.We need to take a grown-up look at this.There is no point sounding tough on drugs if you end up losing the war on drugs.Q: You want a royal commission on this. What would that mean?Clegg says it would just mean having experts look at this in the round, and propose ideas.They should look at this in the round.And that would mean looking at the health issues too, he says. You should not just allow the victims of drug peddlars to carry on taking drugs.He says he does not think legalisation is the issue.He says he wants to be led by the evidence.And he thinks the public think this too. They do not believe the media narrative on this.Q: Have you ever taken illegal drugs?Clegg says he is not going to get into what he might have done in the dim and distant past. 9.15am BST Q: Would anyone really go to jail for carrying a penknife? That would be laughed out of court.Clegg says that is exactly what the proposed law would mean. 9.14am BST Q: How are elderly people meant to sleep in their beds when you have lunatics like him [Clegg] in charge?Clegg does not address this.Nick Ferrari says Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Met police commissioner, was on the programme earlier. Ferrari plays a clip of the interview. Hogan-Howe said he did not agree with Clegg. It was vital to send a clear message to young people, Hogan-Howe told the programme. Hogan-Howe said that he visited Feltham recently, and young offenders told him they were not carrying guns any more because they knew there was a minimum five-year sentence. They do not know what sentences are for knife crime.Clegg says he does not agree with Hogan-Howe.Chucking people into jail without giving the judges the ability to decide what is appropriate will lead to more crime, he says.He says all his life he has believed it is better to be smart on crime.Now crime is at its lowest level, he says.(That rather contradicts the point Clegg was making a moment ago.) 9.10am BST Q: David Cameron is going to put people in jail for carrying a knife if they are caught for the second time. Is that right?Clegg says this is about the sentences for people caught carrying a knife. It is about possession; it is not about committing offences with a knife.He says in some circumstances it will be right to jail people for this.But in other cases it won't, he says.He says he is "not soft on knife crime at all". The coalition has toughened the law on knife crime. But having a mandatory prison sentence for possession would be a "very blunt" thing to do. And it could lead to a young girl, coerced into carrying a knife, being sent to jail. That would turn her into a hardened criminal.Let's be tough on knife crime, he says. But let's be smart too.Q: When was a young girl last charged for a knife crime?Clegg says he doesn't know.Q: That's the point. It's boys who do this, isn't it?Clegg says he does not accept this.Yes, "bang people up who should be banged up", he says.But he is opposed to people always going to jail in these circumstances.  9.06am BST Nick Clegg's LBC phone-inHere's the first question.Q: What is the problem with halal meat being routinely used in food?Clegg says he thinks it is understandable that people want to know about how their food is prepared. He does not think it is a matter of people being opposed to halal per se, he says.He says he thinks some exporters, like those how produce New Zealand lamb, are just producing halal meat as matter of course.He does not think people will object to eating this meat. But they like to know, he says.Q: So where do we go with this?Clegg says it is just a case of consumers having more information.Pizza Express had the information on their website, but not on their menus, he says. 8.55am BST It's Thursday, and of course Nick Clegg is on LBC. He won't be short of subjects to talk about.First, there's knife crime. Voters tend to approve of ever-tougher, "lock 'em up" crackdowns on knife crime, but, as Patrick Wintour reports in the Guardian, today Clegg has taken the unusual step of highlighting his opposition to a Conservative plan to automatically jail any offender caught in possession of a knife for a second time. Nick Clegg will on Thursday take the high-risk step of publicly vetoing a Conservative plan to automatically jail any offender caught in possession of a knife for a second time.The deputy prime minister says he will not allow the government to support "headline-grabbing solutions" in the aftermath of the murder of the Leeds schoolteacher Ann Maguire.Writing in the Guardian, Clegg argues that such draconian measures could "turn the young offenders of today into the hardened criminals of tomorrow".His stance, confronting the law-and-order agenda of his coalition partners, is a risk at a time when the Liberal Democrats are already facing a possible drubbing in the local and European elections.If you're wondering why Clegg has chosen to highlight his stance on this issue, one explanation is that he didn't have much choice. Last Friday the Daily Mail revealed that the Lib Dems were opposing this proposal, and it even published the text of a leaked letter from Danny Alexander explaning why. The story broke less than 24 hours after Clegg used his LBC phone-in to accuse the Conservatives of hiring "slightly loopy ideologues" who were trying to impose "crackpot ideas" on the school system. Intriguingly Dominic Cummings, the former Tory adviser Clegg was principally referring to, used his Twitter account on Friday to hint that there might be a link between Clegg's comments and the Daily Mail leak.odysseanproject (@odysseanproject)From UFSM to Booktrust to knives, Downing St crowdsourcers = v keen to tell truth viz Clegg. Lies have consequences: http://t.co/3gjJb1PClhMay 2, 2014And the second subject that might come up is Labour's new election video, starring Clegg as the    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close Otherwise, it's relatively quiet. Here's the agenda for the day.9am: Nick Clegg hosts his LBC phone-in.12pm: Esther McVey, Yvette Cooper and Jenny Willott speak at an Asda "Mumdex manifesto" launch in the Commons.Lunchtime: David Cameron is doing an election tour in the south west.As usual, I will also be flagging up any breaking political news, posting summaries with a round-up of all the day’s developments, and highlighting the most interesting political articles on the web.If you want to follow me on Twitter, I’m on @AndrewSparrow.Updated at 8.59am BST