A second woman whose body parts were found in bin bags behind a pub was named yesterday while the man accused of killing her appeared in court for the first time.Detectives used DNA samples to identify Bridgette Cathy MacClennan, a 34-year-old prostitute whose remains were discovered in rubbish bags close to the north London home of Tony Hardy. Hardy, 51, appeared at Hendon magistrates court yesterday charged with murdering Ms MacClennan and two other women, Elizabeth Valad and Sally Rose White. The remains of Ms Valad, 29, were found in another set of bin bags on Monday last week when police searched the housing estate in Royal College Street, Camden, where Hardy lives. Ms White's body was found in Hardy's flat in January last year. Hardy, who is unemployed and a father of four, was arrested last Thursday, charged on Sunday and appeared before magistrates yesterday. During the seven-minute hearing, he spoke only to confirm his name, date of birth and address, then listened in silence as Hywel Ebsworth, prosecuting, gave brief details of the case against him. Mr Ebsworth said the inquiry began last week when a vagrant rummaging through bins at the back of a pub came across what he thought were human remains. "A pathologists' team was called in and the contents found were as he had described. Further body parts indicated that a second woman was at the same location." Mr Ebsworth said the investigation into the death of Ms White was discontinued last year but had been revived because of the current inquiry. Detectives said at the weekend that "significant new evidence" about the death of Ms White had emerged. Elaine Needham, defending, did not apply for bail. Hardy, who was unshaven and wearing a scruffy long-sleeved blue T-shirt, nodded when he was remanded in custody until Monday next week by Giovanni Fabrizi, chairman of the bench. Mr Fabrizi said the case had been transferred to the Old Bailey. Ms MacClennan, who also lived in Camden, was born in New Zealand. Police said her mother and brother were living in the UK and had been told of her death.