The old-style helmet is out, the hijab is in, at least for female Muslim recruits to the Metropolitan police.As part of an initiative called Protect and Respect: Everybody Benefits, the force has given Muslim women on duty the option of wearing a hijab, the traditional headscarf which is a symbol of their beliefs and modesty. Sikh officers are already allowed to wear turbans and the Met is considering letting potential recruits from the capital's 10,000 Rastafarians have dreadlocks. Prayer rooms are also on their way in the bigger stations as well as creches if they will help working parents. The Met yesterday said it would consider whatever changes were necessary to make the force more accessible to different races and creeds. At the launch of a conference on policing and diversity, the Met's most senior officers promised it was the start of a new era. They also conceded the strategy was essential if the force was to stand any chance of recruiting and retaining more officers from minority backgrounds. The deputy commissioner, Ian Blair, is lobbying the Home Office to give proper recognition to different holy days, so that officers are not bound to the bank holidays in the Church of England calendar. "We're negotiating at the moment, but I think we'll be pushing at an open door," said Mr Blair. "We have to change the current regulations so we can recognise the festival days of different religions." Four different styles of the hijab in the Met's colours have been approved for women in uniform, and plain clothes officers can wear their own. "We know of many Muslim women who had thought of joining the Met, only to be put off when they were told they could not wear the hijab," said Mahammad Mahroof, of the Association of Muslim Police. "Hopefully, having this option will encourage more to become police officers." Mr Blair said he was sympathetic to the idea of prayer rooms, but acknowledged it would be impractical to have one in every station. Headquarters, though, will have a prayer room. Halal food will also be prepared in the New Scotland Yard canteen. Although cautious of using the word, Mr Blair said "symbolism" was important to the Met as it tried to break away from a troubled, racism-tainted past. "We are trying to show different people that they are welcome in the force." The wearing of dreadlocks might be allowed if certain safety issues could be resolved, he said. "We will look at this very carefully. The same problem affects women with long hair. We don't want officers being endangered. Perhaps there is a way of tying this type of hair."