More than 30 police forces across England and Wales launched a three-month drive against heroin and cocaine dealers yesterday aimed at closing down crack houses and tackling drug-related gun crime.The campaign, named Operation Crackdown, is designed to provide "reassurance policing" to communities hit by heroin and cocaine abuse by making visible the steps police are taking to tackle the problem. The police will use powers in antisocial behaviour legislation for the fast-track closure of crack houses with a court hearing taking place within 48 hours of the police action. Officers from 32 forces will use undercover operations, covert surveillance, closed circuit television and drug dogs to target class A drug dealers. A Home Office spokesman said police action would include raids on street dealers and on premises where drug dealing was taking place. Leaflets will also be handed out to users detailing where they can get treatment for drug addiction and to residents explaining what the police have been doing in the local area. Caroline Flint, the drugs minister, said the campaign would also focus on seizing illegal firearms, including stop and search operations to clamp down on dealers carrying weapons. "Operation Crackdown sends a clear message to drug dealers that their behaviour will not be tolerated in our communities and that they will be brought to justice to face harsh penalties," she said. Andy Hayman, the drugs spokesman of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said the police were putting the government's drug strategy into action. "This is, on an unprecedented scale, all forces working together to try and breathe life into what we see as an important part of enforcement of the drug strategy," he said. "This campaign demonstrates our commitment to target and reduce the supply of class A drugs in communities across the country by using a series of enforcement measures to dismantle class A drug markets, disrupt drug dealing operations and get more drug users into treatment." Operation Crackdown was also welcomed by the charity Turning Point whose chief executive, Lord Adebowale, said there were 45,000 crack-users in London alone. "We hope the campaign will target major suppliers and help alleviate some of the misery caused to individual drug users and to communities," he said. "It is important that the police target their efforts at dealers while ensuring that drug users are diverted into treatment." But the shadow home secretary, David Davis, dismissed the campaign as "more Labour talk" which would do nothing to deal with the rising problem of drug crime. He said the government's only significant drug policy had been to reclassify cannabis.