Five people have been arrested over the fatal stabbing of a teenage boy who was ambushed by suspected rival gang members as he arrived at school.Zac Olumegbon, 15, from Brixton Hill in south London, was confronted by four young men at the gates of Park Campus School in West Norwood yesterday morning. He was stabbed several times and afterwards fell into the arms of his teacher. He was confirmed dead shortly after arriving at hospital.Zac's 14-year-old companion ran back to the school to seek safety after the attack, but was also stabbed in the arm in the school grounds. He was taken to hospital with minor injuries."I am now satisfied this was a planned attack, with four black males arriving in the area in a car," said Det Ch Insp McFarlane from the Metropolitan Police Homicide and Serious Crime Command"Our inquiries have so far led me to believe that a confrontation took place outside the school involving the two victims and the suspects."The victims were chased into Gipsy Road Gardens where, sadly, the 15-year-old suffered fatal injuries."The 14-year-old then ran back to the school to seek safety, but was attacked in the grounds of the school, suffering minor injuries."Following the attack the four males left in the car and headed in the direction of Gipsy Hill."A local shopkeeper described how Zac fell into the arms of a teacher after the attack. "She had her hands open but it was too late and he collapsed in her arms," said Saima Sadfdar."I was told there were three or four people with a big knife. Apparently one of the teachers realised something was going on and ran out to help."She said she knew Zac, who was "no trouble".Zac's family was too upset to comment but his friends laid flowers near the murder scene.Leonie Arecha, who said she was a friend of the dead teenager, laid a bunch of flowers at the spot where he was killed. An attached card read: "I will always remember you. The good, the bad times no matter what. I will always miss you and see you when I come up there."Arecha told the Guardian: "He was my friend. We called him 'little Zac' and I had known him about a year. He was funny, I really don't know why he was attacked."Park Campus was opened two years ago and hailed as the first school of its kind in Britain, aimed at getting young people back into mainstream education.Residents said the school had developed a reputation for trouble since it opened. Rose Gabriel, who lives nearby, said: "We were kind of expecting something to kick off at some point. It's a shame it had to happen like this."All pupils at the school, which has 80 places, were kept inside for questioning by teachers and police yesterday.A post-mortem examination will be held at Greenwich Mortuary today.Zac was the 13th teenager to be killed in the capital this year.