Mark Thompson isn't the luckiest of media CEOs. The incoming boss of the New York Times Company must not only deal with a financial squeeze and an escalating staff dispute; he has also been forced to watch out for an extraordinary storm in his rear-view mirror.The BBC, where Thompson was director general until last month, is in the middle of a growing scandal involving a TV host who was once one of its highest-profile stars. But this tangle is not over a badly turned phrase or some other on-air mishap – it is about accusations that, for a period of decades, Britain's national broadcaster turned a blind eye to the sexual abuse of young children perpetrated on its premises.Rumours had followed Sir Jimmy Savile for much of career as a DJ on BBC Radio 1, as a presenter on the top-40 countdown show Top of the Pops and as the host of Jim'll Fix It, a weekly primetime TV show in which he used his celebrity status to make the wishes of countless young viewers come true. He was even asked about the rumours in at least two interviews in the later part of his life. But when Savile died, aged 84, in October 2011, the British media – including the BBC – gave him the full adulatory treatment.No fewer than three BBC retrospectives were ordered, recalling the $60m that Savile had raised for charity, the countless poor and sick children whose dreams he had fulfilled and the young pop musicians whose careers he had helped to initiate.Three tributes were scheduled to be broadcast at Christmas, in the spirit of the festive season. They would remind millions of British viewers of the Jimmy Savile they knew: that cheeky chappy who chewed on a fat cigar, dressed in downmarket shell suits and drove a Rolls Royce.But over at Newsnight, the BBC's flagship news review programme, a very different kind of retrospective was being prepared. This film would explore the Jimmy Savile who, according to rumour, had abused his celebrity status to prey on young girls, hiding under his philanthropic cloak to commit acts of terrible depravity.With the benefit of everything that we now know, it seems Newsnight did an impressive job, having persuaded 10 victims and witnesses to come forward.One of the victims, Karin Ward, has told how Savile would regularly visit her school for disturbed girls in southern England, bearing cigarettes, candies and perfume. "Girls just flocked round him," she said later. "He lavished gifts on everybody and was all jolly, and then he wanted people to come for a ride with him in his car."She and other girls from the school, lured by the chance to watch Savile film his shows, were taken to London, where he would assault them in his dressing room. Other 1970s TV celebrities, including the glam rocker and now convicted pedophile Gary Glitter, also allegedly took part.But a month into the commission, the Newsnight team were told by programme editor Peter Rippon that such excoriating allegations about such a well-loved entertainer could only be broadcast if a police investigation into Savile's actions could be cited. The Newsnight reporters met this challenge by uncovering a police inquiry into Savile in 2007, in which the star had been questioned under caution.Then a second hurdle was put before the team. They were told by Rippon to find out why the police had dropped their 2007 investigation, and whether it was because of Savile's age – at that point he was 79. But prosecutors would only say that they had not proceeded against Savile for lack of evidence. Rippon said the Newsnight report should therefore be dropped.A legal and PR crisis  Mark Thompson, a former director general of the BBC, is the New York Times' new president and chief executive. Photograph: Jeff J Mitchell/Getty ImagesThe decision to shelve the Newsnight investigation has had fateful consequences for the BBC, which is now engulfed in its most serious PR and legal crisis for many years. Earlier this month, rival television network ITV1 broadcast a documentary called Exposure: the Other Side of Jimmy Savile.The film, which featured Ward and other victims who would have made an appearance in the Newsnight film had it gone ahead, alleged that BBC producers had been aware of the star's predatory behaviour, stretching back to the mid-1960s.The broadcast has raised inevitable questions about why the BBC held back last December, reaching to the top of the organization. Lord Patten, a former Conservative party cabinet minister who is now chairman of the BBC, has insisted there was no "corporate cover-up" and that Rippon made his decision purely on journalistic grounds, without any leaning upon by BBC executives.But as the scandal has billowed, senior BBC figures have been caught in its pall. Thompson, who stood down as director general in September, was at the helm of the corporation at the time the Newsnight documentary was cancelled. He has been drawn into the furore.Patten has said publicly that Thompson was one of only three BBC executives who were told about the Newsnight investigation at the time. To complicate the picture, the chairman has since been contradicted by the BBC's own press office, which said Patten "misspoke" when he included Thompson among the list of those in the know.The timing of the scandal could not be more inconvenient for Thompson, who begins in his new job at the New York Times next month."Thompson will have his plate full at the New York Times with a number of structural and more immediate issues to deal with, from the company's economic future to labor talks with the Newspaper Guild which have become tense in recent weeks," said David Folkenflik, National Public Radio's media correspondent.In Folkenflik's assessment, the Savile revelations amount to a "troubling episode for anyone in leadership of the BBC, one of the great journalistic institutions not just of the UK but of the world. And it's troubling too for Thompson, who was at the top of the BBC pyramid when the Newsnight decision was made, and [who] now will be leading one of the world's other great media institutions – the New York Times."Thompson has said that he had nothing to do with the cancelling of the Newsnight investigation. "I was not notified or briefed about the Newsnight investigation, nor was I involved in any way in the decision not to complete and air the investigation," he told the New York Times on Saturday. "I have no reason to doubt the public statement by the program's editor, Peter Rippon, that the decision not to pursue the investigation was entirely his, and that it was made solely for journalistic reasons."He added: "During my time as director general of the BBC, I never heard any allegations or received any complaints about Jimmy Savile."A growing scandal  BBC Television Centre. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty ImagesSince the ITV1 film was broadcast on 3 October, the scandal has grown exponentially, with new horror stories every day. Scotland Yard is co-ordinating inquiries by 12 police forces around the UK, following 340 separate lines of inquiry relating to claims of abuse by at least 25 victims, all of whom were under 16 and some as young as 13.The claims date from the late 1950s through to the early 1980s. The huge attention that has been paid to the revelations have brought an entire era of British culture back into the public consciousness."It's like a piece of repressed ancient history has come bubbling to the surface – an entire world suddenly coming back and being put under the contemporary spotlight," said Michael Jackson, a former controller of the BBC's main channels, BBC One and BBC Two, who is now a director and adviser to a range of media companies in New York.Jackson said the scandal was having a powerful impact in Britain, partly because Savile was such a strange celebrity. "It's impossible to describe his success in any rational way, as he had no skill at all other than a certain gift of the gab. He couldn't sing or tell jokes or do magic tricks – he was just Jimmy Savile."But he was also, Jackson believes, a product of his time when television – in Britain as in the US – was in its heyday and TV figures were universally known and idolized. "He was eccentric, unctuous and ugly and had white hair. Yet everybody knew him and his fame was attractive. We now know he used that to pleasure himself – it's a tale of the power of TV and celebrity in its moment that couldn't be repeated now."Folkenflik said it was Savile's aura as a family guy that made the news of his crimes so distressing to Britons. "It's almost as though someone of the order of Captain Kangaroo or Mr Rogers was accused of similarly egregious conduct. Savile in his public persona was clearly a more twisty character than that, but he had considerable following among children and families so it's not surprising that such allegations are causing consternation back in the UK."It was not just the BBC that became the breeding ground of Savile's exploitation of underage girls. The DJ operated in several other settings where vulnerable children were exposed to his criminal advances – the school for troubled kids where Ward was a resident, children's hospitals, even Broadmoor, a high-security hospital for people with serious mental illness.But it is the BBC that is bearing the brunt of the fallout. It was the BBC that gave Savile his fame – as it was the Catholic Church that gave pedophile priests power over their victims. On a more practical level, abuse happened on BBC property, in Savile's dressing room at BBC Television Centre in west London.Evidence has also emerged that senior BBC figures may have been aware at least of the rumours of their star's transgressions, dating back years, but for whatever reason, nothing concrete was ever uncovered. As Esther Rantzen, who enjoyed her own fame in the 1970s as presenter of the BBC show That's Life! before founding a child-protection charity called ChildLine, put it: "We in television, in his world, in some way colluded with him as a child abuser – we blocked our ears to the gossip."'A culture of not believing'Peter Watt, who runs the NSPCC helpline through which 95 calls relating to the Savile inquiry have been received and passed to police, said that it was a classic case of "someone in a position of authority by dint of their fame and wealth abusing that position on a massive scale over several decades".Watt said that a latter-day Savile would find it much more difficult to operate as he did within the BBC, as the corporation has put in place safeguards to encourage people to report abuses. He also applauded Thompson's successor as director general, George Entwistle, for apologising quickly and unreservedly to victims – a declaration of contrition rarely heard, Watt said, from institutions mired in such scandals.The tragedy though, Watt said, was that when people were courageous enough to make the frightening and often humiliating step of coming forward and reporting abuse, nothing happened. "In the BBC of old," he said, "there appears to have been a culture of not believing, of not wanting to hear what was being said and therefore not investigating."