On the tenth anniversary of the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence, the head of the Metropolitan police's anti-racism unit today said she believed the Met was still "institutionally racist".Commander Cressida Dick, in charge of the Met's diversity directorate, said in an interview with the Independent: "I would say there is not an institution out there that could say, 'We are not racist'." However, she added, the Met has "changed dramatically" since Sir William MacPherson published his report on the failed investigation into Stephen's murder, in 1999. While stressing that the Met has made progress in tackling the organisational racism that Sir William highlighted, Ms Dick warned: "It's very difficult to imagine a situation where we will say we are no longer institutionally racist." She conceded that it was possible to be "more sensitive than we are, and reduce it further", but claimed that the Met had put more resources into fighting racism and had improved its record on the issue more significantly than many other organisations. Sir William's report defined institutional racism as "the collective failure of an organisation to provide an appropriate and professional service to people because of their colour, culture or ethnic origin", which "can be seen or detected in processes, attitudes and behaviour which amount to discrimination through unwitting prejudice, ignorance, thoughtlessness, and racist stereotyping which disadvantages minority ethnic people."Friends, family, and representatives of the legal institutions who have been forced to learn lessons from the mistakes of the Lawrence investigation were today gathering at a memorial service in central London to mark the 10th anniversary of Stephen's death.The 18-year-old A-level student was stabbed to death by a gang of white youths in a brutal and unprovoked attack as he waited at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London. The botched police investigation into his murder led the Lawrence family to bring a failed private prosecution against the suspects. The determination of Stephen's parents, Doreen and Neville, to bring their son's killers to justice unearthed widespread failings in the criminal justice system. Barbara Roche, the minister of state for social exclusion, was delivering a message at the service, organised by the Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust.Other speakers included the Rev David Cruise, who knew Stephen, and John Sentamu, the Bishop of Birmingham, who was on the panel of the government-appointed public inquiry which investigated the lessons to be learned from his death. Both Ms Dick and the deputy Metropolitan police commissioner, Ian Blair, were expected to be among the congregation.Representatives of the national black police association were also expected to attend, as was Trevor Phillips, the chairman of the commission for racial equality. Yesterday, Home Office minister Lord Falconer said the legal system could not hide from its failure to help bring Stephen's killers to justice. The minister said: "The tragedy of the Lawrence story is not only the horror of Stephen Lawrence's brutal and senseless murder but also the failure of the criminal justice system - the police, the CPS, the courts - to deliver justice to Stephen and his family." He said the determination of Stephen's parents had helped to throw "a light on our criminal justice system that can never be put out". Mrs Lawrence herself said last week that she believed it would now take a "miracle" to bring her son's killers to justice. She told the Guardian that her main source of grief was that his killers were still free to walk the streets, adding that a "confession" was her only hope of seeing them convicted.