A rat-catcher who shot dead a police officer before turning the gun on himself was drunk at the time, an inquest heard today.Peter Medlicott, 33, was twice over the legal limit for driving when he shot PC Ricky Gray, 43, in the head with a rifle he used to shoot vermin.Medlicott, described as a "loner with few friends", then shot himself in the head with the .222 calibre rifle, the inquest at Shrewsbury crown court heard.Pathologist Dr Peter Acland said: "His blood contained 178mg of alcohol. He was not staggeringly drunk but probably noticeably drunk, so his decision-making process could have been affected."Post mortem examinations revealed both Gray and Medlicott died instantly from single gunshot wounds to the head.Gray, a trained firearms officer, was trying to protect two unarmed colleagues who were held at gunpoint by Medlicott after they attempted to intervene in a domestic dispute between the rat-catcher and his girlfriend in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, on May 6.Home Office pathologist Dr Edmund Tapp, who carried out the post-mortem on Gray, said: "The bullet affected the brain stem. This would stop the brain and lungs functioning immediately."The inquest heard that Medlicott had clashed violently with his partner, Ethel Mildred Jones, before the shooting. The pair had spent 11 hours drinking at six different pubs in Shrewsbury on Saturday May 5, leading to a series of jealous arguments.The inquest heard that back at Jones' flat, the altercation escalated and Medlicott punched her in the face. Despite leaving the flat, in the Castlefields area of the town, and returning to his parents' home, Medlicott returned to Jones's property a few hours later.Detective Sergeant Alan Crossley told the court: "At 06.09am on Sunday, May 6, Miss Jones contacted police. She informed police that her partner was outside her premises throwing objects at her window and he had smashed it. She requested police assistance."Two unarmed officers attended the property but were held at gunpoint by Medlicott and told to remove their radios. One of them managed to contact control and Ricky Gray and his colleague Matthew Crisp were sent to the scene.Gray approached the back of the property via an alleyway, where he was shot by Medlicott, the court heard.Crossley said: "PC Gray was seen to run towards the alley way. At this point a gunshot was heard. PC Crisp found PC Gray slumped against the wall of the building. It became clear at this point that he had received a gunshot to the head."Medlicott's body was later found lying in a pool of blood with a rifle by his side, Crossley said.The five-day inquest is covering the deaths of both Medlicott and Gray.