Britain's most senior Asian police officer, who is suing Scotland Yard, should stand down or be suspended from his role on the force's management board, the head of the Metropolitan police authority said yesterday.Lawyers for Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur yesterday filed an employment tribunal claim accusing the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, and the force of racial discrimination and victimisation.The 60-page claim alleges that Ghaffur, 53, who is third in charge of the force, was discriminated against on the grounds of race and religion. It also alleges age discrimination because his contract was extended by only a year, while those with less service would be offered longer contracts. The Guardian understands his claim says he was discriminated against over his role in running security for the 2012 London Olympics and over his treatment as the head of Scotland Yard's central operations division. He is the most senior police officer ever to sue his own force for discrimination and has triggered what is likely to be a long and bitter fight at the top of Scotland Yard.Len Duvall, chair of the MPA and staunch ally of Blair, said that Ghaffur should stand down or be suspended from the management board while his legal case proceeds.Duvall said: "It must increase the tensions between colleagues. If any member of the management board takes legal action against the MPS or their managers within the management board, I cannot see how they can - or would want to - be on the management board. This would not be victimisation - it's just common sense."Any attempt to remove Ghaffur now he has issued legal proceedings would lead to his lawyers attempting to gain an injunction. The Guardian has learned that last month Blair had a face-to-face showdown with Ghaffur in which he threatened to strip him of his command and transfer him out of the force.Then, the view of Blair and top officers was that Ghaffur could not be suing the force and at the same time be part of its inner cabinet. But insiders say Blair may have backed down after legal advice made clear such an action would be seen as victimisation by an employment tribunal.The pending legal case adds to a series of crises facing the Met commissioner, whose term expires in January 2010. Blair's allies believe the Ghaffur saga has already led to details of £3m-worth of contracts the Met gave to a close friend of the commissioner's being leaked to the media. The concern has led to Blair facing a formal inquiry into corruption allegations.Next month the Met faces an inquest into the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes, the Brazilian who was mistaken for a terrorist at a tube station in July 2005.