A skeleton of a woman bound with electrical flex found in the coal cellar of a house in Notting Hill, west London, has been identified as that of Bridget McHugh, murdered more than 40 years ago.It was discovered more than a year ago after a tip-off from a woman who claimed her father had confessed to her that he had killed and buried a woman in the basement of their old home. But only at the weekend were police able to make a formal identification - revealing that the dead woman was, unbeknown to the woman giving the tip-off, her aunt. Mrs McHugh, who was originally from the Glasgow area, is thought to have been murdered in 1961 aged 27 or 28. But police became aware of her disappearance only in May 2000, when one of her grown-up daughters reported her missing. In February last year officers, acting on information they had received, searched a house in Notting Hill and discovered the skeleton with flex wrapped around the neck and body. Margo Mitchell, 39, a former model, later told newspapers that it was she who had contacted the police, to tell them her father confessed to her that he had strangled a woman with flex, and stuffed her body in an unused chimney before burying it in the coal cellar. Yesterday Mrs Mitchell said she had been deeply shocked to discover that the victim was her aunt. Mrs Mitchell said her family had lived at the address in the 1960s before moving away. When she was 13, she said, her father, Gavin McLaughlan, told her that he had killed a woman before she was born. Mrs Mitchell said she had not known whether to believe him, but after his death in 1998 eventually felt compelled to go to the police. Her claim is said to have been repeated by another family member. After the skeleton's discovery last year a 61-year-old woman was arrested in Manchester; this February a man aged 68 from the West Midlands and a 63-year-old woman from West Sussex were also arrested; all three have been released on bail. Officers from the Metropolitan police yesterday refused to comment on Mrs Mitchell's claim. But they are trying to find if McHugh was reported missing by anyone in the 60s, and further if anyone living in Notting Hill or in Hackney, east London, where she is known also to have stayed, could remember anything of significance.The mother of two young daughters and a son, McHugh is thought to have moved to London from Northern Ireland. The house in Hackney where she stayed was later demolished and is now home to a block of flats. "I'm asking for anyone who lived in that area in 1961 to get in touch with us," said Detective Inspector Geoff Baker of the serious crime group. "We need to build up a picture of Bridget's life and the circumstances surrounding her death. Also we still need people who in 1961 were living in the road in Notting Hill where the house is to come forward." Det Insp Baker added: "A family have been without their mother for too long now - I appeal to the public to come forward and help us put together the pieces of the jigsaw surrounding Bridget's death." A postmortem examination did not establish the cause of death.