Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, outlined a series of concessions last night that appeared to be winning back wavering Labour MPs in advance of next week's crucial vote on detaining suspected terrorists for up to 42 days. Smith, praised by MPs from across the party for an assured performance, is expected to publish detailed amendments today limiting the circumstances in which the 42-day detention power would be exercised, and strengthening the degree of parliamentary oversight.The amendments will be shown to the cabinet this morning, giving government whips seven days to work on Labour backbenchers and, if necessary, offer sweeteners to the nine Democratic Unionist MPs. Opponents of 42-day detention may need 50 or more Labour backbenchers to rebel to defeat the measure, something the whips believe they can prevent.Smith received loud applause at the end of last night's meeting, saying afterwards: "We are getting to the stage where people will need to make their decisions. "People will need to recognise that it is right to do it because people expect us to do this for the good of national security. It is important that we do what people expect us to do as a government. It is not about the sort of government we want but about what it means to govern." Labour whips hope that Smith's strong performance last night - combined with a growing feeling among Labour MPs that it would be wrong to inflict a parliamentary defeat on a weakened prime minister - will swing next week's vote. At an earlier Downing Street press conference, Gordon Brown emphasised that he wanted to win the argument on its merits and was not considering the vote as an issue of confidence. At a crowded evening meeting of Labour MPs, Smith indicated that she would make three main concessions today. She told MPs the power to detain suspects for up to 42 days would only be introduced in a grave terrorist emergency, or an imminent one, rather than as a matter of routine terrorist investigation. This will be reviewed once a year. She will also amend the bill so that MPs would be able to vote on endorsing the introduction of the power within a week of it being introduced. Parliament would also be given the power to vote again on whether to retain the 42-day detention power within 30 days of it first being introduced. After the meeting, Tony McNulty, the Home Office minister, said he was "very hopeful" that the government would win next week. Ministers believe the concessions make the proposals very similar to the Civil Contingencies Act 2004, the option supported by the Conservative party, which allows detention for up to 58 days if there is a state of emergency.But McNulty denied the government was climbing down, arguing the new powers would only be usable in the specific circumstances of a terrorist attack, rather than in the wider range set out in the CCA which includes natural disasters. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said the government's approach "now clearly smacks of desperation". As Labour MPs returned to Westminster for the first time since the byelection disaster in Crewe, they were divided about the future of the party. Phyllis Starkey, MP for Milton Keynes South West - seventh on the Tory target list - said: "There is a dislocation between the febrile atmosphere in the press and the reality on the ground." But a senior MP was less optimistic, saying: "I think we have to accept that Gordon Brown is our Michael Foot. He is very bookish, very intellectual and simply not a leader."