Lawyers and probation officers last night rounded on the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, after he claimed that Britain's "appalling" criminal justice system contributed to a rise in violent crime.Britain's most senior police officer claimed in a speech yesterday at Leicester University that criminals were in effect above the law, while judges, defence lawyers and court administrators rode roughshod over the rights of terrified victims and intimidated witnesses. He told students that it was not uncommon for muggers to be released on bail eight or nine times for separate offences before facing trial for their first attack. Far from reducing robberies, rapes and violent attacks, Sir John claimed that the criminal justice system provided a shield for criminals and let the guilty walk free. "All too often, the criminal trial is simply an uneven game of tactics played out by lawyers in front on an uninformed jury with the disillusioned victims and bemused defendant looking on. "The public are more than disenchanted with criminal justice in this country - they are fed up with it. "The process actually encourages criminals in the belief that crime is merely a game of no consequence to society, local communities or their victims so they are not held to account. "So we see robbers with strings of previous convictions, strutting across the estates of inner London, having won their most recent game in court - arrogant, untouchable, fearless and ready for anything." The commissioner has attacked the "criminal justice game" several times in recent weeks mostly in response to criticism from the home secretary, David Blunkett, over the failure of the police to get to grips with the rise in street robbery and in response to demands for police reform. Last night Harry Fletcher of the National Association of Probation Officers claimed the commissioner was wrong to claim that fewer violent criminals were being sent to prison. "Since 1993 the crown courts have jailed an increasing number of people, up from 49% of those found guilty to 63%. So we're jailing more people than ever before." The Law Society and the Bar Council also criticised Sir John saying that a civilised society demanded that criminal convictions were proved beyond reasonable doubt. "That is not a game. It is a fundamental principle of a modern society," said a Bar Council spokesman.