A professional diver has been jailed for two years after he falsely claimed to have found three rare 17th-century cannon in international waters so he could sell them to the highest bidder rather than surrendering them to the nation.Vincent Woolsgrove told the authorities he had found the cannon outside British waters on an unidentified wreck, which allowed him to pocket about £50,000 by selling them to an American buyer.After two years of painstaking detective work, investigators proved the cannon were actually taken from the warship HMS London, which sank in 1665 off Southend in Essex. By then the cannon had been exported and were sitting on the front lawn of a collector’s home in Florida. Woolsgrove, 49, of Ramsgate, Kent, admitted fraud in relation to the cannon and asked for 61 offences of failure to notify the receiver of wreck (RoW) of other finds to be taken into consideration. These offences relate to an “Aladdin’s cave” of objects from wrecks, found at his home and at his girlfriend’s house, worth more than £100,000.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the three cannon lifted from the wreck. Photograph: Maritime and Coastguard Agency/PASentencing Woolsgrove at Southampton crown court on Friday, Judge Peter Ralls QC said: “The cannon are extremely rare and they are indeed unique. Other cannon were melted down or reformed, they just do not exist.“It’s great credit to the MCA [Maritime and Coastguard Agency] that they have been able to piece together historical records that show without doubt the origin and identity of these ancient weapons. The work that has gone into this by the MCA is frankly enormous.”As well as the prison sentence, Woolsgrove was ordered to pay £35,000 in costs and he is being made subject of Proceeds of Crime Act proceedings to recover the money gained from the sale of the cannon.Built in 1654, HMS London took part in the first Dutch war (1652-4). Later it formed part of an English squadron sent to collect Charles II from the Netherlands to restore him to the throne. The ship blew up and sank as it sailed through the Thames estuary preparing to fight the Dutch in the Channel in March 1665, an event recorded in Samuel Pepys’s diary. The wreckage of the London was rediscovered in 2005 during work in advance of the London Gateway Port development and was designated under the Protection of Wrecks Act. The ship continues to yield treasures. A 17th-century gun carriage was successfully lifted from the seabed last month. It was in startlingly good condition, still with a length of rope threaded through a pulley block.17th-century HMS London gun carriage lifted from Southend seabed In 2007, Woolsgrove reported finding five cannon during the summer. He declared truthfully that two were from the wreck of the London, meaning they belonged to the crown and could be saved for the nation.But he claimed three bronze cannon – branded with the crest of the City of Amsterdam – were found in international waters from an unidentified wreck, outside British jurisdiction.With no way of proving him wrong, Woolsgrove was allowed to keep the three cannon and sold them to the US collector.But investigators from the MCA, Kent and Essex police, and Historic England continued to test Woolsgrove’s account after receiving reports that divers were looting the London. Woolsgrove’s house in Ramsgate and his girlfriend’s home were searched. Investigators found wreck items including copper, lead, tin and glass ingots, and ships’ bells. They also discovered photographs on Woolsgrove’s computer that seemed to show they had been recovered off Southend. After intensive detective work they established that the three cannon were built in Amsterdam to protect the city, and had later been issued to Dutch vessels to attack the English fleet during the first Dutch war. The vessels were captured by the English and the cannon taken as prizes. These were subsequently placed on board the London. Ian Lawrie QC, prosecuting, said: “The heart of this case are three bronze Dutch fortress cannon. They are cannon of great beauty, power and rarity.”He said that immaculate records kept by the Dutch navy archivists with additional records from the Royal Navy meant the MCA was able to trace the history of the cannon and their final resting place on the London.Lawrie said the American collector was “disinclined to return them to England”. He added: “As far as the MCA is concerned, they are gone, which considering their rarity value, that is a considerable shame.”The barrister said that Woolsgrove had a significant amount of wreck material at his home that led to him asking for other offences to be taken into consideration. He said: “There was a positive Aladdin’s cave in wreck material in his garden, outhouse, his own house and his girlfriend’s house nearby.”Kevin Toomey, defending, said: “He is a normal person who has fallen into a great deal of difficulty because of his dishonesty and he has to live with that and the shame he has brought on his family.”He said his client would have been in line for compensation for possibly the full value of the cannon if he had informed the RoW accurately as he was obliged to do.Alison Kentuck, MCA receiver of wreck, said: “Our message is clear: all wreck material found within or brought within UK territorial waters must be reported within 28 days to the receiver of wreck. “It is not a case of ‘finders keepers’. Had these artefacts been correctly reported, the finder would have been entitled to a substantial salvage award and important information could have been added to the historical record.”Mark Harrison, Historic England’s national policing and crime adviser, said: “This case sets an important precedent in the fight against uncontrolled salvage by a small criminal minority who have no appreciation for England’s maritime heritage. “Woolsgrove used sophisticated techniques and equipment to remove these valuable artefacts from the seabed.” 