A spiritualist minister murdered his wife and dumped her body in woodland after she discovered he had been having an affair and calling gay sex chat lines, a court heard today.David Chenery-Wickens, 51, was a "serial adulterer" and a "sexual predator" who killed award-winning television makeup artist Diane Chenery-Wickens, a jury was told. He then spun a web of lies to cover his tracks and repeatedly changed his story when presented with new evidence, Lewes crown court heard.Chenery-Wickens murdered his 48-year-old wife on 22 January last year after she discovered that he was leading a double life, the jury heard. He then dumped her body in a country lane near the cottage they shared in Duddleswell, East Sussex, it is alleged.Opening the crown's case, Philip Katz QC, prosecuting, said the badly decomposed body, which was found five months later in Little Horsted, near Uckfield, by a woman walking her dogs, had been attacked by wild animals, leaving little forensic evidence. This made it impossible to establish exactly how or when she was killed, but "it was clearly a murder", Katz said."The crown says that this defendant, rather than see his deceitful life fall to pieces, killed Diane his wife, got rid of her body and systematically set about lying to the police and to the world in order to try and suggest that she had just disappeared for her own reasons," Katz said."The veil was lifting from Diane's eyes and he had the clearest motive and the obvious opportunity to get rid of his wife. We say that he was solely concerned with himself."The prosecution alleges that after Chenery-Wickens killed his wife he proceeded to tell a series of lies to cover up the murder. He reported his wife missing on Thursday 24 January last year, telling police that the couple had gone to London. They parted at Shepherd's Bush, as his wife had a meeting at the BBC headquarters at White City, and had arranged to meet later at the hairdressers where she had an appointment, but she hadn't turned up, he said.But CCTV evidence revealed Chenery-Wickens had travelled to London alone, said the prosecution. "By that time, his wife was already dead," said Katz.After reporting her disappearance Chenery-Wickens returned home, and left several loving messages on his wife's voicemail. But phone records reveal that later that night he made sexually explicit calls and text messages to several people, the court heard.He contacted a legal secretary with whom he was cultivating a relationship and also called what the prosecution called his "principal girlfriend", Kerry Lippett. He later sent a sexually explicit text message to a former girlfriend, telling her he was outside her home.In the early hours of Friday morning, days after killing his wife, he spoke to a man on a gay chat line, who then drove from Eastbourne to Chenery-Wickens' house to have sex, the prosecution said. "They didn't have sex but the defendant told him that he was getting divorced, selling the house and said his wife was working away as she often did," said Katz."She [Diane] was murdered only two days before. By his own account she had only gone the day before."Further CCTV evidence revealed that the day before the alleged trip to London Chenery-Wickens had travelled to Tunbridge Wells where he sold some of his wife's jewellery for £100. Her family say the items were of great sentimental value to Diane Chenery-Wickens and she would not have sold them.He told police his wife had planned her disappearance, and had sworn him to secrecy about her plans.Chenery-Wickens led a complicated, duplicitous life, carrying out affairs with many women, from whom he borrowed money he could not repay, the court heard. He continually lied to his wife – who worked on shows including Dead Ringers, The League Of Gentlemen and Casualty, and who won an Emmy award in 2000 for her work on Arabian Nights – about his income, cashing a series of cheques into her account he knew would bounce, said the prosecution.Chenery-Wickens was initially arrested after his wife's disappearance, but later released on bail. After her body was found on 15 May he was arrested again and charged with murder, which he denies.The case continues.