The success of George Davis in his appeal against his conviction for a robbery that took place in 1974 is a historic one in more ways than one. Davis had wanted to nail once and for all the suggestion that he had been released via royal pardon in 1976 on a technicality or in response to public pressure. Fair enough. With this summer's first cricket test match almost upon us, there is no harm in clearing up the case that led to the cancellation of the Headingley 1975 Ashes match when Davis's supporters spread oil on the pitch in a desperate bid to draw attention to his wrongful conviction.But Davis has long been released from prison, not only for that robbery but of a subsequent one of which he was guilty. Meanwhile, hundreds of inmates of the country's jails wait patiently – or rather, impatiently – for their cases to make the long journey back to the appeal court and a possible retrial. Currently, the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC), which was set up to examine such cases in 1997, has 286 cases waiting to be considered and a further 378 under review. Of the 453 cases that they have sent back to the court of appeal since they were formed, 316 have resulted in the conviction being quashed so the likelihood is that literally hundreds of innocent people are in jail. But the CCRC has had its funding cut. It is short of the people it needs to investigate cases swiftly.The wait for some of those on the list must seem endless. The Guardian's Justice on trial site has catalogued a number of cases that have very strong reasons for the appeal court to examine them. Some of them applied to the CCRC years ago and despair at the slow process of their cases.When Kenneth Clarke was initially installed in the justice ministry last year, he stated his intention to cut prison numbers, a brave step for a Conservative politician to take. He has come under fire because of his remarks on rape but they arose out of a discussion on ways of cutting that excessive prison population. One way to release people who should not be in prison would be to expedite the appeals of those against whose convictions there are giant question marks. This could be done in the same way that the police reopen long unsolved cases – by throwing a team of smart and dedicated investigators at the problem. The justice secretary could tell the CCRC that he would allocate extra resources and teams to them for, say, a three-year period to work through that enormous backlog of cases. This would not be expensive; it could probably be done for the cost of about 20 minutes of bombing Libya. Those cases that had merit could be fast-tracked to the appeal court and, if the inmate was deemed to have been wrongly convicted, hey presto, an empty cell and tens of thousands of pounds saved.Will this happen? Fat chance. Those who opposed Clarke's liberal response to the prison crisis are doubtless taking satisfaction in his present discomfiture and a government that is prepared to wind up the Forensic Science Service to save a few pounds are hardly going to be motivated by either the logic or the morality of removing the innocent from jail.The first Test against Sri Lanka starts this week in Cardiff. It is unlikely that any miscarriage of justice campaigner will be tempted to halt it with a bucket of diesel oil on the pitch. But, as Davis's doughty supporters showed, sometimes it takes extreme measures to bring to public attention extreme miscarriages of justice. How much simpler it would be for Clarke to address the continuing scandal of the innocent inside our jails by acting and recognising that keeping them there is not just immoral but, in these tough economic times, very expensive. That would make this week's decision in the George Davis case historic indeed.