A 23-year-old bank worker who was forced to take part in the £26.5m Belfast bank raid while his family was held hostage has spoken about his ordeal, angry at suggestions he could have been in league with the robbers.Chris Ward, a supervisor at Northern Bank, said he was kidnapped and forced to go to work at the bank's headquarters and "act normal" during the UK's biggest bank robbery, last month. He said that if he had resisted his family would have been killed. Mr Ward told the Irish News and the BBC Spotlight programme that on the night of Sunday December 19 he was watching TV with his father at home on the outskirts of west Belfast. A man knocked at the door asking to discuss Celtic football team. As the treasurer of the local Celtic supporters' club, Mr Ward let him in. Two other men burst in, telling Mr Ward they knew "everything" about him.They said: "We are going to take you away for 24 hours and if you cooperate everything will be OK. If you don't, you and your family are dead." Mr Ward's mother, father, brother and his brother's girlfriend were held hostage at the house while he was driven - crying and at gunpoint - to the home of a colleague, Kevin McMullan, in Loughinisland, Co Down. Mr McMullan and his wife had been tied up and held at gunpoint. Mrs McMullan was later held blindfolded at an unknown location for more than 24 hours before being abandoned in Drumkeeragh Forest Park in Co Down, suffering from exposure. The gang held the two bank workers overnight. At 6am they gave them mobile phones, ordering them to arrive at work at noon, stay composed and call the gang regularly to tell them "everything was OK". The men were told to dismiss their colleagues from the bank by 6pm. Mr Ward was ordered to fill a sports bag with £100 and £50 notes worth £1.2m. He carried the bag out of the bank and past security guards as part of a "dummy run", stopping at a bus stop where a man in a trenchcoat and hat collected it. Mr Ward and Mr McMullan were then told to load 24 crates of bank notes on to trolleys, covering the money with rubbish, black binbags and broken chairs. They were to tell security staff it was rubbish to be collected by a service company. The robbers - in service company uniforms and wigs - stood outside loading the money into a large white van before departing. After the van had been filled a second time, Mr Ward and Mr McMullen were told to drive to Mr Ward's house and wait until 11pm before calling police. Northern Ireland's chief constable, Hugh Orde, has blamed the IRA for the robbery. Sinn Féin denies IRA involvement. The IRA last night officially denied being behind the robbery. A statement said: "We were not involved." Both the British and Irish governments said this week they were "100% confident" the IRA was responsible and had caused serious damage to the political process. Last week, the Irish justice minister Michael McDowell detailed what he described as the IRA's lengthy track record of deny ing bombings and deadly bank robberies before later admitting they were responsible. Mr Ward said: "[The media] don't say it directly but there is an insinuation that because I am a west Belfast Catholic that I must have been part of the robbery. These stories have been deeply upsetting." Northern Bank confirmed yesterday that all 40 staff at the Belfast cash centre would be transferred to other branches. The staff were being relocated for their own safety and security, not because they were suspected of any involvement. Northern Bank denied a claim by Mr Ward that substantially more than £26.5m was taken from the bank. At least £10m of the haul is now known to be untraceable. No money has been recovered and no arrests have been made. The Northern Ireland secretary, Paul Murphy, and the Irish foreign affairs minister, Dermot Ahern, this week ruled out any immediate political sanctions against Sinn Féin but said sanctions could be considered after the Independent Monitoring Commission, which looks into paramilitary activity, had published its next report.