Danielle Jones was not a streetwise teenager. She was shy with strangers and in some ways younger than her 15 years; "a homebody", her parents Linda and Tony recall.They had no idea that the naive schoolgirl was being harassed and probably abused by her uncle, Stuart Campbell, who had been part of the family since meeting Tony's sister Debbie in 1982. The couple had their first child last year, a month after Campbell was first arrested for murdering his niece.Nor did Linda and Tony know that their brother-in-law had abducted a teenager close to their home in East Tilbury in 1990. He walked free from court because he had been on remand for months and pleaded guilty, but told the family he had been acquitted.He was a practised liar. When he first met Debbie he was calling himself Stuart Sharkey and was already married, with a young daughter. His first wife, Jennifer, eventually divorced him shortly before his marriage to Debbie in 1996. It is no coincidence that Campbell began to take an interest in Danielle four years later, when she turned 15 - the age both his wives were when he met them. He spent hours browsing incest and paedophilia websites, particularly those featuring teenagers. And for almost two decades he picked up young girls on the street, claiming to be a photographer, and coaxed them into posing in lingerie. They were too ashamed to report him. Unaware of his obsession with teenagers, Linda and Tony were pleased when he began to befriend Danielle and offer her lifts home from school. "It seemed to be just an uncle taking a real interest in his niece," said Detective Superintendent Peter Coltman, who led the investigation. "It gradually developed and went far beyond what was appropriate or normal. "[But] he did not do it openly or in such a way as to raise suspicions."As Campbell drew her in, the tone of the relationship changed. Danielle, naive and sexually inexperienced, must have been confused and perhaps flattered by her uncle's attention. He looked younger than his 43 years and could be charming; she showed friends his text messages - such as "Hi, sexy legs" - and sent risqué replies.  Campbell's fixation with Danielle had gone far beyond his fascination with other young girls. He kept a diary recording every meeting they had and the texts or phone calls they exchanged. There was also a strange incident in April, when he brought Danielle home saying she had fainted suddenly. The schoolgirl told her mother "it felt like I was being strangled" and the next day Linda noticed purple marks on her neck. By May, the schoolgirl had stopped returning his phone calls and would groan when he turned up to meet her from school. Her parents had also become concerned and Tony had even noticed Campbell touching Danielle's bottom. But the couple had no idea how far matters had gone, and were worried about distressing Debbie, who was by now heavily pregnant.  Even so, when Danielle went missing, Tony called at Campbell's house in case she was there. No one answered the door, but he spotted a camera tripod in the sitting room. It appeared that Campbell had engaged in another photography session.Danielle's friends had been bombarding her with text messages and calls because of her failure to arrive at school. None were answered. By the evening, her parents had called the police, and relatives and friends were driving around the area in the hope of spotting her. Campbell called Linda to reassure her that Danielle would be home by nightfall. He did not help with the search.By Thursday, three days later, the police were convinced the teenager had been abducted, almost certainly by Campbell. Her disappearance was out of character; there had been no sightings of her; and they knew of her uncle's conviction. "The circumstances of Danielle's disappearance did not suggest that this investigation would have anything other than a tragic ending," said DS Coltman.They arrested Campbell that Saturday on suspicion of abducting his niece, but after two days of questioning released him on bail. In August he was rearrested on suspicion of murder, and bailed until November after being charged with unrelated offences. But while detectives painstakingly gathered evidence, talking to witnesses and searching Campbell's home on Meadow Road, it was the builder himself who sealed the prosecution case in his clumsy attempt to avert suspicion. The police's decision to charge him with murder was partly prompted by the text messages which he claimed Danielle had sent him following her disappearance, implying she had run away.But she had not contacted anyone else; they were not written in her usual style; and records showed her mobile was close to Campbell's when they were sent. Without that evidence he might have walked free yesterday. But as he begins his long sentence, the family - his wife Debbie, who has reluctantly stood beside him; his one-year-old son; and Danielle's parents and brothers - must now find a way of carrying on with their lives. · A longer version of this article will be published in Friday's Guardian