The year is only a week old and already, depressingly, three youngsters are victims of fatal stabbings. Their stories have topped the BBC and Sky broadcasts, they have made the national papers and when I have been out in recent days, people have talked about how sad and terrible it is.Over on Labourhome, an article has been written about knife and gun crime, the author of which has called for thousands more police, more stop and search, 10-year and 20-year sentences respectively for knife and gun possession, full life sentences for all murderers and the building of more prisons.Of course I'm surprised to see such demands expressed on a Labour grassroots website, as it sounds like a recipe for a police state, but it reflects a comfortable attitude, perpetuated by much of the media - and I'm sad to say the government too from time to time - that portrays criminals as distinct from the rest of the population, as though there is a wall between us and them.Every time I hear a minister mention "hard-working families" I want to groan. They imply the existence of another kind of family that has no value and which should be dealt with. It's as though they live in a fantasy world where normal people obey all laws, always work at 100% and raise their children to be upstanding citizens, the flip side of the coin being a seditious underclass cheating on benefits, handling stolen goods, getting into fights in pubs and raising children to be in gangs.There was a period as a teenager in East London when I carried a knife because I felt insecure and worried that I might find myself in a tight spot and need it. Yes it was stupid of me and I still remember the bollocking I got from my dad when he found it on me - but however flawed, there was a reason why I was carrying it for that short period. Not long before then, a boy in my local park lost his eye to a claw hammer in a gang fight over a girl. I'm very lucky that I didn't ever use that knife in a tight spot or my life might be very different today.Tougher sentencing is not necessarily the answer and a lot of thought needs to be given to why gangs form in the first place. I attended a Community Cohesion conference in Ilford before Christmas and someone there had brought along teenagers from a local pupil referral unit - all of whom had been in some trouble at some time. Despite how I had felt as a youngster, the way these young people described their experience of life shocked me. They lived their lives by postcode area, where the difference between IG1 and IG6 was a beating. Going alone to Forest Gate, maybe a mile away, was considered suicidal.These young people are in gangs because it was the only way they feel safe. And yes, they did talk about how they treat with suspicion and aggression any young person they see in their postcode area who they don't recognise. This alien world exists in parallel with our own but is rarely shown to us. Is it any wonder that under this pressure a boy or girl might start carrying a knife?I spent some time in Liverpool West Derby last summer, before the child Rhys Jones was so tragically shot dead by what is suspected to be a teenager from a gang, and I spoke to some of the young people up there, who were mostly amused by what I think is a very mild East London accent. In their world, the sweetshops and off-licences are barricaded with reinforced Plexiglass to protect the staff from armed robbers. In their world, they wear black so the local gangs won't see them as an outsider - but they then get treated like animals by the police.Having a police officer pull up in his car, roll down his window and shout out, "turn out your pockets and show us your drugs you cunt", may not actually happen - but the youngsters up there think it does - and the police don't act in a way to disabuse this notion. According to one former police office who spoke to me, the police in Liverpool is rife with Freemasonry, and in a place where being "on the square" might get you off a drunk-driving charge, why should those who will never be invited to become Freemasons have any faith in the law?I met a guy who had spent 30 years trying to shake off the criminal past he got as a young man in Liverpool in the 1970s. He described to me a community where being in trouble with the law or going to prison was no deterrent but considered to be a fact of life. And in such a place, where the law is the enemy, wouldn't a bit of minor benefit fraud seem so much more justifiable - or even honourable - than armed robbery or prostitution?This is the society we risk breeding if we are so focused on being tough on crime that we forget to prioritise the causes of crime. Putting increasing numbers of people into prison will reduce the deterrent of prison in the first place. All of us are capable of committing all sorts of crimes and being a properly bad person is rarely the reason for doing so. Often poor education or mental acuity are greater factors, or drug addiction, or mental illness - sometimes just bad luck or circumstance.In a country where we rightly have rejected the death penalty, life does mean life for the most dangerous of criminals - but so we can have a sanction to ensure good behaviour in prison from less dangerous convicts, all other sentences must be of grades less than the term of one's natural life. If all murderers got our ultimate sanction then there would be nothing to stop them murdering prisoners or prison officers while incarcerated - and we have a duty to protect those people as much as those outside prison walls.But imprisoning people for small crimes or for longer than necessary harms us all. One of the perversities of prison life is that you get the same punishment for having evidence of any drug found in your urine. However, due to the time it takes to metabolise the chemicals, cannabis remains in your system far longer than heroin, so a number of young people go into prison as cannabis users and come out as heroin addicts. There are tales told of low security prisons where drugs are smuggled out rather than in because they are less available and thereby attract a better price in the nearest town than in the prison itself.People in prison for the first time gain an induction into criminal life and make criminal contacts. People become drug addicts in prison. Some people get raped and dehumanised in prison. Some people commit suicide in prison. So putting someone inside for 12 months for benefit fraud or shoplifting or for using a stolen credit card probably is no more of a deterrent than a four to six-month imprisonment, yet risks turning a criminal of circumstance into a career criminal, which does nothing but harm to the safety of those apocryphal "hard-working families".But the agenda for building more prisons and putting more people in them for longer is led by the Labour government itself, fearful of 150,000 swing voters in marginal constituencies who decide who runs the country.The "them and us" attitude is as harmful when an underclass perceives the elite and its police force as the enemy as it is when the so-called hard working families perceive the underclass as a threat. It is this divisiveness that allows "normal" people to justify their drink-driving or speeding as not really being crimes and to rail against speed cameras when road deaths are by far the greatest single cause of avoidable death in this country.There's every possibility that in reading this, I come across as a dangerously weak liberal but I do agree with locking up those who are a danger to the public for as long as it takes to protect the public - regardless of how many prison places this requires. There are crimes for which I would like to see tougher sentences - for supplying weapons to young people for a start. I'd like to see corporate manslaughter taken as seriously as any other kind of manslaughter. I would like to see men who use vulnerable prostitutes under the age of 20 or addicted to drugs charged as rapists.There are always arguments to be had over the balancing of sentencing for different crimes but our criminal justice system is antiquated and inefficient and at its root began as a system for protecting nobles, monarchs and bishops, when punishment and deterrent were its only purposes. If rehabilitation, restoration and public protection are truly also aims of the system, then perhaps we would be better off spending a good couple of years asking the public what they expect of the system and then rebuilding the whole thing from scratch.The fact is, we have 14,000 extra police officers since 1997 and PCSOs backing them up on the streets. The independent British Crime Survey says violent crime is down 34% since 1997. But we didn't have 24-hour rolling news media in 1997, with its insatiable hunger for lurid stories. This idea that the nation is becoming a more violent place and that our youngsters face oblivion is simply Tory election propaganda and if we are to protect children like Rhys Jones we have to break down the barriers in our society, not build them up higher.