For seven years a savage unsolved murder has haunted the west Cork "Riviera", Ireland's most exclusive celebrity hideaway, the summer retreat of Jeremy Irons, Daniel Day Lewis and David Puttnam.Now, by bringing an extraordinary libel case which has gripped Ireland and France for the past 10 days, a freelance journalist who reported the murder only to become its chief suspect has in effect put himself in the dock by suing eight newspapers to clear his name. Sophie Toscan du Plantier, an upper-class French documentary maker, was found in her nightdress and boots in the lane to her farmhouse in Schull two days before Christmas 1996. She had been bludgeoned to death. Her husband, the film producer Daniel Toscan du Plantier, believes a "devil" still lurks among the expatriate bohemians in the hills of west Cork. Ian Bailey, an English poet and sometime journalist, was one of the first on the crime scene. He filed stories for English, French and Irish newspapers. Weeks later he was arrested on suspicion of murder. He was questioned twice but was not charged; nor was anyone else. After his arrest, he spoke to several journalists, and subsequent articles suggested that he had been seen washing his Wellington boots in a nearby stream on the morning the body was found. It was also said that he had scratches on his face, a history of violence towards women, and had been seen burning his clothes - which he claimed were covered in turkey blood. Mr Bailey said this was "trial by media", and claimed that he had been ostracised and deprived of his career. Judge Patrick Moran reserved judgment yesterday after a 10-day hearing at Cork circuit court during which he repeatedly warned that the case was in danger of turning into a murder trial when the defendant newspapers offered explicit details of Mr Bailey's "savage" domestic violence and witnesses said he had confessed to the murder at least twice. Mr Bailey, 46, told the court that he had only been joking about rumours that he had killed Toscan du Plantier. He sued the Sun, the Mirror, the Star, the Independent on Sunday, the Times, The Sunday Times, the Daily Telegraph and the Sunday Independent. If he wins he stands to gain about £200,000 in damages. He said he had moved to Ireland to "refocus" after becoming disillusioned with life in Britain. He would often get up at night to write and think, and on the night of the murder he had looked out across Roaring Water Bay and sensed that "something terrible" was about to happen. Paul Gallagher, defending the newspapers, said Mr Bailey was a violent man who had subjected his partner, Jules Thomas, a Welsh landscape artist, to three bloody attacks and recorded them in his diary, referring to himself as a "crazed beast" and an "animal on two feet" who had wanted to kill her. Mr Bailey told the court that the diaries were a form of abstract poetry and that he had been drunk when he attacked Ms Thomas, including once when he was on crutches. She said the assaults had been exaggerated in court and her suffering from the newspaper articles about Mr Bailey was "a million times worse than any of the beatings". She said a statement she had made to the police that Mr Bailey had left her bed on the night of the murder and come back with a raw gash on his forehead was "incorrect", and had been made under pressure. But Malachi Reed, then aged 14, told the court that he had asked Mr Bailey how he was feeling shortly after his arrest, and the journalist had replied: "Fine, till I went up there and bashed her brains in with a rock." A neighbour, Ritchie Shelley, said that after a drunken New Year's Eve party two years later Mr Bailey broke down and told him: "I did it. I did it ... I went too far." Bill Fuller, a former friend, said Mr Bailey had spoken of himself in the second person saying: "No you did it. You saw her in the Spar on Saturday; you saw her walking up the aisle with her tight arse. You fancied her and went up there to see what you could get. She ran away screaming and you chased her ... you went too far. You had to finish her off." Mr Bailey said this was a fiction. Marie Farrell, a local shopkeeper, told the police that she had seen Mr Bailey a mile away from Toscan du Plantier's house on the morning of the murder, adding that after Mr Bailey had cashed a £25 cheque for a story he wrote about the murder he said: "There is no money in knocking people off." She said she had been intimidated by Mr Bailey after making a statement to the police. Mr Bailey's counsel, James Duggan, said his client was "not a saint" but the articles about him had been "spiced up and sexed up". The newspapers said the case should be dismissed as Mr Bailey's evidence was "wholly and utterly unreliable". Judgment will be given on January 9.