A partner at one of Britain's biggest law firms stabbed his "vivacious" wife to death days after learning of her affair with a family friend, a court heard yesterday.Christopher Lumsden, 51, killed his 53-year-old wife, Alison, by repeatedly thrusting a kitchen knife into her neck, face and back at their home in Altrincham, Cheshire. Five days before the incident she had told him she was in a relationship with a family friend, Roger Flint, who she met at the tennis club. She had dined with Mr Flint a few hours before her death.Charles Chruszcz QC, prosecuting, told a jury of seven women and five men that Mr Lumsden, the managing partner of Pinsent Biddle solicitors in Manchester, was "a deeply upset man, an angry and frustrated man, killing his wife in rage".The court heard that a pathologist had found 30 stab wounds on her body. Mr Lumsden accepts killing his wife but denies murder. His defence claim he was suffering from a "severe depressive illness" and that he "had an abnormality of mind".The couple met in London in the 1970s when he was a City solicitor and she worked for the auctioneers Sotheby's. Their two children are in their late teens. The pair would often entertain at their home, enjoyed playing bridge and were keen on sport. "The marriage was successful and happy, and had been for many years," Mr Chruszcz said. "Things changed in 2004. Christopher Lumsden was diagnosed as having a muscle wasting disease in his back. At about the time of the diagnosis things changed between Christopher and Alison. They moved into separate rooms. He didn't participate in social events with her. She would go out more on her own."Mrs Lumsden grew close to Mr Flint. They frequently met for lunch and, sometimes, at his office. On March 11 she told her husband she had met someone else and wanted a divorce.The prosecution said that while he initially accepted the position it soon became clear he was agitated. He prepared documents, which police recovered from his briefcase, about what should happen in the event of his death or mental incapacity. Handwritten notes on a typed document stated his wife should be excluded from his will.On the day of her death, March 16, Mrs Lumsden met Mr Flint for dinner. They left the restaurant at 10.25pm and drove home separately. Fifteen minutes later Mr Lumsden called his sister, Elizabeth Richards, to say he had killed his wife.Mrs Richards told the court she found her brother sitting in the hallway in blood-spattered pyjamas. "He was like a zombie," she said. "He was incoherent. He was shaking and extremely distressed. He told me Alison was going to leave him because she couldn't remain married to a cripple."Mr Flint, who was also married and had two grown up children, told the court: "Alison spoke of how unhappy she was, how he took no interest in what she did or where she went."According to a police surgeon who examined him, Mr Lumsden was "distraught" following his arrest on suspicion of murder. But psychiatrists who interviewed him were content he was mentally fit.The case continues.