Ruth Ellis, the last woman to be hanged in Britain, was rightly convicted of murder under the law at the time of her court case, and a posthumous appeal by her sister was "without merit", three senior judges ruled yesterday.The judges threw out the appeal by 81-year-old Muriel Jakubait on behalf of her sister, launched nearly 50 years after Ellis murdered her lover, David Blakely, in 1955. They criticised the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the independent body that filters alleged miscarriages of justice and refers those deemed to merit reopening to the court of appeal. Lord Justice Kay said: "We have to question whether this exercise of considering an appeal so long after the event, when Mrs Ellis herself had consciously and deliberately chosen not to appeal at the time, is a sensible use of the limited resources of the court of appeal." He added: "On any view, Mrs Ellis had committed a serious criminal offence. This case is, therefore, quite different from a case like that of James Hanratty, where the issue was whether a wholly innocent person had been convicted of murder." Michael Mansfield QC, for Mrs Jakubait, had argued that Ellis suffered from "battered woman syndrome", and had asked the judges to quash the murder conviction and substitute a verdict of manslaughter. Under current law, murder can be reduced to manslaughter on the grounds of either provocation or diminished responsibility. However, provocation was strictly interpreted at the time and the diminished responsibility defence was enacted only in 1957, partly as a result of Ellis's case. The 28-year-old nightclub hostess was hanged in 1955, 13 weeks after she shot and killed Blakely, a racing driver, as he left a pub in north London. The trial judge, Sir Cecil Havers, father of the current president of the family division, Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, refused to allow the defence of provocation to go to the jury. The appeal judges ruled that for the provocation defence to succeed it had to be proved that Ellis was subjected to an immediate affront and all her normal self-control had been lost. Lord Justice Kay said: "Under the law at the date of the trial, the judge was right to withdraw the defence of provocation from the jury and the appeal must fail. "If her crime were committed today, we think it likely that there would have been an issue of diminished responsibility for the jury to decide. But we are in no position to judge what the jury's response to such an issue might be." Mrs Jakubait said after the ruling: "I can't believe it after all these years. The whole thing seems very unfair and I am never going to give up over this until I am taken from this earth. Ruth always said she hoped the truth would come out one day and now I hope to do something about all the lies that have been written about her." She said she was working on a book, Ruth Ellis, The Untold Story, which she hoped would be published next year.