I am sitting deep in one of the most secure sites on earth - certainly among the safest in Britain - a place that ranks alongside Saddam's bombproof bunker, Fort Knox, the officially non-existent military base known as Area 51, America's Cheyenne Mountain Operations Centre and Air Force One, according to an assessment by Focus magazine. Unlike most of Focus's top 10 sites, this one is on the UK mainland. It's in Derby, and it's a car park. To be precise, it is the Bold Lane public car park, a 440-bay facility in the city centre which is, compared to the nearby Chapel Street car park, say, or the Phoenix Street secure car park, a positive Alcatraz.It was actually built in 1963, but it became the first Parksafe car park in the world six years ago, and there has not been an incident of theft or vandalism since. It doesn't look like much as you approach it via Derby's one-way system, but then car parks never do. The only unusual thing about the Bold Lane car park from the outside is the sign by the ticket machine that says, "Follow Parksafe's four steps and we will guarantee your vehicle from theft of, or theft from, while SECURED in this car park." After you take your ticket, a heavy iron gate draws aside and closes immediately behind you. Inside there is a large red button labelled Panic Alarm stuck on every pillar. This may be reassuring while you are actually in the car park, although it does make one rather apprehensive about the prospect of venturing into Derby. What sort of city is this? The Parksafe car park concept, of which the Bold Lane facility is the first example (there is now one in Lancaster), is the brainchild of 53-year-old engineer Ken Wigley, who happens to be on hand to greet the satellite trucks and radio reporters who have come to see his fortress of parking, to hear him explicate the four steps, to have him graciously waive the £1.20 charge for the first hour. He got the idea when his own car was stolen, from the local airport: "I'd better not say any more that that [he means East Midlands airport; it was 14 years ago]. I went to report it to the security guard, and he just pointed at the sign which said, 'You park your car at your own risk'. I thought, bollocks. We can do something about this." His answer was the Parksafe system, which cost £500,000 to set up in Bold Lane. The entire perimeter of the car park is secure. The only way in or out is through the main gates or one of two pedestrian entrances. CCTV coverage is extensive, but the real innovations are the movement sensors under each bay. Once a bay is secured - you type in the bay number at one of the machines, then insert your ticket - any movement of the car will trigger an alarm. At the nerve centre downstairs they can lock down the car park, effectively sealing it off and trapping miscreants inside. They have had to do this only twice in the last six years. This was a horrific car park, says Aaron from Parksafe, also conveniently on hand. The year before Parksafe took over there were 178 incidents reported. And they say that for every one reported, three go unreported. All this added security costs the city-centre shopper (there are a few here today, dodging the camera crews). They pay about 20p more per hour than at other city-centre car parks. "We've saved the police an enormous amount of money," says Mark, the security guard. "They used to be in and out of here every night. All the vagrants have disappeared. All the skateboarders, all the boy racers - they've all disappeared because we won't tolerate it." This confidence means Parksafe can guarantee followers of the four steps system (valuables in boot; vehicle locked; bay secured; ticket kept with you) against theft of or theft from. The only problem comes when you lose your ticket. "We take lost tickets very seriously," says Wigley. "We basically make you prove the vehicle is yours." The full charge levied against those who lose their tickets is a punishing £13.50, but Wigley says that those who have secured their bay properly are often given a break, simply because it is possible to prove when they parked. Nobody wants to reveal the exact arrangement that has been worked out between Parksafe and Derby council. Ken says that in this particular instance his company arranged the capital because it was a pilot scheme. The council still owns the building, but Parksafe runs things and they split the proceeds in some mutually advantageous proportions. It doesn't make sense to pry any further while these people have hold of my car.