Blind panic strips away perspective, so that every difficulty looks like an existential threat. The Home Office, and even more so its observers, are approaching such a state, as problem piles on problem. The impression is of a shapeless tangle of a crisis, from which there can be no escape. Yet just as the exhaustion of the body's adrenaline allows panic to abate, waning media interest could yet give the department the chance to separate its worries, and appraise each of them in a rational light. Many of the issues - such as Saturday's revelation about a handful of drug traffickers who may have travelled abroad - would then be seen as trifles, leaving other, deeper problems, such as overcrowded prisons, to be addressed.After Sunday's hysterical reporting of the unsurprising reality that compliance with the requirements of the sex offenders' register is somewhat less than 100%, the home secretary might have been expected to seek to steer towards more tranquil water. Instead, like Conrad's Captain MacWhirr, John Reid seems to believe in facing the storm. He said yesterday that further revelations should be expected, a signal which virtually guarantees that the journalistic frenzy will continue. He compared himself to a decorator, peeling off sheets of tatty wallpaper, and revealing deeper problems long covered up. Yet as he protested that putting his department right would require three more years with him in charge, he more closely resembled a mechanic who, when asked to change the spark plugs, sighs and tells his patron that the clutch, exhaust and steering all need costly work as well. For self-interest is one reading of his words, and it will remain so for as long as he continues to pass all responsibility for emerging blunders on to his officials.Mr Reid's job is a tough one: when Home Office slip-ups can leave dangerous men on the loose, they inevitably attract more outrage than errors in other departments. So he can hardly be blamed for wanting to avoid unnecessary flak. His political survival strategy, though, becomes problematic if it starts undermining the managerial one that might actually improve Home Office processes. Most of the problems, from last year's foreign prisoner release onwards, have reflected poor coordination between different parts of the criminal justice system. But putting that right will be harder, not easier, within a blame culture. (Last week Mr Reid briefly fell victim to this himself, when two judges made controversial decisions not to impose custodial sentences and then passed the buck his way.) Constant rubbishing of the department's quality could become self-fulfilling if it hinders recruitment and retention. And all the talk of a future Home Office that is fully fit for purpose risks setting the bar so high that confidence will never be restored.The other danger is that the tough talk and fire-fighting substitute for a badly needed overhaul of policies that have contributed to the malaise, foremost among them the rapid drift towards mass incarceration. Last Friday Rod Morgan resigned as chair of the Youth Justice Board because the increasing use of custody was crowding out other, more fruitful aspects of the work. Today a report from the chief prisons inspector will show the capacity of prisons to rehabilitate is being undermined by overcrowding, a problem that is pushing reoffending rates up. The biggest pressure on the prisons is the massive use being made of the new indefinite public protection sentences. Mr Reid insists that these were meant to be balanced by cuts in other terms, but that has not happened, and by ditching the "custody plus" scheme, under which non-dangerous offenders would get only a taste of jail, he surrendered one of the few instruments that might have helped to stem the rise. Whether the issue is running his struggling department or penal policy itself, Mr Reid now needs to show he can develop an approach that goes beyond the blame game.