With two weeks to go before the sixth anniversary of Stephen Lawrence's death, the five young men accused but never convicted of his racist murder put their claims of innocence to the public yesterday in a series of entirely unconvincing television interviews. After so many years of pleading serious amnesia about the events of April 22, 1993, their much-hyped performances again repeated the mantra that they used when giving their evasive evidence to the public inquiry last year: "I can't remember." If the interviewer, Martin Bashir, had any expectations of denting their alibis he was quickly disabused. While they all admitted embarrassment at the gross racism captured on a hidden police video, and Gary Dobson even apologised, the five portrayed themselves throughout as misrepresented innocents. "We've never pretended to be angels," Dobson says. "So were you a group of little bastards on the estate?" Bashir asks. "Yeah," Dobson replies. "Rascals, loveable rogues."  When confronted with his remarks about wanting "to skin the black cunt alive mate, torture him, set him alight", a pained David Norris says: "At the beginning of that, Martin, it says if I was going to kill myself. Now to me, talking like that is a sign of a very depressed and disturbed young man." Neil Acourt still insisted he was not a racist, even after rehearing his own words: "I reckon that every nigger should be chopped up mate and they should be left with nothing but fucking stumps." Was that not a racist view, Bashir inquires. "That's banter," Neil shrugged. It was that sort of casual, dismissive remark, so familiar during the public inquiry, that probably has done even more public damage to these youths' reputation. Norris' father is serving nine years for drugs importation and possession of firearms. He also had a reputation for intimidating witnesses and tried to bribe another youth to retract his evidence against David when he was charged with a stabbing a month before Stephen's death. But here he claims that his mum was the one to keep him on the straight and narrow. "My mother would certainly not let me hang around with people that was known to use knives." Yet Bashir never puts to him the evidence of the video where Neil Acourt is repeatedly shown prancing about with a large knife and giving his mates lessons in how to stab someone. Neil Acourt had a simple explanation: "I think all teenagers go through that phase ... It's just messing about." All five were asked if they had been involved in Stephen's murder. In the public's eye, Neil Acourt, racist and knife-carrier, was at the murder scene, Bashir suggests. "It doesn't ring like that to me. It's just completely ... it's not like that at all." "I am completely innocent and there is no evidence, not one piece of evidence to say I was there," says Luke Knight who was picked out at an identity parade. "The reason you couldn't remember the Stephen Lawrence murder was because you were guilty," Bashir says to Norris. "That's fair enough," he says."You're entitled to your opinion and 99 per cent of this country in my opinion believe the same thing, Martin. But as long as I know in my heart the truth, that's all that counts in my opinion." Not surprisingly Dobson had a similar response. "Well that's your opinion." Jamie Acourt is even more blunt. "Here's an individual with a reputation," Bashir says, "who's carried knives previously  Who's to say you weren't carrying a knife of the 22nd of April 1993 when Stephen Lawrence was murdered?" Jamies Acourt: "Me." In one of the oddest sequences Norris suddenly remembers for apparently the first time some of things he was doing in the two weeks following the murder. That has always been a mystery. Now, he says, prompted suddenly by his mother, he must have been staying with his girlfriend. "I've been racking my brains since the inquiry to come here because I knew I was going on telly obviously."