Damilola Taylor's father yesterday criticised the sentencing of his son's killers after it emerged that the two teenage brothers could leave prison within three years, despite probation reports which state they pose a "high risk of harm to others".Danny Preddie and his older brother Ricky were just 12 and 13 when they accosted their 10-year-old victim as he walked home from primary school in south London six years ago.A court heard yesterday that they have never shown remorse or regret for killing the schoolboy, who was stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle and left to bleed to death from a severed artery.Under complex sentencing guidelines which take into account the fact that no one is sure who inflicted the injury, and their ages at the time, Mr Justice Goldring jailed both boys for eight years yesterday for manslaughter. He said they should serve at least half that term; but with the time they have served on remand taken into account they could be let out in less than three years.Speaking outside the Old Bailey, Richard Taylor, Damilola's father, criticised the eight-year sentences and questioned whether they would act as a deterrent to other potential criminals.Mr Taylor, who has campaigned since his son's death to reduce knife and gun crime in Britain, said: "With the spate of recent stabbings and shootings by young people for whom carrying a weapon has become an accepted norm, we believe Damilola's [killing] reflects a crisis within our communities that is now out of control."Both brothers were handcuffed in the dock yesterday in case they turned violent. But they remained silent as sentence was passed. In the public gallery, their mother, Marion Johnson, sunk her head into her hands. As he was led down to the cells, Ricky Preddie held his cuffed hands up in salute to her, while from the public gallery a family friend shouted abuse at the judge. Both boys were members of a street gang in Peckham, south London, when they attacked Damilola, almost certainly while in the company of several other members of their gang.They have lengthy criminal convictions and an assessment of the scale of the risk they pose to the public was revealed in extracts from probation and pre-sentencing reports on the pair.A probation report on Danny Preddie, now 18, said he "poses a high risk of harm to others". Another pre-sentence report stated that the teenager, who has been in detention constantly from the age of 15 except for one four-month period, displayed "an entrenched pattern of violent offending". Probation reports on Ricky Preddie also stated he posed "a high risk of harm to others".The Preddies were convicted this summer, six years after Damilola's death, following three trials and two police investigations.Failures in the government-run forensic science service meant vital evidence was not available to the first police murder squad. It was only when hundreds of items were resubmitted to a private forensic laboratory that spots of Damilola's blood were discovered on the cuff of Ricky Preddie's sweatshirt, and on Danny Preddie's trainer.An inquiry into the failures has been set up by the government.Standing alongside his wife, Gloria, and Damilola's older brother, Tunde, Mr Taylor said: "From the outset this case has been a catalogue of failures - failure by the system to keep young people in school and off the streets, failure to prevent them from committing crime and failure by their mentors to give good direction and failure by the authorities to catch them sooner."He acknowledged that the police and the government are attempting to address the problem of youth crime, but said not enough was being done long-term."My family and I will continue to work tirelessly to ensure Damilola's death is not in vain ... We must continue to be intolerant of violent behaviour, particularly amongst the young people, for the future safety of our children."Danny and Ricky Preddie were leading members of the street gang, which targeted young children on their way home from school and threatened them with violence before stealing their mobile phones and other possessions.Detective Superintendent Nick Ephgrave, who led the second murder inquiry and spent months reviewing the evidence, said that what happened to Damilola was an extreme form of bullying. "This was bullying with the use of indiscriminate violence against young and vulnerable children which is seen not just as acceptable but part of the fun. It grieves me to live in a world where this happens," Det Supt Ephgrave said.At a previous trial the Preddies were acquitted of murder and assault with intent to commit grievous bodily harm, all of which contributed to the sentence passed yesterday.Mr Justice Goldring said: "I cannot sentence on the basis of an intention to kill or cause really serious injury. You must be sentenced on the basis you intended to cause some injury to Damilola. That means a life sentence cannot in the circumstances be passed."He said the climate of public concern over street crime had to be addressed. "The public is gravely concerned by gang violence, sometimes involving very young people." said the judge. "There can be no better demonstration of the public's concern than the interest in this case."Justice delayed2000November 27 Damilola Taylor, 10, bleeds to death from horrific wounds inflicted with a broken beer bottle.2001June 26 Four boys, one aged 14, two aged 15 and one 16, are arrested and charged with Damilola's murder.2002January 30 The trial, the first of three, begins at the Old Bailey. It starts to fall apart after evidence from the key witness, a 14-year-old girl, is thrown out by the trial judge amid concerns it is unreliable. All four defendants are later cleared.April 25 Two reports into the handling of the case are announced. The director of public prosecutions, David Calvert-Smith QC, will carry out a review of the way the Crown Prosecution Service handled the case. Scotland Yard commissioner Sir John Stevens asks Bishop John Sentamu to chair an oversight panel into how police dealt with their young star witness.December 9 Bishop Sentamu's report is published. A total of 23 recommendations are made in relation to the police, criminal justice system and Prison Service. The second report also highlights weaknesses but says the decision to try the case was "the right thing to do".2005January 6 Three teenagers are charged with Damilola's murder. Hassan Jihad, an unemployed 19-year-old from Peckham, and two brothers aged 16 and 17, both from south London, all plead not guilty.2006April 3 Hassan Jihad, now 20, is cleared of murder.April 4 Jurors clear the other two defendants, the teenage brothers, of murder, but are unable to reach verdicts on manslaughter.April 6 The Crown Prosecution Service announces the brothers are to be retried on manslaughter charges. It will be the third trial in connection with Damilola's death.May 18 The teenager brothers are named publicly for the first time as Danny and Ricky Preddie, from Peckham, south London. Mr Justice Goldring confirms there is no legal reason why they cannot be identified, as Danny has now reached his 18th birthday and can therefore be named in court proceedings.June 23 The jury is sworn in at the Old Bailey and the manslaughter trial of the two brothers begins. They deny the charge.August 9 Almost six years after Damilola's death, Danny and Ricky Preddie, now aged 18 and 19, are found guilty of manslaughter.He said once released both boys would be on licence. If they committed any further offences they would be recalled to custody and if those crimes were serious they would almost certainly be sentenced to life in prison.