The Metropolitan police today said they had "no choice" but to carry out the anti-terror raid that led to a man being shot.Assistant Commissioner Andy Hayman, the force's head of specialist operations, said police had been given "specific intelligence" about the address in Forest Gate, east London.He would not disclose what the information related to, when it had been received or whether it had originated from the police or the security services."It is very important that I emphasise the police did receive specific intelligence," he said. "We were left with no choice but to act upon that intelligence. Public safety was our top priority."The BBC today reported that police had today resumed their search for a chemical device that intelligence suggested might be at the house, in Lansdown Road.Mohammed Abdul Kahar, 23, and his 20-year-old brother, Abdul Koyair, were arrested in the raid. Earlier today, Mr Kahar's solicitor said police had shot his client without warning and at close range.Some recent reports claimed Mr Koyair had fired the gun, but Kate Roxburgh, representing Mr Kahar, said: "The police came up the stairs towards him and shot at close range."There was no warning and no scuffle ... there was no question of his brother having fired the shot." Mr Kyair had been standing behind Mr Kahar, making it impossible for him to have fired the shot, she said.The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) has launched an investigation into the shooting. A Metropolitan police statement said only that a 23-year-old man had received a gunshot wound.According to a report in the Times, the officer involved in Mr Kahar's shooting told independent investigators he did not deliberately fire the shot. The report said the officer claimed his gun had gone off during a struggle on the staircase.Ms Roxburgh said a doctor had examined Mr Kahar this morning, but that her client was not yet well enough to be interviewed by detectives at Paddington Green police station.She said there would be another medical assessment later today to determine whether he was fit enough to be interviewed tonight."I imagine he will find this very frustrating," she said. "He wants to get on with it. He wants to be interviewed."He is very anti-terrorism. He is very keen on police pursuing their inquiries, but obviously he is not happy that they have focused on him."She said her client was in a lot of pain and was taking strong painkillers. "He is finding it very difficult to sleep," she added. "He is in considerable discomfort, and he has been complaining of nausea. He has suffered quite badly from this."Mr Kahar was transferred from the Royal London Hospital, in east London, to Paddington Green high security police station yesterday. Mr Koyair, who is in custody at the same police station, has been interviewed by detectives. The Metropolitan police have been given permission to hold both men until Wednesday.His solicitor, Julian Young, said he already been interviewed three times, but that no specific allegations had been put to him. He said that his client had not been questioned so far today."I have not had any further disclosures from the police," he added. "Obviously, I am anxious that the matters be progressed as swiftly as possible and as expeditiously and as diligently as is appropriate in the circumstances."He is not very happy at being in custody, but understands that the police have a job to do."Muslims living in the Forest Gate area were today seeking reassurances that the raid had not been carried out on the basis of flimsy evidence. The secretary-general of the Muslim Council of Britain, Dr Muhammad Abdul Bari, will visit Forest Gate to talk to young residents tonight. "It is the interest of all of us that trust is maintained and that, if mistakes have been made by the police, they are acknowledged and steps taken to rebuild relationships," he said.His call came as the government backed the police's actions. "I have talked in the past about the very real nature of the threat that we face," an official spokesman for the prime minister, Tony Blair, said."That's why the police have our full support in carrying out their duties."