The scale of violence against children has been revealed in new figures which show that in England an average 58 youngsters a day are being admitted to hospital after being deliberately injured. The numbers, contained in National Health Service data, suggest that the incidence of intentional harm against children may be rising. Five years ago some 16,600 were counted as having suffered deliberate harm, but the figure rose to 21,859 last year.These figures, which show the numbers admitted to English hospitals with a deliberate injury, do not include those who are taken to casualty departments but then sent home, or who die as a result of the harm. Most of the children diagnosed with injuries are babies and toddlers, who are particularly vulnerable to violence from parents or carers.For doctors, the situation is intensely difficult as they have to explain to parents why they are carrying out investigations on a child who has what appears to be suspicious fractures or burns. Now the NSPCC has begun to work with experts at Cardiff University to help staff to differentiate between accidental and deliberate burns. They have produced images showing the difference, such as a toddler accidentally knocking a pan of water over themselves, and the telltale marks of cigarette burns or deliberate scalds. It is thought that some 10 per cent of children in burns units are there as a result of deliberate harm.Alison Kemp, reader in child health at Cardiff University, said: 'The numbers are high, and it is very hard to know whether they are really rising or not, because of differences in the way data is collected. But it seems to me that the rates of injury are certainly not going down. We can say that these figures overall represent just the tip of the iceberg. They only include those who are actually admitted to a hospital, not the ones sent home.'Kemp said it was increasingly difficult to report child protection concerns because of worries that doctors could be accused of misdiagnosing abuse: 'You can imagine that this is one of the most difficult things to approach a parent with,' she said. 'No one wants to have that confrontation unless they are reasonably sure that something bad has been going on. But our ultimate responsibility is to children, so we have to find ways of making it easier to identify cases of deliberate harm.'Enid Hendry, director of training at the NSPCC, said: 'Deciding whether a child has been physically abused can be a complex decision. The guidance will help GPs, health visitors and social workers to diagnose with more confidence whether an injury is accidental or abusive, based on current scientific evidence.'The government announced recently that it will be monitoring the level of hospital admissions involving unintentional and deliberate injuries to children and young people as part of a new set of agreements aimed at improving children's safety. A report from the National Children's Bureau warned last year that some children are being discharged from casualty departments and allowed to go home despite suspicious injuries such as a black eye or broken arm because they are not identified as being at risk.Some hospitals do not have dedicated teams of children's social workers, even though this is officially recommended, making it much harder to investigate suspicious cases at an early stage.Changes in child protection were brought in after the murder of eight-year-old Victoria Climbié, who died with 128 injuries on her body inflicted by her great-aunt Marie-Therese Kouao and Kouao's boyfriend, Carl Manning, in 2000, with local safeguarding boards comprising NHS, police and local authority representatives being set up to improve monitoring. However, there is concern that much of the abuse is still not being investigated.