There is nothing to mark the spot on the notorious North Peckham Estate where Damilola Taylor died.Parts of it are now like a ghost town and buildings are being demolished as quickly as possible, almost as if the memory of what happened could be wiped away by the bulldozers. On menacing aerial walkways, where gangs of teenagers used to roam, there is now nothing but broken glass, refuse, dead rats and graffiti where local gangs have left their mark. The deserted and ugly block called St Briavel's Court, where Damilola lived, echoes to the banging of workmen. The few youngsters who still come here have turned over the bins and urinated on the stairs, while broken beds litter balconies and old fridges are piled up on the ground. Just yards from where Damilola was found bleeding to death in a stairwell of a block off Blakes Road, bright red brick houses with gardens are being built. The demolition - or "regeneration" - is part of a £280m building project in Peckham that started in 1995. Since Damilola died 505 flats have been demolished and 156 new homes have been built, with a further 140 under construction.Workmen wearing protective gloves have removed thousands of hypodermic needles from the area. Politicians, including the prime minister, Tony Blair, have visited and wrung their hands at the state of lawlessness into which the place had sunk. But for some of those still living there little has changed. As four boys went on trial for Damilola's murder they were still waiting anxiously for letters telling them they had been re-housed. Social worker Alan Kabia, coordinator of the Peckham Positive Project advice centre at the top of the stairwell where Damilola was found, said that, despite the rhetoric, not much was different. "The sort of people who did this are still around in Peckham," he said. "Who knows if it could happen again - nothing has changed since Damilola died. Politicians and journalists come from all corners but it's still the same." He said there were dozens of families still living in buildings due for demolition, as well as an unknown number of squatters. "The problems have not gone away just because some troublemakers have gone: 40% of the people who lived here have been sent to neighbouring estates and you can see many of the same kids around". He went on: "People are still afraid, especially people who do night shifts. They will leave for work really early and then hang about at work until it is light so they can come home." David Richards of the SB Metro tenants' office, added: "It's nice to see the new buildings go up but the point is who you move into them. Maybe the wrong people will get moved in, and then you're in a murder zone again." Fasine Koroma, 18, who is studying at college and plays for a local football team, lives in a block earmarked for demolition. He said: "I have seen a few more policemen around but the muggings still happen, the violence is maybe not as serious as Damilola but it still goes on. I'm hoping we'll be moved soon because that would put your heart at rest." Janet Hawkins, who lives near the estate and walks her dog near St Briavel's Court, said: "I'll be glad to see it go - I would never go in there and I always tried to give it a wide berth. "The one time I did go in to the estate I got completely lost on the walkways and I was petrified, it was daytime but it was extremely intimidating." A few hundred yards away there are signs of hope for a better future at a youth centre renamed after Damilola. There were complaints from local residents that teenagers were dealing drugs outside and it took a visit by Mr Blair for the area around the club to be spruced up. Inside, youngsters are happily playing football in the same gym Damilola used to visit. Dominic Welch, 18, who was Damilola's football coach, said the future was brighter. "This session is called 'Mad About Football' and it's been going for about three or four weeks," he said. "Last week we had 20 newcomers on top of the 20 we had the week before. "Things are looking good and some of the promises that were made for Peckham are happening." After football the children have a discussion group that focuses on topics like respect for authority. The youngsters can also talk to a member of staff such as Dominic in private if necessary, about anything they want. "It could be about something that's happened out there," said Dominic looking out the window towards the estate. "Damilola used to enjoy it very much here. He was so enthusiastic about everything."Damilola is not discussed at the centre - there are children there who knew him but there are others who know the four boys who went on trial for his murder. Dominic said: "I think it had a big effect on the kids who knew Damilola. Now they are just trying to get on with things and as long as they are safe I think they will be all right." A football coach often sees the children home in the evening. "If something happens halfway home they can come back here - so far no one has and that's good," said Dominic.