Police chiefs will today tell the home secretary of the extra demands being placed on forces because of the arrival in Britain of hundreds of thousands of immigrants from eastern Europe.Jacqui Smith will discuss with top officers a report, first revealed by the Guardian, which dismisses talk that the new arrivals have caused a crime wave. The report, from the Association of Chief Police Officers, says new demands have been placed on forces, but immigrants are no more likely than other communities to offend.Peter Fahy, chief constable of Cheshire, who co-authored the study, said: "Migration has had a significant impact on UK communities in past years, but while this has led to new demands made on the police service, the evidence does not support theories of a large-scale crime wave generated through migration. "In fact, crime has been falling across the country over the past year. Cultural differences such as attitudes to offences like drink-driving may exist, but can be exaggerated. "The influx of eastern Europeans has created pressures on forces in some areas, including local rumour and misunderstandings fuelling tensions which police have had to be proactive in resolving, and leading to significant increases in spending on interpreters, which can also make investigations more complex." It is estimated that up to one million people from countries new to the EU have moved to the UK over the past four years. Figures released by the Home Office this year showed 796,000 eastern European immigrants had applied to work in Britain since Poland and seven other countries joined the EU. Police figures show crime fell by 9% in the year to September 2007. The report was not scheduled to be made public, but it may be after its main contents were publicised by news organisations.Julie Spence, who leads Cambridgeshire police, said immigration from eastern Europe had not caused a crime wave but it had put significant pressure on her force. "The growth in our population has brought about significant policing challenges, not least the amount of time and effort we put into dealing with offenders whose first language is not English."Similarly, looking after victims and witnesses and managing community tensions is substantially more complex now than three years ago."We currently deal with people from 93 different cultures speaking more than 100 different languages, which in itself highlights the challenges we face."The Acpo report suggests that video conferencing may cut translators' travel costs. Spence said: "We have seen an increase in specific offences such as motoring offences, sex trafficking and worker exploitation - a form of modern-day slavery. Our workload and its complexity is increasing. "Some parts of the country are no doubt unaffected by this. However, Cambridgeshire certainly is." The Press Association said it had seen part of the report telling of problems for UK police caused by east European authorities refusing to share intelligence about their nationals in Britain. It said: "At a neighbourhood, basic command unit and force level, access to accession-state intelligence is poor."