Racism faced by black and Asian probation officers from criminals has fallen sharply in the last three years, according to an investigation by the chief inspector of probation published today.But there has been little change in the racism they face from other sources, including colleagues, staff from other organisations, and the public. The report by Rod Morgan, chief inspector of probation, says that there has been a general improvement in race equality in the probation service, but that one in four minority ethnic staff still felt "isolated in their workplace". Professor Morgan, who is expected to be named today as chairman of the Youth Justice Board, said the probation service had become much more representative of the diverse communities it serves in the last three years. "This is a positive report overall. The service has made significant strides." But while the proportion of ethnic minority officers experiencing racism from offenders had fallen from 52% to 32% in the last three years, around 50% said they still experienced racism from probation officers, and staff from other sources. Liz Calderbank, assistant chief inspector of probation, said it was easier to deal with the overt racism of some offenders because they could be returned to court and possibly jailed, but racism from colleagues could be "more covert" and more difficult to tackle. The inquiry, a follow-up inspection of the National Probation Service to a highly critical report published in 2000, confirms that many black and Asian probation staff are worried that pursuing a complaint about discrimination will invite more victimisation or felt they will not be believed. "Some managers were regarded as effective when dealing with complaints of racism, others were not trusted or suspected of complacency and collusion." Tony Forde, an employment lawyer who has dealt with six such cases in the last 12 months, said: "I find it hard not to believe there exists an institutionally racist attitude to issues affecting staff of ethnic origin in the North of England and potentially nationally." In each of six cases he had handled, "there is an effort on the part of the service, first to dissuade those raising concerns, then there is a counter allegation, removal of the person who is complaining and finally an investigation into their conduct. This confrontational attitude means many employees of ethnic origin are unwilling to make a complaint in the first place, so it is almost impossible to guess the try scale of this problem." Prof Morgan said there was no national data on race discrimination grievances which would show whether the problem was widespread. Eithne Wallis, director-general of the National Probation Service, said she was glad the progress that had been made had been recognised, and the service would take the new findings of existing racism very seriously.