"You have a future," said Detective Chief Superintendent Neil Adamson of the Northumbria police in direct pleas to gunman Raoul Moat during several press conferences last week. The idea must have been to encourage him to believe that despite the devastation he had inflicted on his three alleged victims, one of whom was shot dead, all was not lost. There was still hope for "Mr Moat" if he gave himself up. The tactic failed.In fact the industrial scale of the operation mounted by the police in their search for Moat – reinforcements from 15 different forces, a mass of hi-tech firepower, armoured vehicles from Northern Ireland, assistance from the army and a Tornado jet kindly lent by the RAF – was matched only by the magnitude of its failure. After eight days on the run – most of which Moat evidently spent lurking in gardens, sleeping in spare rooms and strolling up the high street in Rothbury, the epicentre of the search area – and six hours of negotiations and a good Tasering, the cornered man shot himself. As he lay dying the police jumped on him screaming like banshees. A more ignominious conclusion to the most high profile police manhunt since the search for police killer Harry Roberts in 1966 would be hard to imagine.But supposing Moat had given himself up. Did he really have a future? Moat was the only suspect for the wounding of his former girlfriend, the killing of her new boyfriend and the shooting of an unarmed policeman sitting in his patrol car. While of the gravest nature, Moat's alleged crimes fell short on the scale of the death and destruction caused by Harry Roberts. Roberts and an accomplice shot and killed three policemen in London's Shepherd Bush. He then went to ground in Epping Forest. A former soldier, he took some finding, though his jungle warfare training and active service in Malaysia gave him a huge edge over a steroid-using bodybuilder.In contrast to the conclusion to the hunt for the Moat, the apprehension of Harry Roberts was a marked success. Three months after perpetrating his atrocity Roberts was brought in alive after being found hiding in a barn. He faced trial, was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment with a 30-year minimum tariff. He spent almost two decades of his prison time in a special security unit (SSU) before being allowed to join the general prisoner population. Even then he spent more years as a category A prisoner before gradually being downgraded to cat B, then cat C. A short spell at cat D ended abruptly when allegations were made against him and he was transferred back to cat C. Now, 44 years after the three policemen were slain, he is still a high profile "celebrity con", a prisoner of his infamy trapped in a living death.The addictive nature of the modern phenomena of 24-hour rolling news coverage whenever "big events" occur meant that Moat's notoriety would have surpassed even that of the infamous police killer. Had he been convicted, Moat would have received the harshest penalty under current sentencing guidelines. Political considerations would probably have ensured that he was handed a "whole life" tariff. At the very least he would have got a minimum of 35 years, making him 72 before he could apply for parole. In prison he would have taken over as the system's no 1 celebrity con and held in conditions of the highest security, including SSUs for decades with regular tabloid stories dogging his every move. He may have been able to "reform" – but "rehabilitation" – reintegration into a meaningful contributing life in the outside world – would never have been an option. He may indeed have had a future, but not one that anyone would have wished for. Raoul Moat was undoubtedly in a seriously disturbed mental state at the end, but he was rational enough to understand that.