Hoods don't do camouflage. And I should know because for the last six weeks every security guard and shop detective in Belfast has been on my tail. It's all down to my sartorial transformation. I have morphed into a spide, a boy thug.When you break a bone in an upper limb or, in my case, shatter your right wrist, you are forced to wear the most convenient garb available. In terms of legwear, that means tracksuit bottoms. Their elasticated waistbands and loose-fitting material are ideal for the man or woman with only one hand.The drawback, however, is that these type of trousers are an essential part of the hood/spide uniform all the way from Cork to the Corcrain estate, Ballyfermot to Ballymena. The downside of these dressing-down days has been to fall constantly under the suspicion of former cops and Brits who still want to feel important in their red caps and jaundice-coloured uniforms out hunting for shoplifters and handbag-dippers in shopping malls across the North. One flash of the white stripes down the side of a pair of sports-style trousers and the sentinels of the superstore are on red alert breathing down your neck as you flick through racks of sexy lingerie for your wife or squeeze the Incredible Hulk to see if its roar won't terrify your two-year-old who normally worships the green-skinned monster. Subjected to constant surveillance between the shelves, you start to believe you might actually be guilty of something. In a spidey form of Stockholm syndrome, you start to fiddle nervously around your neck in search of that must-have chunky gold chain, flick the earlobes for those matching gold earrings and scan your clothing for slashes of fake Burberry. Christmas shopping in downtown Belfast is the anthropological version of going on safari. The best vantage point to spy gaggles of hoods and spides is around the Castle Junction/Royal Avenue, a favourite habitat for the fake Burberry baseball-hatted hordes. It is here where you can buy souvenirs of your trip such as the his and hers fake Burberry watches at the knockdown, knock-off price of £15. No doubt the equivalent arena for this type of southern hood watching would be anywhere on O'Connell Street but especially on O'Connell Bridge. Spide-Stockholm syndrome also induces strange feelings of solidarity with the knots of grinning, shellsuit-wearing 'muckers' laughing in that menacing manner that only Belfast hoods can do while out on the town. You want to stop and grab one of them, and wail: 'Don't make it obvious, lads. The jobsworths guarding the shop doors know what you're up to!' Such friendly advice would be lost on most of them and you would probably end up with a bottle in your face. They will continue to stalk in and out of stores wearing their gear, talking and clowning about as much as they can in order to draw attention to themselves. This all makes you wonder why then so much money is apparently lost by retailers every festive season through shoplifting. Either the jobsworths on duty are blind to the signs that spides are at hand or else the sneering, loudmouth hoods barging in and out of the shopping malls and superstores are really decoys for the professional thieves who probably dress up like North Down ladies who lunch or gin-and-Jag-belt golfers. The idea, however, that there is a SAS-style elite of the shoplifting fraternity operating somewhere amid the Christmas throng seems too outlandish to be true. The banal truth is that if the hoods are so obvious then those deployed to stop them are evidently incompetent. Imagine then if the fake Burberry brigade ever decided to change their image, put on suits and ties, shed their gold, close their mouths and stop uttering vacuous and threatening remarks in a bid to conceal their mission to pilfer and plunder. The economy would probably collapse. Hoods don't do camouflage? Just be thankful for small mercies. The geniuses at Northern Ireland Electricity tell us that engineering faults at both their power stations, at Kilroot and Ballylumford, were responsible for last week's blackouts in the North. NIE has assured us they have now located the problem and will ensure that there are no further power cuts over Christmas.Perhaps, though, Christmas holds the key to the mystery over why our power supply suddenly crashed. On your travels around the North, you might have noticed the deeply disturbing and growing phenomenon of humungous Santa Clauses, snowmen, elves and reindeer illuminated by thousands of fairy lights outside homes all over Northern Ireland and beyond. Speaking of spides brings me back to the people who coined that nomenclature back in the Seventies - the punks. While avoiding the suspicious glances from security staff last Thursday, I happened to notice that It Makes You Want to Spit: The Definitive Guide to Punk in Northern Ireland by Sean O'Neill is number six in the local Waterstone's top 10 bestselling books this Christmas. It's the perfect gift for members of the New Wave '79 generation, some of whom will be receiving the book from their grandchildren this Christmas morning. henry.mcdonald@observer.co.uk