A young mother was in a critical condition in hospital yesterday after being stabbed in the neck as she pushed her 21-month-old son in a buggy.Abigail Witchalls, 26, was attacked on Wednesday afternoon on a quiet village footpath in Little Bookham, Surrey, by a man demanding money. Last night she was on a life-support machine at St George's hospital in Tooting, south London, where her mother is the head of psychiatry. Her family, who were at her bedside, said they feared her spinal cord had been damaged. Police said last night that they were treating the attack on the part-time teacher as attempted murder. Ms Witchalls had been taking one of her regular walks on the village common with her son, Joseph. They were minutes from her family home when the attacker struck. It is believed her assailant was a white man who drove away in a blue car. A neighbour said the baby "looked absolutely numb". Her father-in-law, James Witchalls, later gave a press conference in which he said: "Abigail is the most wonderful woman you can imagine ... She was walking her son here. We border on to 300 acres of National Trust common land, which is a very popular walking area. "She was just on the little walkways when the attacker confronted her and asked for money. Obviously there was a commotion and she was stabbed. The exact extent of the injuries I don't know yet but obviously she is extremely ill. It was a stab wound in the neck - it went right below the vertebrae. Exactly how much will regenerate itself is too early to tell." He added: "The damage to her spine means that it is likely she will be paralysed but she should be able to talk. "We're all Roman Catholics and have strong faith. We know that life is a temporary state and we live our lives accordingly. A miracle could happen and she could still fully recover." Ms Witchalls' father, Martin Hollins, said last night: "We live in hope." A family friend said Ms Witchalls was conscious but was communicating only by blinking. The woman, who declined to give her name, said: "She can't say anything. Her mum is with her at the moment. She just communicates with blinks, but she says she's happy. "She's paralysed from the neck down, but she is conscious." The friend added: "They go through the letters, and she says H-A-P-P-Y - when they get to H, Abigail sort of blinks." One of her former teachers described Ms Witchalls as a popular, conscientious and hard-working pupil. Maria Hoban taught geography at Ursuline high school in Wimbledon, where Ms Witchalls did her A-levels. "Friends of the family told us this lunchtime and the staff are all very shocked to hear the news," she said yesterday evening. "The family are very much in our prayers and thoughts at this time. "I remember her when she was here as a very able, popular and confident girl. She was a conscientious and hard-working student." Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, who is leading the investigation, said: "This is a particularly distressing attack ... We are urging anyone to come forward who may have seen or heard anything. "I would like to reassure the local community that this type of attack is extremely rare to this area and there have been no other similar incidents. We are committing considerable resources to this investigation and extra officers will be on patrol in the area during the day." Asked why the police had waited 18 hours before issuing an appeal through the press, Det Supt Harper said: "We mobilised resources very quickly in terms of the area." Chief Superintendent Rob Price, the divisional commander for east Surrey, also stressed that such attacks were very rare in the area and his officers were determined to find the man responsible. When questioned about the condition of Ms Witchalls' son, Mr Price said: "It's difficult to tell in terms of the psychological impact but the child is unharmed." He also dismissed suggestions that Ms Witchalls had staggered to a doorway to call for help. Ms Witchalls was wearing a multicoloured, striped top, brown corduroy trousers and grey moccasin shoes when she was attacked. The buggy was a blue and silver-coloured model with a blue hood.