Victorian prisons, some of which have put in more than 150 years of penal servitude, could be sold on the open market to raise funds to improve conditions inside the rest of the system.Martin Narey, the director general of the prison service, revealed his plan in response to criticism from the chief inspector of prisons about conditions in the 37 jails in England and Wales. The most likely candidates are those in prime inner London suburban sites such as Wandsworth, Pentonville and Brixton, which would attract developers interested in providing loft-style yuppie apartments. But Victorian prisons such as Leeds, Reading and Winchester, some of which have also been in continuous use since the 1840s, could also prove attractive to developers. Mr Narey said the bill for maintenance and repairs stood at £800m and he could not promise that the Treasury would provide the needed injection of funds. "One of the biggest differences of culture and attitude is between prisons that are old and new. It is not a matter of public or private," said the director general. "One of the things I would like to do over the next few years is to replace some of the Victorian prisons and to sell them and use the resources, some of which should be significant because of their location, to build prisons which are fit and decent to house prisoners in the year 2000." Mr Narey said the backlog of repair work was now so large that "if it were somebody's house I would think they would move out completely. I do not think we can expect to carry on with prisons built 130 years ago for the next 50 years". The idea would be to match the prisons sales programme with a programme of new prisons, probably funded through the private finance initiative. The use of greenfield sites might be limited by the need to locate the new prisons near existing courts. A non-executive director of the prisons board has already been asked to draw up a list of prisons which would raise a reasonable price. Many Victorian prisons were built on a radial design developed by the utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham, and by a Major Webb. Their design, whereby the wings sprout from a central hub like spokes from a wheel, first appeared at Pentonville prison in north London and has been copied around the world. One problem facing potential developers is that parts of the prisons which are the most likely candidates are listed buildings. Some 27 of the 37 Victorian prisons in England and Wales are partly or fully listed. At Wandsworth prison, south London, the gatehouse, and governor's and doctor's houses are all listed but some developers may be able to make a feature out of them. Last night the chief inspector of prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham, said that he would support such a sales programme. "I would obviously welcome anything that is done to improve the facilities inside prison." He added: "The old Victorian local prisons were not designed to do what the prison service aims to do. I don't believe the sites lend themselves to providing modern conditions. It is entirely logical to move the prisoners to 21st century conditions." Sir David's report published yesterday said that many remand prisoners were held in worse conditions than those who had already been convicted. He noted that the majority of prisoners on remand - many of whom did not receive a custodial sentence - were not allowed to wear their own clothes and were confined to their cells for most of the day because they were ineligible for work or education. Making crime pay Estate agents yesterday enthusiastically greeted the idea of a sell-off of Victorian jails, with an especially strong demand predicted for those in property hotspots in the inner London suburbs. Richard Haynes, a partner in Knight Frank, said that the market was strong enough to overcome the stigma attached to prisons. "I think it is a realistic proposition. It has worked with barracks. There has been the Peninsula barracks scheme at Winchester and Caterham barracks has been converted into a nice residential scheme. "If they work on the basis that these prisons are passed the end of their useful life then they might as well cash in on the assets they have got." The fact that many Victorian prisons have parts that are listed could prove an obstacle but the prospect of a development which features the cell where Oscar Wilde was held or the jail where the Kray brothers were behind bars might appeal to a more macabre clientele. But one feature of Victorian prison life will not be available - the last working set of gallows was removed from Wandsworth in 1995. Estate agents are convinced it would prove a money raiser. "Intensive inner [London] suburb sites like Wandsworth, Brixton, and Pentonville could easily fetch £500,000 or £750,000 per acre," said Tim Sketchley, a partner in Healey and Baker. 