Believe me, my first instinct is to oppose John Reid. His bullying brand of politics is a turn-off at the best of times, but when he joins forces with the Sun in a campaign of crude intimidation of Britain's judges, most self-respecting Guardian readers will want to cringe. Like Jack Straw and David Blunkett before him, Reid is engaging in tabloid-pleasing demagoguery, running to jump on a bandwagon set in motion by News International. On Monday, the Sun splashed with "Judges on trial", demanding that those on the bench be put in the dock for letting off too lightly criminals guilty of the most horrendous crimes. Right on cue, that same day a Cardiff judge told Craig Sweeney that he could be free in little over five years, despite his abduction and sexual abuse of a three-year-old girl. Reid did not waste a moment before calling for the sentence to be revised as "unduly lenient", an intervention that angered his cabinet colleague, the attorney general.There are good grounds for cynicism. Nothing suits Reid better than a populist campaign bound to distract attention from the Home Office's multiple woes; it handily puts him, at last, on the same side as the red tops and much of public opinion. And the judges are an easy target since they can't answer back in kind.There are substantive reasons to dislike Reid's intervention. In a democracy, the judiciary must be independent - and that means free of political pressure. That convention makes sense: the alternative is the politics of the dictatorship, in which judges do the rulers' bidding.More specifically, in the horrific case of Sweeney, the judge was hardly wackily out of line. The crime was not one that instantly carries a mandatory life sentence: it was the judge's decision to impose one, and his decision again to name an 18-year minimum. It was the law, not a personal whim, that required him to cut off a third, in exchange for Sweeney's guilty plea, taking the sentence to 12 years. And the law again which makes Sweeney eligible for parole once half his time is up. Those rules were drawn up by politicians, not judges.More widely, and in opposition to the Sun, the statistics show that sentences are, in fact, getting longer with more people in jail than ever before: nearly 80,000. Proportionally, we are the biggest jailer in western Europe; we imprison more people per capita than China, Saudi Arabia or Burma.And yet, for all that, Reid has a point. It may be buried under layers of political calculation and come in a form designed to repel liberals, but it is a serious point all the same.First, there is something strange about the exclusion zone that polite society currently throws around judges, scowling on any direct criticism of their decisions. Political intimidation is, to be sure, a danger to be avoided. But the fiction that judges are some kind of superbeing, who can only be deemed to have erred when their fellow judges say so (in the appeal process) is hard to maintain. Enver Solomon, of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies at King's College, London, wants at least to ask the question: "Are judges above and beyond oversight?" Until recently, surgeons were similarly resistant to outside inspection of their work, but they have had to relent. Judges, says Solomon, have historically remained off-limits. Unless the judiciary is some kind of elite caste, endowed with mystical powers, they should surely be treated as any other publicly-funded profession, with all the scrutiny that entails.But it's not only that we have a right to question the judiciary. On the substance, too, Reid and the Wapping papers cannot be dismissed. Take that Sweeney decision. The key problem was not the judge's 18-year minimum tariff: it was the slicing and dicing of the sentence that followed. The instant one-third discount for a guilty plea seems loopy. Craig Sweeney was caught red-handed, with the abducted child in his car: police hardly needed a guilty plea to secure a conviction. The same is true in the case of Alan Webster, who filmed himself raping a 12-week old baby - a crime so cruel, it fills the heart with despair. What value was his guilty plea, given the video evidence, that it deserved a one-third reduction? This policy of automatic reduction should surely, as the court of appeal itself ruled when raising Webster's sentence last week, be reviewed urgently. Reviewed - and then thrown out.The same ought to be true of the automatic eligibility for parole after half the sentence has been served. True, it beggars belief that any parole board would release either Sweeney or Webster anytime soon, but we know from recent weeks that dreadful mistakes happen: rapist Anthony Rice was released on parole, only to strangle and kill Naomi Bryant nine months later. The current rules, with their opportunity for release half-way through a sentence, put too great a weight on the judgment of the parole boards. For the gravest crimes, automatic eligibility should be dropped.The government has made some valuable changes. Now judges have the option of imposing an open-ended, "indeterminate sentence for public protection" - and are grabbing it with both hands, resorting to it at a rate of 100 a month. The appeal is obvious, since they won't get any heat for being too lenient, passing the burden instead to parole boards; it will be up to them to decide when a criminal no longer poses a threat to the public. But, again, we know that carries its own risks. A small but useful step would be for judges to be obliged to deliver what the US calls "truth in sentencing", to be honest and admit that what sounds like an 18-year sentence might amount to just five years behind bars. That may lead to some different decisions.These, though, are the details. The larger point is that, yes, Britain's prisons are overcrowded - but the solution is not to let go of those who belong there. The focus should instead be on what the Prison Reform Trust says are the "non-violent women, shoplifters, petty fraudsters and those awaiting trial" behind the rise in the prison population. They are all people who can be punished or confined elsewhere. The estimated 5,000 prisoners who have mental health problems should not be caged - they should be treated.There is a wider dysfunction in who we jail, meting out heavy sentences for crimes against property and yet, on occasion, lighter ones for crimes against people. The men behind the notorious Brinks Mat bullion robbery got 25 years each, more than double the maximum sentence imposed on the child rapist Webster. It seems a warped society that places a higher value on gold than on the safety of a baby.So we should be more sparing in who goes to jail, and we should make prisons work better for those who are there - but we should never forget that, in the gravest cases, liberty should be denied for a very long time. Liberals especially should pause and wonder why it is that the average time served by those sentenced to life imprisonment is just 14 years. For we struck a kind of bargain four decades ago with a British public reluctant to give up the death penalty. We said that in return for abandoning capital punishment, those guilty of the foulest deeds would spend their lives in jail. Yet in too many cases we have reneged on that bargain, letting murderers walk free after just a few years. That needs to change - and you don't have to be John Reid or the Sun to believe it.freedland@theguardian.com