Your report on research from the Ministry of Justice was unsurprising (Short jail terms have higher rate of reoffending, 11 May). The study "shows that longer prison sentences of two to four years – which allow time to tackle offending behaviour – are more effective than jail terms of under 12 months, during which inmates are simply warehoused".This has a real relevance for our work. Our charity works on the frontline with prison leavers, offering practical support and training opportunities. Short-sentence prisoners are unable to access the same level of support as those with longer sentences and are often released homeless, mentally distressed and with very little money to survive on. In such cases, a return to prison is often seen as preferable to sofa surfing or living on the streets.The article reports justice secretary Ken Clarke as saying: "It is a national scandal that nearly half of all offenders reoffend within a year of release. Sentences must properly punish offenders as well as address the causes of their offending so that they are ready to go straight once their punishment has ended." We try to break this destructive, costly cycle by training ex-offenders. Not only do they increase their own skills and long-term employment prospects, they create a positive cycle by becoming credible role models to future clients.David Cameron's scheduled speech on crime next month is reported to be "amid fears in Downing Street that Clarke's plans will be portrayed as being soft on crime, despite being financially essential". Evidence has shown categorically that these services can help dramatically reduce reoffending rates by an additional 40% and save the taxpayer £10 for every £1 spent on providing this service. Obviously no one should be soft on crime and the public are understandably very fearful about becoming victims of it. But these services prevent thousands of unnecessary future victims.The article states: "Clarke said both prison and non-custodial sentences needed to do much more to address the underlying causes of crime, such as drugs and mental illness."One man we helped had more than 80 convictions and had been in and out of prison for much of his adult life; when he was last released, more than 18 months ago, we supported him to get proper housing and address his drug problems. Today he is resettled and a much valued, highly effective staff member at our trust, helping hundreds of other prison leavers make a similar transition.You state: "The findings will provide strong evidence to underpin legislation due next month … to reform criminal sentencing and introduce a 'rehabilitation revolution' to stabilise the record prison population in England and Wales." We do need a "rehabilitation revolution" – one that provides tough community payback but also access to help with housing, employment and training opportunities, or a prison sentence that makes them better equipped not to offend on release.