Police in south-west London have carried out a reconstruction of the final movements of French student Amélie Delagrange in a bid to catch her killer.Constable Sarah Swift, who resembles the 22-year-old and was dressed similarly in a red top, white cardigan and white trousers, retraced the victim's last steps before she was bludgeoned to death on Twickenham Green at around 10pm last Thursday. Detectives are examining possible links to other recent attacks in the vicinity, and believe the killer may have trawled the area beforehand, in a vehicle or on foot, looking for a victim. Police have already spoken to hundreds of people who were in the area the evening Ms Delagrange was killed. But they hope the reconstruction will jog the memories of other witnesses and encourage them to come forward with clues. On the evening she was killed, Ms Delagrange had had a few drinks with four friends, two male and two female - one of the young women had eye-catching magenta hair - in Cristalz wine bar, London Road, Twickenham, before boarding the 267 bus at 9.39pm. She stayed on the bus too long, finally getting off at Fulwell bus garage at 9.45pm, and had to backtrack along Wellington Road and Hampton Road, before taking a short cut across the green. She was caught on CCTV at 9.51pm, outside the Loch Fyne fish and oyster bar. She then crossed the road and stepped over a fence on to the green. Her killer struck when she was halfway across a cricket pitch and her body was discovered at 10.26pm. Chief Superintendent Andy Murphy, leading the murder inquiry, believes the key to the case lies in Walton-on-Thames, where police divers have recovered the victim's purse, house keys and Sony Discman from the river. "It is there we will get our next point, it is there our investigation will be taken forward," he said. Police believe the killer may have driven the seven miles from the murder scene to dump them. Ms Delagrange's mustard-coloured handbag and Sony Ericsson mobile phone are still missing. Nothing significant has been found so far in a nearby bungalow, but a search of the property and the river is continuing. Detectives are also examining possible connections with five other attacks within a six-mile radius. Marsha McDonnell, 19, who looked very like Ms Delagrange, was beaten to death with a hammer in Hampton in February last year, while Edel Harbison, a 34-year-old accountant, and Dawn Brunton, a 36-year-old accounts clerk, survived similar attacks in Twickenham and Hatton Cross this April and November last year. A 17-year-old girl was targeted in January last year in Strawberry Hill, and an 18-year-old boy was attacked nearby a few weeks after Ms McDonnell's murder. Five people were arrested and later released in connection with the murder of Ms McDonnell, including a 16-year-old boy detained under the Mental Health Act. He was also questioned about two of the other attacks, but was still in detention when Ms Delagrange was killed. Yesterday, Ms Delagrange's parents, Jean-François and Dominique, and younger sister, Virginie, released a statement through Scotland Yard, telling of their grief and urging people to help police find her killer. Ms Delagrange had stayed in Manchester in June 2001 and came to London in April this year to improve her English. "Her radiance and joy of living, brutally ended at 22 years old by the mad actions of a predator," said the statement. "The news we have heard has brought us indescribable pain which has devastated our family."