The parents and boyfriend of Joanna Yeates this afternoon made an emotional visit to the roadside verge outside Bristol where the landscape architect's body was found on Christmas morning.Her father, David Yeates, laid a bouquet of yellow roses close to the spot while her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, placed red and white carnations alongside them.Yeates's mother, Theresa, was clearly distressed as a police detective sergeant pointed out the spot where the frozen body was found eight days after the 25-year-old was last seen.A postmortem examination on the body was continuing. It is understood that no obvious injuries were found on the body, which was discovered three miles from Yeates's flat in Clifton, Bristol, by a couple walking their dog.Detectives are also studying hours of CCTV footage from the area around Clifton suspension bridge, part of the most direct route between Yeates's flat and where the body was found at Failand in North Somerset.Officers are continuing to carrying out a fingertip search of the area where the remains were discovered, close to a quarry and in between two golf courses.Work paused for a moment when the family arrived in two unmarked cars. Police sources said they wanted to see the spot.The party shook hands with Detective Superintendent Mike Rourke, who was overseeing the crime scene. Yeates's father and Reardon, who was wearing a woolly hat, placed the flowers close to the police cordon on Longwood Lane.They then walked 250 metres to the crest of a rise in the road where the body was found. Rourke briefed the family for about five minutes.The group then walked back down the hill to the cordon. Yeates's parents, both clearly upset, she in tears, held hands as they returned to their car and were driven away by police officers.Police hope the postmortem, carried out yesterday, will provide more clues as to how Yeates died.She vanished on 17 December after leaving a pub in Bristol, where she had been drinking with work colleagues. Reardon reported her missing two days later on his return from a weekend away. The disappearance prompted a police search, but the family's worst fears were realised when a couple walking their dogs found the body.Yesterday, police confirmed the body was that of Yeates.After leaving the Ram pub in Park Street at about 8pm, Yeates shopped in Waitrose – where she was filmed on CCTV – and then rang her best friend to arrange to meet on Christmas Eve.She went on to the Tesco Express on Regent Street, a quarter of a mile from her flat. Officers released footage of her buying a pizza in the supermarket.There was no trace of the pizza, the wrapping or the box in the flat, even though other possessions, including her mobile phone, her keys, handbag and coat, were there.The family believed she had been abducted because of the state the flat was left in, and because of other details that neither they nor the police have yet revealed.Chief Superintendent Jon Stratford said: "Our heartfelt condolences go out to Joanna's family for their loss. We have not stopped working hard throughout the Christmas period to find their daughter after she was reported missing. Now we will work just as hard to discover exactly what happened to her and how she came to be in Longwood Lane on Christmas morning."Until the postmortem examination is able to firmly establish how Joanna died, we are keeping an open mind about the cause of her death. However, I would appeal to anyone with any information whatsoever that can help this investigation to please come forward and help us provide Joanna's parents with the answers they so desperately want and need."Thirty detectives have been working on the investigation, codenamed Operation Braid, and are being assisted by a further 40 staff, including uniformed officers, scenes of crime officers and search teams.On a Facebook page set up to try to help find Yeates, one friend, Bec Wood, wrote: "Rest in peace Jo. You will always be loved and remembered for being so beautiful, kind, successful, and lovely. You made Greg so happy. Our thoughts are with Greg, your parents and all of your families and friends. We will miss you Jo, and hope that you have peace now."In her parents' home village of Ampfield in Hampshire, the Rev Peter Gilks said prayers were being said for Yeates and her family.