Arsonists who set fire to a family home, killing a 15-year-old girl and leaving her older sister and two brothers in a critical condition, knew their victims, police said.Maleha Masud died last night from burns and smoke inhalation after petrol was poured through the letterbox of her home in Tooting, south London, in the early hours of Sunday.Maleha's mother, Rubina, 53, and brother Zain, 22, a City banker, escaped by jumping from a first-floor window. Maleha and her sister, Nabiha, 21, and brother Junaid, 16, were pulled from the building by paramedics.Police have launched a murder investigation and said they believed that the arsonists knew the family. The attack was not being treated as racially motivated.Detective Chief Inspector Damian Allain said: "I think this was not a random attack and that it was targeted. There were five people in the house and we are looking at their backgrounds to see who the intended target might have been. This is a good, hardworking family who are well integrated in the community and have never been involved with the police or anything like it."He said young people who did not realise the danger of their actions might have been behind the attack, but said he was "not particularly sold" on any motive. The attackers are thought to live locally and police are examining other cases of arson in south London, although they are not yet linking the attack to any others.Two boys, 14 and 15, were arrested in connection with the fire and bailed until August pending further inquiries. No charges have been brought.Rubina Masud, who has left hospital, said: "I am devastated at what's happened. I can't believe anyone would do such a thing."Police said she and her husband, who died from cancer two years ago, came from Pakistan but all the children are believed to have been born in Britain. Maleha went to Burntwood school, in Earlsfield."This tragedy has drawn us together even more than before. The mood in the school is very dignified and respectful," said Helen Dorfman, the school's headteacher. "We have sent our thoughts and prayers to the family and we will be holding a memorial service for Maleha next week."Zain is understood to have worked as a banker for Lehman Brothers before its collapse. Junaid won a scholarship to Trinity school, in Croydon, and was described as an A* pupil who wanted to become a doctor. All three siblings are in a critical condition with severe burns to their faces and upper body.Sadiq Khan, the MP for Tooting, said the family had come from a humble background and had done well for themselves. "They are an inspiration to us all. Local faith groups are praying for the them and all our thoughts are with the family," he said.The attack is believed to have taken place between 4am and 4.30am on Sunday. Police said cyclists making their way to the start of the London to Brighton bike ride at Clapham Common could have key information about the incident."I would appeal to people who may have seen anyone carrying a petrol can or similar container to come forward," said Allain. "Whoever has committed this act is not only a coward but is a dangerous individual who must be caught."Rosemina Ahmad, a friend of the family, said she was mystified by the attack. "I can't think why anybody would hurt them. They are such a good and respectful family. The children have never been any trouble, they mostly stay at home," she told the Evening Standard.