The constitutional affairs secretary, Lord Falconer, will today outline plans for greater use of video link facilities to ease the experience of testifying for victims and witnesses.Lord Falconer is expected to detail plans to reduce the stress of giving evidence in court, in particular using video to keep victims and witnesses separate from defendants. Visiting Wimbledon magistrates' court in south west London later today, he will inspect the latest video technology which could allow victims and witnesses to avoid appearing in the courtroom, a potentially daunting and emotional experience. The announcement will launch the Department for Constitutional Affairs' five-year plan to reform the justice system. Lord Falconer is expected to say: "One of the top priorities will be a better deal for victims in the justice system. The needs and safety of victims will be at the heart of the way trials are managed."The changes to the courts system are aimed at making it easier for vulnerable witnesses to testify, he told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme. "Victims who are elderly, victims who are children, victims who are intimidated need to feel they can give evidence in a way that makes it possible. More might be able to give evidence from their own homes, while those who attend court could be kept away from the accused. "You are never going to be able to get rid of some element of the trauma of giving evidence, but you can make people believe that courts understand the problem and it is not some alien place you go where they aren't thinking about you," he said.On wider changes to the legal system, Lord Falconer defended plans for a supreme court, saying there should be a body distinct from government to pronounce the legality of its actions. He also defended changes to the role of lord chancellor, which could mark the end of the historic title. At present Lord Falconer combines his preferred title of constitutional affairs secretary with the duties of lord chancellor."On the role of lord chancellor, I think the critical thing is what the person does. He should be focusing on things that affect real people in their real lives and the critical thing, I think, is there should be a minister," he told the BBC. "He should be there to defend the rule of law but he should also be there to make the court system more effective. He should not be the Speaker of the House of Lords. He shouldn't necessarily be a lawyer or a peer. He might be, but the critical thing is what he does," Lord Falconer added.  