Five men are being held by police investigating the murder of an 84-year-old woman at her home and the stabbing of a nine-year-old boy in a skate park.The woman, who has been named as Louisa Denby, was discovered with "numerous stab wounds" in the upstairs bedroom of a house in Prospect Mount, Shipley, West Yorkshire, just before midnight on Monday by officers conducting inquiries into the stabbing of the boy at Carnegie skate park in the town that afternoon.The boy, named by local media as Jason Darcey, suffered chest and arm injuries and was airlifted to Leeds General Infirmary where he is expected to undergo surgery on Tuesday.A 26-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder and attempted murder after being spotted in nearby Idle, a village near Bradford, by a member of the public at about 4.10am on Tuesday. He is believed to be a relative of the dead woman.A second man, also 26, has been arrested in connection with the murder, while three others, aged 18, 24 and 29, are being held in connection with the incident in the skate park, a statement from West Yorkshire police said.After the boy was attacked, police issued a description of a suspect who was said to be white, in his 20s and wearing a cap and glasses. He was also believed to have a walking stick.The murder victim's home is about 300 metres from the park, which was recently renovated, and a number of locations in the area were taped off by police.Det Supt Lisa Griffin told the Yorkshire Post: "We got a good response from the public. The victim has not yet been interviewed. He went to hospital for treatment."The first account was all we took from the child. He gave the account but the priority was to get him to hospital."All our available resources were used. It was a very serious incident and we took it very seriously. We were concerned he might try to attack other children."We brought in additional staff, all available staff were deployed and our air support. It was everyone we could muster. It paid off because local people were spoken to and a name was suggested."Councillor Vanda Greenwood said: "My heart goes out to the family. It is awful when this happens to anyone but it is really terrible when it is a young boy."We are trying to reassure people and there is a massive police presence."