   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Reading this on mobile? Click here to view videoDetectives hunting a murder suspect wanted in connection with the "wicked" killing of a young mother near Manchester have arrested a man on suspicion of assisting an offender.The 25-year-old was arrested on Monday night and remains in custody but is refusing to answer questions, a Greater Manchester police (GMP) source said. Detectives believe he may have helped fugitive Michael Cope, 28, who is the prime suspect in the murder of Linzi Ashton, who was found at her home in Winton, Salford, on Saturday evening with fatal injuries to her face and head.Police have offered a £5,000 reward to entice anyone who may be helping Cope, warning members of the public he is "dangerous and unstable" and should not be approached.Detectives looking for Cope have issued CCTV footage of him recorded the day before Ashton's body was found. It shows him buying snacks and drinks from Best One on Liverpool Road, Eccles at about 10.45pm on Friday.Ashton, a 25-year-old mother of two, had previously complained to police that Cope raped and attacked her, it emerged on Monday. GMP confirmed it had been searching for Cope since late April but have not found him.Ashton's body was discovered by relatives at her home in Westbourne Road shortly before 6pm on Saturday. Her two daughters, Daisy, two, and Destiny, seven, were not at the address at the time.Police think Cope is still in the Salford area, where the majority of his friends and family live. On Tuesday afternoon officers were conducting door-to-door inquiries in the city, distributing leaflets reminding people of Cope's face and the reward.They have previously warned anyone who may be harbouring or assisting the suspect that they will be in "deep trouble" if they do not alert officers to Cope's whereabouts.But on the Brookhouse estate by the M60 in Peel Green, Salford, where Cope grew up, some residents told the Guardian they would not be "grassing him up"."I don't agree with what he's done, obviously," said one middle-aged grandmother who refused to be named. "But he grew up around here, we all know him, he's one of us. People aren't going to go grassing him up to police even if they do see him."A group of young lads hanging around the estate's mini supermarket said Cope was well-known in the area for being "a hard man".GMP chief superintendent Kevin Mulligan said on Tuesday that police were working with other agencies "to look at evicting anyone who is using their property to offer this man safety".Mulligan warned on Monday that Cope has a history of violent and aggressive behaviour, saying: "He does represent a risk to the community."He added: "The bottom line here is that this is a really nasty, wicked crime and if anyone is harbouring him they have a moral duty to come forward and tell us where he is."Speaking of the reward, offered by GMP and the charity Crimestoppers, he said: "His picture has been widely circulated but he has still not handed himself in, so it is likely that he is being offered sanctuary by his associates. That is why we are announcing this reward of £5,000 for anyone who has information leading to Cope's arrest and conviction."Five thousand pounds could be a life-changing amount of money so I want people to think long and hard and if you know where Cope is, then coming forward will not only lead to a financial reward but also the reward of helping to give Linzi's family the justice they deserve."Cope was in a brief "acrimonious" relationship with Ashton, a barmaid at the Duke of York pub in the Eccles area of Salford.Police believe the two were together on Friday night and into the early hours of Saturday, with Ashton last seen in Eccles at 2am.Liam Grime, the father of Ashton's daughter Daisy, said he was among the people who discovered her body. He told Sky News: "Everybody loved her. She was the love of my life and there's never going to be anybody like her, ever."I'll never be able to find anyone like her. She was devoted to the kids, she was everyone's friend, she put everybody first and she was a one-off."In a statement, Ashton's family said: "Linzi was a much-loved daughter, sister, aunt and mum to two beautiful children, Destiny and Daisy."She was the most beautiful, generous, caring person anyone could ever wish to meet. She would never harm anyone and was always there for her children and family. She loved treating her girls to princess sleepovers, dressing up and baking for them. When she walked into a room it would light up with her energy and love."Life will never be the same again without her. Our whole family and friends have been devastated by her death. The whole community is in shock."GMP's handling of Ashton's case has been referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission.Anyone with information should call police on 0161-856 5092, or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.