Two police officers were forced to resign last night after an investigation ruled they had failed to properly investigate a knife attack on a young father who was shot dead seven months later. Peter Woodhams, 22, had endured a campaign of violence and bullying by a teenage gang which began in January 2006 when he was slashed across the face and stabbed in the neck.The Independent Police Complaints Commission identified "serious flaws" in the way the Metropolitan police had investigated the stabbing and last night confirmed that two officers - a detective sergeant and a constable - had been "required" to resign. Commissioner Deborah Glass, of the commission, said: "I hope that the IPCC investigation and the Metropolitan police's response to its findings has provided [Mr Woodhams' family] with some reassurance that lessons have been learned both by the organisation and individual officers."Mr Woodhams was shot several times outside his home in east London when he confronted three youths who had thrown a stone at his car. He died in front of his three-year-old son.Following the murder in August last year Mr Woodhams' fiancee, Jane Bowden, claimed she had phoned police every day for five weeks after the first attack but officers never took a statement from her.At the time Mr Woodhams had told the police: "I can't go out any more because I am scared. I am scared for Jane and Sam because they can't go out."In May 17-year-old Bradley Tucker was jailed for life at the Old Bailey for murdering Mr Woodhams. No one has been charged with the knife attack. After Tucker's conviction, Mr Woodhams' father, who is also called Peter, said he held the officers involved personally responsible for his son's death.Last night he welcomed the resignation of the two officers. "It's not going to bring my son back. But if we can stop this happening to any other families then we will get some comfort from that," he said. "I'm not happy because it's just more lives that are messed up over this. But, at the end of the day, they haven't done the job."The IPCC investigation uncovered a catalogue of shortcomings throughout the chain of command, from officers at the scene to those supervising the inquiry. The actions of nine officers were originally examined by officials.Three Metropolitan police officers were given written warnings earlier this year for failings and inaction. One detective constable was given "words of advice" and three officers were cleared of wrongdoing.