The top songs on an amateur DJ's playlist filled a church yesterday as mourners gathered for his funeral three weeks after he was allegedly beaten to death by drunken youths. Garry Newlove's wife and three daughters hugged one another in tears as their local vicar described him as a "loving, caring family man" who was also an all-hours taxi service for the girls' busy social lives.Mr Newlove, who was 47, died of head injuries on August 12, two days after the incident outside the family's home in Warrington. The tragedy prompted a national debate about tougher alcohol restrictions. Cheshire's chief constable, Peter Fahy, whose senior local officers were at the funeral, called for the legal age for drinking to be raised to 21. He also described under-age drinking as a child protection issue and urged that parents who refused to take action should face tougher sanctions through care proceedings and the criminal courts.Mr Newlove was a sales manager who threw himself into community work, especially part-time DJ gigs in Manchester clubs, often in aid of charity. He had earlier beaten stomach cancer with a recovery which earned him the family nickname of "walking miracle".His family followed his coffin as it was led into Christ Church in Padgate, Warrington, just yards from his home.More than 300 mourners packed the church as Mr Newlove's brother Keith, brother-in-law and nephew Glyn helped to carry the coffin, draped in a sea of red roses. Outside, a black hearse packed with flowers also held a bouquet of white chrysanthemums, spelling Dad.Canon Stephen Attwater, rector of Christ Church, said that Mr Newlove's death had "turned out a light" for his widow, Helen, and their daughters Zoe, 19, Danielle, 16, and Amy, 12.He said: "Garry was central to their lives. He was a loving, caring, devoted family man who will be sadly missed. He enjoyed meeting people. He was very much the life and soul of the party. He had a great sense of humour, and when cancer came, he fought it off with characteristic bravery. And so there is a tremendous amount to thank God for when we reflect upon Garry's life."Songs from Saturday Night Fever were played before a soloist sang Gounod's Ave Maria to recall the Newloves' wedding 21 years ago. Three youths, who cannot be named for legal reasons, and Adam Swellings, 18, are on remand in jail charged with Mr Newlove's murder. The trial is expected in November.As Mr Newlove lay dying in hospital from severe head injuries his youngest daughter Amy penned him a letter, begging him to battle his wounds and live.