A more liberal special unit at Wakefield prison is to be opened to hold some of the most dangerous men in Britain's prisons, after "serious flaws" were discovered in the three-year-old experimental control unit at Woodhill prison, near Milton Keynes.The prison service announced yesterday that the "exceptional risk regime" at Wakefield, West Yorkshire, is to be opened at a cost of £500,000. It will hold such men as Charles Bronson, the notorious armed robber and hostage taker, and Robert Maudsley, nicknamed Hannibal the Cannibal for the way he murdered three fellow inmates. An academic evaluation published yesterday of the segregation unit in Woodhill's D wing, which held up to 48 of the most dangerous and disruptive inmates, concluded that it was seriously flawed. Its system, under which prisoners had to earn incentives, often made them rebel violently against its basic principles. "The sparseness of the regimes at Woodhill in many cases added to the prisoner's hostility," it said. The protests led to abuse of and assaults on staff and allegations of brutality against prison officers. The chief inspector of prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham, condemned the regime's isolation of inmates for long periods as a risk to their mental health, and questioned its legality. Inmates at the "close supervision centre" were in their cells for up to 23 hours a day, and when they were let out they were accompanied by five prison officers in full riot gear. The regime at Wakefield will allow prisoners televisions and computers in their cells, and they will be able to receive visits and telephone calls and have exercise daily. The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, said the new facility was "a long term containment of a small number of prisoners who are too dangerous or disruptive to progress, or are not capable of progressing. "I do not expect prisoners to die there," he said. "I would expect them to move on when their dangerousness has reduced - but that would take a long time." The Woodhill unit was opened after a decision by the previous home secretary, Michael Howard, to close the therapeutic wing of Parkhurst prison on the Isle of Wight after a breakout by four high security inmates. The remainder of the inmates in Woodhill's unit will be distributed to a close supervision centre elsewhere in the prison and to one at Durham jail. The director of high security prisons, Peter Atherton, said: "The prison service recognises that these segregation conditions are now quite inappropriate. We should be seeking to develop a unit which, within the restrictions that we have to maintain, is humane and meets the needs that they have. "Normally prison officers would not wear riot gear to remove prisoners from their cells in the new unit at Wakefield."