Bob Quick's resignation is another bad episode for the Metropolitan police. Coming within 36 hours of the Guardian's release of footage apparently showing a Met officer pushing a defenceless man to the ground, the Quick affair is yet another challenge to the force's authority.Recent revelations about the way Plumstead police station managed – or failed to manage – rape cases, the clumsy arrest of Conservative frontbencher Damian Green and the logistical failings revealed by the Jean Charles de Menezes case have already raised serious questions about the quality of police management in the capital. The sacking (in effect) of Sir Ian Blair by London mayor Boris Johnson stressed the power of the mayor in relation to both the police and the government.Quick clearly made a mistake in allowing a photographer to snap him holding secret papers about an anti-terrorism raid. He also got things wrong late last year when he accused the Conservative party of being "corrupt" in relation to the leaking of press stories about his wife's business interests. It appears home secretary Jacqui Smith, herself currently weakened, felt enough was enough. The government made no effort to defend him. Indeed, only Ken Livingstone popped up in the media to say that al-Qaida would be "delighted" if someone with Quick's experience had to step down "for one mistake of holding a piece of paper the wrong way". The trouble was, it was not Quick's first mistake. Moreover, the Met itself must be feeling vulnerable after its recent string of embarrassments. Johnson appeared on the Today programme this morning to announce Quick's departure. Like Livingstone before him, the mayor gives the impression that he, more than anyone else, is in charge of London's policing. He is, for sure, chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA). Yet Quick's role was predominantly a national – anti-terrorism – one. Smith might have been a more likely candidate to let the public know about this particular resignation.The truth is, police accountability is a desperate muddle – and not only in London. Within the capital, responsibility for the police is spread between the home secretary, the mayor, the MPA and the commissioner. The MPA, confusingly, is partly appointed by the mayor, though Johnson must appoint a politically-representative cross-section of the London assembly as members. Operational decisions are made by the commissioner, non-operational ones by the MPA. The mayor sets the budget. The Met is responsible for anti-terrorism throughout the country, while also serving as the "local" police in London. It is unclear how people in different places are supposed to hold anyone to account for what the force does. Sir Paul Stephenson has recently taken over as commissioner. He will need to start getting a grip on morale and discipline, so that there are fewer challenges to the Metropolitan Police's authority. Politicians, for their part, need to sort out formal lines of accountability within the police more generally.