The sister of murdered teenager Ben Kinsella today appealed for witnesses to the stabbing to come forward as the mayor of London stepped up his campaign against knife crime.Brooke Kinsella, a former Eastenders actor, described her brother as "entirely innocent" and urged the public to help catch his killers. Speaking at a press conference in Islington, north London, she revealed how some witnesses to the attack were refusing to speak out. The mayor, Boris Johnson, addressed journalists at a separate meeting and said he could not hope to reduce knife crime "by police work alone".Kinsella said: "Unfortunately, the police have told us that they know of others who can provide crucial evidence but they have chosen not to tell the police what they know … Please don't assume that others will tell the police what they need to know. We need you to speak to them."In the latest knife killing in the capital, Dee Willis, 28, died after she was attacked yesterday in Peckham high street, south-east London. Police said they were looking for a female suspect.Speaking at his second monthly press conference since taking office, Johnson said there had been successes in tackling knife crime under Operation Blunt 2, which was launched in May. "Since the beginning of the operation, police have recovered 528 knives. There have been 1,214 arrests, 813 for possession of weapons and a further 217 for knife-related crimes. There have been 26,777 stop and searches," he said."This is not a blitz. It is a sustained, visible, long-term operation and it is vital to recognise that we cannot hope to succeed by police work alone."Johnson outlined cases in which members of the public had taken a stand. He applauded the actions of a mother in Lewisham, south-east London, who contacted police after finding a knife under the bed of her 17-year-old son. "Police seized the knife. They talked through the issues with the teenager and he is now on a support and diversionary programme run by the local youth offending team," he said."If you know someone who has a dangerous knife or someone who might be involved in knife crime, then I hope you will be as brave as that Lewisham mother and help the police, because you could not only be saving the life of someone you don't know - you could be saving the life of someone you love."Yesterday, hundreds of protesters marched through the streets of north London to express their anger at the death of 16-year-old Kinsella, who was stabbed in Islington on Sunday. His family and friends have said they believe his killing was a case of mistaken identity and have pleaded with young people to "put down their knives".Today, officers said two men aged 18 and one aged 19 remained in custody. One other man aged 18 has been released on bail pending further inquiries.So far this year, 17 teenagers have died violently in London, 12 of them from stab wounds.The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, said today: "The problem of knife crime is still with us. I know the communities of London understand that this is something they and the police have to solve together."I promise that the Met is in this for the long haul and we will do everything in its power to stop these murders continuing. I am going to be concentrating on teenage murders, but all lives are precious."