A children’s charity has received £3.1m to tackle child sex abuse in Rotherham and to help rebuild the lives of victims.Barnardo’s has said it would use the funds to hire 15 specialists to help victims and those at risk of child sex exploitation.The announcement follows the Jay report of last year, which revealed that 1,400 children had been sexually exploited in Rotherham, South Yorkshire, between 1997 and 2013.Ted Heath, sex abuse claims and child protection | Letters The findings of the independent inquiry, commissioned after the conviction of five men for grooming teenage girls for sex in 2010, described what had happened as “blatant” collective failures of the care system, of police, and local politicians in their response to the cases of child sexual exploitation in the town.It found that children had been raped by multiple perpetrators, and had been abducted and trafficked to other cities in England.The three-year project, funded by the government, Rotherham council and independent backers, is aimed at raising awareness about the crime by working closely with schools and local communities. Professionals are also to be trained to spot the signs of sexual exploitation early and look out for young people who are victims or at risk of being exploited.Javed Khan, chief executive of Barnardo’s, said: “We are intent on tackling this horrendous crime and supporting victims as they try to rebuild their shattered lives.”He added: “We must all be alert to spotting the signs that sexual exploitation may be taking place. It is everyone’s responsibility to protect those children who are most vulnerable from ruthless predators.” Rotherham abuse: 'blatant' failures of care system condemned in report Greg Clark, communities and local government secretary, said: “Victims of child sexual exploitation in Rotherham have been appallingly let down in the past. These new services, run by Barnardo’s, will help victims rebuild their lives and ensure they are supported as they seek justice through the courts against the perpetrators.”Sarah Wilson, 23, who had been groomed and raped by a gang of men in Rotherham from age 11 to 17, told BBC Radio 4’s Today that she had initially been approached by a girl who would “brag about how good her boyfriend was in bed, that he was a lot older than her, and he’d buy her alcohol and drugs”.“She’d just talk as [though] it were normal, as if it were a normality,” she added. Wilson said that during the first meeting drinking and talking with the men they had asked her if she was a virgin. “I obviously said yeah and they just started laughing.”On the second night of meeting the groomers, however, Wilson was sexually abused. She said: “My friend’s boyfriend took her to the bottom of the playground, and me and his friend were at the top. We were stood there and he asked me to perform a sex act on him and before I could even reply, he had already forced me.”She was 11 at the time. “It just continued and it just escalated and escalated. I went to the police and they were like, you’ve got no evidence so there’s nothing we can really do about it.” Wilson said the abuse only stopped when she was “getting too old for the men”. Authorities were scared about getting labelled and unfortunately a lot of children lost their childhood because of thatSarah Wilson She added that the authorities had only just started taking her seriously, since the Jay report was published in August last year. Wilson, who has waived her right to anonymity to raise awareness of child sexual exploitation and has written a book about her experiences, said professionals needed to stand together, as abuse still continued in the area. “When you go into a job, you go into it because you’re passionate about it. But where was the passion? Where was the passion for the children?” she said.When asked whether the crime was related to race, she said: “No, it’s never to do with race. It’s about the individuals. “It’s about what authorities hid for 16 years because they were scared about getting labelled, they were scared of getting a bad name and unfortunately a lot of children lost their childhood because of that.” Chris Read, the leader of Rotherham borough council, said of the new project: “We know from Professor Jay’s findings and from what victims and survivors have told us that projects like this can make a real difference, reaching out to young people who might be at risk, building trust and supporting those who may become victims.”The Independent Police Complaints Commission is currently investigating how South Yorkshire police officers dealt with cases in Rotherham. The National Crime Agency has begun a major investigation into allegations of child sexual exploitation in the town.