A jilted boyfriend was jailed for life today for shooting his ex-girlfriend's parents, after blaming them for breaking up their relationship.Jonathan Cock, 24, killed businessman Adam Hustler, and left his wife, Amanda, seriously wounded after they told him their daughter Danielle, 20, did not want to see him.Cock, a former RAF serviceman, also aimed a shot at Danielle but she escaped with a minor arm injury. Cock then shot himself through the mouth but survived. Despite suffering brain damage he was able to drive home, where he was arrested by armed police the next morning.Truro crown court heard that the victims were Jehovah's Witnesses, who disapproved of their daughter seeing Cock, even after he converted to their faith. Mrs Hustler sat in court flanked by Danielle and her younger sister Abigail, 16, as Cock was jailed. Earlier Danielle sobbed as the court was played the recording of the 999 call she made during the shooting, in which screaming and gunshot blasts can be heard in the background.Cock, from Penzance, shot Adam Hustler, 41, and Amanda Hustler, 40, on the steps of their home at Porth Kea, near Truro, last September. He shot at Danielle through the window of the house as she was calling the police.He had gone to the house with a rifle and 15 bullets after begging Danielle to meet him and warning her she had a choice between "the easy way and the hard way". Following the shooting he texted her to say: "I can't believe you chose the hard option."He went out with Danielle for a year, and at first she kept their relationship secret from her parents because he was not a Jehovah's Witness.She said she ended their friendship three weeks before the killing because he was arrogant and controlling, but he blamed her parents and bombarded her with texts asking her to take him back. When she told him her decision was final, he called her to ask for a final meeting and then went to the house with the gun when she refused.Cock admitted murdering Adam Hustler, causing grievous bodily harm to Amanda Hustler, and possessing a firearm with intent to endanger life. He was jailed for life with a minimum term of 25 years.The judge, Mr Justice Royce, told him: "The carnage that you caused that night was chilling and terrible and tragic. Its effects on the Hustler family could not have been more devastating."There are no doubt thousands and thousands of young men in this country every day who are romantically thwarted and feel depressed and angry about it, but your reaction was extreme and selfish."This was a terrible murder, coupled with the shooting of Mrs Hustler and the experience suffered by her and her daughters was terrifying."The judge quoted Mrs Hustler's victim impact statement in which she spoke about the loss of her husband and said: "I have lost my friend, my mentor, my clown, my lover, my companion of 24 years. I have had my life and that of my children and family ransacked by these actions. I have lost the man of my life."Sarah Munro QC, prosecuting, said Cock met Danielle when both worked for her father's drain-clearing business in Truro. She said: "Danielle's family are devout Jehovah's Witnesses and the rules of their faith prohibit any relationship with non-believers."The shooting took place on the birthday of Danielle's sister Abigail. She also saw her parents being shot.