The health secretary, Alan Milburn, yesterday announced an independent inquiry into the Shipman case that will lead to radical reforms of the medical profession in an attempt to ensure that all doctors are worthy of their patients' trust.Speaking in the House of Commons yesterday, Mr Milburn made it clear that the inquiry will go beyond the bare essentials of death certificates and the stockpiling of drugs. "It is of course true that a determined criminal can defeat the best-regulated organisation in pursuit of his purpose. "But we must be confident that we do indeed have the best systems for regulation and self-regulation firmly in place. There is no doubt that those systems have to be strengthened and to be changed," he said. The inquiry will investigate the conduct of the General Medical Council, which failed to act against Shipman when he was convicted on drugs charges in 1975 and said it was powerless to suspend him when he was being investigated for murder in 1998. Proposals from the government to tighten the disciplining of doctors were first made in November to some resistance but Mr Milburn said yesterday "we now need to press ahead as quickly as possible with them". The West Pennine health authority, the police and the coroner will be among those called before the inquiry, chaired by Lord Laming of Tewin, the former chief inspector of social services. Mr Milburn expects a report by the autumn. The health secretary said he was stopping Shipman's pay immediately and was considering removing his pension entitlements. Shipman is still licensed to practise, Mr Milburn pointed out. "The public will now expect that the GMC gives its most urgent attention to removing Harold Shipman from its register of medical practitioners," he said.In future, all doctors will have to disclose information about criminal convictions or professional censure, and it will become compulsory for them to report any death or serious incident in their surgery. The chief medical officer, Liam Donaldson, author of the proposals on disciplining doctors, will undertake an audit of Shipman's past practice which could throw up yet more embarrassing missed clues to his deviancy. Mr Milburn said Shipman "broke the trust of his patients in the most dreadful way imaginable" but should not be allowed to break the bond of trust between family doctors and their patients. The action I have outlined today is intended to strengthen that bond of trust. It expresses the Government's determination to apply the lessons of the Shipman case to ensure that patients have the protection they deserve," he said. The GMC yesterday defended itself, with the chief executive, Finlay Scott, saying:"I think we're saying that the decision in 1976 could be understood in terms of the powers available to us in 1976."