Two former suspects in the Stephen Lawrence murder investigation were today found guilty of carrying out a racist attack on an off-duty black police officer just half a mile from where the black teenager was killed.David Norris, 25, a passenger in a car driven by Neil Acourt, 27, threw a McDonald's drink at detective constable Gareth Reid and shouted "nigger" as the policeman walked home from Eltham railway station in south east London on May 11 last year. Acourt meanwhile drove the car at Det Con Reid in what the prosecution described as a "joint enterprise" with Norris to cause him harassment, alarm or distress motivated "by virtue of one reason and one reason alone - his colour". Norris, of Benningfield Court, Chislehurst, Kent, and Acourt, of Dutton Street, Greenwich, south east London, denied the charge. Giving evidence at Woolwich crown court, Norris maintained he had not used any racist language and said he threw the cup because he "flipped" in a "moment of madness" brought on by nine years of persecution following the Lawrence investigation. Today Norris and Acourt looked on as a jury of seven women and five men took two hours to reject their defence and decide that the pair had targeted Det Con Reid because he was black.Judge Michael Carroll said: "I have sat and listened to the behaviour by the two defendants. I am satisfied on the material before me that if I permitted bail there would be substantial grounds to believe further offences will be committed." The two defendants were remanded in custody for sentencing on August 27. Acourt, who was wearing a white shirt and dark coloured tie, said towards the press as he was taken down to the cells: "Sit up. Sit up". Both he and his co-defendant, Norris, who was wearing an open necked purple checked shirt with grey suit, shook their heads and smiled on hearing the verdict of the jury. The court was told that Acourt was convicted of possession of an offensive weapon on February 14 this year. The judge was also told that Norris had convictions for driving offences and theft.