Doreen Lawrence is to make a fresh appeal tonight for information about the murder of her son Stephen along with the officer in charge of the investigation into the racist killing of the teenager seven years ago.She will join deputy assistant commissioner John Grieve, who is head of the Metropolitan police's racial and violent crimes task force, on the BBC's Crimewatch UK programme to ask for further help in bringing her son's killers to justice. Mr Grieve is expected to tell viewers that there is still hope of prosecuting the gang of white youths who stabbed the 18-year-old A-level student to death at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London in April 1993, because he believes "allegiances change over time". Mr Grieve will say: "Seven years have passed since the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence, but we know several people out there can turn the keys to locking up those responsible. Allegiances change over time."We nearly have the full picture and I am relying on Crimewatch viewers to help complete it. "Crimewatch has always generated a nugget of gold for us. I'm sure tonight will be no different." Last night Mr Grieve was confirmed as a special advisor to the police inquiry into the hangings of two black men in Telford, Shropshire. Mr Grieve will advise Peter Hampson, chief constable of West Mercia police, on the inquiry into the deaths of Harold McGowan and his nephew Jason, 20 last year. Mrs Lawrence's appeal on Crimewatch is the first time that the programme has featured her son's murder and it is hoped that it will lead to new developments in the case. It is not the first time Crimewatch has been used in an attempt to track down clues in other racist attacks. Last year the programme showed secu rity footage in an attempt to gain information into the death of Asian student Ricky Reel. Mr Reel was on a night out in Kingston upon Thames on October 14, 1997, when he and his friends were attacked by white racists and scattered. He was never seen alive again and his body was pulled from the Thames a week later. The programme has also highlighted the death of Michael Menson, a musician who was attacked and set on fire on his way to Chase Farm hospital, Enfield, north London, to receive an injection he needed to control his schizophrenia. Police initially thought that he had set fire to himself, but later decided that he had been the victim of a racially motivated attack. He later died in hospital and an appeal on the programme last year led to new information that helped the police track down his attackers. While no one has been convicted for Stephen's murder five men have at various times been arrested, and a private criminal prosecution brought against three of them collapsed. The appeal on Crimewatch comes as Stephen's parents Neville and Doreen press ahead with a compensation claim against the police officers involved in the bungled murder investigation. They are suing 42 police officers who range from the rank of constable to superintendent, including the former Metropolitan police commissioner Sir Paul Condon Under writs issued in December the officers are being sued under section 20 of the Race Relations Act, which refers to discrimination on grounds of race. The Stephen Lawrence inquiry report published in February 1999 found that it was a fully justified conclusion to say that racism played its part in the investigation. Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen when he died, issued writs against 15 officers in August.