1963: The great train robberyOn August 8 1963, armed robbers stole £2.6m, mostly in used bank notes, from a Glasgow to London Royal Mail train, near Bridego Bridge to the north of the capital.The 15-strong gang, who wore helmets, ski masks and gloves, were aided by an anonymous insider who provided sensitive train schedule and cargo information. Another person provided Leatherslade farm, in Buckinghamshire, as a hideout for the gang.The robbers stopped the train by turning off a green track signal and turning on a red one. The train's fireman went to investigate and was captured. The engineer was severely injured by a blow on the head. The robbers took around 120 mailbags to the farm hideaway, where they divided the loot.Six people were hired to burn down the farmhouse, but did such a poor job that police found everyone's fingerprints. With this and other evidence, 12 of the 15 robbers were caught, convicted and jailed. Ronnie Biggs escaped from prison in 1965, had plastic surgery and fled to Brazil via Paris and Australia.1983: The Security Express robberyAlmost £6m was stolen from the Security Express headquarters in Shoreditch, east London, in 1983. Ronnie Knight, the former husband of the actress Barbara Windsor, was jailed after admitting handling some of the proceeds. He denied taking part in the robbery.Knight was jailed after spending 10 years in Spain, where he fled the on night his brother, John, was arrested in 1984. John Knight was jailed for 22 years.1990: £292m City bonds robberyAt 9.30am on May 2 1990, John Goddard, a 58-year-old messenger with the money broker Sheppards, was mugged at knifepoint on a quiet sidestreet in the City of London. Goddard was taking Bank of England Treasury bills and certificates of deposit from banks and building societies. The bonds were in bearer form and as good as cash to anyone holding them.The mugger escaped with 301 Treasury bills and certificates of deposit, mostly for £1m each, and the total haul was £292m. Keith Cheeseman received a six and a half-year jail sentence for his part in the robbery. Four other people in Britain were charged with handling the bonds, but were acquitted after the highly unusual step of offering no evidence was taken at was taken at the opening of their 1991 trials.Police believed the City mugging was carried out by Patrick Thomas, a petty crook from south London. Thomas, who was found dead from a gunshot wound to the head in December 1991, was never charged with the robbery.City of London police and the FBI infiltrated the gang involved in laundering the bonds. The police recovered all but two of the 301 bonds thanks to an informant.1996: The hole-in-the-wall gangThis was a global conspiracy by an elite team of criminals, including the M25 murderer Kenneth Noye, to steal millions from cashpoint machines.Seven conspirators, from Kent and London, admitted their part in a plot that would have undermined the public's confidence in cash dispensers. The plan was discovered when a computer expert the gang tried to recruit went to the police. Officers said it could have been the biggest theft in British history.The gang planned to use corrupt British Telecom employees to install phone taps on lines between cash dispensers and banks. The phone taps would supply vital information.Cashpoint cards contain a pin number and a card verification value, or CVV, hidden on the magnetic strip. These numbers are encrypted each time the card is used and transmitted to banks and building societies.The gang planned to record the numbers in their encrypted form on a memory board. Data would be fed into a computer and decoded, and the decrypted data would then be restored on new plastic cards and magnetic strips.A network of criminals could then use thousands of fake cashpoint cards to withdraw huge sums from Britain and abroad.November 8 2000: The Millennium Dome gangPolice foiled "the robbery of the millennium" when they caught a gang smashing their way into the Millennium Dome with a JCB earthmover in an attempt to snatch £200m worth of diamonds.The botched heist prompted quips that the robbers were the only people keen to visit the floundering attraction in Greenwich, south-east London.Four men were sentenced at the Old Bailey for conspiracy to rob, while a fifth was found guilty of the lesser charge of conspiracy to steal.February 11 2002: The Heathrow heistA gang of thieves carried out a dramatic robbery at Heathrow airport, attacking the driver of a security van before escaping with an estimated £6.5m in cash.Police hunting for the gang said the driver of the van was attacked by at least two men in a secure area at the airport's Terminal 4 at around 6.30am.The robbers forced him to the ground and bound his wrists before transferring the cash into another British Airways van. The second van was later found abandoned and burned. December 20 2004: The Northern Bank raidPolice in Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic believe the IRA stole £26.5m from Northern Bank, in Belfast. Until the Securitas heist, the Northen Bank robbery was the biggest in UK history. On December 19 2004, a gang of men disguised as police officers simultaneously broke into the homes of two Northern Bank officials, Chris Ward and Kevin McMullan, taking them and their families hostage. Ward was transferred at gunpoint to McMullen's house that evening, while his family remained captive in their home. At McMullen's house, his wife was forcibly removed from her home and taken to a forest south of Belfast. While family members were being held against their will, the hostage-takers gave McMullen and Ward precise orders about what to do the following day.The two bank officials reported to work on December 20 as though nothing was wrong. At the end of the day, when everyone went home, the two men let members of the gang into the bank.The gang took as much cash as they could, including currency in the form of euros, US dollars and Northern Bank notes, before loading it into a white van. Once the vehicle was full, they left and returned for a second load. By the time they had finished, £26.5m had been stolen. July 12 2007: Baghdad robberyIn a classic inside job, guards at a bank in Baghdad made off with $282m (£141.9m) in US dollars. The robbery, at the Dar Es Salaam bank - a private financial institution - was carried out by three guards, according to the interior ministry. There was speculation that the robbers had connections to the militias, as it would have been difficult for them to move through many checkpoints in Baghdad without being searched.