Violent men are to be sent to American-style classes on how to treat women under a nationwide programme to reduce domestic violence.The training will challenge male stereotypes of nagging wives or a woman's proper role in the home, and teach alternatives to 'coercive, dominating, violent behaviour'. It will aim to prevent abusive men attacking future partners, or taking revenge on former wives. Past victims will be interviewed and offered advice on protecting themselves and their children. The first nationwide approved programme, to be introduced in April, is based on one developed in Duluth, Minnesota. Men will have weekly sessions for up to 10 months on everything from 'sexual respect' to how violence affects children and why the victim cannot be blamed for an assault. 'It's about not making excuses for choices you make and for behaving in an unacceptable way,' said Nicola Harwin of the charity Women's Aid, who is trained in the method used in Duluth. 'It's not the fact she is on at you to do the housework - it's about men being responsible for their violence.' A Home Office spokeswoman said the classes for offenders were 'seeking to protect future victims of domestic violence as well as the current known victims'. The results of pilot schemes in West Yorkshire and London were 'encouraging', but the Home Office says it is too early to draw firm conclusions about reconviction rates. And Harwin cautions against seeing the classes as a panacea. The Duluth programme was credited with cutting deaths from domestic violence in some US cities, but Harwin says spouses who stayed with their partners hoping the programme would change them were often disappointed. The project's founders estimated that fewer than half of the men stopped physically attacking their partners, and of those 'very few stopped being psychologically abusive,' Harwin said. 'What we have to be clear about to women is that there is no guarantee it will make him change, and no guarantee it will protect your safety.'