A man obsessed with violent child porn who called police to tell them he had raped and murdered his 12-year-old niece was told today by a judge he would spend the remainder of his life in prison.John Maden, 38, was appearing at Manchester crown court for sentencing after pleading guilty to the rape and murder of his sister's daughter, Tia Rigg, on the afternoon of 3 April. He had asked his niece to his home babysit his child.When she arrived at his house in Cheetham Hill, Manchester, Maden drugged her and inflicted a series of sexual injuries on her before stabbing and strangling her with a guitar wire.A transcript of the 999 call was read to the court, in which Maden, who was taking anti-psychotic drugs, told the operator he had murdered Rigg because he "felt like it". Officers found her body at the scene.Maden was arrested and later told police he heard "voices – one good voice and one bad voice" – in his head but admitted the rape and murder of his niece.The court heard that Maden had an obsessive interest in pornography relating to paedophilia, rape and torture, keeping an "enormous pile" of the material at his home and on his mobile phone.The judge, Mr Justice Keith, said: "It is inescapable that Tia Rigg died because you decided to realise your fantasies about torturing and killing a young child. It is difficult to know how long Tia's ordeal lasted. The terror, the unimaginable pain you inflicted on her, the indignities you subjected her to ... while still alive. He added: "It was planned, it was premeditated and her agony must have been prolonged. This is one of those exceptional cases in which the only just punishment requires you to be imprisoned for the rest of your life."Tia's mother, Lynne Rigg, said: " Tia was loved by everyone, family and friends, but to me she wasn't just my daughter, she was my best friend."When this nightmare happened, it killed me inside. My heart has been broken and will never mend. All that is left is a big empty hole ... but now justice has been done, at least Tia can rest in peace."She added: "Tia was a bright young girl who had her whole life ahead of her. She trusted her uncle and thought she was going to his house to babysit. He not only caused suffering to Tia but also to her family. He's refused to try and ease some of the pain by telling anyone why he did this and that has added to their upset. He will now have a long time to reflect on what he has done."