The former royal aide and convicted murderer Jane Andrews, who escaped from an open prison in Kent at the weekend, has been found safe with three people thought to be family members and is back in custody, police said today.Andrews, who was the Duchess of York's personal assistant for nine years until 1997, absconded from East Sutton Park open prison in Maidstone, Kent, on Sunday.She was found in the early hours of this morning at a hotel a few miles from where she was being held. Police believe she had been sleeping rough since absconding and had been at the hotel for a only short time before the police arrived.A spokeswoman for Kent police said Andrews was with three people "known to her" but would not confirm whether they were members of her family. They had not been arrested but "spoken to" by police, she said. "Jane Andrews was found in a room in the hotel, and was in the company of three people who are known to her. Ms Andrews was arrested for absconding from East Sutton Park prison and taken into custody."Andrews was jailed for life in 2001 for murdering her boyfriend, Thomas Cressman, at the house they shared in Fulham, south-west London. She was ordered to serve a minimum of 12 years in jail.She was moved to an open prison in Yorkshire in July and transferred to East Sutton Park on 18 November. Described by police as "vulnerable", she made an apparent suicide attempt last week, for which she needed hospital treatment.In 2001, the Old Bailey heard that the 42-year-old hit Cressman across the head with a cricket bat and stabbed him in the chest with a kitchen knife.The jury at her Old Bailey trial accepted the prosecution's case that she killed Cressman in revenge after he said he would not marry her. It rejected her claims that she had armed herself because she was frightened after being abused by him.After the attack, Andrews went on the run, and Sarah Ferguson left two messages on her mobile phone urging her to give herself up. Andrews sent messages back claiming she did not know why people were trying to contact her and insisting everything was "fine" when she left.After the guilty verdict, she launched an appeal in which she claimed she had been sexually abused as a child and said she was innocent of murder on the grounds of diminished responsibility. The appeal was rejected.