The key witness in the Damilola Taylor murder trial, a 14-year-old girl, today halted proceedings for a second day when she announced she was "going home", later returning to deny that she had fabricated her evidence.The girl came back to the witness box one-and-a-half hours later but continued to take offence at the cross-examination of defence counsel Courtenay Griffiths QC, accusing him of upsetting her and "winding me up". Declaring, "You know what? I'm going home," she stunned the court by leaving after being in the witness box for just 20 minutes. Later, she said she stormed out because the house where her father lives was mentioned. The trial judge, Mr Justice Hopper, told her he appreciated that she found the examination unfair, but said this was an important case and the defendants' barristers were entitled to ask her questions. The judge said: "The best thing you can do is remain calm."On her return to the witness box, Mr Griffiths questioned the truthfulness of her evidence, suggesting she had made it up from what she had seen on television and in the newspapers.She admitted that she told the police "different stories", inventing some details like telling them Damilola was "bleeding like a water fountain", but said this was because she was scared of getting into trouble. Mr Griffiths repeated his suggestion she had made up the evidence. She said: "Do you know what? I haven't got the time for you ... for one I'm not a liar, for two you're trying to wind me up. Well you've got there. Are you happy?"The girl claims she was hidden behind a Fiat Punto across the street from the four youths alleged to have killed 10-year-old Damilola. Explaining why she did not attend to him when the boys ran off, she said: "I just thought he got robbed, it's nothing new getting robbed." The prosecution say she is the only witness to the killing of Damilola, who bled to death after being stabbed with a broken beer bottle 200 yards from his home on the North Peckham Estate, south London, in November 2000. She said that after the bottle was broken, the four boys she saw began passing it round.Mr Griffiths asked: "Did you see the bottle used on the little boy?" The girl said: "I didn't see it actually. What I mean is, I didn't see it go in. I could see a hand movement." She demonstrated with her hand in a slashing motion.Later, she began protesting when counsel started to read a transcript of her 999 call to police. Asked why she had called 999, she said: "It was all starting to get on my nerves because everyone was telling me about it, yeah, and every time it was said I kept getting upset. I had to hold it in and it was getting harder." Mr Griffiths read from her 999 call transcript, when she told the operator she knew who had killed Damilola and gave the names of three of the accused. She gave her name, but then gave a false name, and claimed to the operator that one of the defendants had called her and told her about the attack. She said in court she this was a lie, saying: "You don't have to read all of it [the transcript] because most of it is a lie anyway. You're just trying to make me look bad because you know it's a lie anyway."The girl told the 999 operator she had heard some boys had been arrested over the murder, and released on bail. Mr Griffiths said that was her imagination, to which she replied: "I just thought of it. I'm not dumb, I just thought of it. It wasn't my imagination, it's your fucking imagination. I want to go home now."The girl returned to court after the lunchtime adjournment clutching a white hankie. She told Mr Griffiths: "Can you give me a chance to answer instead of always pressuring me?" He then said: "Bluntly, you can be a good liar when you want to be." "No," she replied. "It's not the truth." Mr Griffiths then asked for the jury to be shown the first of a series of videos of police interviews with the girl. In the first tape, she says she knew who killed Damilola "because they rang me up" and gave the names of three of the defendants and a fourth name.The girl was allowed to leave the court but the judge told her she must return for more questioning on Friday. The trial was first halted yesterday when she pleaded to go home, after Mr Griffiths suggested she had lied about her "eyewitness" account of the alleged attack on Damilola.Two brothers aged 16, their 17-year-old friend and a 14-year-old friend deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The trial continues. 