Almost eight years ago, I lost one of my dearest school friends in the 7/7 terrorist attack on London's transport network. James Adams and 25 others were murdered by Abdullah Shaheed Jamal on a train travelling between Russell Square and King's Cross. Jamal did not look like Osama bin Laden, Kaled Sheikh Mohammed or Mohamed Atta. In fact, he looked like me: black Caribbean, raised and schooled in Britain. Michael Adebolajo, one of the two people alleged to have killed Lee Rigby in Woolwich on Wednesday afternoon, has a similar profile to Jamal. Adebolajo also grew up and went to school in Britain. From the videos that have emerged, this was a man that looked and sounded like many of us. But by young adulthood, he had converted to Islam and had become radicalised enough to murder a complete stranger.All of us want to know what security measures can be put in place to prevent this happening again but this alone will not be enough. No draconian measures to "toughen up" our borders can thwart the murderous ambition of a fellow citizen. Neither does any state have the resources to monitor every convert utterly convinced of their own righteousness. Similarly, the suggestion that the murder was a direct consequence of British foreign policy is superficially compelling – some even tried to suggest to me that my vote in favour of the invasion of Iraq contributed to James' death – but now that British troops have left Basra and are due to leave the dusty plains of Helmand next year, who truly believes this will spell the end of attacks like these? And even if they could, what sovereign nation can possibly have its foreign affairs dictated to by a violent minority?We need to start by looking closer to home. There is no escaping the fact that terrorist attacks have almost exclusively been led and executed by young men. Males isolated from the rest of society, fixated by a binary world view where there is only faith and infidelity. But these profoundly alienated young men are not only to be found in Britain's Muslim communities – vulnerable males looking to fill a vacuum in a life absent of camaraderie and purpose are common to all ethnicities. Likewise, it is not uncommon for fringe groups of all ideological persuasions to systematically target these men by manipulating their sense of hopelessness and lack of belonging.In one community, the English Defence League has radicalised the anger of disillusioned young white men and channelled it towards immigrant communities they believe are destroying their way of life. In another, a culture that idolises guns, knives and nihilism has drawn predominantly young black men into the world of street gangs. Boys from the age of 10 are taught to abandon all others apart from the gangs they belong to and to fight for turf with their rivals. Here, the very notion of masculinity has been bastardised to the extent that in their code, power and respect can only be achieved through intimidation and fear.At its most extreme is the root of the horrific scenes in Woolwich on Wednesday. Radical Islamism suffocates conventional Islamic beliefs based on love and mutual respect with a diet of anger, hate and intolerance. Young men, perhaps already convinced of being outcasts, are intoxicated by teachings that not only entrench this difference further but demands that they despise the society they leave behind. Only through this prism is it possible to understand the deaths of Muslims in Afghanistan as an attack on oneself and subsequently seek revenge by the proxy of an inconspicuous soldier in a London suburb.This distortion is so dangerous because it masquerades as an all-consuming faith. Whereas membership of the EDL or an inner-city gang can foster a type of lifestyle or, at worst, a livelihood, radical Islamism imposes a warped moral code and a polluted understanding of their purpose on earth. The attacks of 7/7 and the gruesome events in Woolwich were the products of marrying young men already drowning in their own grievances with a moral code that provides simple justifications for employing the worst excesses of human capacity.This is no attempt to provide an alibi for the killers of Lee Rigby: no circumstance or character trait can possibly absolve personal responsibility in the case of this deliberate, gruesome murder. Neither can this possibly be caused by the recession or government cuts – there has always been a reservoir of young men that society forgets in times of both boom and bust.But it is not unreasonable to ask why British males of a certain age and demographic but from all backgrounds almost exclusively provide the talent pool for our legions of racists, football hooligans, rioters, gang members and terrorists.We may never be able to stop the EDL from trying to exploit the anger of young white, unemployed men. We may never be able to stop grime artists glorifying violence or gang leaders looking for impressionable black youths to do their bidding. Nor may we ever be able to stop clerics from the other side of the world inciting hatred in sermons uploaded to YouTube. But we aren't powerless. There is much more we can do to build the resilience of these young men long before they become candidates for radicalisation. We can help provide purpose to the purposeless so they cannot be manipulated. We can communicate a message of aspiration and opportunity that can cut through lives littered with grievances.Most of all, our response should be informed by what weakens this fringe ideology the most. If the aftermath of Lee Rigby's horrific murder is that we return to a debate that isolates Britain's Muslim communities we will merely empower the racists that only wish to stoke tension. Instead, we have to empower the imams and mosques that utterly reject these heinous crimes without question. We have to strengthen the families and communities that are best placed to make a difference, not just limit our ambition to tap more phones or track more emails. We need to turn our attention to the generation of alienated and brutalised young men who remain vulnerable to the poisonous ideology of violent extremism. If we make no attempt to reach them, then we will only empower the zealots that groomed the murderers of Lee Rigby and James Adams.