Two men were jailed for life today for murdering a teenage girl and her grandmother by setting fire to their flat as they slept.David Philip, 19, and Jake Sheehan, 20, torched the property in Mile End, east London, after a fight with another youth who lived there over a £15 debt.At the end of the row Philip had shouted: "We are going to burn your house down" – and went on to carry out his threat.But only Shannen Vickers, 17, and her grandmother Pauline Adams, 57, were in the fifth-floor flat that night in February.Sheehan, of Bethnal Green, east London, and Philip, of Bow, east London, were both found guilty on two counts of murder by an Old Bailey jury.There was cheering and applause from the public gallery as they were jailed by Judge Richard Hawkins.The judge said the two men had taken revenge for losing "street credibility" during the earlier confrontation.He told the defendants that their "horrifying" crime had "struck at the heart" of family member Nicola Vickers, who lost her mother and only child.The court heard that Nicola had been warned of the threat earlier but had said: "Don't worry, no one could be so cruel.""She had faith in the power of human nature," said the judge. "She was right. Such an act was a cruel act indeed."The court heard that Philip owed £15 to the youth who lived at the flat but did not want to pay it back, and a fight broke out, which ended in the threat. Simon Denison QC, prosecuting, said: "It is almost beyond belief, but an hour or so later Philip and Sheehan carried out their threat."The court heard that the two killers siphoned petrol from a motorbike before setting fire to the vehicle.They then poured the petrol through the letterbox in the flat and on to the door and set it alight, knowing it would be occupied, said Denison. "A major fire rapidly took hold. Thick black smoke and burning fumes filled the flat," he said. "Pauline Adams and Shannen Vickers would have been asleep when the fire was set. They both woke up."Pauline went to Shannen's bedroom. Shannen was heard screaming for just a few seconds but she was not heard again. They were both overcome by the smoke and the fumes and they died together, lying side by side ‑ two completely innocent people killed over a £15 debt and not losing face."The court heard that a neighbour saw two people running down the stairs moments before the blaze was discovered, and that both defendants made phone calls to friends shortly afterwards, owning up to what they had done. They were arrested later on the day of the fire, which took place at about 5.30am on a Sunday.At the trial, both defendants tried to blame each other for starting the fire but the jury rejected their stories.After the fire the victims' bodies were found in their nightclothes, lying side by side in Shannen's room.Postmortems showed they had died from breathing in fumes.The family's dog and cat also died in the blaze.