A child murderer has been found dead in his cell after allegedly being held hostage and killed at a high-security prison recently condemned over its segregation facilities for vulnerable inmates.Subhan Anwar's body was found on Thursday night at HMP Long Lartin in Worcestershire. The prison, accommodating some of the most dangerous prisoners in the country, was criticised by the chief inspector of prisons in January for the metal cages it uses as an exercise facility for segregated inmates.The Ministry of Justice refused to say whether it was reviewing facilities at the prison following the murder.Two prisoners aged 47 and 45 were arrested shortly after Anwar's death on suspicion of murder and are being held in police custody. West Mercia police said its major investigation unit had launched a murder inquiry and officers were in the prison as part of the investigation.A spokesman for the force said: "West Mercia police has launched a murder investigation after a 24-year-old man died in Long Lartin prison last night. The body of the man was found by prison officers just before 8pm on Thursday."Two men aged 47 and 45 have been arrested on suspicion of murder and are currently in police custody. West Mercia police is working closely with the Ministry of Justice to establish the exact circumstances surrounding this man's death."The ministry refused to reveal details about the incident that led to Anwar's death, but it is understood Anwar was held hostage in his cell.Anwar, 24, was responsible for one of the most horrific child killings of the last 10 years, the torture and murder of his lover's two-year-old child Sanam Navsarka. Sanam died with 107 injuries on her body after suffering a month of what the court at Anwar's trial heard was "unbelievable" cruelty.A postmortem examination revealed that her arms and legs were broken and there were 36 bruises to her head and neck, 26 to her arms and 10 to her abdomen.Two bruises on her thigh revealed where she had been battered with metal poles. The girl had also been locked in a cupboard and put in a tumble dryer.She died after fat deposits from her broken bones got into her bloodstream. Anwar was jailed for a minimum of 23 years in 2009. Sanam's mother, Zahbeena Navsarka, 21, was jailed for nine years for her manslaughter.Long Lartin, which in the past has been home to Abu Qatada and Jeremy Bamber, houses 611 inmates, more than half of whom are serving life sentences. In a recent inspection Nick Hardwick, chief inspector of prisons, reported that many inmates in the vulnerable prisoner wings said they did not feel safe.Hardwick said the cages used within the exercise yard for segregated inmates were not fit for purpose. He also criticised the prison for continuing the practice of slopping out, 17 years after it was supposedly abolished in England and Wales.