Youth prisons have become barbaric warehouses that should be closed immediately, according to the Chief Inspector of Prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham. His comments were made against a background of increasing reports of violence, brutality and death in Britain's young offender institutions. Up to 90 percent of young people leaving prison reoffend within two years. Ramsbotham, who has become increasingly outspoken in his demands for penal reform, said: 'If I had the power to do it, I would close these places and do it bloody quickly'. He said he was frustrated he did not have the same powers to intervene as other regulatory bodies, such as the Office of the Rail Regulator or the schools inspectorate Ofsted. He said he had become increasingly irritated by the refusal of the Home Office and the Prison Service to act on his recommendations. Last year he described Feltham, Europe's largest youth jail in west London, as 'rotten to the core' and 'unacceptable in a civilised country'. He told The Observer that, although conditions in the juvenile wing of the prison had improved, they were still appalling for over-18s. The only problem with closing young offender institutions, he said, was that there was nowhere else for the offenders to go. The number of children and young people in prison custody increased by 11 percent this year, to around 3,000. He also confirmed reports in last week's Observer that he had been appalled by conditions at young offender institutions at Brinsford in Wolverhampton and Stoke Heath in Shropshire. 'What more can I do than say again and again that conditions in these prisons are unacceptable,' he said. Ramsbotham said the responsibility for the 'completely inexcusable' treatment of young people in the prison system lay with the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, and the director of the Prison Service, Martin Narey. The Chief Inspector is especially critical of the number of 15 and 16-year-olds being held on remand while awaiting trial. According to figures released to Parliament this week, in Feltham alone the figure has risen by more than 50 percent this year, from 91 at the end of March to 166 at the beginning of last month. 'You don't leave a 15-year-old locked up for 23 hours with nothing to do. There is literally no excuse for that,' Ramsbotham said. Problems at Feltham that had led to the murder of 19-year-old Zahid Mubarak by a mentally unstable cellmate known for his racist views were replicated throughout the system. 'This has to go right to the top. From the Home Secretary and the head of the Prison Service to the prison officer on the landing: the problem is that no one is taking responsibility and no one is accountable,' Ramsbotham said. 'Someone should be appointed to take full responsibility for prisoners under the age of 18 and another person for 18 to 20-year-olds.' Ramsbotham has backed a report by the Church of England's Children's Society, to be published later this week, which will call for an end to the practice of imprisoning 15 and 16-year-olds on remand, which it believes is in breach of the new Human Rights Act. The long-term aim of the Children's Society is the ending of all custodial sentences for under-18s. Britain locks up more young people than almost any other West European country and a child becomes responsible for a crime at the age of 10. This compares with 12 in Turkey and 18 in Belgium and Luxembourg. The Children's Society report will highlight horrifying new evidence that shows that half of all young people in prison have diagnosable mental illnesses. Last year there were more than 900 incidents of self-harm by young people in prison, including slashed wrists and eating glass. Dorset police are now investigating 35 cases of alleged assault at the Portland young offender institutions where prison officers were said to run a military-style regime. Frances Crook of the Howard League for Penal Reform, which provided evidence for the Portland inquiry, said: 'We all know that locking up young people in long-term institutions is damaging to them and damaging to us all. Because of the high rates of reoffending, we are probably creating more victims of crime this way. If there were 1,000 furry animals being held in these conditions, there would be demonstrations every day.' The Liberal Democrat MP Dr Vincent Cable, chairman of the all-party police group, said last night: 'We have to question whether they should be closed altogether because they are doing more harm than good. Despite repeated warnings, nothing has been done to change the situation at all.