 Most overcrowded  Birmingham prison, a Victorian monster three miles from the city centre, tops the Prison Reform Trust's roll of dishonour on overcrowding. More than 750 of the 1,083 inmates are crammed two to a one-person cell, in a facility built for 732. In November, the prison's board of visitors observed hundreds of inmates having to eat in cells beside open lavatories. Dishonourable mentions also to  Leeds (600 doubling up),  Preston and  Durham (500 each) and  Liverpool (400+).  Most violent The Prison Reform Trust has calculated the overall risk of being assaulted while in prison at 9.9%. At  Brinsford young offenders' institute, outside Wolverhampton, this soars to a shocking 67.5%. Youth prisons occupied the worst four positions for prison violence, all with an assault rate of over 45%. In contrast, assault rates in male open prisons average only 2.5%. At least 10 had no recorded assaults last year.  Least time locked up  Latchmere House, a former borstal, has been a resettlement prison since 1991, and works vigorously to integrate inmates into the local community in preparation for their release. More than 70 do real jobs in the community, and the Prison Reform Trust found that inmates spent an average of 74.1 hours a week in "purposeful activity", compared to the national average of 23.3 hours.  Most time locked up  Bottom was  Brixton, with only 11.1 hours per week, less than two hours per day, spent doing anything worthwhile.  Worst for visiting Despite a strong challenge by  Portland young offenders' institution, situated on a remote Devon peninsula to which visitors must walk a mile from the nearest bus stop,  Dartmoor  prison just nicks the booby prize for least accessible facility. In 1979, Lord Justice May called it "simply against nature" that the prison was still in use. Visitors must get a train to Plymouth, followed by a bus to Yelverton and a six-mile taxi journey. Buses run only every two hours on Sundays. Some 25,000 prisoners, over a third of the total population, are held more than 50 miles from their committal court town.  Most drug-ridden Much of the blame for the problems at  Featherstone, on Wolverhampton's outskirts, has been attributed to its design. The "hotel principle" of locating cells along short cul-de-sacs off a central open area created a claustrophobic space, difficult for staff to police. Until recently, gangs carried out muggings along the corridors, though restricting movement has reduced this. None the less,  Featherstone's drugs problem is the worst in the prison service: 35.8% of inmates had positive results for drugs in random tests.  Least drug-ridden  Albany prison on the Isle of Wight, 85% of whose inmates are sex offenders, had the best record on drugs last year, no inmate testing positively. The overall rate of drug use last year was 14.4%, a marked reduction on previous years, and lower than the prison service's target of 18.5%.  Most escapes The prison service's record on escapes has improved sharply since the early-90s, falling by 89%, despite the prison population increasing by almost a half. There have been no Category A (high-risk) escapes since 1995. During 1999-2000, there were 30 from prisons and eight from prison service escorts. This compares with 202 in 1994-5. The most recent serious breakouts were of nine high-security prisoners from  Whitemoor and  Parkhurst, two of the most secure prisons in England and Wales, in 1994 and 1995 respectively. The UK's biggest breakout was from the  Maze in 1983, when 38 IRA prisoners commandeered a kitchen van.  Cleanest The Prisons Handbook described  Lancaster Farms YOI, on farmland outside the city, as "a shining example of commitment and care". The Chief Inspectorate of Prisons report in 1995 praised it as "very clean, with no sign of any graffiti; cells were the tidiest and cleanest we have seen; evening association was more like a first-class, well-organised boys' club than a remand centre".  Dirtiest  Birmingham was one of the very worst, again. Its own most recent CIP report (another, probably even more damning, is imminent) observed: "One part of the centre [was] the untidiest and dirtiest we have seen anywhere." The hospital block was particularly "appalling". This was a small improvement on Stephen Tumim's report while chief inspector in the early 90s, which found cockroaches, pigeons and feral cats.  Best gardens A hotly contested category, with a number of institutions furiously trimming their box hedges each spring in a bid to land the coveted Windlesham trophy, awarded each year by the Royal Horticultural Society. The rules have recently been changed to prevent victors winning two years in a row, a move designed to curb the runaway success of  Whatton prison in Notts, which won three years in a row in the mid-1990s and is the current trophy holder. Insiders tip  Kingston prison in Portsmouth to land the award this year. Its pansies, apparently, are of particular note.  Best food Stephen Tumim was particularly taken by the dinner he was served at  North Sea Camp, a small open prison near Boston. His successor, Sir David Ramsbotham, was pleased to discover recently that his recommendation for a wider provision of condiments in the canteen had been acted upon. Attached to the prison is a working farm with 900 bacon pigs, 100 breeding sows and 900 sheep. The bacon is reputed to be very tasty.  Best community relations   Blantyre House was built in the 1910s as a training facility for deprived boys, but has been a Category C resettlement prison since 1991. Because it is preparing inmates for eventual release, a high proportion of them work in the local community after spending six months inside. Each year the prison hosts a "stir crazy" day for people with disabilities and their carers, with the prisoners raising funds themselves to provide food and entertainment. They also put on an annual pantomime and host a Christmas lunch for local pensioners. The reoffending rate, at 8%, is one of the lowest in the country.