Government plans to introduce housing rights for ex-prisoners could drastically cut re-offending, charities say, but will still leave some out in the cold.In an amendment to the 1996 Housing Act, councils will be obliged to give priority housing to those who are "vulnerable as a result of leaving prison". Their needs would have to be recognised by councils alongside existing priority categories, such as homeless families and those with mental health problems. The change would abolish the blanket ban on housing ex-offenders that the 1996 Act allowed councils to impose.The Revolving Doors Agency (RDA) has welcomed the move. It points out that up to 40% of prisoners are homeless on release, and that those who are homeless are two to three times more likely to re-offend. But the charity's chief executive, Crispin Truman, said many of the people the amendment seeks to help could still slip through the net because of a lack of support for short-term prisoners."This is definitely a step in the right direction," he said. "But it would be a shame if some prisoners didn't get the help they need because of loopholes in the law."Prisoners who serve sentences of between three and 12 months would not receive support and advocacy. Only those prisoners who serve 12 months or more have a probation officer to act as an advocate in dealings with a housing authority. Those caught in between can only wait until they leave prison and become homeless before going to a local authority and asking for help to find somewhere to live.They also risk losing their homes because housing benefit for prisoners is stopped after three months of a sentence."Our main concern is that ex-offenders will just join a long waiting list," Mr Truman said. "Prisoners aren't deemed to be homeless while they are inside so they can only apply for help after release."The people we are concerned with tend to be mentally vulnerable but, apart from rare cases where they have been to hospital, they come out of prison with no record of that - so information is not passed on to the housing department about their needs. People may have seen a psychiatrist in prison but some psychiatrists refuse to pass information to colleagues outside."Ex-offenders face a battle to prove to the local authority they need help. And often those who most need help are those least able to press for it."The Tories introduced the bar on short-term prisoners having a probation officer, to save money as far as I can see. I know that this government is keen to do away with such arbitrary cut off points. It would be a shame if they missed this one."The RDA helps people with mental health or addiction problems who come into contact with the criminal justice system. They estimate that 90% of inmates have a diagnosed psychiatric illness and/or a drug habit. Interviews with 101 inmates, revealed by RDA in January, showed that up to half of those had no fixed abode on the day of release.An added problem is the lack of appropriate housing, especially for those with drug or alcohol problems. Ex-offenders can disqualify themselves from housing for the same reasons they are vulnerable. For example, some housing agencies that help those with drug problems will not take anyone with a criminal record. And some agencies that help ex-offenders will refuse to take any with a drug problem.Nacro, a charity that has long campaigned for better support for ex-prisoners, has helped establish housing advice centres in some prisons to help inmates find somewhere to go before leaving prison, but it says such advice is available in very few prisons.It and the RDA are hoping a forthcoming social exclusion unit (SEU) report will help plug some of the gaps in provision for ex-offenders. Among proposals in the report, leaked earlier this month, are plans to more than double the £40 discharge grant for prisoners to £100, and to allow prisoners to claim housing benefit for up to six months into their sentence.The proposals, along with more support to help ex-prisoners reintegrate into society, are part of a strategy to develop innovative ideas to cut re-offending, announced by the prime minister in September 2000.There is also a new obligation on councils to develop homelessness strategies to meet housing needs, introduced under the Homelessness Act 2002, which comes into force alongside the planned 1996 amendment in July. "The SEU report is all about giving ex-offenders more support and that could make a big difference," said RDA researcher Ian Moran."But local housing agencies can lag behind policy changes and legislation and without extra funding many may not be able to offer ex-offenders appropriate accommodation."A concern, which Nacro shares, is that ambiguities in the proposed changes would give local authorities a lot of freedom in deciding who to help.A spokesman for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister was keen to stress that only those ex-prisoners deemed "vulnerable" will receive help, such as those who had become institutionalised. The department is soon to issue guidance notes to councils on interpreting the planned changes."It's about extending the safety net to lots of people who have fallen through it because they were ex-offenders," the spokesman said.But he stressed: "There is no question of prisoners jumping the queue. Ex-offenders will have to prove they are vulnerable and have nowhere else to go."And [local authorities] would still be able to rule out individuals who had been antisocial neighbours or not paid their rent." The outcry from right-wingers that greeted the leaked SEU proposals could explain why the government is keen to play the changes down. Nacro says the issue is hardly a vote winner and people recognise that there are real dilemmas, particularly in the south-east where there is a housing shortage."No local politician would want to give prisoners priority," a Nacro spokesman said. "But having a safe secure place to live is one of the most important elements of citizenship and if people coming out of prison don't have that they are much more likely to re-offend."Last year a joint report by the prison and probation service found as many as one in three prisoners lose their housing while in prison and 10% of offenders said they slept rough on leaving prison.Helen Williams of the National Housing Federation said: "The proposed 'new priority need' category rightly recognises the links between a spell in prison and the likelihood of homelessness. Settled re-housing also cuts down re-offending rates and therefore plays an important role in safeguarding the wider community."But a backlash is already brewing. On the Isle of Wight the local Conservative MP, Andrew Turner, fears a flood of ex-offenders will want to settle there after leaving one of the islands three prisons. Despite evidence that most ex-prisoners return to their home town, Mr Turner is whipping up a campaign to stop ex-offenders "swamping local housing". Ultimately the success of any plans to help ex-prisoners resettle will depend on resources. Whether or not the proposals in the SEU's report are taken up, Nacro says its indications are that funding will be a problem."The amendment to the 1996 act is good in theory but we'll have to see how it works in practice," said a Nacro spokesman. "Ultimately it comes down to resources and it's hard to argue for funds to help ex-offenders."