The home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday unveiled a new "tough but tender" approach to sentencing criminals that will see thousands of minor offenders kept out of prison and a fresh emphasis on using rehabilitation programmes to cut crime.The first major shake-up of sentencing for a decade will, however, see longer and tougher jail sentences for repeat offenders and the end of automatic release for serious sexual and violent offenders who have served two-thirds of their terms. But the reform package, which is largely based on a report published yesterday by a former senior Home Office civil servant, John Halliday, will put Mr Blunkett on a collision course with judges over his plan to ensure that parliament and the public have a greater influence on sentences passed by the criminal courts. Mr Blunkett acknowledged yesterday that this was "a delicate issue", but complained that too often both magistrates and the higher courts ignored the present "non-mandatory" guidelines on sentencing, especially for dangerous, violent and sexual offenders. A new penal code is to be introduced by parliament which will "guide the use of discretion by the judges". The reform proposals will go out for consultation before the cabinet decides the final legislation, to be introduced in a new police and criminal justice bill in the autumn. The home secretary said he wanted to introduce a new "virtual clip around the ear" for young petty offenders by introducing "acceptable be haviour contracts" to curb their anti-social activities and prevent them drifting further into crime. But it was his new approach to prisons that most surprised penal reformers. In a break with the "prison works" rhetoric of some of his predecessors, he said that nothing was achieved by jailing an offender if it made matters worse, not better. "I am not going soft. I've not abandoned my roots. I represent a deeply deprived inner-city community who have had their bellyful of people apologising for those who destroy lives," he said. "Undoubtedly, people learn more about crime in prison than they will learn anywhere else in their lives. The object is not to increase the prison population, but to prevent people going into prison in the first place. "Rehabilitation is the highest possible priority for those who enter the criminal justice system," he told the national probation service conference. He wanted a new breed of community sentences which would give offenders a chance, but if they failed to take it, "we will get as tough as boots". The reforms include innovative new flexible "custody-plus" sentences for the vast majority of inmates - the 61,000 who are jailed for less than 12 months each year. This will see them spending less time in jail, but longer in probation service programmes in the community to ensure they do not reoffend. The proposals envisage a massive expansion in the probation service, in an attempt to cut the reoffending rate from 56% to 40%. Mr Blunkett questioned whether those currently given six months or less should be jailed, saying that the prisons could do little with them and they faced the loss of jobs and family. He suggested the use of a "custody-minus" scheme, and of weekend and overnight jail. "Instead of people believing the more you put people away, the more safeguards they have against crime, they must believe the more you rehabilitate people, the more likely they are to be safe in their homes and streets." Harry Fletcher, of the probation officers' union, was delighted with the proposals. He said it was the first time for a decade that a home secretary had stressed the importance of rehabilitation. But Mr Fletcher warned that getting tough with 100,000 persistent offenders would mean the prison population would rise in the short term. The publication yesterday of the Halliday report, leaked to the Guardian last month, confirms that the government's proposals to ensure that previous convictions are taken into account for repeat offenders, and tougher sentencing for the most serious offenders, could add between 3,000 to 6,000 to the daily prison population.