Jack Straw today announced a dramatic increase in police recruitment, saying Home Office figures show a 77% jump in new recruits starting training this year.The home secretary said the figures were a result of the first year's £40m investment from the government's crime fighting fund. Opposition critics said police numbers were still far lower than when Labour took office. Every force in England and Wales saw an overall rise in the number of recruits, except Hertfordshire. The Home Office statistics showed that 7,009 new recruits began residential training in 2000-2001, compared with 3,963 in the previous year, an increase of 76.9%. The largest increase was in the Yorkshire and Humber region with a rise of 168%.The home secretary announced the figures as he met the new intake at the Metropolitan police's training centre at Hendon, north London."Forces are to be congratulated on their efforts to recruit more officers," Mr Straw said. "With nearly 40% of the total number of recruits coming through the crime fighting fund this is a sure sign that the government's increased funding for the police is delivering results." The shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, said of the figures: "Although they are saying a 75% increase, what they neglect to tell you is that that of course was the lowest level to which they themselves have allowed recruitment to fall. "If you compare the current numbers not with that but with those that they inherited there is precious little increase at all."Mr Straw said: "The figures are very good - they show recruitment is rising very rapidly. "Police numbers have been falling since 1993 because of the state of the public finances."Mr Straw acknowledged that retaining police was also important and said fewer officers left the force through either resignations or retirements in 1999-2000.Labour was obliged to stick with the Conservatives' public spending plans for the first two years in power, he added.Simon Hughes, Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: "More police officers are, of course, welcome. "But better figures in the last month before the general election can't make up for four years of inadequate funding, belated interest and broken promises by this Labour government." Related articles 05.03.2001: Budget to give public jobs boost17.04.2001: Blair to shake up police culture Useful links Police services of the UKPress release: Police recruits up 77% - Home Office