An overhaul of Britain's laws on sex crimes that is expected to sweep away the remaining Victorian bans on gay sex and reform the law on rape will be introduced into parliament this autumn, the home secretary, David Blunkett, said yesterday."We will legislate in the next session of parliament on sex offences and sex offenders - sex offences in terms of the 19th century laws and definitions which have been consulted on in the last two years, and sex offenders in terms of updating our laws to take account of the most horrendous events that have been in the headlines in this country." The package is expected to include a new crime of "adult sexual activity with a child" - the first of its kind anywhere in the world - which will spell out that some cases of child abuse and paedophilia are so serious that they will in future carry a life sentence. Home Office ministers also want to use a sexual offences bill to strengthen the law on rape to tackle the appallingly low 9% conviction rate. It will cover issues such as a new definition of consent, but will not create a lesser offence of "date rape" which ministers say is just as traumatic as being raped by a stranger. The definition of rape is expected to be extended to include oral penetration. Mr Blunkett said yesterday that he was in the process of finalising "proposals to update the centuries old, outdated law on sex offences. We are balancing here the toughening of protection, particularly for children, while ensuring the law is fair and non-discriminatory and reflects the 21st rather than the 19th century view of social policy". A government white paper setting out Mr Blunkett's proposals is to be published this autumn based on the Home Office review, Setting the Boundaries, which was produced in 2000 and has attracted more than 700 responses. It will also include proposals to tighten the way the sex offenders' register works. Setting the Boundaries advocated sweeping away the remaining Victorian offences of gross indecency, buggery and soliciting by men - which is sometimes called "cottaging". Its author, Betty Moxon, argued that the assumption in the original 1885 Criminal Law (Amendment) Act that such gay sex acts by consenting adults in private were "unnatural", legitimised prejudice and contributed to homophobia. Oscar Wilde was jailed under this law. The review said that the law which had been used against thousands of men for "cottaging or cruising" should be scrapped, arguing that similar behaviour between men and women would be seen as no more than "chatting up". The overhaul of the sex crime laws will also include legislation to ensure that incest covers step-parents and keeps pace with the changing nature of the family. A new crime of "adult sexual activity with a child" would replace seven different offences which are currently used to prosecute in child abuse cases which carry different age limits and penalties. It is also expected to include heavy penalties for those who engage in the commercial sexual exploitation of children. Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrats' Home Office spokesman, welcomed the decision to bring forward wholesale reform. "Partial reform will not be sufficient, and it is right that the government wishes to take more time and get these outdated laws reformed properly," he said.