Guardian reporters compiled this timetable of the Tottenham riots from noon on Sunday when Mrs Cynthia Jarrett's sons, local leaders, and police met at Tottenham police station. Community leaders appealed for calm. 2pm: A group of about 50 youths demonstrates outside the police station, shouting abuse and damaging some vehicles, but demonstration is largely peaceful. A coachload of black and white youths arrives at the estate to be greeted by local youths and one resident notices 'strange car loads' of youths in cars parked around the estate.  3.30pm: Two policemen called to the estate are stoned. One is injured and taken to Moorfields Eye Hospital.  6pm: Meeting held at Broadwater Farm Estate Youth Association from which police are excluded. Mr Bernie Grant, leader of Haringey council, and Mrs Dolly Kiffin, the estate's youth leader, appeal in vain for calm, and are told : 'It is too late for words.'  6.45pm: Police assaulted by bottles, stones and petrol bombs in Mount Pleasant, Willan Road, and The Avenue. Cars overturned and set on fire.  7pm: Police bring in district support units from all parts of London. More cars overturned and set on fire firemen unable to tend fires because of stone-throwing.  9pm: 13 police officers reported injured in various clashes.  9.30pm: A shop in Willan Road set on fire and looted. Police report major attack in Griffin Road. Two shotgun blasts heard and journalists injured by pellets. Police form a line of riot shields along Griffin Road, but are met each time they advance with a fusillade of petrol bombs. As they retreat rioters restock with bricks brought up.  9.40pm: Members of DII, Scotland Yard's tactical fire arms squad, are issued with plastic baton rounds and CS is stored nearby.  9.49pm:A policeman is shot and seriously injured.  10pm: Rioters regroup on Broadwater Farm estate gangways but officers hold back.  10.10pm: Flats in Moira Close on fire.  10.15pm: Call on police radio says that one of a group of police officers supporting firemen, has received numerous stab wounds in the head. The officer, PC Keith Blakelock, is rushed to North Middlesex Hospital.  10.20pm: Gas explosion in Adams Road.  10.30pm: Second police officer is shot at Griffin Road. He receives slight head injuries.  11.0pm: PC Blakelock certified dead.  2am Sunday: Mrs Kiffin and community workers lock themselves in youth office.  4.35am: Police retake estate and smash their way into youth office. Police raid flats in search of weapons and find a case of petrol bombs.