An investigation into allegations that the jury in the murder trial of Tony Martin was "nobbled" is to be launched today by the lord chancellor's department.Officials will meet at Norwich crown court to discuss suggestions that members of the jury felt intimidated into convicting the Norfolk farmer of murder at the end of his trial last week. The sentencing to life imprisonment of the man who shot two burglars at his isolated farmhouse has sparked a nationwide debate about the rights of householders to defend their property and the level of policing in rural areas. A group of Conservative MPs warned yesterday that a breakdown of law and order in the countryside was a "real possibility" as people had lost faith in the ability of the police to protect them against criminals. Their comments came after the Guardian revealed the government's decision to increase police funding to rural areas following a Home Office commissioned report that found that spending policy had failed to take account of the special costs of policing sparsely populated areas. The four Norfolk MPs - the former cabinet ministers, Gillian Shephard (Martin's MP), and John MacGregor, as well as David Prior and Keith Simpson - have urged the government to "look seriously" at the consequences of the Martin case and act fast. "People no longer have confidence in the ability of the police to defend them and their property," their statement said. "They are, as a consequence, likely to be tempted to take the law into their own hands, as the Martin case, and its aftermath, have demonstrated. Many are saying that, like Tony Martin, they too would have defended themselves if the police were unable to help them." The MPs added: "Ministers must put right their neglect of rural policing, and fast ... action is needed now." Jim Wilson, chairman of the Norfolk police authority, called for greater clarity in the law on self defence. In a letter to the Norwich-based Eastern Daily Press he said: "The minds of householders would be set at rest if our legislators could define with greater clarity the law which governs a citizen's right to defend his home and property." Martin, 55, was found guilty by a majority verdict of murdering 16-year-old Fred Barras and of attempting to murder Brendon Fearon, another burglar, with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. The farmer was cleared of attempting to murder Mr Fearon and of possessing a pump-action shotgun with intent to endanger life. Martin claimed he acted in self defence after he found the burglars inside his home. Last night, the farmer's lawyers said they would launch an appeal at the high court on Friday. They are conducting their own investigation into the allegations of jury intimidation following a call to a local radio station by a woman claiming to have been on the jury. The radio station, Broadland 102 FM, insisted that the woman caller had not spoken of being "intimidated, pressured or nobbled". A spokeswoman said the caller claimed the trial had "changed her life" and that now she felt "frightened to leave her house" because of what she had heard during the trial. Michael Ballinger, one of Martin's legal team, said it was important to "get to the bottom" of the allegations. "We shall be talking to the court," he said. "Our first aim is to get to the bottom of this. We feel we have got plenty of other grounds for appeal but if there proves to be anything in these allegations of intimidation then that would no doubt play a part in any appeal." A spokesman for the lord chancellor's department confirmed that investigations will take place today. "Basically, this will be an informal meeting to discuss what has happened and what has been reported since the end of the trial. The court manager at Norwich, the general manager and the circuit administrator, will be involved. The first stage will be to look at whether there is any need for an investigation."