Last week Amnesty International published a report on the Chinese government's crackdown on lawyers who take on human rights cases in defence of individuals against the state. Catherine Baber wrote here that lawyers were "targeted as they try to use the law to protect citizens against the excesses of the state". The report highlighted the case of Ni Yulan, who has been permanently disbarred and frequently detained. Her offence was to represent people made homeless by their own government in the lead up to the Beijing Olympics. While in custody in 2002 she was beaten so badly that she now uses a wheelchair. In many countries around the world, Ni's story would not be uncommon.The causes that lawyers have to take up are not always appealing. But we should be very wary of inhibiting the proper defence of a subject, however unpopular. Barristers in the UK do not get to pick and choose their cases or their clients. There is no forensic triage system that filters away nasty cases so that they can enjoy a diet of interesting and amusing work that is not emotionally draining.If they were allowed to choose their cases, people accused of the most unpleasant crimes could find there was no one to represent them in court. What would have happened to Colin Stagg without an advocate to stand up and challenge the prevailing view that he was an evil killer?Quite apart from that, our system is widely admired for the guarantee we have, up to now, that an experienced and able advocate will be provided to defend in the most serious cases. Many cases we undertake require very sensitive handling. There may be young or vulnerable witnesses to accommodate. We try hard not to cause distress. We have a duty not to harass witnesses and anyway, there is not much to be gained from beating up on a witness in front of a jury who see what is going on. Sometimes we could do better and we are always looking at ways to improve our standards. It is actually a very difficult and demanding task, which we take very seriously.In the Levi Bellfield case, the defence counsel was required to deal with some very difficult and sensitive issues. The questions Jeffrey Samuels QC asked were, as I understand it, all matters that had been put to Milly Dowler's father by the police when they questioned him at an early stage of the investigation.Were the police wrong to ask those questions? The judge accepted it was relevant to Bellfield's case to explore other potential explanations for Milly Dowler's disappearance. Samuels had little choice but to use the material, if he was instructed to and if he was to fulfil his task of representing his client fearlessly. As far as the judge was concerned, it appears that defence counsel performed this unpleasant but necessary task with economy and sensitivity. If the questions had not been asked we would soon be hearing about an appeal by Bellfield with complaints that his lawyer had not put his defence before the court. The press might even be publishing stories about the "evidence the jury were not allowed to hear".For performing a difficult professional duty, Samuels has been vilified in the press, doorstepped by the media, and he and his family have been threatened and abused. Some media coverage has come close to identifying responsible professionals with the crimes of those they are called upon to defend. This is a dangerous development that needs to be stopped in its tracks. We would be horrified if a foreign lawyer defending a British citizen abroad was abused and threatened for doing his job. Why do we tolerate it here?In a kneejerk reaction to the Bellfield case, we now face calls for a "rebalancing" of a trial system that is said to favour the accused. Apart from missing the point that Bellfield was convicted by a jury in fairly short order, the calls ignore the fact that there has been a great deal of "rebalancing" or the criminal justice system, including the trial process over the last 20 years or so. The changes include:• Provisions on the right to silence and permitting comment on silence when questioned and silence at trial (1994).• Provisions requiring the defence to disclose the outline of their case and the facts in issue (1996).• Provisions permitting the use of special measures to facilitate the giving of evidence by vulnerable witnesses.• Provisions to permit the use in evidence of a defendant's previous convictions where relevant (2003).• Provisions to restrict attacks on the character of prosecution witnesses except where demonstrated to be relevant to the issues in the case (2003).The task of continually improving the criminal justice system is a priority for all of us who work within the system and one in which my members and I will continue to engage. By all means let us examine ways of ensuring that discomfort to witnesses is kept to a minimum, but we curtail the right to a proper defence at our peril.