A former soldier accused of stabbing his two young sons to death wept yesterday as he told Birmingham crown court that they had screamed for his help as two masked gunmen attacked them.Steven Wilson, 44, of Great Barr, Birmingham, denies murdering Brad, seven, and Brett, eight, in February 2002 because their mother had left him after years of alleged abuse. Earlier in the trial, the jury heard tapes of a 999 call in which he confessed to the killings. But yesterday he said he "loved the boys to bits" and had lied because he feared the assassins would target his son Konrad, 23, if he told the truth. Mr Wilson sobbed as he told the court that Brett had tried to grab the knife from one of the attackers, who believed that the defendant had stolen cash and cocaine from a brothel where his wife was working. "Brett was screaming 'help me daddy'. I felt so ashamed of myself and guilty that I could not save them ... I could not save my babies," Mr Wilson told the court. He said a gunman had ambushed their car with the words "finally we meet", and forced him to drive to a golf course in Handsworth. "The boys were crying. I was petrified," Mr Wilson said, while describing how two armed men in masks had appeared and told him to get into the back with the boys. "I was saying, 'Please don't hurt my boys. Do what you want to me but don't hurt the boys,'" he told the court. "Brad was saying he was scared. [The man in the back of the car] cut his throat. He slashed across and put it back to his throat. "Brett went to grab hold of his hand. [Then] the chap in front grabbed Brett and started hitting him in the head. "Brett tried to do something about it. He was really brave - he tried to stop him." The defendant claimed he had been stabbed in the chest and throat as he tried to protect his sons. He said he must have passed out, as the next thing he could remember was waking to find his sons dead and he tried to commit suicide. "I pulled the screwdriver out of my chest and put it into the hole in my throat ... I was trying to kill myself." He said he had received death threats in the days before the killings. Mr Wilson also denies assaulting his wife Denise Williams, 26, who is divorcing him. The trial continues.