A spiritualist minister was jailed for life yesterday for killing his wife, an award-winning makeup artist, after she discovered his string of secret affairs and calls to gay chatlines. David Chenery-Wickens, 52, was found guilty of murdering Diane Chenery-Wickens after she uncovered his web of sexual and financial lies. During the six-week trial he was exposed as a sexual predator and a compulsive liar who had affairs throughout his 11-year marriage.Sentencing Chenery-Wickens to serve a minimum of 18 years, Mr Justice Cooke told him: "You have been convicted of the murder of your wife, Diane. "The evidence shows she loved you, and that you deceived her over many years, indulging in many sexual relationships with vulnerable women who came to you in their hour of need." Lewes crown court had heard that on 22 January 2008, the night she was killed, Mrs Chenery-Wickens, a Bafta award-winning makeup artist who worked on the BBC television shows The League of Gentlemen, Dead Ringers and Casualty, had come home to the £500,000 cottage she shared with her husband in Duddleswell, a hamlet in East Sussex.She discovered an itemised phone bill that included several repeated numbers. One led her to the voicemail of one of her husband's mistresses, the other to a gay chatline that he frequently called. Mrs Chenery-Wickens confronted him and, faced with the prospect of having his secret life exposed, he killed her before dumping her body less than 10 miles from their home and about a quarter of a mile from the Lavender Line steam railway track, where he was a volunteer, in Little Horsted, near Uckfield.Philip Katz QC, for the prosecution, told jurors: "If the defendant realised that he was going to be exposed as a liar, a charlatan and a hypocrite with debts up to his nose, this would have been the clearest possible motive to kill Diane."Her body was left in a thicket of brambles, and when it was discovered five months later, it was so badly decomposed it was impossible to know how she died.Two days after she was killed, Chenery-Wickens reported his wife missing. He told police he had gone with her to London because she had a meeting at the BBC, but she had failed to turn up later for a pre-arranged meeting. However, CCTV evidence showed Mrs Chenery-Wickens had travelled to London alone, and the BBC had no record of any meeting. Then Chenery-Wickens took his wife's mobile phone, and sent messages to her friends to make it appear she was still alive. Knowing she was dead, he left a message on her mobile phone saying: "I'm trying to tune into you. You seem to be in not a good place. I'm at home, our home, wishing you were here with me now."Days after her death he was caught on CCTV again, pawning his wife's favourite jewellery for £100. More bloodstained jewellery was found hidden in their home. In a later police interview, Chenery-Wickens changed the story of her disappearance, saying the couple had parted at East Grinstead railway station and that his wife, too ashamed to face up to her money troubles and their failed marriage, had told him she was going to start a new life in Spain. It was also revealed that on the night he had reported his wife missing, Chenery-Wickens left sexual messages on a former girlfriend's phone and later called a gay chatline and arranged for a man to come to his house. The man told the court they did not have sex only because, after being greeted by Chenery-Wickens in a white towelling robe at the door, he was not attracted to him.Chenery-Wickens, who claimed he could talk to people "on the other side", had a voracious sexual appetite. Several women, some protected by reporting restrictions, told the court how they had been seduced. An opera singer lent him more than £21,000 after he told her he was suffering from prostate cancer, although he was in good health. Another woman, an alternative therapist known only as Witness A, said Chenery-Wickens had told her that he was divorcing his wife and selling their house, neither of which was true.Local people in the pub next to the Lavender Line railway said the man they knew as "the reverend" was "very plausible". Peter Ongley, 45, who also worked on the railway, said Chenery-Wickens often had female visitors. "He had his harem, if you like. Well-dressed women he met through being a spiritualist minister." Mrs Chenery-Wickens, who had always out-earned her husband, was described by her mother, Joan Wickens, "as the loyal wife that went along with whatever [her husband] said". She also had difficulty facing reality. When one of her husband's girlfriends, Susan Roberts, who had been told that Mrs Chenery-Wickens was "neurotic" and had been detained in a mental hospital, phoned the family's house she was surprised to hear Mrs Chenery-Wickens answer, and revealed the affair. She told the court: "I actually said to Diane, 'I'm having an affair with your husband' and I remember her saying, 'You're jealous.'"On another occasion, confronted with news that her husband was having an affair with Sally Lyon, the landlady of her local pub, Mrs Chenery-Wickens told the woman's husband: "We're very happy, we're soulmates."Detective Chief Inspector Steve Johns, of Sussex police's major crime branch, said there had been many more victims of Chenery-Wickens's lies and seduction: "He was a charlatan who simply preyed on the vulnerable. They came across him at the wrong time at the wrong place. He told them what they wanted to hear."After the case, Mrs Chenery-Wickens's brother Russell Wickens said the verdict cleared his sister's name and removed "a dangerous, predatory charlatan" from society. "He repaid [Diane's] unswerving love, loyalty and trust with lies, deception, cruel opportunism and deceit. "He embodies the shallow, self-serving nature of someone who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing."