Anne Darwin was a prim and proper former convent girl who liked to present an image of respectability. A former teenage beauty queen, she did not excel academically at school but was remembered for her striking good looks and dark hair. Born Anne Stephenson, she grew up in Blackhall Colliery, a former pit village near Hartlepool, where her parents still live. She was educated by nuns at St Joseph's Convent, in Hartlepool, and friends recall her meeting her future husband on the school bus when they were aged 11 or 12. It was not until her late teens that she began courting John Darwin. She had a Sunday job at a sweet shop next door to his family's home in the mining village. "I declined. He asked me several times and again I declined," she told her trial. "Eventually, I agreed to go out with him. That was pretty much John's nature, he was a persistent man."After leaving school with qualifications in shorthand and typing, she got her first secretarial job with a local printing firm. She was also a successful beauty queen, winning the Miss Blackhall Colliery title in the 1960s. A former classmate recalls: "I have nothing nasty to say about her at all. She was quiet. She was a fairly good student, very attractive with lovely jet-black hair. She was very nicely spoken, very pleasant and well-mannered. We were all convent girls, so all very prim and proper."She was 21 when Darwin proposed, and they married at St Joseph's Catholic church, in Blackhall Colliery, on December 22 1973. Their marriage certificate described John as a schoolteacher working at English Martyrs school, in Consett, and his bride as a secretary at the Hartlepool-based printing firm William Barlow and Son.A wedding report in the Hartlepool Mail noted: "Given in marriage by her father, the bride was in white lace, with a bridal veil and head dress, and carried a bouquet of red roses." The couple settled in her home village and had two sons, Mark and Anthony, now 32 and 29. The Darwins later lived in the County Durham village of Witton Gilbert, before buying adjoining properties on the seafront at Seaton Carew, living in one and running the other as bedsits.By this time, Mrs Darwin was a £17,000-a-year doctor's receptionist in Durham. But dabbling on the stock market and living beyond their means left the couple with debts, and led to the plot for John to fake his own death. At the time of disappearance, the couple had celebrated 29 years of marriage. Now that figure has unexpectedly reached 34.