The inquest into the death of Warrington teenager Shafilea Ahmed has heard that the 17-year-old, whose body was found on a riverbank in Cumbria, was probably strangled or smothered.Ahmed's body was badly decomposed and the skull and internal organs were missing, pathologist Dr Alison Armour told the coroner at the inquest. Nonetheless, death by natural causes was "not credible" because of the way the corpse had been concealed. "I could not establish cause of death," Armour told the coroner at Kendal. "I gave it as unascertained due to the advanced state of decomposition." She said it was no longer possible to confirm whether Ahmed had died by strangulation or smothering, because the latter left few marks and, in any case, her neck muscles had decomposed.The hearing heard that Ahmed had been receiving medical attention for a narrowed oesophagus and was due to attend an appointment at Warrington hospital around the time of her disappearance.Armour said the condition did not directly cause death but, if untreated, could lead to problems with swallowing. However, the 17-year-old showed no signs of the muscle wastage associated with starvation. Ahmed was last seen at her home in Warrington on September 11 2003, a few months after refusing an arranged marriage. During an earlier visit to Pakistan to meet a prospective husband, she had drunk bleach and spent five weeks in hospital.Earlier, the inquest heard that Ahmed must have died soon after her disappearance.Detective Chief Inspector Michael Forrester of Cumbria police recalled "quite an eerie scene" on February 4 2004, when he saw Ahmed's remains on a flooded and litter-strewn riverbank near Kendal."I clearly saw the skeletal remains of a body. There was some clothing still there," Forrester told the inquest. He saw a green T-shirt, khaki trousers and white shoes. Some jewellery was recovered later, he said."Some of the vegetation had grown through the fabric of the clothing," he said. He added that experts had been able to estimate the time Ahmed's body had lain on the bank by the plant growth and the generations of larvae and maggots around the corpse. "The body had been there certainly since just after the summer of 2003," he said.The inquest also heard from Heather Gibbon, a regular visitor to the area, who described seeing a "white, Transit-type van" parked haphazardly in a lay-by near the scene, sometime during the first two weeks of September 2003.Gibbon returned to the area a few weeks later. "We walked along past the lay-by. When we got there the dog pulled as if it wanted to go into the side of the lay-by."We went a bit further and there was an atrocious smell, absolutely awful, and the dog was still pulling."Anthony Kitchen, one of the road workers who discovered the body, said he believed Ahmed's remains had been covered by the river until after it had flooded.The victim's father, Iftikhar Ahmed, told the inquest that he was surprised when his daughter disappeared. She was a "very normal child, very bright", he said. She had given him no difficulties until she joined the sixth form, "when problems arose".No one has been charged with murder and her parents have maintained they had nothing to do with her death.Police initially worked on the theory that she had been the victim of an honour killing and arrested and questioned her parents, Iftikhar and Farzana Ahmed, on suspicion of kidnapping.A two-and-a-half year murder inquiry followed the discovery of her body in the River Kent at Sedgwick but the Crown Prosecution Service concluded there was insufficient evidence to "provide a realistic prospect of conviction".Ahmed's parents, who have offered a £5,000 reward to catch their daughter's killer, have accused Cheshire police of racial stereotyping.Friends and family members described Ahmed as a "westernised" teenager pulled in different directions by her Islamic upbringing and her love of R&B music and British fashion. She was studying for A-levels in Warrington and hoped to become a solicitor. Her father told the inquest today that he supported her studies and was proud of her achievements.During the investigation into her disappearance, police released poems written by Ahmed and found in her bedroom. "Desire to live is burning, my stomach is turning, but all they think about is honour," one read. Five other relatives were arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, but released on police bail.