Police yesterday began a detailed search inside the terraced house in Margate, Kent, where the bodies of two girls were found buried in the garden.Teams drilled through concrete floors down to the foundations, concentrating on areas that radar scans suggested may have been disturbed.Other properties linked to Peter Tobin, who lived at the house in the early 1990s, are also likely to be searched shortly, police sources said. The body of Vicky Hamilton, 15, was found a week ago and Tobin, 61, was charged with her murder on Thursday. A second body was found on Friday, close to the patio.Police said it was too soon to definitely say if it was Dinah McNicol, an 18-year-old from Essex who vanished in August 1991, but they have told her father they believe the remains are those of his daughter.Police had already taken a preliminary look around the inside of the house with radar pinpointing possible areas of interest in the kitchen. On Saturday the couple living there for the last 12 years visited to describe to the police structural work they had done, and yesterday police moved carpets and furniture out before lifting tiles to drill through the floors. Forensic archaeologists were standing by to give advice on what, if anything, is found.Metre-wide voids in the walls, left over from a "warm air" system once used to heat the terraced council houses, will also be examined. The loft and sewerage systems will also be closely searched.The searches outside are understood to be complete, but that of the interior may last for weeks.A police spokeswoman said: "Our search here continues until we are 100% sure nothing else is here."It is not clear what will happen to 50 Irvine Drive once the police searches are completed. Sandy Ezekiel, leader of Thanet district council, said: "We will be consulting with local residents. I'm not prepared to prejudge anything."Police elsewhere in the UK have already looked at other properties Tobin is connected with - he lived in Brighton, Hampshire, Margate and Scotland. Sources said fresh detailed searches are likely.Meanwhile, at the Holy Trinity church in Margate, Vicky Hamilton and Dina McNicol were remembered. The Rev Arthur Howston said: "We're making special prayers for the families and the community."Nicola Downing and her family moved into the house after Tobin left. They have been rehoused by the council, but yesterday she said the events had turned family life upside down: "We found the news devastating and unreal. I can only describe it as a nightmare that gets worse every day."