I was stung by the words of Bernard Jenkin MP, chair of the public administration select committee at the launch of its police crime statistics report earlier this month. "Poor data integrity reflects the poor quality of leadership within the police", he said. Not "the poor quality of some leadership," nor even "the poor quality of leadership of some within the police". Instead Jenkin dismissed police leadership at a stroke.It has become the height of fashion to dismiss police leadership. And the place where it is most fashionable to do so seems to be Westminster, and Whitehall.My daily experience is not one of poor leadership. When Somerset flooded, I saw resilient, resourceful, diligent men and women stepping up: leading and co-ordinating the efforts of others. At the time of the badger cull, I was proud of the way the police leaders trod the precarious and narrow path that was required to ensure fair treatment of interested parties with massively divergent views. When physical danger threatens, I see countless examples of brave, resilient police leaders of all ranks happy not just to do their duty in Bristol and Somerset, but also to help out anywhere they are sent.And their quality isn't confined to operational leadership. Many police leaders have absorbed major resource cuts (in my own force, the real-terms cut is expected to be 27% between 2011 and 2018) in a calm pragmatic and imaginative way. Police leadership is not perfect and it can be better, but I don't believe it can be dismissed as if its "poorness" is not even worthy of debate.Indeed, even on recorded crime, the subject of the select committee's report, the evidence is mixed. The committee found areas of weakness and we must make the necessary improvements. But these are improvements against a background of long-term reform. It's not only police recorded figures that have been falling, the Crime Survey of England and Wales recorded 8m crimes in the year to September 2013. That is the lowest estimate since the survey began in 1981. And the distance between police figures and the survey of the public (the assumption being that the wider the gap, the more questionable police figures are) has been narrowing for several years.Improvements in police practice prompted the Office for National Statistics, in January 2013, to say "the system for recording crime in England and Wales by the police is widely recognised by international standards to be one of the best in the world".Of course, the figures are imperfect. They have been found wanting and improvement is required. But compare recording practice today with that of even 20 years ago, and the most ardent critic would have to accept that the service has cleaned up its act. Nevertheless, progress never stops. Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary's critical report on police failures over domestic abuse made for sobering and uncomfortable reading for any police leader.Action is at hand. One of the first products of our new College of Policing will be a code of ethics for policing, developed with and owned by the service.But against this background of improvement, we should guard against this open season on police chiefs. The risk is that politicians, by challenging the service in short-term pursuit of political advantage, will produce a generation of police leaders whose confidence has been undermined and whose willingness to act boldly is depleted.I believe that there needs to be restraint and consensus-building – not gratuitous criticism. The health of the new police service that will emerge depends on it.• Nick Gargan is chief constable of Somerset and Avon constabulary