The Home Office is expected to abandon a blanket policy of refusing to let the most dangerous prisoners see reports assessing their risk levels after a high court defeat yesterday for the home secretary, David Blunkett.Mr Justice Munby said that Alan Lord, a category A prisoner serving life for murder, at Frankland prison near Durham, had been "wronged" and "treated shabbily and unfairly" by the prison service policy of disclosing only the "gist" of risk assessments and not the reports. Category A prisoners - those "whose escape would be highly dangerous to the public or the police or the security of the state" - serve their sentences in high-security conditions. They are entitled to have their security classification reviewed annually and to ask to be recategorised and moved to less secure conditions. Reports are drawn up by prison staff, doctors, psychologists or probation officers, with an overall recommendation by the prison governor or deputy governor, and the prisoner is entitled to make representations on the basis of the reports. The judge said the "gist" statement summing up the reports in Lord's case was defective because it gave the im pression that views about his risk were unanimous. It had failed to disclose that two of five reports had recommended his reclassification at a lower risk level and that a third had expressed no view. The defects in the statement were "serious and pervasive", said the judge. It had "concealed and suppressed" vital information and fell "far short of what both the law and elementary principles of fairness and justice require". He added: "Worse than that: it goes a long way to depriving him of any meaningful ability to make worthwhile representations." The judge said the evidence strongly suggested that what had happened in Lord's case was far from an isolated and unfortunate error. "I am left with the uncomfortable feeling that there may well be others... who have, I fear, been treated as shabbily and unfairly as the claimant." The Home Office had argued confidentiality was needed to protect the report writers from revenge attacks by prisoners and to ensure that their comments were candid. While there would be cases in which the home secretary would be justified in withholding reports, a blanket policy was unjustified, the judge said. He ruled that Lord was entitled under the Data Protection Act to see the reports in full.