Police say they remain committed in the hunt for April Jones after the main suspect in the case was charged with her murder.The five-year-old girl went missing from the Bryn-y-Gog estate where she lives in Machynlleth, Powys, on Monday evening. She was seen to apparently willingly get into what is believed to be a Land Rover Discovery.Police investigating April's disappearance have narrowed their search to a smaller number of locations after accepting that they no longer expect to find her alive.Mark Bridger, 46, has been charged with her murder, abduction and perverting the course of justice.The hunt for April resumed Saturday morning after the search was halted overnight due to bad weather.Superintendent Ian John said: "This morning we have deployed ten specialist police teams who are conducting a systematic and methodical search in and around the town."We continue to have the support of a whole range of search and rescue teams who are using specialist equipment as we continue our efforts.  Missing five-year-old April Jones. Photograph: Handout/Reuters"We will be keeping April's family fully updated on progress of this investigation."Finally, despite today's announcement, we are maintaining the momentum of the search and we remain totally focused and committed to finding April."Though the search was focusing on fewer areas, John said hundreds of experts remained on the case."All of the blue-light services are involved in the search, including the fire service, ambulance, coastguard, RNLI, as well as the RAF mountain rescue service and 150 members of the mountain rescue service from across the UK."There are rescue dogs and a host of specialist equipment being used, including boats with sonar equipment and a helicopter with thermal imaging capability. No stone will be left unturned."Explaining why night-time searches had been halted, he said: "You search at night because you want to find someone who is alive". Searching in the day made it easier to ensure the safety of rescuers and to "maximise any forensic opportunities".April went missing at about 7pm on Monday. It emerged that her family had received a "glowing report" about her progress at Machynlleth primary school on the day of her disappearance. As a reward, they had allowed her extra time to play outside.Bridger was arrested on suspicion of abduction as he walked close to Machynlleth town centre on Tuesday afternoon. On Friday, police announced he had been arrested on suspicion of murder, indicating they no longer expect to find April alive. They have since charged him with April's murder, abduction and perverting the course of justice.