Police yesterday condemned the "cold blooded violence" of a mugger who shot a 19-year-old woman in the head moments after stealing her mobile phone.The attack on New Year's Day in Walthamstow, east London, left the victim with serious injuries, including a fractured skull. Yesterday she was in a stable condition in intensive care. The shooting followed a series of incidents and murders in east London between Christmas and the new year, which have heightened police fears about soaring levels of gun-related and gang violence, particularly in the black community. Police said the woman was walking in Lea Bridge Road at 5.30pm when a man snatched her mobile phone. As she struggled with the man, he pulled out a handgun and fired. The bullet glanced her head and she collapsed unconscious. It is thought the mugger escaped in a white Metro-style car that was waiting close by. "It looks at this stage as though she was shot after he already had the phone," said Detective Sergeant Grant Powell of Scotland Yard's flying squad, who is leading the inquiry. "She is seriously ill in hospital but she has been conscious and we have been able to talk to her, although not at length. She just remembers hearing a bang and then a pain in her head." Detective Inspector Gerry Campbell said the shooting was "quite horrific". "There was no need for it to happen. It was an act of cold blooded violence committed solely out of malice." The victim, who is from Waltham Forest, east London, described the gunman as black and 5ft 6in tall. He was wearing a black skull cap, silver bracelet, dark top and black trousers. Scotland Yard is also looking for witnesses to a shooting at a party in Hackney on New Year's Day that left two people dead. One of the victims was not involved in the incident, but was hit by a bullet that had killed a man in another room. According to police, there was a row between the DJ, Ashley Kenton - who used the name DJ Creation - and one of the 40 guests just as the party was about to end at about 9.30am. Kenton, 22, from south-east London, was shot in the neck and died soon after. The bullet ricocheted into a partition wall and hit a second man, 29-year-old Wayne Mowatt. He died in hospital later that day. The murders are being investigated by Operation Trident, which specialises in black on black gun and drugs crime. Detectives in Hackney are also investigating the case of Donald Harriot, thought to be in his 20s, who was found bludgeoned to death on December 30. Last month the Met revealed there had been 16 fatal shootings of black men in London by other black men during the previous eight months. There were a further 74 attempted murders in the same period. Most of the shootings are thought to have involved gangs fighting for control of London's crack cocaine market. Hackney and Lambeth in south London are considered the principle hotspots, though there have also been incidents in Brent, north-west London, and the West End.