A 15-year-old girl became the latest teenager killed in London yesterday when she was repeatedly stabbed during an attack in a block of flats.The girl, who has not been named, was discovered with several stab wounds in a lift on a central London housing estate, just a few hundred yards across the river from the Houses of Parliament.She is the 16th teenager to be killed in London this year. A man was arrested in connection with the stabbing last night.Yesterday residents said the girl, thought to be Eritrean, was found in a lift by a neighbour who was bringing her eight-year-old child home from school."My neighbour called the lift and when it came and the doors opened she saw the young girl lying on the floor," said Sharon Moore, 47, who lives a few floors above the victim in the nine-storey block close to Waterloo station. "She recognised her as a girl who lived in the block."Moore said the woman told how the teenager was lying on the floor with a knife still sticking in her body. She said the victim's family had lived in the block in Baylis Road, Southwark, for about a year. Police said the family were being comforted by friends in a nearby block of flats after the attack, which took place shortly before 3.45pm yesterday.A London Ambulance Service spokesman said: "We sent a fast response car, an ambulance, the air ambulance and an officer to the scene, the first of which arrived in under four minutes. Sadly, despite extensive efforts to resuscitate the patient, she was pronounced dead at the scene."A couple of minutes later police arrived and sealed off the area. Detectives said last night a man in his 30s had been arrested. The girl was not believed to have been robbed."We are keeping an open mind about motive at this early stage. However, it is not believed to be gang-related," said a spokesman for Scotland Yard.Hermance Deh, who lives opposite the flats where the girl died, said she refused to let her children out after school because of safety fears, and was planning to apply to the council to move house. "I'm scared for my children, I'm shocked because it's a young girl," she said. The death comes amid increasing concern about teenage violence on Britain's streets. The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, last week unveiled a series of measures to tackle knife crime in the capital, and the mayor, Boris Johnson, held a special knife crime summit at city hall.Johnson, who put tackling knife and gun crime at the centre of his campaign, said yesterday that his thoughts were with the girl's family and friends. "This tragic incident underlines the urgent need to tackle violent teenage crime," he said.At last week's conference, his deputy for young people, Ray Lewis, outlined the scale of the problem of teenager violence. "There is no magic solution to the terrifying spate of teenagers being murdered by knife and gun crime," he told parents who had lost children and loved ones to knife and gun crime in the capital."But immediate measures that have to be enforced include using stop and search and prosecuting everyone found carrying knives. This is just part of an overall strategy to tackle knife crime, but it sends out a clear signal that knife and gang crime will not be tolerated."He said it was also imperative to understand why so many young men and increasingly women were "growing up angry and disengaged from society"."We need to offer them outlets and guidance that will respond to their aspirations and divert them away from gangs and antisocial behaviour, whether it is sporting activities, after-school clubs or mentoring."Last year, 27 teenagers were killed by gun and knife crime in the London area. One of the 16 teenagers killed so far this year was Amro Elbadawi, 14, who died after being stabbed in Queen's Park, west London, in March. Just over a month later Jimmy Mizen, 16, died after being attacked with a shard of glass in a bakery in south-east London. Ten days ago young Harry Potter actor Rob Knox was stabbed to death by a man outside a bar in Sidcup, and last week Sharmaarke Hassan, 17, died in hospital after being shot in the head in Camden four days earlier.