The news that Lily Allen was stalked for seven years is both terrifying and shocking, but unfortunately not unusual. In fact, Allen’s experience of the police response sounds pretty similar to that of the average stalking victim. You might expect that as a high-profile individual, Allen would have been treated differently, but again this isn’t the case. In my work as the chair of Paladin, the national stalking advocacy service, and in my role as a solicitor specialising on stalking, I see so many victims being treated equally appallingly on a regular basis.People such as Caroline Criado-Perez, Stella Creasy, and even our own founder and director, Laura Richards, all received terrible treatment from the police and the Crown Prosecution Service. Concerns were dismissed, and incidents were treated in isolation rather than linked together, as is required with the stalking legislation which we campaigned to achieve.It is often only when the stalker commits a crime against property – eg criminal damage or burglary – that the police will take action, often still failing to address the essence of the behaviour: the stalking. In the case of Allen, it was only when her stalker committed the terrifying act of breaking into her home that he was charged, but even then he was charged with burglary and harassment rather than stalking. When people think of harassment, they might think of disputes about hedges between neighbours. Stalking is something entirely different and is dangerous. Half of all domestic violence-related stalkers will carry out the threats they make against the victim, and in stranger stalking cases it’s one in 10 so it is vital that this is taken seriously. Police are not adequately trained in relation to what stalking is and what the legislation can do Paladin provides advocacy to high-risk victims of stalking, which often involves explaining to the police and/or the CPS what the stalking legislation means, and which charges are most appropriate in order to best protect the victim. Stalking legislation is often ignored as an option, despite only two incidents being required for it to be invoked.All too often we see the police failing to take stalking seriously, even though it is present in the majority of domestic violence murders. On average, a victim will have experienced over 100 incidents before they even report it to the police, so there really is no excuse for the police failing to see the pattern of behaviour that characterises stalking.As the standard response to someone reporting being stalked online, victims are still told to come off social media, which is a bit like the police advising women in Yorkshire to stay off the streets at night when the Yorkshire Ripper was at large. Why are we still focusing on the victim’s behaviour and advising them to change the way they live their lives, rather than taking robust action against the stalker?The police are still obsessed with handing out Pins (Police Information Notices) or “harassment warnings” which are not worth the paper they are written on. Pins should not be used in cases of stalking, because stalking is about the perpetrator being fixated upon and obsessed with the victim. Nor should they be used in a situation where there are repeated incidents, yet they continue to be the weapon of choice by the police, even though they can actually put the victim at more risk. The police wouldn’t tell the victim of a burglary that they were not going to arrest him this time but were giving him a warning not to do it again, so why do it with stalking?Lily Allen on being stalked: ‘I was asleep. He steamed into the bedroom and started screaming’ The reason for all this is that the police are not adequately trained in relation to what stalking is and what the legislation can do. I believe that there is still huge amount of victim blaming associated with the crime, just as with other crimes that disproportionately affect women such as domestic abuse and rape. Often, the first thing asked is what the victim might have done to bring it on themselves. Promoting women on bank notes via Twitter, having the audacity to be a female MP, being a musician or actress, ending your relationship with the perpetrator, or being a high-profile campaigner? It’s effectively saying that if you put yourself out there, then you have to expect this type of thing.We still have a long way to go to improve the response of the criminal justice system in relation to stalking. Training is vital, as is an increase in the maximum sentence for stalking from five years to 10 years to better reflect the seriousness of the crime. It is also important that when protective orders are breached, as they often are by stalkers, that the police make an arrest quickly, and the courts deal with it properly. At present this doesn’t happen often.The Women’s Equality party has taken up Paladin’s campaign for a serial stalkers “register and order”, which would place positive obligations on the perpetrator rather than simply waiting for his next victim to make a complaint. Stalking can affect any one of us. Victims deserve to be taken seriously, and the criminal justice system needs to do far more to protect victims. In an ideal world there would be no need for charities such as Paladin or lawyers like myself trying to plug the gaps in the criminal justice system, but we are a very long way from this.