Scotland Yard is expected to scale down its revived investigation into the murder of the estate agent Suzy Lamplugh because of a ruling that there is not enough evidence to charge the prime suspect.A leading barrister for the crown prosecution service, Treasury counsel Mark Dennis, told detectives that the circumstantial evidence against the suspect, a 47-year-old man, was not strong enough to take the case further. As the decision emerged yesterday, the Metropolitan police was left with tough decisions over what to do next. Although the force will never admit defeat in such a high-profile case, sources indicated yesterday that the inquiry, which was reopened in May 2000, is unlikely to seek fresh evidence and will be formally closed. It will be a bitter disappointment to the Lamplugh family, who have never given up hope of bringing their daughter's killer to justice. She disappeared on July 28 1986 while showing a prospective client, calling himself Mr Kipper, around a house in Fulham, west London. Her car was recovered nearby. The body of the 24-year-old has never been found and she was officially declared dead in May 1993. At the reopening of the inquiry two years ago an appeal for information led to new witnesses coming forward. Officers hoped advances in forensic science might finally trap the killer. As part of the inquiry, they ordered digging near Norton barracks in Worcester, and at Dead Woman's Ditch, near Over Stowey in Somerset, after tip-offs that Lamplugh might be buried there. No remains were found. But last year the Scotland Yard team, led by Detective Superintendent Shaun Sawyer and Detective Chief Inspector Jim Dickie, arrested a 47-year-old man. Files on the case against him were sent to the CPS four months ago. The Met received a written explanation of the CPS's findings yesterday morning. In theory, the force could ignore the advice and charge the suspect anyway, but that would almost certainly lead to the CPS discontinuing the case before it reached trial. Another option is to continue the inquiry in the hope of finding new material, but the CPS ruling is thought to have been so conclusive, detectives believe the time may have come to close the files in the hope of a breakthrough in the future. "We will review what the CPS has said and take a decision within the next fortnight," a Scotland Yard spokeswoman said yesterday. Lamplugh's parents, Diana, 66, and Paul, 71, who have campaigned on personal safety issues since their daughter's disappearance, said they believed the police were still doing all they could to find her abductor and killer. In a statement issued through the Suzy Lamplugh Trust, they said: "The police will be studying advice in detail and will discuss with the family both the advice and the action to be taken. We are satisfied that the police have been doing excellent work and are continuing to do so. We await further developments and, whatever happens, will continue through the Suzy Lamplugh Trust with our work to enable other people to live safer lives."