A police report into allegations against police commander Brian Paddick, including claims he smoked cannabis, has been sent to the crown prosecution service (CPS) for it to consider if he should face criminal charges, it was revealed today.Mr Paddick, Britain's highest ranking openly gay officer, headed a pilot approach to cannabis use which cautioned people for personal possession in the borough of Lambeth, south London, rather than arresting and charging them. However, Mr Paddick was temporarily removed from his post as head of policing in Lambeth and moved to a lower profile job after an investigation was launched into claims by his former partner, James Renolleau, which included allegations that he smoked cannabis. The police report into the allegations, which followed a four-month inquiry by the deputy chief constable of Humberside police, Gordon Clark, was due to be considered by a subcommittee of the Metropolitan police authority today with a view to deciding on any disciplinary action. However, the committee, which met in private in central London for the first time on this matter today, issued a statement which said that it was adjourning any of their decisions about the report until the CPS had ruled on any possible action.The Metropolitan police authority said in a statement: "It is normal practice for any criminal proceedings to take precedence over disciplinary matters."The three members of the subcommittee - Elizabeth Howlett, Richard Sumray and Reshard Auladin - spent an hour looking at the report today behind closed doors. Mr Clark's inquiry looked at claims that Mr Paddick smoked cannabis and allowed the drug to be kept in his home by Mr Renolleau, who is a former male model. It also looked at whether Mr Paddick, 43, breached police guidelines by not telling his superiors that Mr Renolleau was on bail for alleged fraud while they were together. Mr Paddick has not been suspended, but his situation "remains under review". The CPS received the report from Mr Clark on Friday.Mr Paddick denies the claims he smoked cannabis and his supporters point to the fact that he was credited with reducing reported street crime and burglary in the borough last year. In August, comments posted on urban75.com from Mr Paddick suggested he did not expect a resolution to the investigation until November. Toby Harris, chairman of Metropolitan police authority, said in an earlier statement: "I acknowledged the major contribution Brian Paddick was making to community confidence and the reduction of crime in Lambeth. "I am happy to repeat that support for what he has achieved today, at this public meeting. I should record that figures for reported street crime in Lambeth fell by 1% in February." It added: "This takes the figures to their lowest level for a year after. Lambeth is also having further success in tackling burglary with a 14% decrease from February 2001 to February 2002."