A young mother was jailed for five years today for killing her three-month-old baby, who died of injuries so severe they were likened to a car accident or fall from a first-floor window.Joseph Kompus collapsed and died from brain damage at his home in September 2007. His mother, Maria Kompusova, 22, of Walthamstow, east London, was found guilty of manslaughter last month after being cleared of murder.A case review into Joseph's death criticised health and social workers and cited a poor standard of care and lack of communication among the authorities who were caring for the child.At the Old Bailey, Judge Richard Hawkins told Kompusova that it was unclear what exactly she had done to the child. He said one expert likened Joseph's injuries to those caused by a car accident or fall from a first-floor window, while another had said the brain injury was due to rough handling.Joseph had five earlier fractures but it could not be proved who had caused them. The judge added: "The crown's case against you as far as manslaughter is concerned was that it was one traumatic incident." He said he had taken into account that Kompusova had been a good mother to an older child.Kompusova, a Slovakian national, had tried to blame her partner, Joseph Skripka, 23, for the injury. The court was told that the couple had come to Britain to better their lives. She had given birth to two children in a short space of time and lived in a cramped flat above a shop while Skripka worked long hours in a laundry.Outside court, the investigating officer, Detective Chief Inspector Graham Grant, of the Child Abuse Investigation Command, said: "It is a matter of great distress when a child has suffered unnecessary cruelty at the hands of their carer. We do not know exactly what happened on the day of the child's death, as his mother has offered us no explanation as to how he sustained his injuries."The couple had lived in Waltham Forest, the London borough adjacent to Haringey, where health and social workers were criticised following the death of Baby P, who was killed despite contact with officials on 60 occasions.Joseph, who was born prematurely, was never referred to social services but was seen by health workers. A serious case review found there was a lack of communication between health teams and other agencies. It said: "There is a lack of systematic collection of information, analysis and recommendation. Expected standards were not met."There were opportunities for improved information gathering, record keeping and communication that may have led to a different assessment of need and the provision of different services."