Lord Scarman, a former law lord and one of the legal giants of the 20th century, has died aged 93.Leslie Scarman was best known to the public as the chairman of the inquiry into the 1981 Brixton riots, which led to community policing and the creation of the Police Complaints Authority. But he also pioneered the idea of incorporating the European convention on human rights into UK law, eventually achieved with the coming into force of the Human Rights Act in October 2000. Lord Browne-Wilkinson, a retired law lord, said: "He was the real beginner in the judiciary of an attitude of human rights as opposed to technicality. He was a great humanitarian and a very brilliant judge." Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor, said: "He was one of the great advocates of our generation, a hugely humane family division judge, and a great appeal judge." Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, said: "He was a lawyer and a judge who had a remarkable insight into human nature and an exceptional sensitivity to the needs of a healthy society." In a period when judges were seen, and often behaved, as remote figures, Lord Scarman came across as human, kind and ready to listen. "He was one of those judges who had a very humane public face," said Jeffrey Jowell, professor of public law at University College London. "He was ahead of his time in being in favour of treating people as equals and not treating them as subjects but as people with rights." That approach was to win over the people of Brixton in the face of initial fears that his inquiry into the riots, which started in Brixton, south London, and swept the country at the start of the 1980s, would be a whitewash. Lincoln Crawford, a senior barrister who was then junior counsel to the inquiry, remembered: "There was a potentially very difficult incident at the beginning of the inquiry when it could all have gone pear-shaped. "A police superintendent was giving evidence saying 'we hold our hands out to people in Brixton'. Whereupon this Rastafarian... jumped up and started shouting, 'The only time you fucking hold your hands out to us is when you're locking us up.' "The security people stormed in but Lord Scarman said 'no, no, let him have his say'. He gave him his time, the security people didn't intervene and when he finished they all walked out. "About 20 minutes later the same guy came back in and said 'Lord Scarman, may I come back in?' He said 'Yes, you may'." Lord Scarman became a popular figure in Brixton, making frequent informal visits to the area. His inquiry found that the disorder was caused by serious social and economic problems affecting the inner cities. He also blamed "racial disadvantage that is a fact of British life". He became a barrister in 1936 and a QC in 1957 before becoming a high court judge and then sitting in the appeal court and finally the House of Lords. He was the first chairman of the Law Commission, which was set up to keep the law up to date, and also chaired the 1969 tribunal set up to investigate civil disturbances in Northern Ireland. He died on Wednesday night in a nursing home in Westgate on Sea, Kent.