Just before he sacked Charles Clarke as home secretary Tony Blair made clear that he was against proposals to split the Home Office into separate departments. The fit between various responsibilities was the right one, he insisted. John Reid now wants to do what his prime minister rejected, and maybe Blair has changed his mind (or is it Gordon Brown who has given Reid a private nod?). But going down the Reid route could easily make matters worse.The Home Office is not "unmanageable". It just hasn't been managed properly. The fault lies not with its structure, but with the human beings who have failed to do their jobs with competence and efficiency - from home secretaries to the hapless individuals who mislay files, draw up misleading statistics, don't pass on lists of potentially dangerous criminals at large, and take decisions to place escape-prone prisoners in open prisons. And when it is not the people who are to blame, it is the ill thought-out rules and procedures they have to follow.There is an argument for creating an enclave dedicated to security, anti-terrorism and associated areas, provided a strong minister is in charge. Part of the problem is the poverty of ministerial talent currently attached to the department. But such a rearrangement of duties and responsibilities can be done, quickly, without resorting to the Reid proposal.There are other reasons for not attempting a wholesale upheaval. It will take longer than planned, be more expensive, and produce chaos during the transition. It will also provide an excuse for years to come, when things go wrong (as they will), that we have to be patient, that Rome wasn't built in a day, that we can't expect the benefits of such major restructuring to be apparent for years.The arrest of Ruth Turner overshadowed the release of an intriguing correspondence about the attorney general's role in deciding on prosecutions over the "cash for honours" affair. Last April the Commons constitutional affairs select committee asked the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, for "an assurance that the attorney general will not interfere in any way with the conclusions" of the director of public prosecutions.Lord Falconer replied that "... of course the attorney general would not interfere in the normal course of decisions being made". Wrong. After a flurry of letters, Lord Goldsmith made it robustly clear that Falconer (an old friend and former colleague at the same barristers' chambers) "was not in a position to give an 'assurance' ... as to how I would act. No other minister, however distinguished or senior, has the ability to bind the attorney general in how he exercises his role". He pointed out that under certain acts of parliament he was obliged to give personal consent to prosecutions; anyway, he has ultimate responsibility for such decisions. Conclusion: there is no way the cabinet, or anyone, can keep Goldsmith from being the final decider, whatever the political fallout.It was outrageous, but not surprising, that Blair and three colleagues rushed to the media to defend Ruth Turner (coupled, except for the PM, with rubbishing the police for doing their duty). Not surprising because so many members of this government have long abandoned any semblance of upholding the rule of law or observing the dignified conventions of the criminal justice system.