The prime minister of Antigua says Britain and the US are partly to blame for a spate of violent attacks that have "nearly overwhelmed" the Caribbean island, including this week's shooting of a British honeymoon couple, Benjamin and Catherine Mullany.In a televised address, Antigua and Barbuda's leader, Baldwin Spencer, asked for Scotland Yard's help in reversing the rise in crime over the last 10 years, which he called a "threat to our very survival" due to its impact on tourism - the economic lifeblood of the island. He said Britain and the US shared the blame for deporting hundreds of convicted criminals to the region."Antigua and Barbuda has long been a nation of law-abiding citizens and residents," said Spencer. "In the past decade, however, we have been nearly overwhelmed by events of crime and violence that are alien to this part of the world."So far this year, there have been ten murders on the 108-square mile island, which is home to fewer than 80,000 people. There were 19 killings in 2007.The latest, which was the first serious attack on tourists, was carried out by a gunman who burst into the remote seaside cottage of a British newlywed couple in the early hours of Sunday morning. Catherine Mullany, a doctor from Wales, was murdered and her husband, Benjamin, is on a life-support machine after being shot in the neck.The injured bridegroom was said by doctors to have bleak prospects. His parents, who visited him in Antigua's Holberton hospital, are considering whether to organise a medical evacuation to either the US or Europe.The attack prompted a series of emergency meetings between Antigua's government ministers, tourism chiefs and law enforcement bodies. A working group has been convened to audit security at every hotel on the island.Spencer accused Britain and the US of sparking unrest through a policy of deporting criminals of Caribbean descent back to the region following the completion of their prison sentences.He said over 280 criminals had been deported to Antigua over the last decade, many of whom had few local ties. "To any small island developing state, this figure is astronomically high. In ours, with its small population, these criminal deportees, with skills developed and nurtured in the US and the UK, are impacting tremendously on our society."The attack on the Mullanys came at the beginning of Antigua's annual carnival, which draws crowds to see string bands, pageantry and calypso music. Tour operators including Virgin Holidays are already reporting cancellations by tourists alarmed by the couple's shooting.Spencer is implementing sweeping measures, including stop-and-search powers for the police, systematic searches of pockets "within various communities" for guns and drugs, new surveillance cameras and legislation to enable wire-tapping."My government has made a formal request of Scotland Yard for its assistance in cracking the number of unsolved murders still on the books," said Spencer, who announced a national day of prayer and fasting for August 24. "I urge all citizens and residents to join this national initiative as we seek the assistance of a higher power to aid our earthly efforts."Some 33,000 Britons visit Antigua annually. Local businesspeople have offered a £66,000 reward for information leading to the capture of Catherine Mullany's killer. The police yesterday questioned and released three security guards who work at the Cocos Hotel, where couple were staying. Detectives admit they are yet to identify any suspects in the case.The couple's parents, who are being assisted by officials from the British High Commission in nearby Barbados, issued a statement appealing for privacy to allow them "time to start to come to terms with the devastation of the past few days".