The Are Juries Fair report is the most detailed research of its kind. It used case simulations with more than 1,000 jurors from real trials, analysed more than 68,000 verdicts over two years and carried out post-verdict surveys with 668 jurors. Among the main findings were:Juror comprehensionOnly 31% of jurors fully understood the judge's oral directions, although over half thought the directions were easy to understand. Younger jurors (aged 18-19) were most able to understand the directions (49%).The proportion who fully understood legal questions in a case rose to 48% when given written instructions. The report called for the judiciary to issue jurors with written aide-memoires on the law in all cases and further research "as a matter of priority" into the most effective way to improve juror comprehension.Conviction rates"Juries overall appear efficient and effective," the report said, reaching a verdict by deliberation on 89% of charges. Juries convict on 64% of all charges. Less than 1% of sworn juries are discharged. The highest conviction rates are for making indecent photographs of children (89%), causing death by dangerous driving (84%), falsification (79%), murder (76%) drugs (74%) and theft (70%). Among the lowest are threats to kill (36%), attempted murder (47%) and manslaughter (48%).The report notes that conviction rates are highest where there is direct evidence and lower where jurors have to be sure of a defendant's state of mind.No court in the country had higher rates for acquittal than conviction, the report said, dispelling myths that juries in some courts rarely convict. However, there was a difference in jury conviction rates from court to court, which the reports suggested could be related to differences in public opinion to crime or a variation in police evidence gathering in different areas. The report called for more research.Juries convict in 55% of rape cases, the report found, contradicting previous studies based on smaller samples. Conviction rates in cases where men were victims were 77% compared to 47% for female victims.The more charges a defendant faces, the greater the chance he or she will be convicted on at least one of them, the report finds.Do all-white juries discriminate?The study found little evidence that juries are unfair. It found no case to suggest that all-white juries discriminated against black- and ethnic-minority defendants. All-white juries at Winchester crown court had almost identical verdicts for white and ethnic minority defendants. Similar juries in Nottingham struggled to reach a verdict involving ethnic minority defendants.White jurors on ethnically mixed juries had lower conviction rates. White jurors in ethnically mixed areas (Nottingham) were significantly more likely to convict a white defendant accused of assaulting an ethnic minority victim rather than a white person.Jury improprietyAlmost half (48%) of jurors said they were uncertain what to do if something improper occurred in the jury room. Two-thirds of those jurors called for more information about how to conduct deliberations.In high-profile cases, 26% of jurors said they had seen information on the internet and 12% admitted looking for it – an activity strictly banned. The study called for more research on whether jurors understood the potential miscarriage-of-justice implications of their actions, and whether they discussed the case on social networking sites.Media reportingMore than three in 10 jurors in high-profile cases remembered pre-trial media coverage of the case. Two-thirds of those jurors could not remember any particular media slant. One in five of those who remembered media reports of the case found it difficult to put it out of their minds.FindingsThe study concluded that jurors want and need new tools to better understand the court process. "A concerted effort should be made to identify the most effective means of ensuring the highest level of juror understanding in criminal jury trials."