The report by Professor Alexis Jay into the sexual abuse of children in Rotherham over a 16-year period from 1997 is almost beyond belief. She finds, on a “conservative” estimate, that there were 1,400 victims. A third of them were already known to child protection services. They endured a terrible and prolonged nightmare of gang rape, trafficking and abduction. They were forced to watch extreme brutality. The convictions of nine perpetrators in the town in 2010 for grooming and predatory behaviour seems not to have halted the abuse. Last year there were 157 cases – three a week. There have been no further prosecutions.If anything could be worse than what they have suffered, it is the knowledge that it could have been prevented. Professor Jay itemises what was known and ignored, suppressed or dismissed by a council that was notorious for its macho culture, hostile to women and contemptuous of victims. Despite the entreaties of operational staff, senior managers failed to act. South Yorkshire police gave no priority to investigating allegations. Finally, in 2009, the Department for Education acted, sending support into Rotherham’s safeguarding services. Last year the council leader, Roger Stone, apologised for failing victims and on Tuesday he resigned. He is so far the only person in authority to face even the smallest consequence of perhaps the most shameful mass betrayal of young people in the history of children’s safeguarding. That is wrong. They may no longer work for Rotherham council, but all those who failed to protect the children for whom they were responsible should be held to account.But even before that, the first thing that must happen is to put proper, long-term support in place for the victims who have been so damaged by childhood traumas from which they could and should have been protected. Financial compensation must be considered, and of course there should be energetic pursuit of the abusers. But this goes much wider than Rotherham, and much wider than a gang of abusers of Pakistani heritage who may have been partly protected by officials who feared appearing racist. There have now been convictions involving similar patterns of abuse by white as well as Asian men in Rochdale, Derby and Oxford. If it is now estimated that there were 1,400 victims in Rotherham, it is vital to establish just how extensive the scale of the abuse has been across England and Wales, and to find the other children whose lives have been scarred by this criminal hatred. It is easy to say never again and then fail to do enough to make this a reality. Earlier recommendations such as designated courts in every region remain an ambition, like better communication between safeguarding panels, more multi-agency working and closer liaison with schools. This time, it really must be never again.