Parmod Babber, 50, jeweller, Southall, London How would you describe yourself? British/Asian.Where were your parents born? East Africa.What is the worst racial prejudice you have encountered?  I had nice cars and they were damaged because I was Asian. I was also called "Paki" a lot.Do you think Britain has become more or less racist, and in what way?  It's more racist. Even walking home is too hard because young boys throw stones at you. I get bottles thrown from car windows.What lessons can we learn from the Stephen Lawrence incident? I don't think there's anything that can be done - the police won't change.Stuart Tayler, 27, actor, Richmond How would you describe yourself?  English.Where were your parents born? England.What is the worst racial prejudice you have encountered? I haven't had any personal experiences.Do you think Britain has become more or less racist, and in what way? Less, because there is more of an ethnic mix. It's now normal to be multiracial, especially in London.What lessons can we learn from the Stephen Lawrence incident? I sympathise with the event, and the police did make some serious mistakes. But although whites can be racist, other races can be racist too.Sati Willang, 21, student , Edinburgh How would you describe yourself?  Indian/British. British because of my nationality and Indian because of my roots.Where were your parents born?India.What is the worst racial prejudice you have encountered? I've never had any.Do you think Britain has become more or less racist, and in what way? Less, because Asian parents have accepted the British way of life and the British have accepted different cultures - a sort of compromise.What lessons can we learn from the Stephen Lawrence incident? The police need to be aware of what's going on, but blacks and Asians need to be aware that not everything is racist and they should not assume that if they are stopped it's because of racism.Henry Rogers, 64, retired, Twickenham How would you describe yourself?  A Londoner because I was born here.Where were your parents born? England.What is the worst racial prejudice you have encountered? I've worked a lot overseas, but even in places that had difficult social or political situations I was never hassled.Do you think Britain has become more or less racist, and in what way? I don't believe it's racist. I've been married to a Chinese woman for 35 years and she would say the same. There are some bloody-minded people, but that's people and not society.What lessons can we learn from the Stephen Lawrence incident? It's a sad story, but I don't believe the coppers I've met were racist. Francis Odutuyo, 40, clergyman and banker, Newport How would you describe yourself? Black.Where were your parents born Nigeria.What is the worst racial prejudice you have encountered? I have experienced verbal abuse and rejection, things like, "Nigger go home", when I lived in south-east London. People here are more friendly.Do you think Britain has become more or less racist, and in what way? There was more six or seven years ago. When I finished my studies, everywhere I applied they turned me down. I think it is reducing gradually.What lessons can we learn from the Stephen Lawrence incident? The lesson one should learn is one of equality and of valuing human beings irrespective of whether they are black or white.