Crown prosecutors are to be told for the first time that they will have to take account of the views of victims or, in case of murder, the victim's family, in deciding whether to prosecute.The rule forms part of an updated code for crown prosecutors, redrafted to include the recommendations of the Macpherson inquiry into the death of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence. The prosecution service consulted Sir William Macpherson before drafting new code sections.Crown prosecutors will also have to take account of the consequences for victims of their decision whether to prosecute and to tell victims of any decision which makes a significant difference to their case. The decision is a two stage process. First, the prosecutor must decide if there is a "realistic prospect of conviction". If the answer is yes, the next question is whether it would be in the public interest to prosecute. In another important change following the Lawrence case, factors weighing in favour of prosecution will not just include racial motivation for a crime, but the mere fact that the suspect showed hostility to a victim based on racial origin. If there are concerns about a witness's accuracy or credibility, prosecutors must now ask themselves whether these are based on evidence or "simply information with nothing to support it". They must also consider whether the police could look for further evidence which would support or detract from the witness's account. New sections cover the sensitive area of dropping charges in return for guilty pleas to lesser charges. Prosecutors are told they should accept a plea only if satisfied that the court has power to pass a sentence matching the seriousness of the crime, particularly where there are aggravating factors. "Particular care must be taken when considering pleas which would enable the defendant to avoid the imposition of a mandatory minimum sentence," the code says. If a defendant pleads guilty to the charges on the basis of facts which differ from the prosecution's case, and this might significantly affect the sentence, prosecutors should ask the court to hear evidence about what actually happened. Following the case of Harold Shipman, the GP convicted of 15 murders but thought to have killed more, the code states that a prosecution is less likely to be needed if a defendant has already been sentenced and a further conviction is unlikely to produce a heavier sentence.