A schoolboy broke down in tears as he told how he watched his best friend stab a pupil to death with a flick knife he had given him for his birthday.Nottingham crown court yesterday heard the teenager say his closest friend, who collected knives, looked calm after attacking Luke Walmsley, 14, at Birkbeck School in North Somercotes, Lincolnshire. He said he watched as teachers tried to resuscitate the youngster, who had been stabbed through the heart. A 16-year-old boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, denies murdering the schoolboy on November 4 last year. The court heard Luke had been passing notes to the defendant's girlfriend in the weeks leading up to the stabbing. Sasha Wass QC, defending, said Luke talked about fighting with the older pupil, who was later told about the notes by another student. There had been an incident before the day of the stabbing when Luke and the girlfriend were passing notes to each other in class. "[The defendant] was rather upset after those notes had gone backwards and forwards." Luke had been in a science class on the morning of the attack, and a witness said he looked scared as he emerged from the lesson to see his attacker. "Luke didn't intimidate him or anything. He didn't say anything to him. He didn't glare at him or anything to make [the defendant] do it, so I don't know why he did it." He said the defendant swung for the schoolboy. "I saw the knife coming out of his chest. Some blood squirted just in front of me. I just stood there. I was so shocked I didn't do anything. There was like blood dripping everywhere." The defendant was then confronted by a teacher and persuaded by another pupil to hand over the knife. He added: "[The defendant] didn't seem that bothered. He just looked normal. He didn't look scared or worried." One of Luke's classmates later said he was chatting with the 14-year-old when he was suddenly attacked. He told police on a video played to the court: "I just stood there shaking." The defendant's best friend gave evidence to police, which was shown to the jury. Weeping, he told officers: "He didn't give a warning ... he just walked up to him and did it. He was calm. He just stood there staring at nothing. He had the knife just gripped in his hand." The hearing continues.