Several spells in high security prisons hadn't deterred Eli Hall from living a life of crime, but he had learnt one lesson when he was inside, and this conviction sustained him throughout one of Britain's longest and costliest sieges. Eli Hall wasn't going back to jail.For 15 days, trained negotiators from Scotland Yard, his aunt, and his hostage, Paul, had tried to persuade him that the demand was unreasonable, but the 32-year-old wouldn't budge. Without the promise he wanted, he bragged that the police "wouldn't take him alive". And if they tried, he'd go out like Butch and Sundance, both handguns blazing, in the hope of hitting an officer or three. Hall's stubbornness certainly surprised police. They had hoped that, dispirited by eight days without electricity, six without food and a fortnight without cannabis (the police were advised he had a considerable habit) he would eventually emerge from his bedsit in Marvin Street, Hackney. But he didn't. He weightlifted to keep warm. His behaviour confounded the 30 to 50 armed officers who had to be on shift duty throughout, the 43 residents trapped in their homes, and the accountants at the Met, who estimate the whole operation has cost the service up to £1m. "Every time we thought we were making progress, Eli would get agitated and start taking pot shots," said a source. "Negotiating through the loudhailer became dangerous. It gave him something to aim at." Looking at Hall's background, police could see he was building up to something, though they didn't regard him as a grade one criminal or a powerful Yardie gangster. Between 1989 and 1996, Hall, who was born in Jamaica, was arrested on more than 20 occasions for a variety of offences under a variety of different names. He had convictions for violence, drug dealing and carrying offensive weapons and firearms. He'd spent time in Belmarsh prison and had insisted, following his last offence in 1996, for which he served time in jail, that he would never go back. Despite the vow, he kept getting into trouble. On May 7 1998, he appeared at Camberwell magistrates court, charged with having sex with an underage girl, though it is unclear how the case ended. His conduct last year suggested it would only be a matter of time before he emulated either his father, Ranford, who is serving three years for drug offences, or his 17-year-old brother Amias, who was shot dead last summer in Mitcham, south London, in what may have been a gang feud. (Ranford, it seems, was arrested for smoking a joint outside Belmarsh before a visit to see an inmate. The boot of his car was packed with cannabis. Eli's half-brother, Dean, is also in jail). Detectives had been on Hall's trail long before he barricaded himself in on Boxing Day. He was the chief suspect for the attempted shooting of a police officer in Old Compton Street, Soho, last August. A similar incident happened in Hackney in early December. On both occasions, officers had tried to disrupt drug deals taking place in a Toyota Celica which was owned by Hall. By chance, a couple of beat bobbies came across the car during a routine patrol around Hackney over Christmas. Seeing the tow truck arrive to take it away, Hall began to threaten the officers. When an armed team from Scotland Yard's SO19 unit arrived and tried to get into his bedsit, Hall opened fire. If he had not remonstrated with the police, he would probably still be alive and on the run. Instead, he opted for a confrontation, a decision that told psychiatrists who advised the police that he was irrational, and potentially dangerously unstable. Police couldn't rely on the character reference of his neighbours. Some of them had wondered whether the hefty, 20-stone Hall was ill. "You could tell he had mental problems from the way he spoke," said one, who asked not to be named. "He was emotionally wasted." Others expressed amazement that Hall, whom they described as "funny, charming and friendly", was a known criminal. Ibrahim Tatlises, who runs the Empire supermarket just around the corner from Marvin Road, occasionally left Hall to mind his shop. "He went jogging at night and in the morning and all he used to eat was peanuts and eggs and drink water. I asked why and he said he was body-building," said Mr Tatlises. Unsure what kind of man they were dealing with, the officers in charge of the police operation, including commanders Mike Messenger, Joe Kaye and Bob Quick, decided not to storm the building, against the wishes of more junior officers, who feared a stand-off might make Hall a hero. To begin with, Hall was given chicken takeaways, hamburgers and 50p pieces to feed the electricity meter. Officers balked at providing him "room service", and slowly began to deprive him of basic comforts, a classic tactic for sieges which is designed to make offenders lose heart. But the usual pressure points did not faze Hall, despite pleas from his aunt and his father for him to surrender. He decided to prepare for battle, sleeping with a gun in his hand, warning police he had made a petrol bomb, and firing shots at them when the electricity was turned off. A field phone that had been given to him so negotiators could keep in constant touch was thrown out of the window. When Hall's hostage managed to escape on Day 11, he was furious he had been duped. At the time, he was deep in conversation with the police, giving Paul, who lived in one of the other bedsits, the opportunity to push away the furniture that had been stacked against a backdoor, and walk out unharmed on to a fire escape. In an apparent fit of pique, Hall fired shots into the wall, and later that evening at officers outside. On Thursday morning he did it again, and this time officers fired back. Hall was last seen alive at 10.50am that day, shortly after smoke started billowing from the building. Police are still not sure how he died, but they are certain it was not with any glory. His charred body was finally removed yesterday at 4.40pm, and driven to a mortuary in an undertaker's blue transit van.