Lawyers for Carl Cushnie, the convicted fraudster and onetime Labour party donor, will today seek to have his six-year prison sentence reduced to a community service order - only two days after it was handed down.The bold terms of the proposed appeal rely on the fact that a jury last month found Cushnie not guilty of involvement in a £750m fraud orchestrated by Fred Clough, finance director at Versailles Group, a FTSE-250 company founded and run by Cushnie. The jury nevertheless convicted Cushnie on a second, parallel count of conspiracy to defraud relating to a private company, Versailles Traders, set up by Cushnie with the backing of an number of wealthy individuals. The Traders business was wholly outsourced to Versailles Group, where funds from both businesses were supposed to be used to provide working capital finance to struggling small businesses. In fact only a small fraction of purported transactions within the Versailles empire were legitimate. Alex Cameron QC is expected to argue that, on the basis of the jury's two verdicts, Cushnie cannot be said to have had any knowledge of the fraudulent use of funds from the Traders business while they were under management at Versailles Group. Mr Cameron will suggest the jury's conviction of Cushnie should only be interpreted to mean that he had knowingly given false assurances to investors in Traders. They were told funds were ringfenced from Versailles Group. Mr Justice Jackson last year recommended that the serious fraud office separate a count of fraud into two counts relating to Versailles and Traders. That decision raised the prospect of two differing verdicts. Sentencing Cushnie on Tuesday, Mr Justice Jackson reiterated his position: "I should make it plain that any doubts I expressed in June 2003 [about splitting the counts] have evaporated. It has become clear that the conspiracy to defraud the traders is an offence which is separate from the Versailles fraud. "The jury must have been sure that funds were being circulated for the purpose of inflating the turnover of Versailles Traders. However, the jury were not satisfied that Mr Cushnie's purpose was also to inflate the turnover and assets of Versailles [Group]." A number of lawyers, on both sides of the case, are thought to have been surprised by the jury's decision to return differing verdicts on the two counts of fraud.