The extent of police powers to detain people who are caught up in crowds of protesters will come under scrutiny in a test case which goes to the high court today.The four-week trial is seen by both police and civil liberties groups as an important test of how far police can go in corralling and holding people who are peacefully protesting or just happen to be in the area where a demonstration is taking place. The case, which is supported by the human rights organisation Liberty, centres on an anti-globalisation protest in Oxford Circus on May Day 2001. Police surrounded and held a crowd of people for more than seven hours in the rain with no toilet facilities. Many were not protesters but were going about their business and just happened to be in Oxford Circus. Those trapped were told: "You are being detained here to prevent a breach of the peace and criminal damage to property. "You will be released in due course." Lois Austin, a protester at the demonstration, and Geoffrey Saxby, who was not protesting but was making a collection from a bank for his employer, are suing the Met ropolitan police for compensation for false imprisonment in breach of article five of the European convention on human rights, the right to liberty. Although compensation is not likely to top £4,000 each, the case is being heard in the high court because of the ramifications of the court's decision. "It's clear the Met and other police are watching closely in case they can use the same tactics in other cases," said Louise Christian, solicitor for Ms Austin and Mr Saxby. "We say article five entitles the police to detain a person if they think that person will commit an offence, not if they think someone in the crowd will commit an offence. We say the vast majority of people in Oxford Circus would be peaceful." Ms Austin, 35, joined the protest but needed to leave at 4pm to collect her 11-month-old baby from a creche. She was stopped from leaving and had to arrange for a friend to collect the baby. "I would never have believed for one moment that if I went to protest peacefully on May Day 2001 with many others, I would be held for seven hours against my will and be prevented from collecting my baby daughter", she said. 