The Home Office's embarrassment over the foreign prisoners debacle deepened yesterday when it emerged that serious offenders who have been captured during the past month have since been released on bail. Those freed include a convicted murderer, a paedophile and a rapist.In total 11 foreign prisoners have been released on bail by the asylum and immigration tribunal, which began hearing cases 10 days ago.John Reid, the home secretary, was not informed by his civil service of these releases until late on Tuesday and the two senior civil servants deemed responsible were yesterday transferred from their posts by the department's permanent secretary Sir David Normington.It appears that Mr Reid is frustrated that the bail applications may not have been contested with full rigour by Home Office lawyers and has ordered that to be changed. As a result of the tribunal appeals, figures given on Tuesday by Mr Reid to the home affairs select committee on his progress in placing released foreign prisoners in custody turned out to be inaccurate. Mr Reid apologised to the Speaker, Michael Martin, yesterday and the chairman of the home affairs select committee John Denham.He had described his department as dysfunctional earlier this week and had taken the precaution of warning the committee that the figures might prove wrong.Mr Reid, determined to impose his will on his department, has no power to sack civil servants but was yesterday pleased that one senior civil servant responsible for overseeing the figures had been removed from his post, the first Whitehall official to face sanction for the fiasco. Mr Reid has also asked the permanent secretary to move another official earlier than planned. In his letters, Mr Reid said it was unacceptable that he had been placed in a position of having to apologise for inaccurate figures.Mr Denham said: "This episode illustrates that parts of the Home Office don't own their problems, but see them as someone else's responsibility. I have known civil servants fail to give information to ministers before, but never in such a high profile case."I am in no doubt that Mr Reid gave his evidence in good faith. What is extraordinary is the Home Office started to lose these cases 10 days ago, but no one saw fit to tell the home secretary and no one regarded this as a crisis, or revised the representations they were making at the tribunals."The letters to Mr Denham and Mr Martin said bail hearings had taken place over the last 10 days since the scandal initially emerged and after his predecessor Charles Clarke was sacked a fortnight ago. More bail hearings were due in the coming days, he added."You will recall that I said during the course of my evidence session yesterday that caution should be attached to all of the information which I had been given to provide to the committee," he wrote to Mr Denham. "As if to confirm that statement, I am afraid that I have to write to you to correct information that I was supplied with in respect of the number of offenders currently detained in prison. To be put in a position where information was wrongly given to your committee - in spite of the caveats that I put around that information - is not acceptable and I apologise to you and your committee." He said he had asked officials to "re-check" all the facts provided to the hearing.A Home Office spokesman said: "Application for bail was opposed in all cases and the home secretary has today instructed that all further bail applications should be opposed as vigorously as possible. Furthermore, he has instructed that where bail is granted the Home Office should apply for the most stringent bail conditions available. The Home Secretary has asked officials to ensure that all those released on bail are immediately subject to the probation licensing arrangements appropriate to their case."