A special constable who was murdered outside her north London home had abused her position in the force to collect debts owed to her husband's limousine business, Scotland Yard said yesterday.Nisha Patel-Nasri was investigated and disciplined by the Metropolitan police following a complaint by a fellow officer. Her husband Fadi Nasri faces a life sentence for organising the 29-year-old's murder."Nisha was disciplined for using her warrant card for enforcing civil debts in relation to Fadi's escort business," said a police spokesman. "The incident was investigated thoroughly by the directorate of professional standards and it was identified that no criminal offence had been committed. Nisha was given a formal verbal warning in the form of 'words of advice' in relation to the matter."It is understood Patel-Nasri flashed her warrant card at the Hertfordshire home of a client who owed £1,800 to her husband's Seventh Heaven agency. Police were called and Patel-Nasri had a row with Sergeant David Eden, who made a complaint."I asked her if she had produced a police warrant card and claimed to be a police officer on official business," said Eden at the time. "She stated that she had produced her warrant card, but only as a means of identification." Eden claimed Patel-Nasri then became aggressive and threatened to get him sacked.But a spokesman for Scotland Yard said the details of the incident should not overshadow her work as a special constable.Commander Rod Jarman, who defended Patel-Nasri at the time of the inquiry in 2003, said yesterday: "In my view the memory of a woman who was murdered, while alone at her own home, by her husband in a callous and predetermined crime is being subjected to attack in an unreasonable and unnecessary way. Despite the comments here, the reputation Nisha had with friends, colleagues and family is one of a hard-working, loving individual who gave her time for the good of the community, and it is for this I believe should be remembered."Patel-Nasri's husband was last week found guilty by a jury of ordering her killing to fund a secret double life.Fadi Nasri, 34, who went on television after the murder to appeal for information, had contracted hitmen to stab her to death at their home in Wembley, north London, while he was out playing snooker.He gave them the keys to the marital home and a knife from his kitchen before the murder. At the time of the attack Patel-Nasri had been preparing for bed when she heard someone enter the house. She grabbed a torch and went downstairs. Neighbours found her just before midnight, screaming in her driveway, barefoot and in a nightdress, lying in pools of blood. The jury was told that Nasri had arranged the murder so he could continue an affair with a Lithuanian prostitute and pay off £100,000 debts with his wife's life insurance policy.