The missing teenager Laura Stainforth was found safe today in northern France, a week after going missing from Cleethorpes, Lincolnshire, with a man she met on the internet.The 15-year-old walked into the British consulate in Lille, France, with 49-year-old Robert Williams, the man wanted by police in connection with her disappearance. They were recognised by staff who covertly contacted police. It is thought the pair had not intended to give themselves up.Williams was arrested when French police arrived at the consulate and was in custody tonight as the process began to extradite him to the UK for questioning over Laura's disappearance.A spokeswoman for Humberside police said: "They walked into the consulate and it was tip-off from staff who recognised them. Somebody informed police they were there and they were able to distract them before they could move on."Detective Chief Inspector Sharon Fielding, who led the force's week-long hunt, said police believed Laura might have been chatting to Williams on the internet for up to six months.She said they would not know the full details of how they got to know each other until they had spoken to Laura. Officers were on their way to France and would bring Laura home "as soon as possible"."Her welfare is paramount and we need to ensure she is safe to travel," Fielding said. "The investigation hasn't ended today; it has actually just started."There had been various sightings of Laura as she made the train journey to Dover to catch a ferry for the crossing across the Channel with Williams, a lorry driver.At a press conference at Humberside police headquarters, Laura's mother, Debra, was visibly shaking and in tears as she read out a statement."I am pleased to inform everybody that my daughter, Laura Stainforth, is safe and well," she said. "I am grateful for the support from the papers and all the publicity that has brought Laura back home to us. We are grateful for all the support my family and myself have been given from the police. Thank you."Fielding said: "Laura had never gone missing before. She's a nice, hard-working girl. It just came completely out of the blue."It goes without saying I am delighted that Laura has been found in Lille and we are now working with the French authorities and Laura's family to ensure she arrives back in the country as soon as possible and returns to her family."There is still a lot of work to be done, however, and we are working to ensure the extradition of Williams."Fielding said they had worked closely with police forces in the UK, Interpol, the National Missing Persons Bureau and the Serious Organised Crime Agency. They received a tip-off on Tuesday from a member of the public about seeing Laura in Lille, which is 60 miles from Calais."As soon as we knew she was safe and well, the family were ecstatic," Fielding said. "It has been a difficult week for us all – not least the family – and I'm looking forward to her safe arrival back with us."Some passengers on the P&O Pride of Kent ferry last Thursday afternoon had contacted police to say they saw Laura with Williams. It is believed they had been foot passengers.During the search for Laura, it emerged Williams was on bail for the alleged rape of a 16-year-old girl he met online. He was arrested by Durham police last year and released on bail.Durham police confirmed Williams had been questioned and bailed over alleged rapes of a 16-year-old girl from Sussex in November and December.The Foreign and Commonwealth Office confirmed Laura had been found and safe and well after going into the consulate in Lille. "Local police arrested Robert Williams at the scene," said a spokeswoman. "We are providing appropriate consular assistance and we are in touch with the appropriate UK authorities."Laura disappeared after telling her parents last Wednesday afternoon that she was going shopping. She was reported missing that night.She was captured on CCTV footage with Williams at Grimsby railway station the same evening as they headed south, catching a train to Doncaster for a connecting train to London, and then on to Dover.