There has been a great deal of talk this week of a watershed. The publication of the Lawrence report was described in nervously hopeful terms as a turning point - a moment which we will in time look back on as one of extraordinary significance in the history of Britain's race relations. What began as an unsolved murder broadened into a much bigger picture of endemic racism in parts of our cities and our police forces, and the public's view of race issues has been profoundly altered. But the Lawrence report will mark a modest watershed if we imagine the only people it addresses are police officers, black teenagers and white racists. If racism is to be genuinely defeated, we will all have to examine what our own responsiblities must be. Every day, people who do not consider themselves racist find themselves in taxis listening to tirades about immigrants; every day, they sit in pubs and hear appalling racist opinions spat casually across the bar from publicans. Every day, well-intentioned liberals are told by a member of one ethnic minority about the shortcomings and special treatment of another. And every day, these people wonder awkwardly if they ought to say something about it, and if so, what it might be. Before the publication of the Lawrence report, these sorts of encounters were common enough, but would be lost in the discreet discomfort of our uncertainty. Now, after the Lawrence report, it should no longer be good enough for white people to feel embarrassed. Solutions will need to be found, but it is a testimony to how little they have been addressed that their nature today is so opaque.  I used to work in a pub in Manchester whose landlord would stand at the bar holding forth about the stupidity of black people. His wife was scratched one night by a black woman she was forcibly ejecting, and shrieked hysterically that she would need an Aids test because of the 'black bitch'. When two young women applied for jobs, they did not take on 'the nigger'. There is little dilemma about what to do in such circumstances, and I left. But it is often less straightforward. I have never worked in a pub which didn't contain people who liked nothing better than to make racist remarks and jokes, all too often encouraged by the landlord. Is the proper course of action to resign from every pub? Or is it to take customers and management to task until you are sacked, which will not take very long?  The dilemma also exists for customers, but there is an argument that low level racism is the lingua franca of the British pub. If you were serious about not drinking in a racist pub, some might say, you would have to distribute questionnaires around every bar in the country before ordering a half of lager. But there is clearly a difference between someone holding private opinions and holding forth with them in public, and if we are determined to make racist talk as unacceptable as violence, we are going to have to be forthright about the distinction.  What do you do when the group of young men next to you on the bus are shouting about thieving blacks or smelly Asians? It is not good enough to complain about racism if we are not prepared to confront it when we come across it, but there is a temptation to shrug and say it isn't worth it - that you can't change these people's minds, that if that's what they think it's not worth even getting involved.  But every time we fail to confront it, we become a little bit complicit and a little bit guilty. It may not be possible to change people's opinions, but it is possible to create a climate where they are more inclined to keep them to themselves. Many liberals, however, feel uncomfortable with the notion of condemning people for their opinions, when these opinions are a product of ignorance and disadvantage. There is a worry that it is easy to become high on one's own moral purity, and damn others who did not enjoy all the benefits of privilege and education which led them to their enlightened position. There is also, for many middle class people, an uneasy feeling that it is easy for them to be high-minded because they are not in competition with immigrant families for jobs and homes. This can be a powerful deterrent to speaking out, but inherent in it is the idea that it is somehow remarkable to be non-racist, and as long as we consider racism to be somehow the 'natural' human condition, we will perpetuate it. There is also a danger among the liberal middle classes that, in the concern not to condemn white working class people for opinions they find offensive, they actually assume all white working class people hold them, when this is patently untrue, not to say extremely offensive.  We are still surprisingly unclear, however, about precisely what a racist remark consists of, and the Daily Mail - the very paper which championed the Lawrence case - regularly prints high-minded opinions about immigrants which translate into abusive talk by the time they reach the saloon bar.  It is very easy for everyone now to say that Stephen Lawrence's murderers were racist. But violent racism is stoked, bit by bit, by supposedly 'respectable' opinions on the right about our country being overrun with immigrants who undermine the British way. We have yet to devise a way by which debates about multi-culturalism, immigration and so on can be conducted freely without giving ammunition to racists looking for legitiation for their prejudice. How these dilemmas will be resolved is not clear, but it is clear that for the Lawrence report to effect the change we need, we will have to look as much at our own responsiblities as at those of the police. It is not enough to agree that we are all against people stabbing people, and police officers failing to arrest them. 