At some point shortly after 7.30pm last night, the coffin containing what used to be Myra Hindley was fed through a small door, heated to 1,000C, and burned until it crumbled into a small pile of ash. A couple of hours later, the small pile of ash, weighing about half a stone, was taken out through a side entrance of Cambridgeshire crematorium, loaded into a prison service van and driven off into the night. The Moors murderer, cause of so much grief and suffering in life, had finally, in death, lost all power to do any more harm.Or so we might like to think. We do not know, for instance, which firm of funeral directors was charged with driving Hindley's body the short distance to the crematorium from the hospital where she died. That information was deemed so sensitive only a handful of senior prison service and Home Office officials were privy to it. But according to reports yesterday, the firm had to be hired by an increasingly desperate prison service from a location some 200 miles away and "somewhere in the north", after 20 funeral directors in the Bury St Edmunds area, where she died, had declined to handle the ceremony. Hindley was so noxious, it seems, that even the presence of her corpse for a few minutes in the back of one's hearse was too dangerous for comfort. Hindley, unburied, still had the power to terrify yesterday. Local funeral directors across Suffolk - and larger, national companies - stumbled through awkward mumbles when asked whether they had been approached to manage Hindley's funeral and, if so, why they had declined. Only one, Nick Armstrong, from an independent family firm in Halesworth, Suffolk, was prepared to admit that the prison service, perhaps mindful that it might have a difficult task on its hands, had started contacting funeral companies a year ago. His firm, like the rest, said no. "We declined as soon as we were approached, last year. Basically we didn't feel comfortable doing that, we knew that public emotions would be running quite high on this so we felt it was in our best interest to say no. It puts us in quite an awkward position to be honest, because we are here to help people at the time they need us the most." Was it a moral decision? "Oh no, I'm not here to judge anybody. She'll be judged by someone greater than me. But everyone who has asked me this, I have put the question to them: how would they feel if it was their mother or their grandfather in the same chapel of rest or in the same hearse as Myra Hindley?"It is not entirely clear which particular contaminatory power of Hindley's the undertakers most feared - perhaps that microscopic traces of Hindley dust might accidentally become mixed with that of future customers, or that her restless spirit might choose to loiter in the back of the hearse, or pop up from behind the catafalque during someone else's funeral. Bernard McHale, secretary of the Federation of British Cremation Authorities, insisted yesterday that every last trace of dust and ash was removed from the cremator after a ceremony, and every bit of it given to the correct relatives - even trace contamination, he stressed, was impossible. But however dastardly an "icon of evil" is deemed to be - the room she died in is to be redecorated, and children's charities this week rushed to assure supporters that even Hindley's money was too poisonous for them to accept - when they die, like the rest of us, they need to be disposed of. The problem is that unlike other professionals who occasionally deal with society's unsavouries - such as lawyers or doctors - there is no requirement of undertakers to accept everyone's business. "Funeral directors are entirely free to say no if they want to," says Kate Edwards, executive director of the Funeral Standards Council, one of three voluntary regulating bodies representing undertakers in this country. "In this case it would really be a commercial decision that was made by each funeral director. And they are entirely within their rights to say no." "I can't say I blame them [the Suffolk undertakers]," says a colleague from elsewhere, who is anxious not to be named. "Would you want that on your tombstone?" So just how bad, exactly, is too bad to bury? Would they turn down a paedophile? Or a serial killer? It seems, not for the first time, that Hindley has set new standards. "To be honest, this is really unprecedented," says Edwards. "I have never heard of this happening before." Fred West, notes Armstrong, caused nothing like such a fuss in burial as Hindley (though West's request to be buried in his home village churchyard beside his parents was quietly altered by his children to a discreet cremation service and undisclosed disposal). Roger Gillman, managing director of JE Gillman and Sons, voted the United Kingdom's best funeral director in 2000, says his company has buried countless notorious criminals, though he asks me not to name names ("A funeral director's job is to do funerals, not make moral judgments," he says). Is Armstrong saying, in effect, that he wouldn't have a problem burying people who had done very bad things, so long as there was no public outcry? "Um, that's about the size of it." Needless to say, where some see problems, others see an opportunity. In Texas, where they really know their villains - and have the execution statistics to prove it - the problem of being too nasty to bury never arises. "Oh no, not at all," says Larry Fitzgerald of the state's department of criminal justice. "As a matter of fact a local funeral home, the Huntsville Funeral Home, has a contract with the state after every execution to take the body from the penitentiary. At that point the family can claim the body and make other arrangements, or in the case where there are no relatives, they will simply be buried in a state cemetery, near to the prison." With between 20 and 40 executed prisoners a year, Huntsville at present looks unlikely to go out of business. In fact the undertakers remove the bodies of every dead prisoner from each of the state's 110 penitentiaries - even those up to 400 miles away. "We make no distinction between natural causes and executions," says Fitzgerald. "It's just an inmate who has passed away." Assuming the unknown undertaker and its unknown destination remain undisclosed, it seems that today the Hindley circus will finally grind to a halt. Her family now have the responsibility of choosing her final resting place, which they are wisely attempting to keep secret. They are reported to want to scatter her ashes to the winds. If Hindley is still poisonous, in other words, she will poison us all.