A father whose three children were found dead at their Edinburgh home last week has spoken of how happy memories of their time together are helping him through his grief.Eight-year-old twins Austin and Luke Riggi and their five-year-old sister, Cecilia, were found in a townhouse following reports of an explosion last Wednesday.Their mother, Theresa Riggi, 46, who is being treated in hospital after apparently falling from a second-floor balcony, has been charged with their murder.Pasquale Riggi, also 46, spoke today of his last outing with his "happy, healthy, bright" children and described how he had celebrated what would have been Cecilia's sixth birthday on Monday.The Shell engineer said his memories of the children were providing comfort as he attempted to deal with the shock.Speaking from a hotel in Aberdeen, he said: "You are paralysed with grief. You are not sure what to do next."It is bad enough that you have lost three beautiful children, but certainly the tragedy around their deaths makes it much more painful. The reality of it all is difficult to take all at once. You can't even get your head around it."He said it was difficult dealing with the daily reminders of what had happened on TV and in the newspapers."It's almost like it's happening to someone else and you keep asking yourself: 'Is it me, is this my family?'. And then the reality hits you that it is."Riggi, from Colorado, and his wife, from California, came to live in the UK 13 years ago. They lived in Lowestoft, and then spent two years in Holland before moving to Aberdeen in February 2007. They later separated and had begun divorce proceedings.Theresa Riggi left the family's home in Aberdeenshire with the children at the beginning of July to move to Edinburgh. Police and fire crews were called to a suspected gas explosion at the modern townhouse and found the bodies of the three children.Riggi, who has not seen his wife since the deaths, last saw his children on 4 July when he took them for a day out at Aberdeen beach to celebrate US Independence Day.He said he could not allow Cecilia's birthday to pass without marking it, so he and his relatives had bought a cake and watched footage of her."Her birthday was on 9 August and she would have been six," he said. "That was particularly difficult so close to the tragedy ... we had a nice lunch and then watched some footage that I had recorded of her dancing."Cecilia just loved dancing, I could watch her dance all day. We celebrated with the cake – that was quite therapeutic, but also difficult."Riggi described the twins, Austin and Luke, as very competitive and with different interests. Luke enjoyed reading and making up stories, while Austin preferred maths and science."Luke was the hyperactive one, right from the beginning. Austin was much more laid back – he would observe and analyse what Luke was doing," he said."We were so blessed to have three happy, healthy and bright and active children. The memories that we have of Austin, Luke and Cecilia will forever provide joy and comfort as we go through the weeks, months and years ahead."