A little more light was shone into the clandestine world of informants this week. Three more campaigners have stepped forward to describe how covert police officers attempted to induce them into becoming informers. You can read their accounts in more detail here.As we reported on Monday, a 23-year-old single mother said she abandoned her anti-racism campaigning work because she felt intimidated by the police. She said the police had threatened to prosecute her if she told anyone about the attempt to enlist her as an informer.A second campaigner said police had appeared to follow him and his young daughter to a supermarket and thrust an envelope containing cash into his hand to persuade him to secretly pass on information about environmentalists. A third protester said police had offered him cash for details about the political activities of leftwing students in Cambridge.The trio decided to describe their experiences after a young environmental campaigner had previously worn a concealed camera and recorded the attempt to recruit him as an informant. The covertly-recorded video, published in November, showed how the police wanted him to spy on politically active Cambridge students, Unite Against Fascism, UK Uncut and environmentalists. You can see clips from the video here, here, here, here and here.The approaches to all four campaigners were made by Cambridgeshire police. In response, Cambridgeshire police have said relatively little, producing only a two-line statement. They said :"Officers use covert tactics to gather intelligence, in accordance with the law, to assist in the prevention and detection of criminal activity." Without elaborating further, they also said :"In the application of these tactics we wouldn't engage in behaviour which has been described by the individuals."Julian Huppert, the Liberal Democrat MP for Cambridge, is now demanding that Simon Parr, the Cambridge chief constable, justify his force's conduct.We are interested to hear from anyone who has been approached to become an informant, and indeed became one.What the disclosures appear to have revealed so far is something about how the police go about recruiting and running informers in political groups. Money is a common theme - each of the quartet say they were offered money in some form in return for signing up as an informant (a favoured technique for a long time, as we noted here in a previous blog on the recruitment of informers). It seems that the police prefer to make their pitch in a police station, presumably as the activists are isolated, away from their friends. Often this involves inviting the activists down to the police station on some sort of pretext. The police seem particularly interested in getting any would-be informants to search Facebook for information.Cambridgeshire police have been in the spotlight, but it is clear that they are not the only force doing this. Police forces around the country have for years been turning political activists into informants. Back in 2009, for instance, environmental activist, Tilly Gifford, covertly recorded Scottish police when they tried to lure her into becoming an informer. As we reported here and here, the Scottish officers told her that there were hundreds of informants feeding them information from protest organisations and "big groupings" from across the political spectrum. (Incidentally see this here on how campaigners can use modern technology to rumble the police).For many years, police have exploited a variety of techniques to gather information about political groups. Inserting undercover police officers into groups are one kind of source. Informants are another kind of source (ie persuading activists already in political groups to pass on information about the activities and intentions of their fellow protesters). However police know that informants are unreliable and often exaggerate the information they supply.Indeed it was this unreliability that was a key reason behind the decision by the Metropolitan Police Special Branch in 1968 to set up a special squad of undercover officers to infiltrate protesters. The Met wanted their own undercover officers at the heart of political campaigns to deliver intelligence that they trusted to be correct (as we describe in our book, Undercover).One of the tasks of the undercover officers has been to keep an eye-out for activists who could be turned into informants. They would make assessments about whether the activist would be likely to become a grass and whether they would disclose the recruitment approach to other campaigners or even reporters.These talent-spotting tips, identifying possible candidates, would be passed onto other police officers who specialised in running informants. It is these specialists who would make the pitch to the activist, not the undercover officer, as a bungled recruitment would blow his or her cover as well. Once recruited, informants reported to these specialists and would have no contact with any undercover officers. Informants could never be trusted with the identities of the police's own undercover officers.This here is an interesting guide, written by activists for other activists, on what to do if the police try to coax them into becoming an informant. For anyone contemplating becoming an informer, it is worth remembering that it may not be easy to extricate themselves further down the line. Once they have handed over that first piece of information, the police can have a hold over them. If the informant wants to give it up, the police can threaten to spread surreptitiously, through their agents, hints of their co-operation, however insubstantial, to other campaigners. It can be a rough business.