The prospect of anyone facing trial for the murder of Alexander Litvinenko appeared to have faded away completely last night after Moscow said it would not extradite Scotland Yard's prime suspect.The Russian authorities said that they could not hand over Andrei Lugovoi on the grounds that the country's constitution forbids the extradition of its citizens. Mr Litvinenko had met Mr Lugovoi, a former KGB officer, on the day that he was poisoned with a radioactive isotope while sipping tea in a London hotel.Moscow's decision did not surprise anyone at the Yard or at the Crown Prosecution Service, but there was concern in Whitehall that it would further damage Anglo-Russian relations, which have been severely strained by the murder and the UK's subsequent extradition plea.The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, had ridiculed the request, branding it "stupid"; British authorities felt they had no alternative but to make the request because of the gravity of the offence. Mr Litvinenko, a former officer of the Russian intelligence service, the FSB, had taken British citizenship after being granted asylum in the UK, and the method of his poisoning put many other people at risk.Sir Ken Macdonald, director of public prosecutions, rejected a Russian offer to put Mr Lugovoi on trial in Moscow on the grounds that there was no guarantee that the process would be impartial and fair."The allegation against Mr Lugovoi is that he murdered a British citizen by deliberate poisoning and that he committed this extraordinarily grave crime here in our capital city," he said. "The appropriate venue for his trial is therefore London."The prime minister led a chorus of condemnation of the Russian decision, with his spokesman saying: "Russia's refusal to extradite Mr Lugovoi is extremely disappointing and we deeply regret that Russia has failed to show the necessary level of cooperation in this matter."The Foreign Office described Russia's decision as unacceptable. A spokeswoman said: "We have consistently said that the murder of Mr Litvinenko is a serious criminal matter. Hundreds of British citizens and visitors to the capital were put at risk. We will consider our response with the deliberation and seriousness that it deserves." The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "A British citizen was cruelly murdered on British soil. It is vital that those responsible for perpetrating this brutal crime in our capital city are brought to justice."Mr Litvinenko, who lived in north London with his wife and young son, died last November, aged 44, three weeks after being poisoned at the Millennium hotel in Mayfair. His associates later claimed that he wrote a deathbed statement accusing Mr Putin of being behind the crime.The presence of polonium in his system was not detected until a few hours before his death. Once discovered, technicians found traces of it in hotel rooms, on aircraft seat armrests, on banknotes and cutlery, and built up a detailed map showing the killer's movements before and after the poisoning. It is now thought that the same radioactive isotope has been used before in Russia, by murderers who thought it would never be detected in their victims' bodies.The Kremlin linked British requests for Mr Lugovoi's extradition with their own demands that Boris Berezovsky, the multimillionaire Russian businessman living in Britain, be sent back to Russia to stand trial. Russian authorities have made several failed attempts to seek Mr Berezovsky's extradition, and last week charged him in his absence with conspiring to seize power after he told the Guardian that he was plotting the overthrow of President Putin.