Open-ended DNA-taking is a grievous instance of the malign drift of the Blair people's astonishing authoritarianism. This is the "Let's see what we can get you for" sort of policeman deciding who shall be listed as suspect potential. It's Kafka without the jokes.It is, however, only one of the ways in which legal practice has sleep-walked through a welter of liberal talk to authoritarian practice. Crime used to be a narrow field inhabited by a tight group of - well, criminals. It has since become the tag for a legion of regulation breakers and minor trespassers, its punishments visited upon defaults, failures to make declarations, forms unfilled-in, motoring offences - the acts of non-criminals.There used to be a sharp division in English law between crime and lesser acts. Crime was once, with beautiful clarity, defined as requiring an intent. Essentially it had two other unstated qualities to itself. Putting aside treason, crime had almost invariably to involve acts of violence or dishonesty. Dishonesty might once indeed have included acts not remotely criminal to us, like taking his Lordship's game or cutting turf on former common land. But the distinction is a good one.Theft, whether of shoes from a shop or the grand larceny of City of London fraud, is a clear and certain intended and criminal thing. We know where we are with it. Violence, from rape and murder through to blows injuring and meant to injure, is also sharply focused in the citizen's eye. It is something he naturally recognises as criminal. By no accident do the authorities now habitually use the weasel, stoat and ferret word: "offence". Crimes were committed by criminals, a very narrow group as common sense defined them. "Offences" are committed by "offenders" which means you who, for some footle, now have a criminal record and whose DNA must be taken.Government likes this sort of thing. It empowers government and its agencies. It threatens, bullies and above all, tabulates. Manifestly, failure properly to close the top of a refuse bin is not a crime, but in the Blairite world of meddling, finger-clicking legislators and policemen it has become one, part of an everlasting schedule of the acts and omissions of non-criminals. And when we have opened-up a five-lengths lead over every country in Europe in the numbers held in prison, stripping it back is a priority.One place to start, however much it goes against the progressive grain, is the motoring offence. Personally I favour low-powered cars like our Skoda, kept to a maximum of 50mph by my cautious wife. And I look upon Clarkson as an enemy of all civility. Even so, motorists driving too fast, driving after drinking too much or driving negligently should not go to prison. Further, the speeding/ drunken/negligent driver accidentally killing someone should not go to prison either. A terrible thing has happened but it was not intended to happen. The driver has not proposed an action and undertaken to carry it out. This person is not a criminal and no amount of a victim's distressed family calling for revenge will make him one.All such cases belong in the civil courts and the damages may be very heavy. But damages are not punishment, they are recompense. Government, however, trailing as it does after the mob press, wants to punish - wants, in the favourite terms of Charles Clarke and David Blunkett - to "crack down" and be seen cracking down. We have a criminal law led by headlines. We need a politician with the character and intelligence to eschew the punishment impulse, the power-hoarding impulse, the crowd-gratification impulse. Dominic Grieve, a seriously thoughtful shadow home secretary, might yet be heard from. Suppose the Tories took their wispy libertarianism seriously, suppose ... ? It 's only a thought but we haven't had much of that in criminal legislation lately.