A girl aged 14 is in a critical condition after she was repeatedly stabbed in a frenzied knife attack while walking in a park on Monday at Chorley in Lancashire.Jessica Knight collapsed and was found unconscious and covered in blood by a passing cyclist at 5.14pm. She was given first aid by two other people who had been walking through Astley park, before being taken by ambulance to Chorley hospital.Surgeons operated for four to five hours that evening. Last night she remained in a critical condition at the hospital.Lancashire police said that as yet they could find no motive for the attack, and urged anyone in Astley village to take precautions for their safety. Extra police, included mounted officers and neighbourhood teams, are on patrol.Police are also visiting schools, while a mobile police station will be set up in the village, an affluent semi-rural district of Chorley. Police said that it was a low-crime area and such attacks were very rare.It was normal for the teenager to first visit local shops and go with her friends to the park, which is known as a meeting place for youngsters, police said; she had been seen on CCTV at one shop at about 5pm.Minutes later, screams were heard from the park. So far, police have no witnesses. Speaking from the scene, Detective superintendent Steve Brunskill said: "This is a particularly nasty assault on a defenceless young girl. I am appealing for anyone who was in the Astley village or Astley park area between 4.30pm and 5.30pm to contact the incident room at Chorley."We are particularly interested in speaking to anyone in the area [at around 5.15]. It is a busy time - people are walking dogs and coming home from work."The girl was wearing a black fur-lined hooded jacket, blue jeans and white trainers.Officers were with her family at the hospital last night and are waiting to speak to her in an attempt to piece together what happened. The family are "very distressed", according to police."As far as we are aware, this is a perfectly normal, happy child. It's mind-boggling how this can occur in this area."