As one of the first people to reach the bombed Circle line train in the tunnel between Liverpool Street and Aldgate, Stephen Eldridge said his first priority had been to open the doors into the smoke-filled carriages so that the passengers trapped inside could breathe.He had been standing at Aldgate with a couple of fellow train drivers having "a little bit of banter" when he heard "a massive bang". After evacuating the now stalled trains on the platforms, they grabbed their torches and high-visibility jackets and made their way into the tunnel, from where thick clouds of smoke and dust were issuing.Having opened the rear door and begun evacuating the train, he became aware of something at his feet, which he suddenly realised was a body. Instinctively he stood in front of it, to shield it from the scores of dazed and injured passengers streaming along the track."I tried to focus their attention on something else," he told the inquests into the 52 people who were killed in four suicide bomb explosions on 7 July 2005. "I thought, 'If I tell them to keep looking at the lights' — because you could see the lights of Aldgate station — … one, they wouldn't look at the body and, two, they would be able to see where they're going and be able to make their escape."Twelve days into the inquests into the biggest terrorist assault in Britain, it is clear that for the witnesses, these twin instincts – to provide helpful direction, and to shield the worst of what they saw – remain as alive as they were on that Thursday morning.Conscious of bereaved family members who are present, and reluctant, in many cases, to revisit the horrors of the aftermath, survivors have resorted to euphemism, or hinted at the worst of what they witnessed."I looked and then I looked away, because I didn't like what I saw," Bruce Lait, a dancer who was a few metres from bomber Shehzad Tanweer when he exploded his device in the second carriage, told the inquests.Michael Henning, at the front of the third carriage, had peered into the car in front to see if he could help, despite his own injuries. "I don't want to go into too much detail what I saw," he told the coroner, "because I know the police reports have detailed such things, but it's a very difficult image to hold."Lady Justice Hallett, who is sitting as coroner without a jury, has ruled that a number of pieces of evidence – including "bodymaps" detailing the injuries of those who died and full footage of the bomb scenes once the victims had been removed – should not be made available in open court. Journalists, too, have held back on repeating the most appalling details, taking an unspoken collective decision that some things are too horrific to require detailed description.If the purpose of an inquest is to establish the cause of death, it might be argued that this entire process, scheduled to take five months and mounted at significant expense, is superfluous. We know the 52 people who died on three tube trains and a bus were unlawfully killed – "murder" is a criminal rather than inquisitorial verdict – and we know who killed them, and how. Do we need to be taken inside the bombed carriages and bus and exposed to the carnage that so many have tried to forget?The coroner has judged so, because there remain many questions to be answered. Most acutely, for each bereaved family there is the question of how, precisely, their loved ones died.For some of the seven victims of the Aldgate bombing, the only attack for which detailed evidence has yet been heard, this is tragically clear. That several could not possibly have survived the blast says enough, perhaps, about the circumstances in which their remains were recovered.But for others this question is painfully pressing. Among the 16 separate legal teams in court — representing Transport for London, the Fire Brigade, the Metropolitan police, London Ambulance Service and others — are a number who speak for relatives of the dead. Was the woman with long hair moving? Did the young man writhing on the floor appear at any point to be conscious?Present each day, too, but unrepresented by a lawyer, has been John Taylor, whose daughter Carrie, a 24-year-old arts administrator, survived long enough to be supported by a number of other survivors, notably a consultant neuroradiologist, Gerardine Quaghebeur who was in the bombed carriage.Though she had called for medical help, Quaghebeur told the inquest she did not know whether the young woman could have survived even if medics had arrived earlier."So your main reason for staying there with Carrie was to comfort her?" John Taylor asked her."It was to comfort her and it was to comfort some of the other people in the carriage and not leave them alone.""Thank you very much for that, thank you," said Taylor. "Sorry about your daughter," the doctor replied.Survivors, too, have spoken of finding the inquest process valuable, even where they have clearly been deeply distressed by having to relive the day's events. Thelma Stober was blown from the train, and regained consciousness on the tracks, with her legs trapped by twisted pieces of metal.Resting on her forehead was a hand, she told the inquest, struggling with emotion; she lifted it, and it fell. There was almost certainly nothing she could have done for that man, Hugo Keith, QC, counsel to the inquests, reassured her. Outside the court, she said she had lived with the image of the man's hand for five years. "Perhaps I could have helped him. I didn't. But I was told today that he died at the scene. I feel a bit better but I also feel a bit sad because I survived and he didn't."There may also be critical lessons to be learned from 7 July, even as plans are being drawn up for the response to other potential attacks, amid a terror threat level judged to be "severe".Was the response from the emergency services adequate? A number of witnesses have expressed frustration and in some cases anger at finding paramedics and fire service personnel waiting on the platform at Aldgate, either because of protocols over confirming that the tracks were no longer live, or because of the risk of other devices.Michael Henning, having been shaken by the desperate and "forlorn" look of an injured fellow passenger, told the court he had confronted ambulance staff. "I asked them why weren't they down there, there was people dying down there … but they wouldn't look at me, there may have been a couple of glances, but looking back, it was one of embarrassment, they were embarrassed that they were not allowed to go down."London Underground staff have been quizzed over their emergency response protocols, after the LU manager in "silver" command at Liverpool Street admitted he had not tried to send staff members to investigate the smoking tunnel at Liverpool Street for at least 25 minutes after the blast, even while individual drivers from Aldgate were struggling to help injured passengers underground. He had eventually been stopped from sending any help by an officer from British Transport police, who instead evacuated the station.A LU staff member admitted this week that he learned more about the situation from a phone call from his mother than he had in his role co-ordinating the communications in the control room at Liverpool Street.With the fourth bombing on board a double-decker bus taking place almost an hour after the first three, and many of those dying on the bus already having been evacuated from the underground, the coroner will also consider whether the entire transport network should have been halted after the first bombs.Finally, and for some most critically, the inquests will examine whether the security services had enough information about the bombers to stop them. Lady Justice Hallett has already ruled that the question of preventability will be the last to be considered, probably next March, though it is not clear what information she will consider and whether it will be publicly aired.Tomorrow she will hear legal argument from the Home Office, family representatives and the other authorities over her powers to sit in private to consider certain sensitive material.But for many, what will linger most powerfully from the inquest will be the stories of those individuals caught up in the bombings and their responses, some puzzling, many astonishingly heroic.While some professionals obeyed orders to wait for instructions, and many passengers stumbled, as directed, past other victims who were critically injured, others instinctively headed towards the train to offer help, or climbed into the bombed carriage to support those who were dying.One woman stopped at the ruined carriage to take photographs, until a policeman snatched her camera from her and threw it to the ground. An off-duty police officer tied her jacket around the legs of one man and gave a belt to another woman to act as a tourniquet. Both survived, almost certainly as a result of her actions.There have even been miracles. While Stephen Eldridge was screening the body from passengers, another lifeless figure on the tracks whom he assumed was dead staggered to his feet and went to lean against the tunnel wall.The man was Philip Duckworth, and he told the inquests that he had become dimly aware of a figure with a torch saying, "He's gone." "At that point, I was like, 'No, I'm not. Hang on a second, you know, I'm not gone, I'm …' — and then I sort of … forced myself on to my knees and got up."Duckworth had travelled from St Albans to London on the same train as the four bombers, a fact he did not learn until he gave evidence. He was probably standing very close to bomber Shehzad Tanweer when his device exploded, and now has a prosthetic eye, after a fragment of the suicide bomber's shinbone entered his eye. "Mr Duckworth," said Lady Justice Hallett, "you've reduced us all to silence."Additional reporting by Karen McVeigh