Detectives hunting the racist killers of Stephen Lawrence revealed yesterday that they have recovered a knife and a metal bar in the garden of the former home of two of the five original suspects.The discovery was made in the grounds of the former Acourt family home in Bournbrook Road, Eltham, close to where the teenager was stabbed to death in south-east London seven years ago. The house where the items were found is listed in the Stephen Lawrence inquiry report as the home of suspects Jamie and Neil Acourt in 1993. It now has new occupants.Scotland Yard refused to say when the weapons were discovered or give details of who tipped it off. But deputy assistant commissioner John Grieve, head of the racial and violent crimes taskforce, confirmed the knife and the bar had been sent for forensic analysis. The tests could take weeks. Although the police examined many knives in the aftermath of Stephen's murder on May 7 1993, they were never confident that they had identified the murder weapon. A red-handled kitchen knife with a 10in (25cm) blade was handed to police by the mother of Gaynor Cullen, who was the girlfriend of Gary Dobson, one of the original suspects. The weapon was shown again recently on a Crimewatch programme and is also being re-examined by scientists. The knife found recently is a similar size. If this were the weapon used to kill Stephen Lawrence, it would be a significant breakthrough for the Metropolitan police, which has never given up hope of successfully prosecuting the men who stabbed the 18-year-old student. Gary Dobson, Neil Acourt and Luke Knight were acquitted in 1996 of Stephen's murder when a private prosecution brought by the Lawrence family collapsed. The case against Jamie Acourt and David Norris was dropped before it reached court. Mr Grieve said yesterday: "Not only are people now willing to speak to us, but there could also be new evidence. "We know there are people out there who know exactly what happened to Stephen Lawrence and can give important evidence. "They know that we are going to get justice for Stephen. What happened has preyed on their consciences for seven years. Now is the time to come and speak to us. "Tell us what you know. It could just prove to be the final piece of the puzzle." Scotland Yard has been hinting for weeks that detectives are closer than ever to discovering what happened to Lawrence and seem confident they know who was responsible for his murder. But Mr Grieve has been loth to be too specific, saying the inquiry is at a very delicate stage. He has a team of officers working from a secret location in south London. The squad believes the ties that bound the gang which was responsible for the murder have loosened over time. Last month three men were questioned in connection with the murder. They were arrested on the day that Lawrence's parents, Doreen and Neville, made a fresh appeal on BBC's Crimewatch for witnesses to come forward. The men were bailed to appear at police stations in south London.