Sex for sale is the latest target for the handy, one-size-fits-all 'zero tolerance' approach, as the government plans a national campaign designed to stick prostitution where the sun don't shine. Home Office Minister Fiona MacTaggart wants to gee up the police to make more arrests and greater efforts to close brothels because, she says, 'prostitution blights communities'.Actually, it doesn't; if it did, human civilisation would have collapsed thousands of years ago. No self-respecting libertarian could sensibly gainsay a man or a woman's fundamental right to charge for sex. I even know a married couple for whom his paying her is a fixture of their intimate routine - maybe not your cup of erotica or mine, but the deal is theirs to make.I have also met, interviewed and candidly admired a fair few prostitutes. I especially liked one gal, very top-end, who had coolly calculated it to be the least toil for the most money, in hours to suit herself, then insisted upon comparing her wages with mine. When it turned out that my week paid her afternoon, she genuinely found my career choice mystifying.And I shall never forget cheery Miss Whiplash, cosy as a buttered scone, who interrupted delicious tell-tales of famous toffs to pop into the dungeon next door and tighten a thumbscrew.Such women are in absolute command of their destinies and Miss MacTaggart has no business whatsoever to interfere. She would say there is the nastier end: the girls working the streets to pay for drugs. But she must not confuse herself here. These girls' problem is not prostitution, it is addiction. Without one way to earn their fix, they would find another; anybody who really thinks that hindering commercial access to their genital parts would cure their habit knows as little about sex as they do about drugs and, indeed, one fears for their grasp of rock'n'roll.Where Miss MacTaggart and I might share a concern, however, is not for what prostitutes do on the streets or at home or in a sauna or massage parlour, but for how they got there. Did they choose or were they chosen? Were they already into drugs or deliberately inveigled into the first taste?In other words, where the state should come in is not by grabbing votes with promises to smack people just for acting smutty, but by addressing the much graver issue of coercion. If we left to themselves those who elected to trade and focused efforts, instead, on rescuing those who do not, then we'd be clearing up our 'blight'.How? I hoped you'd ask. For credit where credit is (perhaps surprisingly) due. Turkey has shown an interesting lead in the protection of human rights among trafficked women. Six months ago, it set up a well-publicised hotline for women under sexual duress; since then, 100 women have been rescued from slavery and 10 trafficking networks have been busted.The really interesting thing, though, is that three-quarters of the tip-offs came not from the frightened women but, anonymously, from their clients. It seems that men do, after all, have a pretty good idea when their 'date' is unwilling and, in Turkey anyway, also muster some guilt about it.Miss MacTaggart, at slender cost, could offer British men a shot at it. At least the potential benefit would be to real victims; both a worthier and a more realistic project than sweeping away prostitution, in its entirety, with 'tough measures', 'clamping down' and dear old 'zero tolerance'.Warblers go AWOLOur christmas was spent, as has become usual, in Georgia, as deep as the American South can get, and the only place where the sheer abundance of feather routinely stirs my latent twitcher.Out go the feeders, five types for different tastes, and in comes the clientele, discerning diners to the last beak. Except this year. I waited a day, then three, then a week. No birds.I went to the wild bird shop, for, this being America, they obviously have shops for everything, where the expert shrugged; suddenly warmer 'falls', he said, have kept the bugs and caterpillars alive in the northern woods. So that's where the birds are. Scoffing themselves.Eventually, Christmas Day dawned clear and nicely cold and in they flew, nearly two months late: shocking red cardinals, yellow warblers, chickadees, three kinds of doves and a brace of mockingbirds (though blue jays, thrashers and red-bellied woodpeckers, regular chums, have yet to appear).I yelled at my native friends, bright, liberal, democrats all: look! This is what we mean by climate change. Eco-upheaval. And you know what? Expert aside, I couldn't find a single American who had either noticed the birds were missing or who could think what it even might have to do with them. Happy New Year.Song in the key of loveSean Lennon, son of John, has gone public with his search for a girlfriend. It's not that he's picky but ... she must be between 18 and 45, have an IQ above 130, be honest and kind and boast no clinical or psychological disorders or 'deformities like third legs or fifth nipples'. Meanwhile, Mr Lennon moans that he is 'completely alone'. Imagine.