The prison population in England and Wales has fallen by around 1,500 as the government's measures to reduce the total number of inmates start to take effect. The move was welcomed by prison reform groups who called for more radical measures to reduce the numbers in custody, which have been running at record levels in recent months.The total prison population yesterday was 79,543, according to the weekly figures released by the prison service. This is a drop of 1,497 compared with a week ago when the figure stood at 81,040.No prisoners were being held in police cells, which is where overflow numbers have been taken because of the overcrowding. It is the first time for two months that police and court cells have not been used to contain the excess numbers.Some prisoners are being released up to 18 days early to ease overcrowding. Ministers have stressed that those leaving prison were already very close to their release date and do not include anyone regarded as a serious threat to the public. The latest drop includes some of those due to be released yesterday anyway.The fall in numbers was greeted as a step in the right direction by prison groups. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "A temporary respite to give the prisons a breathing space is welcome but a much more thoroughgoing piece of work needs to be done." She said the prison population could be halved without threatening the safety of the public."When new ministers are able to put in place court diversion schemes for the mentally ill, proper provision for vulnerable children and women, treatment for addicts and community service for the 50,000 people a year who serve sentences of less than six months, then we will see the prison population drop back to a sensible level," she said.Pressure to reduce prison numbers has come from all areas of the prison service."Take the pressure off us with the population," Paul Kempster, the governor of Bedford prison, told the Guardian during a visit earlier this year. "We could do a lot more if we had better resources ... If I had more resources, I could deliver more offending behaviour work and the evidence is there that it reduces crime and that's what we are about."The official capacity of the prison estate in England and Wales is 81,442, which includes 400 places in police cells.The justice secretary, Jack Straw, said last week that about 1,000 offenders a month, who are serving sentences of four years or less, would be released 18 days early under the scheme. "This will carry on until we do get stability in the prison population," he said. He defended the scheme, saying that those released would be carefully selected by prison governors and those who were serving sentences of longer than 12 months would be under the supervision of a probation officer. Any prisoners who reoffended or broke their conditions of parole would be returned to jail.