The case against Angela Cannings, who is serving a life sentence for killing two of her sons, "beggars belief", the court of appeal in London was told yesterday.The 40-year-old from Salisbury, Wiltshire, was found guilty last year of killing seven-week-old Jason in 1991 and Matthew, who was four months, in 1999. But her counsel, Michael Mansfield QC, said the jury in the original trial had to have come to the "extraordinary conclusion that she was giving birth in order to kill". He said that to suggest that Cannings had kept on having babies during a 10-year period, knowing she might be over come by an urge to kill them once they were born, was beyond belief. He said the verdict made "no sense" in the face of expert evidence indicating that the deaths could have been caused by sudden infant death syndrome, commonly known as cot death. Lord Justice Judge, the deputy chief justice, Mrs Justice Rafferty and Mr Justice Pitchers heard that there had been no evidence suggesting that Cannings was mentally unstable. Witnesses, including family, neighbours, her local priest, doctors and health visitors, had described her as a supportive, loving and caring mother. Cannings' appeal follows a decision earlier this year to overturn the conviction of Sally Clark, a solicitor, for murdering her two young sons, and the acquittal of Trupti Patel, a pharmacist, on charges of murdering her three babies. Professor Sir Roy Meadow, who gave evidence against Cannings, was also a key expert witness for the prosecution in the cases against Mrs Clark and Mrs Patel. During Mrs Clark's trial he said the likelihood of two children in the same family dying of cot death was "73 million to one" - a claim that has since been challenged. The law lords who overturned her conviction said Sir Roy's evidence was "manifestly wrong" and "grossly misleading." Mr Mansfield said Sir Roy's testimony was now in doubt. "Were the trial to take place now it's unlikely the crown would call Prof Meadow, or, if they did, there would be a health warning attached to it," he said. Lord Justice Judge agreed: "The court was extremely critical of a whole series of false steps leading to conclusions of a statistical kind that were misleading." During her trial the crown said Cannings, who is serving her sentence in Bulwood prison in Essex, had killed the two boys by smothering them. Mr Mansfield said the situation has proved particularly difficult for the defence. Unlike other murder cases, it was not sufficient to say, "I did not do it". It had to be shown that no crime at all had been committed. "The problem for the mother was that if you did not do anything and it's not murder, then what is it?" He said the jury had been forced to rely on expert witnesses who had given contradictory evidence. "In this case, how do they make a distinction between one expert who says one thing and another expert who says something completely different?" Mr Mansfield said each boy had suffered an unexplained "acute life-threatening event" a week before his death. The prosecution had claimed that this indicated earlier attempts by Cannings to kill them. But he said the suggestion that she had brought the babies "to the brink - in effect, tortured them - without letting them actually die" did not make sense. The hearing continues.