The UK tax authorities arrested just one of their 20 most wanted tax dodgers in the last year, it has been revealed as the HMRC adds another 10 individuals to the list.Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs last year publicly identified 20 people accused of fleeing while owing hundreds of thousands of pounds – and in many instances millions. It was the first time such a campaign had been undertaken by the agency. The appeal helped provide intelligence on 15 of the alleged offenders, no update on four and one was captured, according to HMRC. Another man was caught but he was not included in the original list of 20. HMRC has renewed its appeals on 19 of the suspects while adding 10 new names wanted in connection with offences including VAT fraud, tax evasion and money laundering. The new people had cost the taxpayer between £120,000 and £10m, HMRC said. The chancellor, George Osborne, said the new list would help bring more "tax fraudsters" to justice but Labour said the most-wanted list had been a "huge failure" with so many suspects yet to be caught. The new list includes Michael George Voudouri, who pleaded guilty at Glasgow high court in relation to money laundering linked to VAT fraud but failed to appear for sentencing. HMRC said the man, aged between 40 and 50, was believed to be residing in northern Cyprus and was estimated to have cost taxpayers £10m. Anish Anand, aged between 25 and 35, is included after failing to appear at Croydon crown court in April 2013 in relation to £6m VAT and film tax credit fraud. Anand was convicted in his absence last month and is thought to be in the UK. Another is Michael "Arthur" Fearon, aged between 18 and 25, who was charged in connection with evasion of excise duty on nearly 8.4m cigarettes, according to HMRC. He is also wanted by the UK Border Agency in connection with money laundering offences and also by Republic of Ireland police for driving offences. The two men caught since the most-wanted list first emerged are John Nugent, 53, and Anthony Judge, aged between 35 and 45. HMRC said Nugent fraudulently reclaimed more than £22m in duty and VAT. The Crown Prosecution Service announced on 31 May that Nugent had been jailed for four and a half years for an £11m fraud. Judge was wanted for his role in arranging financial crimes totaling more than £350,000, HMRC said. He failed to appear at Canterbury crown court in 2003 to answer charges relating to money laundering. He was caught at Heathrow airport on 4 July while travelling on a false passport and had since pleaded guilty, HMRC said. • View photos of the HMRC's 30 most wanted• World map with suspected locations of the UK's tax fugitives