Ian Huntley was charged with rape four years before he was accused of murdering Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, his trial at the Old Bailey heard yesterday. The caretaker was acquitted when CCTV evidence showed that he had been elsewhere at the time of the attack, but the stress caused him to have a nervous breakdown, his ex-girlfriend Maxine Carr told police following the couple's arrest.She said that she lied about being in Soham on August 4 last year, when the schoolgirls went missing, to protect him from suffering again. She had actually been visiting her mother in Grimsby and did not return home until August 6. Interviewed by police on August 17, following the couple's arrest on suspicion of murdering the 10-year-olds, she said the lie had been her idea and had "spiralled". "The reason why I told the police I was at home was because my partner, Ian, he was accused in 1998 of attacking a girl, of raping a girl," she said. She also asked the officer interviewing her whether Holly and Jessica were dead. By coincidence, the schoolgirls' bodies were found later that day. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murder but has admitted one charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr, 26, denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender. The first interview, carried out on the morning of August 17, lasted around half an hour and was read to the court by Karim Khalil, for the prosecution. Ms Carr declined to have a solicitor because "I haven't got anything to hide really, nothing". She said she had decided to lie when Mr Huntley rang her on Monday August 5 to tell her that the girls had gone missing. He was "in absolute tears because he was the last person to have spoken to them". "He said: 'I am going to get fitted up again just like I did before'." She added: "I just wanted to protect him from having all his past being thrown back in his face." Ms Carr explained that he had been accused of rape and that "it went to court, he was put in prison or a bail hostel or whatever, then police came up with a videotape of him in a nightclub at the time it was supposed to have happened, and he had a nervous breakdown". "When I found out he was the last person to speak to [Holly and Jessica] I just did not know what to do." He had told her that the girls had been around to ask after her. "So what I put in the statement, all the things he said to me are true, apart from the fact I wasn't there," she said, adding: "Sorry if I wasted time and all that."  'Spiralled'  But Ms Carr insisted that her partner was innocent, saying: "He just hasn't done anything. He just doesn't do anything like that." She added that he "wouldn't have any of it" when she offered to lie for him. But when a police officer called at their home, she just "gulped" and said: "I was here." "All the things he told me, I told them; the only thing I said was that I was in the bath and I weren't," she said. "I weren't in the house, which is probably a lot really." She added: "It just spiralled." Ms Carr said that Mr Huntley again urged her to tell the truth on the night before their arrests. "He said, 'They're going to arrest us. My dad's been on the phone saying they're digging up the garden, [we're] on the news... If you get arrested, you tell them the truth, Maxine. Tell them you weren't in Soham." Ms Carr then detailed her whereabouts on the weekend that the girls disappeared, explaining that she had gone to Grimsby on the Saturday, and had planned to stay for a week. But after she learned of the girls' disappearance, she told Mr Huntley she wanted to come home. He picked her up the next day. At the end of her interview Ms Carr asked whether the girls were dead. When her interviewer said he did not know, she asked why you would talk about the murder of somebody if they were not dead. The officer replied that he thought it was what police suspected had happened. The court had earlier heard that when arrested at a hotel at around 4.30 that morning she had told the arresting officer: "They're not dead, though. How do you know they are dead?" Mr Huntley was arrested at the same time at his father's home in Littleport. He made no comment beyond indicating that he understood the caution they gave him. At a second interview that day, this time in the presence of a solicitor, Ms Carr described the couple's relationship, explaining that they met at a nightclub in 1999 and moved in together four weeks later. Asked if it was love at first sight she replied: "Dunno, for me, maybe." The rape case had gone to court but the caretaker was acquitted on the strength of the CCTV evidence. Most of his friends had rallied around, but it "bothered" him that he could not see his daughter. "He's been blamed for something he has not done yet people are still hanging it round his neck, like a flipping tombstone and he's got to carry that through his life," Ms Carr said. She went on to describe how Mr Huntley had wanted to join the RAF but had failed the medical because of his asthma. He applied for various jobs and had been keen to get the caretaking job at Soham, although she had not wanted to leave her family. She said the last caretaker was suspended for "messing around" with young girls, adding that parents had threatened to break his legs if he returned to the town. "That's the attitude, which is why I'm not exactly looking forward to going to Soham," she said. She also described her role as a classroom assistant at the girls' primary school and said that Jessica was "really sporty" while Holly was "always bright, always chatty". During a break in the interview Ms Carr's solicitor told her that the girls' bodies had been found near Lakenheath. She told police she knew the area because Mr Huntley's grandmother lived there. The case continues.