Let's all welcome reported reductions in the number of young people carrying knives and in the loss of life and injury caused by their use. The tragic deaths of teenagers have rightly forced knife possession to the top of the crime policy agenda. But it is important to assess the precise impact of particular policy initiatives.The government has published data that links welcome falls in knife crime with increases in stop and search and tougher sentencing. If it is true that 300 more stops and searches than previously are now being carried out each day, it is not surprising that the proportion uncovering weapons has fallen. If reducing the proportions of "successful" searches is a performance indicator, one incentive could be for the police to search more low-risk young people. Such a policy is not without cost, both in police time and to the long-term relations with young people particularly those from black and minority groups who tend to have less confidence in the police.On sentencing, guidelines were toughened up in the summer to reflect what was perceived as an escalation of offences. Courts were required, in the short term at least, to prioritise deterrence and the protection of the public. But does sending more young people to prison for simple possession of a weapon help to achieve what the prime minister says is the main objective, " a change in the attitude and a change in the culture?" Recent prison inspection reports have found serious concerns about safety at Reading Young Offenders Institution, a high level of drugs that encourages intimidation at Wormwood Scrubs and a London gang culture that has filtered through the prison walls at Feltham. At Parc prison in South Wales over 40% of young inmates told inspectors they had been victimised by other prisoners. Exposing more young people on the margins of gang activity to a short spell in prison could put them at greater rather than lesser risk.More positive impacts can be achieved through the kinds of constructive youth activities – mentoring, outreach work, and educational initiatives – that can both offer positive opportunities for disaffected young people and bring home to them the dangers of carrying knives. Investing in community-based programmes to address the twin motivators of fear – young people carry knives to protect themselves – and fashion – it is cool to do so – provides a better long-term solution than relying on cops, courts and corrections. Announcements from both the Home Office and the Department for Children, Schools and Families of funding for these kinds of programmes have hardly been reported, yet these are precisely thee measures that will build on the progress made to date.