Nearly a hundred years ago, in January 1909, two men arriving with the wages for a factory in Tottenham, north London, were robbed by two armed Latvian immigrants, recently arrived in Britain. In the subsequent hue and cry, a policeman and a schoolboy were shot dead. The robbers fled via a commandeered tram before eventually being cornered and taking their own lives. Writing in his memoirs, the then head of Scotland Yard, Fred "Nutty" Sharpe, referred to "Russians in top-boots, leather leggings and fur hats, wild-looking people from the most outlandish parts of that great uncivilised land; a lot were desperadoes and went in for crime straight away".The chief constable of Cambridgeshire, Julie Spence, this week raised the issue of immigration and its effects on policing and crime. Although her words were measured, it did not take long for the usual suspects to start making a major issue of migrants and crime. "The influx of Romanian immigrants has led to an explosion in crime," the Daily Mail informed its readers in a companion piece to Ms Spence's comments. Immigration will be a major issue at the next election and the ground is already being prepared to suggest that it has spawned a vast increase in crime.Ever since that Latvian robbery, there have been regular panics about influxes of foreign criminals. After the top-booted Russians, attention focused on people "of the Jewish persuasion", in the words of another crimewriter of the time, Charles Gordon. They were alleged to be responsible for insurance frauds: houses destroyed by fire, or "Jewish lightning". In the 1930s the spotlight fell on Italians who had moved into the part of London where the Guardian now lives. Edward Greeno of the flying squad reported on them having names "like a mineral water" and carrying hammers in their pockets to intimidate their targets.Once the Italians had been accepted it was the Maltese who were held responsible for what the Daily Mail would surely have seen as an explosion in crime, through their running of bordellos in Soho. Then it was the Chinese, carrying on the tradition of the opium dens in Limehouse in the 1920s by bringing in heroin to Britain in the 60s.Which group was next? Take your pick. Pakistanis were under suspicion for bringing in heroin, West Indians for cannabis and guns, Colombians for cocaine, Nigerians for fraud, Russians for money-laundering, Albanians for sex trafficking.Like tax exiles, mobile criminals have always been and always will be with us. We export our own. Until the legal loophole was changed, we supplied the south coast of Spain with the cream of our criminal classes. Now a sizable bunch of red-white-and-blue villains have established themselves in Thailand, where a combination of easily accessible false documentation, sex and sun forms an irresistible cocktail for anyone whose collar was being felt too often in Britain.Small groups of migrants in every country commit crimes. They tend to do so because the normal paths to money may be inaccessible for reasons of language or prejudice, or because they can thrive briefly while the police can neither speak their language nor infiltrate their networks. Once the crimes have served their purpose, they move into respectable society, send their children to the best schools, and let another new wave of migrants take the heat.The new arrivals who pick your apples, serve your lattes and fix your plumbing are doubtless as irritated as anyone else that a few of their number are cutting corners, and there will be many more stories of migrants fanning crime waves in the next couple of years. Don't panic. Britain may not have much of its old manufacturing base left, but we still produce the vast majority of our own artful dodgers.duncan.campbell@theguardian.com