It was WPC Nina Mackay's job to force open the front door when police were sent to pick up Magdi Elgizouli. She did it all too well and was in the hallway in an instant, confronted by Elgizouli, a paranoid schizophrenic. Minus her body armour, which the 25-year-old officer had taken off, Mackay was unprotected and unprepared. The same could not be said of Elgizouli, who stood waiting with a kitchen knife. He stabbed the officer in the chest. She died in hospital. The tragedy occurred seven years ago in Stratford, east London, but the memory hangs over intense and, at times, fractious discussions between police and mental health professionals about how to deal with the risk to the public posed by a tiny minority of potentially violent people with severe mental health problems. All sides concur that closer co-operation is necessary, but there are signs that the police and the NHS are, philosophically and politically, miles apart on how this might be achieved. The conviction a fortnight ago of John Barratt, 42, for the killing of a retired banker, Denis Finnegan, brought those discussions into renewed focus. Barratt, who has a history of violence and paranoid schizophrenia, stabbed Finnegan to death in a random attack in Richmond Park, south-west London, last September after discharging himself from a mental health secure unit. It was the latest in a series of high-profile killings by mentally ill people. The death of WPC Mackay still looms large in police thinking. They believe the shortcomings of care in the community puts the public and their officers at risk. The recently appointed Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, made it clear in a speech to the Guardian's public services summit last month that he considered the failure of public agencies to tackle a rise in the number of murders by mentally ill people to be "frightening". The discontent extends to rank and file officers. Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, effectively the Met's trade union, says the status quo is untenable. "If things do not improve there will be another tragedy and we will have to say to our members that they should no longer deal with people who are obviously mentally ill and that they should call an ambulance," he says. "We cannot continue to have officers put in these positions." Some mental health professionals believe the police are seeking to shift the blame on to the NHS when incidents occur. Last November - at the inquest into the police shooting of Derek Bennett, a south London man who had been treated for mental health problems - Scotland Yard demanded that the jury consider not just the actions of the firearms officers but also the care Bennett received. "The circumstances that led to this tragic incident did not begin on the day of his death," a spokesman said. Some believe that the police agenda of blaming care in the community failures - what one mental health professional calls finger pointing - is part of a campaign to force mental health trusts to share confidential clinical information about mental health users - particularly those with a history of violence - who are discharged, or discharge themselves, from mental health facilities. The police believe this would improve public safety by helping them prevent potentially dangerous incidents, or deal with them more effectively. Mental health professionals, however, are largely opposed - not just because this would breach patient confidentiality, but because it would stigmatise patients and make mentally ill people less likely to seek help.Mike Harris, executive director of forensic services at Nottinghamshire NHS trust, says that while his trust has a good relationship with the police he is, in principle, opposed to what he says are unhelpful demands by police to hand over information on patients. "There is a fundamental conflict between mental health trusts and the police at this level," he says. "Police get frustrated with us over the breach of confidence issue. People need to know there are laws, guidelines and rules that mean we have a duty of care to protect people." Alan Yates, chief executive of Merseycare NHS trust, agrees that protecting confidentiality is vital. "Potentially, there are very serious mental health implications of handing over all information," he says. "There is a police view that the therapeutic approach is not as important as public protection. The discussions on confidentiality are only really getting going. We have to explain to the police why this is so important." But one senior officer told Society Guardian that by withholding information, health professionals were shifting risk on to others. "The danger passes to the public, to the patient and then to us," the officer says. "We end up having to arrest the person, but you look at the incident afterwards and think, 'Hang on, that was preventable'. I do not think the health professionals realise how much they are going to have to change. We are going to have to think outside the box a little more and look at these things more holistically." Brian Paddick, the Met's deputy assistant commissioner, says he appreciates the difficulties facing agencies with a duty to protect patients and keep records confidential, but adds: "Mental health professionals need to give higher priority to their obligation to maintain public safety. There needs to be a balance struck between the two." Paddick was involved in a pilot scheme that ran in London for six months last year. The London Risk Data Sharing Service involved the Met, mental health services in Camden, Islington and Westminster, the London Probation Area and the London Ambulance Service. It pooled information about people "with severe and enduring mental health problems who pose a risk to themselves or others". The data was kept by an "independent guardian" and could be accessed only by the partners using firm criteria. The pilot has been judged a success and Scotland Yard would like to expand the database throughout London. The initiative has the blessing of the Home Office. But an evaluation of the scheme, conducted by Imperial College London, shows that the idea was actually more successful in principle than in practice. Details of 160 mental health service users were pooled and there were 65 requests for information. Of those, 58% were found to fit the criteria and checks were made. But there were too few names involved in the pilot for it to be effective in the way envisaged. None of the people who were the subject of the requests had their details listed on the database. The procedures did allow mental health professionals to access some of the information held by the police about certain individuals - a facility they found valuable. However, no information was passed in the same manner from their files to the police. In addition, the evaluation found that mental health service users opposed the very concept of information sharing. They had particular concerns about the stigma resulting from "the association made between mental health and violence and the potential for discriminatory practice by police, ambulance crews and others if mental health status is shared". In many cases, people's details were entered on to the database without their knowledge or consent. Peter Horn, of the London Development Centre for Mental Health, which led the project, says it achieved limited objectives by showing the framework is viable and could be expanded. He adds: "There will always be the odd consultant who will say, 'I don't need to share any information with any one.' But there is a consensus that there must be a better way of doing this." However, he cautions those who say information sharing is a cure-all. "Even the most perfect system would not stop everything," he says. "We can improve systems but there are no guarantees." Meanwhile, discussions between the NHS and the police struggle on. One mental health professional describes the fundamental clash of views that is hindering progress - one that posits a belief that mentally ill people should be treated, as far as possible, in the community against one that considers them as potential threats to public safety. "We think integrated, and the rest of the world thinks separate."