Siôn Jenkins, the deputy headteacher who has served six years of the life sentence for the murder of his foster-daughter Billie-Jo, faces a retrial after the appeal court ruled yesterday that new scientific evidence rendered his conviction unsafe.Mr Jenkins's legal team claims the evidence, produced days before the start of the appeal, provides an innocent explanation for microscopic spots of Billie-Jo's blood found on his clothing after the attack. This had been the crux of the case against him. The three appeal judges agreed that had the jury at Lewes crown court in 1998 known of the evidence they might have reached a different conclusion. They quashed Mr Jenkins's conviction but rejected an argument that a retrial would be unfair on him because forensic evidence had been lost and destroyed. Lord Justice Rose, the senior judge, said: "The offence of murder here alleged is of the gravest and in our judgment the public interest requires that a jury should decide the matter on the basis of all the evidence now available." During the judgment Mr Jenkins, 46, showed no emotion. Outside court his solicitor, Neil O'May, said his client was delighted. Mr O'May added: "The court has decided on a retrial in front of a new jury. He knows this is the first step to clear his name and he knows that a jury will deliver the right verdict that he did not kill Billie-Jo." Members of Billie-Jo's natural family noisily walked out of court after the decision was announced but before the hearing had concluded. Supporters of Mr Jenkins, who sat in a different part of the court, expressed satisfaction that the conviction had been quashed but disquiet that he would be put on trial again. They were also frustrated that Mr Jenkins was returned to prison. Detective Chief Superintendent Jeremy Paine of Sussex police, who led the investigation into the death, said the police would begin working towards the retrial. He added: "This has always been a difficult case but there is a case to answer and this court clearly thinks so." Billie-Jo, 13, was battered to death with a metal tent spike on the patio of the Jenkins's family home in Hastings in February 1997. Mr Jenkins was arrested after spots of her blood, invisible to the naked eye, were found on his trousers and jacket. At his trial the prosecution said he had become spattered as he bludgeoned her. The jury rejected Mr Jenkins's contention that the blood came from Billie-Jo breathing out over him while she was dying. New evidence put before the court of appeal suggests a spray of blood could have been expelled from Billie-Jo's nose after a blockage in her upper airways was cleared. In the judgment, Lord Justice Rose said the source of the splatter of blood on Mr Jenkins's clothes was the "fundamental issue". He said "circumstantial and expert opinion evidence" remained that Mr Jenkins became spattered as he struck her bloodied head. But he concluded: "We ask ourselves whether the fresh evidence in relation to blood spatter might reasonably have affected the decision of the jury to convict. In our judgment it might." The judges dismissed a claim that Mr Jenkins was denied the chance to call his daughters, Lottie, then 10, and Annie, 12, as alibi witnesses because defence lawyers were given the false impression by their mother, Lois Jenkins, that the girls had turned hostile towards him. In their judgment they accepted that Mrs Jenkins, 43, had told the truth when she gave evidence at the appeal denying that she had "got at" the girls. Mrs Jenkins, who divorced her husband after Billie-Jo's death, now lives in Australia with their four daughters and a baby son she has had with her new partner. She travelled from Tasmania to give evidence for the crown while her 18-year-old daughter Charlotte - Lottie during the first trial - flew in to give evidence for Mr Jenkins's team. Annie, now 20, refused to attend the appeal because she said she had only just settled in Australia and did not want to interrupt her studies. The judges dismissed another ground of appeal: the claim that the murder could have been committed by a psychotic vagrant who was in the area at the time of the killing. They said there was no evidence that Mr X, as he was called during the appeal, was involved. The new trial will take place at a crown court in south-east England later this year or early next. The question of bail was adjourned.