Teenage girls born in Britain are being trafficked for sexual exploitation within the UK, police said yesterday, adding that children are being "groomed" by men acting as boyfriends who carry out the abuse and then take the youngsters to other towns for further exploitation.Officers fear that as many as 33 girls between the ages of 12 and 15 could have been involved in a case uncovered in Sheffield last year. Only one, a 15-year-old, was willing to give evidence in court, but following that a 23-year-old man was jailed for 10 years for serious sexual offences which included rape of a child. Five other men faced deportation procedures.The victims were living in local authority care or with their families. Officers at the UK Human Trafficking Centre (UKHTC) said they had heard reports of girls as young as 12 being forced to perform sexual acts up to 20 times a night.The Home Office minister Vernon Coaker said it was difficult to establish the scale of the internal trafficking. "It is something that increasingly people are raising and we are trying to get a better understanding of what exactly is taking place. People groom them, get their trust and then betray that trust."Police have adopted terms like "lover boy" to describe the way older men at first act like an indulgent boyfriend, showering the young girls with drugs and gifts including money and jewellery. According to the UKHTC, the girls are encouraged to "go missing" from home and to spend more and more time with their "boyfriends", who eventually start controlling them with threats and violence.At this stage the children will be taken to other locations in the UK, introduced to other groups of men and asked by the boyfriend to give the others sexual favours, because they are his "friends". Terrified and dominated by the boyfriend, they feel unable to refuse. Some victims have described being subjected to extreme violence, including rape, while others have alleged they were used to transport and deal in drugs.The details on internal trafficking emerged as the government revealed the biggest crackdown yet on traffickers bringing people into the UK to work in the sex industry. Latest estimates by police suggest there could be as many 18,000 trafficking victims being forced to work as prostitutes in the UK.About 167 victims, including 13 children aged between 14 and 17, were rescued across Britain and Ireland, and 528 suspected traffickers were arrested during the six months of Operation Pentameter 2, which ended earlier this year. The majority of the victims came from China and south-east Asia, with a smaller number from eastern Europe. Three children were found who had been trafficked for forced labour. More than £500,000 in cash has been recovered from those arrested, and court orders are in place to keep further criminal assets worth more than £3m. So far more than 80 people have been charged with various offences and there have been 24 convictions, although only two people have been found guilty of human trafficking.New measures to tackle the problem of trafficked children being forced into criminal activities, including working in cannabis farms and being brought into Britain to make fraudulent welfare claims, have been added to the government's action plan. Victims of trafficking are also to be granted a 45-day period of grace after their rescue, even if they are in the country illegally. In many cases the victims will get a one-year temporary residency permit. The Home Office had already pledged to ratify a European agreement to give a period of 30 days' grace.Coaker also admitted the authorities were struggling to combat the problem of children disappearing after being rescued from the hands of suspected traffickers. The Guardian revealed this year that more than 400 foreign children, many suspected of being trafficked into the sex or drug trade, had gone missing from local authority care.Some youngsters go to extraordinary lengths to get away from the people trying to protect them, having been duped into believing they were escorted into the country in their best interests, Coaker said. "This is a huge issue, to support them and keep them safe," he said. "Short of locking them up in protective custody, we're struggling. We're looking to see what we can do to keep children safer."Gloucestershire's chief constable, Tim Brain, who coordinated Pentameter 2, said the investigation had revealed a large number of brothels in ordinary suburban flats and houses. Of more than 800 premises visited, nearly 600 were residential, while 157 were massage parlours, saunas and nail bars. "It is likely that in future police investigations will have to consider all kinds of premises," Brain said. The residential locations were "very, very ordinary". He added: "In some of the cases the neighbours who live nearby have not actually suspected any kind of unusual activity." The first phase of Pentameter, in 2006, rescued 88 victims and made 232 arrests. Brain said: "The increase in arrests is good news in terms of police and partner agency effectiveness, but it does mean that we still have an insidious problem in the heart of our society." Coaker said there was no evidence to suggest trafficking to Britain was increasing. Although the number of arrests and victims found in the latest operation had risen, the period of the operation was twice as long.