Radical controls on police powers to stop and search will be introduced in the wake of Sir William Macpherson's inquiry into the death of Stephen Lawrence. Home Office Minister Paul Boateng said the police would be required to give an immediate written record and explanation for their action.  Black people are five times more likely to be stopped and the police use of stop and search powers has become the single biggest cause of distrust of the police within black communities. There were more than a million stops last year of which 166,000 involved blacks and Asians. In an interview with The Observer, Boateng said the duty to provide a written record would 'concentrate the minds of the police'. He went further than the Home Secretary Jack Straw by saying Sir Paul Condon, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner had 'a job of work to do to regain the trust and confidence of the black community'.  But he added that it would serve 'no purpose to have his head served up on a platter'. Lee Jasper, a leading black rights activist, has said he will quit both Straw's race relations forum and Scotland Yard's newly created race and violent crime task force if Condon does not resign. He warned: 'The Commissioner has lost the confidence of the vast majority of Londoners, if not the country Sir Paul's removal is now a prerequisite to ongoing dialogue.' The warning comes as the Crown Prosecution Service is to consider bringing charges against five officers over the death in custody of a 37-year-old black man at Hull police station last year. The development follows the discovery of an 11-minute police video that apparently shows the officers joking while Christopher Alder lies dying on the floor. Yesterday the CPS confirmed it had sought independent medical advice and was preparing a report for Treasury solicitors this week. South Yorkshire police have also prepared a report for the Police Complaints Authority. The five officers, who have not been named, were suspended last April after Alder, a former paratrooper, was arrested after a brawl outside a club. Alder was taken to hospital with superficial injuries, treated and diagnosed, then put into the back of a police van. His sister, Janet, disputes the police's version of events. 'They treated him as if he was an animal. They acted like it was a big joke. Their attitude was that he was a worthless black man and my opinion did not matter.'