The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 14 June 2010We placed the collapsed Northside bridge in Cockermouth, Cumbria, when we should have situated it in Workington, eight miles away. Mourners waiting for the funeral cortege of Chloe Walker, who died in a school coach crash on her 16th birthday last week, were united in sadness and grief along the streets of Frizington today. But they were soon plunged into fear and bewilderment after their village was locked down by police hunting suspected gunman Derrick Bird.Frizington was just one of the villages affected as Bird's killing spree sent a series of communities into a state of terror and panic. Villagers lining the streets waiting for the funeral cortege to pass at 11.30am instead saw police cars speeding past, their sirens blaring. An officer stopped, telling the assembled crowd that people had been shot nearby and they should stay indoors for their own safety, according to villagers."I was with villagers lining the road when we were alerted to something going on by the sheer number of police cars that came screaming through the village," Julian Kirkley told the BBC."The fourth one stopped and said 'There's been shootings in Whitehaven and Seascale and you need to go indoors.'"After the first shots were heard at 10.35am in Duke Street in Whitehaven, armed police were quick to tell locals there and in nearby Egremont to stay indoors until further notice. Gerald Richardson, of Whitehaven, said: "It's absolutely surreal. As soon as people started hearing what was happening word went round and the shops rapidly shut. How do you get your head round it? It's not what you'd expect to happen in a place like this."Then the call came for Seascale residents to get inside. By midday police were warning people from Whitehaven to Ravenglass to stay indoors, and half an hour later the search extended to the Ambleside, Coniston and central lakes areas. Whitehaven school, West Lakes academy, Whitehaven magistrates court and the town's library were among public places closed, according to the Whitehaven News. Supermarkets were closed and petrol forecourts guarded, according to local reports.At 11am Sellafield nuclear plant, close to the village of Seascale, closed its gates. A spokesman said the gates were shut as a precaution. "We are now trying to better understand how people have been affected and get things back to normal in the fastest possible way. There is a palpable sense of shock and we are waiting to find out what happened."One of the most dramatic lockdowns came at the Boot Inn, a pub in the picturesque village of Boot. At 1.30pm police said they believed Bird was in the Boot area in Eskdale Valley. Customers who had been enjoying the sunshine were quickly ushered inside after a call from police, said landlord Sean King."They advised us that a gunman was about and was heading in this direction. They told us to get everyone inside and lock the doors," he said. "People were just bemused at first. It was this beautiful sunny day so it just seemed so surreal."It was only after they heard shots, just after 2pm, and received a call from the police that King, his staff and customers were finally able to go outside.Cumbria has been beset by troubles in recent years. Last November severe floods caused huge financial and emotional damage. Workington was hit hard and in Cockermouth, the Northside bridge was swept away, claiming the life of PC Bill Barker.Some farmers are still feeling the effects of foot and mouth outbreaks in 2001, when millions of animals were slaughtered.King hopes the shootings will not have a long-lasting impact on the area, which draws around 14 million visitors a year. The pub is hosting a beer festival next week, and was expecting families and beer lovers from the local area and beyond."We have no crime, and we can stand proudly against any area in the world. We have mountains, woods – it's beautiful," he said. "That's why it's such a shock. At lunchtime we were surrounded by this idyllic countryside and then suddenly everyone is crammed into a room, fearing."