Picture the scene. It's starting to get dark and you need some money quickly, so you walk down the high street and find a cash machine. There is a beggar sitting just a couple of feet away and he starts haranguing you to spare a few coins. You start to feel a little self-conscious. Then you notice out of the corner of your eye that there is a shifty bloke behind you who seems to be acting a little oddly. Is he trying to look over your shoulder? You wish you had walked on to the deserted machine further down the road but it is too late now. So you hurriedly take your cash, put your card back in your wallet and march away. As you hop on a bus home, you wonder whether that bloke was a crook trying to watch you put in your pin number so he could then pick your pocket or rob you. Well, if he was, he did not strike it lucky tonight. But, unbeknown to you, that cash machine was rigged and you have already been fleeced. The real threat was not the beggar or that shifty individual but something far more innocuous-looking. That ATM had a hi-tech "skimming" device placed over the card slot and a hidden miniature camera, inside a strip of metal fixed unobtrusively to the top of the the machine, watching as you punched in your pin number. While you were keying in your details, the thief was out of sight in a van around the corner, waiting for your card details to be transmitted from the wireless card-reading device to his laptop. By the time you get home, he has produced a cloned copy of your card which he is using to plunder your bank account. This nightmare is a reality for growing numbers of cash machine users. The banking industry yesterday revealed that cash machine fraud leapt 85% to £61m in the year to June, making it the fastest growing form of card fraud. Urging cash machine users to take extra care, the Association for Payment Clearing Services (Apacs), the banking industry payments body, yesterday issued 10 tips to avoid fraud. Its call came as criminals gear up for what are traditionally two of the busiest days in the cash machine calendar - the first Saturday in December and the last Friday before Christmas. A specialist police unit funded by the industry, the Dedicated Cheque and Plastic Crime Unit, has been set up, and Barclays this month said it was the first bank in the UK to begin trials of an anti-skimming device that has virtually eradicated ATM fraud for banks using them on the continent.Police say many of those targeting ATMs in this way are Romanian criminal gangs, who typically buy legally available pinhole cameras and card reader equipment of the sort used in some workplaces for gaining entry, and then adapt them for their own ends.  Carefully made Far from being crude false slots that stand out a mile, these card reader devices are often carefully made to match the colour and materials on a standard ATM. "The organised gangs behind these attacks initially targeted large cities but this type of crime is now occurring across the country," said Apacs. Other more established types of cash machine fraud include "shoulder surfing," where a crook looks over a cash machine user's shoulder as they key in their pin number, then steals the card by distracting the individual - often using a £5 note dropped on the floor - or pickpocketing them. Then there are card-trapping devices in which a plastic loop inserted into the ATM traps and retains the customer's card, such as the "Lebanese loop," so-called because it was allegedly first used by a Lebanese gang. The criminal poses as a helpful bystander and tricks the victim into re-entering their pin, which he memorises. After the card-holder gives up and leaves, the fraudster removes the device, along with the card. Regional figures show that London and the south-east account for the lion's share - £40.5m - of the £61.1m haul. But they also show that Scotland is an increasingly popular hunting ground. There, fraudulent withdrawals jumped 134% to £1.9m in the year to June. Apacs said criminals were aware the new generation of credit and debit cards containing computer chips would hinder their activities by preventing the use of skimmed cards in cash machines, so they were "making extra efforts" to target ATMs while they still could. At the moment, none of the skimming devices can read the data stored on chips. The organisation emphasised that the vast majority of the 75 cash machine withdrawals made every second are fraud-free, and it is still much safer to carry a card than keep wads of cash in a wallet or purse. Its research showed that more than eight in 10 card-holders "feel secure" using cash machines.