Manchester City Council has applied extensively for Asbos since their inception and continues to do so with the support of most people in the city (Teenagers see Asbos as badge of honour, November 2). Some teenagers do indeed boast of having received them, as a sign of defiance against authority. This is hardly surprising as most bullies would behave in this way, and Asbo recipients are usually bullies. Nevertheless, bullies need to be forced by society to stop their bullying. A person with an Asbo can display all the bravado they want, but they will be punished if they are convicted of breaching its terms.The use of Asbos has been successful in moderating unacceptable behaviour and keeping youngsters out of further trouble in at least half of cases. In Manchester, when possible, youngsters who face an Asbo if their behaviour continues unchecked are summoned together with their parent or parents to attend a pre-Asbo warning. Generally, the teenagers heed the warning and change their behaviour, often with greater parental involvement. In this way, we help youngsters draw back from antisocial behaviour that could turn into criminality. However, such warnings are only effective because all concerned know that Manchester city council will indeed apply for an Asbo if the antisocial behaviour continues.The study to which you refer suggests that Asbos are used disproportionately against ethnic-minority groups. In Manchester, by contrast, about one in 10 of Asbos include conditions banning racist abuse, threats or harassment. In this way Asbos can be used to combat racism and promote community cohesion.  Councillor Eddy Newman  Manchester city councilThe new report by the Youth Justice Board exposes some of the problems with Asbos, many of which end up breached. It is a scandal that this government refuses to disclose the percentage of Asbos that are at present breached nationally. We are still working with the figure of 42% for 2003. A recent exposé by the magazine Regeneration and Renewal suggests that the breach rate is much higher - in some areas at 60-70%.When the Home Office minister Alun Michael introduced Asbos he said they would only be used against young people "in exceptional circumstances". Half of the Asbos breached lead to a custodial sentence. Prisons are an expensive way of dealing with antisocial behaviour, do not address the causes and offer little in the way of rehabilitation.Strong public support has been shown for alternative, more positive methods of tackling antisocial behaviour. The Joseph Rowntree Trust found that two-thirds of people preferred preventive to punitive approaches.The use of Asbos remains a geographical lottery. Manchester and Camden councils dish them out (although Camden is reviewing this), whereas other councils using them more sparingly. Almost no evidence of their effectiveness is available. We demand a full independent public review of the use of Asbos nationally.  Matt Foot  Co-ordinator, Asbo Concern  Harry Fletcher  Assistant general secretary, Napo  Deborah Coles  Co-director, Inquest  Ruth Cartwright  British Association of Social Workers  Vivienne Streeter  Director of family services, British Institute of Brain Injured ChildrenThe new report highlights that more than 20% of young people given an Asbo were black or Asian. However, despite the alarming disproportionality of these numbers, the Home Office does not record the ethnic background of all recipients of Asbos - both children and adults. Shockingly no mechanisms, such as those in other parts of the criminal-justice system, have been set up to assess whether there is institutional racism in the serving of Asbos. This is indefensible, especially in light of the overrepresentation of young people mentioned by the Youth Justice Board.The Home Office and local authorities are failing in their legal duty to demonstrate that they don't discriminate against black and minority ethnic communities when applying for and serving Asbos - an issue that must be redressed by government with urgency.  Michelynn Laflèche  Director, Runnymede TrustThere is no doubt that Asbos have helped to reassure communities. But the ultimate prospect of custody is not the best way to deal with antisocial behaviour. NCH's intensive family support service looks at the underlying cause of such behaviour and works with the entire family to bring about change. This type of approach will successfully deal with so-called "teenage tearaways" and truly help them, their families, their neighbours and the exchequer.  Clare Tickell  Chief executive, NCH Polly Toynbee is absolutely right (Our nation of obsessive teen-haters must wake from its complacency, November 3). The latest doom-and-gloom headlines portray young people as the problem. Once again we demonise them, saturate the media with negative images and devalue their real concerns and fears, as well as being fearful of them.Digging deeper, the IPPR recently concluded that the lack of adult interaction has left teenagers increasingly vulnerable to failure. This provides the basis of a more substantial debate on adolescence. Much work has already been done in this area. The education and inspections bill contains a statutory basis for youth work and "positive activities" to fulfil the government's promise to youth of "places to go, things to do - and someone to talk to". It now simply needs funding. That's where we would like to see the politicians focus their energies, rather than jumping on the bandwagon. Plenty of the old truths work if you are willing to invest effort and resources to work with young people.  Tom Wylie  Chief executive, The National Youth Agency