Cruising at around 80mph on his way home from a bikers' festival, Hells Angel Gerry Tobin may not have noticed a green Rover draw alongside him in the outside lane of the M40.As the car pulled level, two shots were fired from different weapons. Tobin was hit just below his helmet and his customised Harley Davidson spun on for 200 yards before it came to a halt.Sean Creighton, the man whose finger was on the trigger of one of the guns, who claimed to be the "sergeant-at-arms" of the south Warwickshire chapter of the Outlaws, the main rivals to the Hells Angels.Creighton had plans for the Outlaws, who had long operated in the shadow of the Angels, to make their mark that August weekend. For the previous three days he and some fellow members had been carrying out a reconnaissance mission on the network of roads around the Bulldog Bash festival and from 5am that Sunday morning he had ordered his fellow members into action.Police believe the shooting was probably part of the long-running feud between the two motorcycle gangs and must have been sanctioned at a high level by the Outlaws.Detective Superintendent Ken Lawrence said: "They are taking a big risk which will have an impact on the whole organisation, so it would be illogical to think that a chapter would do that acting alone." He said the chapter could either have suggested the hit themselves or could have been tasked to do it by a different part of the organization.Creighton directed the operation as the crowd of around 30,000 left the festival, which had featured performances by Status Quo and The Damned, as well as topless bike-washes and target shooting.Creighton and two other men, Dane Garside and Simon Turner, parked the Rover in a layby on the A46 and waited for someone wearing the distinctive Hells Angels death's-head insignia to come past. Three others in the chapter — Dane's brother Karl Garside, Ian Cameron and Dean Taylor — were in a Range Rover further up the motorway.A seventh member of the chapter, Malcolm Bull, was in a third car, apparently acting as a link between the two other groups. Creighton had decided that a Hells Angel - any Hells Angel - would die that day.The Angels had been coming to the Bulldog Bash for 20 years, while the Outlaws had their own event, the Rock and Blues Custom Show, held the previous month in south Derbyshire. In the territorial world of motorcycle clubs, one club entering another's area can be a source of conflict, but according to other bikers the Angels had long had tacit permission to attend the Bash and would not have had any notion of what awaited one of their members that day. The Angels and the Outlaws first clashed in the 1960s, when three Angels were murdered in the US. It is estimated that there are 250 Angels in the UK and slightly fewer Outlaws.Motorcycle clubs famously do not cooperate with police, whether they are the victims or the perpetrators of a murder, although it was clear that the Hells Angels knew which club was responsible. Detectives thought they were in for a protracted investigation. But while the hit was professional, both the planning and the cover-up were amateurish.The police knew that they could well be looking for a burned-out Rover and when one was almost immediately reported to them locally, they set about investigating its pedigree. The name of the registered owner proved to be fictitious but its previous owner was Creighton. The Outlaws had left other clues: Creighton and Dane Garside were seen on CCTV at a nearby petrol station wrapped in hats and warm clothes on a hot summer's day and, when a search of the chapter's unofficial club house in Coventry yielded two shotguns in a bag with Turner's fingerprints on it, the trail got hotter still. The detectives also had two unexpected breaks: Bull spoke to them, thus breaking one of the club's rules and Creighton, faced with heavy evidence against him, decided to plead guilty. Bull was separated from the other defendants in the dock and is in a different prison, now at risk not only from Hells Angels but also from other Outlaws. The police speedily arrested all the members of the chapter.Apart from Creighton, the Outlaws claimed that had been unaware that a shooting was planned, saying they thought were just carrying out a surveillance operation aimed at the Thames Valley Coalition, a loose grouping of bikers aspiring to become Hells Angels. Both Turner and Dane Garside claimed to have been unimpressed by the surveillance idea but, as loyal chapter members, had to do what they were told."I was following orders," said Garside in his evidence. Discipline was strict. He had already been "busted back to probate" just for not answering a telephone call. He claimed in the trial that he thought as he pulled alongside that Creighton was just going to shout abuse at Tobin.There was a big show of Outlaw strength on the opening day of the trial. Armed police, weapons at the ready, guarded the court. Prosecuting counsel Timothy Raggatt QC told the jury of six men and six women: "this wasn't a case of a man being killed for any personal motive or any personal reason. This was a man who was targeted not because of who he was, but because of what he was. In one sense, Gerry Tobin was a random victim."What emerged during the trial is that relations within the south Warwickshire chapter were bad. Turner attacked Bull from the witness box, accusing him of breaking rule 14 of the club code - talking about the club to the police. He himself was unable to explain how the plastic bags in which two shotguns were found at his workplace had his fingerprints on them. When Raggatt asked if the fingerprints were an unhappy coincidence, he replied: "My whole life seems to be an unhappy coincidence."Giving evidence, Dane Garside refused to identify those involved on the day apart from Creighton. "I've got to put my family first," he told the judge, Mr Justice Treacy, when reminded of his oath to tell the whole truth. "I was in bits," he said of his reaction to the shooting. "I didn't expect anything like that to happen."The police do not anticipate a major biker war in the UK but it is unlikely that Tobin will go unavenged. On a memorial website in his name, one entry reads: "God may forgive — Bikers don't."