A teenage girl and three men were today convicted of killing the bar manager David Morley during a "happy slapping" spree of "random, indiscriminate and terrifying" violence.A jury at the Old Bailey, in London, found the four guilty of manslaughter, not guilty of murder. The 15-year-old girl - who cannot be named for legal reasons - Darren Case, 18, Reece Sargeant, 21, and a 17-year-old man were also convicted of conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm.Two others - Barry Lee, 20, and another 17-year-old - were cleared of all charges.The gang, all from Kennington, south London, stood impassively as the verdicts were returned. They will be sentenced on January 23.After the verdicts were announced, Mr Morley's father, Jeff, said: "No sentence will bring our son back to life, but at least the rest of society will be safer while these dangerous misfits are kept off the street."Mr Morley, 37, had survived the Soho nail bomb in April 1999, but fell victim to the gang, who beat him to death in a "Clockwork Orange" style attack on London's South Bank in the early hours of October 30 last year.The teenage girl, who was 14 at the time of the attack, allegedly filmed part of the beating on her mobile phone.Prosecutor Richard Horwell told jurors the gang were "seeking violence for its own sake". He said the teenage girl had kicked Mr Morley's head like a football as he lay on the ground.Mr Morley bled to death in St Thomas' hospital 17 hours after being beaten, kicked, punched and stamped on during the attack, the court heard.The pathologist's report said Mr Morley's injuries would be more commonly seen in the aftermath of a road traffic accident or a fall from a great height.Mr Morley's friend, Alastair Whiteside, said he had watched helplessly as his friend was beaten to death a few feet away.He said that, as they sat on a bench, "I was aware of a group coming along. They gave a brief acknowledgement. There were about five. I did not really look at them. "The next thing I knew I was either being kicked or punched very hard in the side of the face."Mr Whiteside saw Mr Morley sitting against hoardings near the bench when the girl ran up and "kicked his head like a football".The gang went on to attack a number of other people that night, and had attacked eight others in five separate incidents within an hour, Mr Horwell said. All the attacks took place along the South Bank, around Waterloo and Hungerford Bridge."It was random, indiscriminate violence for what can only have been pleasure," Mr Horwell told the jury. "The violence was sometimes accompanied by robbery - but the desire to rob was always secondary to the desire to inflict harm."The gang's final victim, Wayne Miller, described the attack as sudden and terrifying. "When it was finished, he heard whooping noises and celebratory cheers - perhaps to mark the end of that night's entertainment," said Mr Horwell. Gang members wore similar clothing and used code words to launch their attacks. A 15-year-old girl who had been friendly with the gang told police one member would say: "You know what time it is" and would then lead the attack.DCI Nick Scola, who led the investigation, said: "When the Admiral Duncan pub in Soho was bombed in 1999, David Morley helped others despite his own injuries."He came to symbolise what is good in human nature and how adversity can unite and strengthen communities. For him to lose his life in such a cowardly and pointless attack was a tragedy in every sense of the word."Mr Scola said the attacks had been carried out so they could be filmed on mobile phones and replayed for the attackers' pleasure, "without thought or regard for the injuries and consequences for their victims".Mr Horwell described it as "a case which is as depressing as it is alarming". He said: "The violence took the form of beatings, kicks and stamping. Weapons were not carried and were hardly necessary when you had such an advantage in numbers." All six defendants had denied murdering Mr Morley, of Chiswick, west London. They also denied conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm and conspiracy to rob. All were cleared of the charge of conspiracy to rob.