Sir Paul Condon, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, last night exposed the reluctance within the police to embrace one of the reforms to confront racism in Britain proposed in the aftermath of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry when he voiced reservations about government plans to extend the Race Relations Act to the police. Sir Paul told MPs that it was "a finely balanced question" whether those public services, such as the police and the prisons, that were in "potential confrontation with the public" should be covered by such anti-discrimination legislation. Britain's most senior police officer went on to strongly criticise two other key recommendations of the Lawrence inquiry, describing the proposal to make racist behaviour in private as unworkable and plans to scrap the "double jeopardy" rule as a breach of freedom of speech. His unease over some key aspects of the Lawrence inquiry report came as MPs disclosed that the Home Secretary's own adviser on race relations has been stopped and searched by the police on no fewer than 44 occasions in the 17 years he has had the job. The Home Office said Trevor Hall, a senior official who has advised successive home secretaries on race relations, regarded some of the stops made during the anti-terrorist checks in the City of London as legitimate. Sir Paul made clear that deciding whether to bring the police within anti-discrimination legislation was a matter for MPs, but said that while such an extension of the 1976 Race Relations Act would improve police accountability it could lead to a "fear of litigation impeding the effectiveness of those services". Police have voiced concerns that officers could face time-consuming and costly litigation which would undermine the fight against crime and make some officers more reluctant to challenge black and Asian criminal suspects in the street. Sir Paul said he would not resist a decision by Parliament to introduce such legislation which would give the power for individual police officers to be sued for discrimination but he "would point out some of the consequences" of implementing such legislation. The police have been exempt from the provisions of the Race Relations Act since 1968, when James Callaghan argued in Cabinet that their inclusion would be a slur on their obligation to "serve the Queen in the office of constable without favour". But the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, has made clear that he regards the extension of the race relations legislation across the public sector as one of the major new weapons to tackle racism. He told MPs two weeks ago that it would mean "the law will back those who have been the subject of discrimination". In the face of suggestions from Tory MPs yesterday that such new powers could leave officers facing legal claims of discrimination from those they arrest, Sir Paul pointed to a 1997 Court of Appeal ruling that explored all the "public policy issues" involved and demonstrated that the arguments were finely balanced. Sir Paul, in evidence to the Commons home affairs select committee, confirmed that some London police officers were still angry over the publication of Sir William Macpherson's inquiry report into the bungled murder investigation into the death of the black teenager. Some commentators had used the accusation of racism selectively, he said, adding that "the inquiry found that there was not deliberate racism in this case". There was a huge determination within the Met to move forward and restore the confidence of the minority ethnic communities in the police. While the force would press ahead with a large programme of reform to tackle racism, Sir Paul made clear that he regarded Sir William's recommendation that racist behaviour in private should become a crime as unworkable and a breach of the European Convention on Human Rights article on freedom of speech. He also voiced concerns about the proposal to scrap the "double jeopardy" principle to allow defendants to be tried a second time should fresh evidence become available. Last night one member of the Macpherson inquiry team warned that dropping any of its recommendations would weaken its efforts to lay the foundations for a new era in race relations. Dr Richard Stone said: "I would like to feel that all of our recommendations are accepted because if any of them are rejected by the Government, I think that weakens the whole report." 