A proposed BBC drama about Shannon Matthews, the nine-year old girl from Dewsbury in West Yorkshire who endured a hoax kidnapping organised by her own mother, has met with concern among her former neighbours and been described as "inappropriate" by a local MP.During her 24-day disappearance in 2008, Dewsbury's Moorside estate came under intense media scrutiny, being branded "Beirut" by the Sun and compared to the Channel 4 show Shameless.Dredging up the ordeal would be painful for the community, according to Rev Canon Kevin Partington of Dewsbury Minster. "I can't see the point of it – the whole community has moved on," he said. "It seems a bit gory in the extreme raking up events which are now history. I feel sorry that the media spotlight is again going to be put on Dewsbury Moor for the wrong reasons."Kathy Robertson, the vicar at St John the Evangelist in Dewsbury, said she worried for Shannon herself, who was given a new identity and family after her mother's convictions for kidnapping, false imprisonment and perverting the course of justice. "Shannon may not live in Dewsbury any more, but the BBC is a far-reaching broadcaster," she said.Simon Reevell, the Conservative MP for Dewsbury, criticised the BBC for its decision to develop the drama, which may star award-winning actor Sheridan Smith.He questioned whether it was a good use of the public broadcaster's money: I don't think it is a very good topic or use of BBC money. I don't see how it is helpful for the victim to have this dragged across the screen for entertainment."Describing the idea as "inappropriate", Reevell said that if the drama was to be made but failed to portray how positively residents responded to it, then it would be not only "incorrect but outrageous."Writer Jeff Pope, who has previously worked on docu-dramas about the Great Train Robbery and the Moors murders, revealed on Friday at the Guardian Edinburgh International Television Festival that he was in talks with the BBC to make the programme. On the Moorside estate on Tuesday, six-years after the story that grabbed headlines, locals remain bitter about the way their community was portrayed."People got a bad impression of Dewsbury; they'd see people being interviewed in their pyjamas. That road [where Shannon Matthews lived] got a name – pyjama street," said a decorator, who asked not to be named.Once, he was used to people not being able to place his home but it was a different story after the event. "I used to work away and when I said I was from Dewsbury, they'd say 'that's where Shannon Matthews was from wasn't it?" Now, no one wants to say they're from Dewsbury Moor, he explained, although he is keen to stress that there are far worse estates in the country. "It's rough but it's just an estate."Terrence Sykes, 55, said his house was one of those searched during Shannon's disappearance. He voices the anger and betrayal felt by the community that after days of searching for the girl, West Yorkshire police discovered her hiding under a bed with her mother's boyfriend's uncle, Michael Donovan, in a flat a mile and a half away from her home . "She [Karen Matthews] wasn't worried about her daughter was she? She was only worried about the money."Phil Skelton, 47, who works in the ambulance service, wanted to know if the drama would be filmed on location. Would residents be happier if it was? "Ooh," he said with a slight shake of his head, "it might rake some stuff up."