Police in Manchester were last night hunting a man charged with a series of attempted murders and gun offences who was released from jail by mistake.One of Greater Manchester police's most senior officers warned that Bobby Phipps, 22, from south Manchester, was dangerous and appealed to the public for help in tracking him down. The force has issued a picture of Phipps and has moved to protect witnesses and victims who may be in danger. Officers have appealed to Phipps to give himself up. He was remanded in custody by magistrates last Friday but was freed from Manchester prison, formerly known as Strangeways, on Monday. Police did not learn of his release until Thursday, the day before he was due to appear at Manchester crown court. The mix-up is thought to have occurred because Phipps was already serving a sentence, and was due to be released. It appears the prison was not aware that he was on remand on other offences. He did not turn up for a court appearance yesterday. Phipps has been charged with six offences of attempted murder, two of possessing firearms with intent to endanger life and two of possessing a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence. Greater Manchester police would give no further details of the offences for fear of prejudicing trials to come. They had consulted the Crown Prosecution Service before issuing the warning. The level of embarrassment faced by the force was indicated by the fact that the appeal for help from the public was made by Assistant Chief Constable Dave Whatton. "Bobby Phipps was released from HMP Manchester on Monday in error," he said. "The offences with which he has been charged involve the use of guns and I am very concerned that he presents a danger to the public. Steps are being taken to safeguard witnesses and victims connected to the offences. "Since we became aware of his release yesterday we have been making inquiries to establish his whereabouts. "He failed to appear at court this morning and we are obviously extremely concerned that he is back in the community so I have taken the decision to issue details of his release and a picture of him to ask the public for their help in locating him. "I would like to reassure people that we are doing everything we can to find him." Mr Whatton added: "I appreciate that there will be concerns about his release, and the Prison Service is conducting inquiries to establish how this has happened. "Because of the serious nature of the offences with which he has been charged I do believe him to be a danger to the public so I would urge anyone who sees him or knows his whereabouts not to approach him but to contact us immediately. "I would also urge Bobby Phipps to hand himself into the police." The Prison Service said an investigation had been launched to find out how Phipps was released and why the police were not told until Thursday. A spokeswoman said: "We can confirm that Robert Phipps was released in error from HMP Manchester on November 15." Police said anyone with information about Phipps should contact officers at Greenheys police station on 0161-856 4442 or could call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.