Doreen Lawrence has faced numerous questions over the ten years since the racist murder of her son, Stephen, on April 22 1993. But she still has difficulty answering one question: could his killers again walk free because of an investigation bungled through police racism?After a long pause she answers: "You can't rule it out, but I would not like to think that is the case." The question is an acid test of where the nation's race relations stand a decade after Stephen's murder, and after a public inquiry which promised change. Mrs Lawrence says Sir William Macpherson's report validated what black and Asian people had been saying for years: "It was a lesson for us all, the black community already knew it, a lesson that government and middle England needed to learn, that we have a two-tier society, with one rule for whites and another for the black community." The progress of the police, found to be institutionally racist, has been mixed, says Mrs Lawrence, because of entrenched views in the ranks: "Senior officers' attitudes seem to have changed, but those on the ground still have a lot to learn." The government insists it is as committed as ever to stamping out racism, but Mrs Lawrence believes race has dropped off its agenda. One senior police officer told the Guardian: "We can feel the pressure [from the Home Office] is off." Lord Ouseley, the former chairman of the commission for racial equality, agrees: "The momentum there four years ago isn't there now. It lasted until the last election. Race does not have the high priority it had." He says government is important not just because it can pass laws, but because of the lead it can give and pressure it can bring to bear. He fears that may now be absent. Lord Ouseley has advised the Met on its race policies and says the police have made "enormous strides". He cites the work forces did protecting British Muslims in the post September 11 backlash. Race hate crime is taken more seriously, but one issue is cited as evidence of things getting worse. Stop and search remains a litmus test - nationally black people are eight times more likely to be stopped and searched, a disproportion that has grown since Macpherson. The inquiry found ethnic minorities feeling underprotected as victims, and overpoliced as suspects. That feeling is still there, says Ben Bowling, professor of criminology at King's College, London: Professor Bowling says the loss of momentum is due to the government being unable to press anti-racist reforms, while also wanting the police to crack down on headline grabbing offences, such as street crime: "Some senior police officers' desire to be fair is overidden in the push to enforcement, in street crime, knives, guns and youth delinquency, which comes from government." He also says black and Asian communities are still criminalised by the police: "Since Macpherson, police have shifted the agenda to black criminality. The post- Lawrence focus on fairness, equality and justice has been overridden by a panic about black crime, as a justification of discriminatory powers." Old ways Outside the capital, police have also been accused of sticking to old ways. West Mercia police botched their investigation into the deaths of two black men, from the same family, found hanged. One of them, Errol McGowan, repeatedly begged officers in Telford, Shropshire, for protection from a racist gang that was threatening his life, and was ignored. Other government agencies have also had their disasters. The prison service put an Asian teenager in a cell with a known racist who wrote letters fantasising about committing a racist murder. The mistake cost Zahid Mubarek his life. Continuing vehement racism is shown by the once electorally neutered extreme right British National party winning five council seats. It is predicted to get more in the upcoming local elections. Among ethnic minorities, continued disaffection was shown in 2001 when Asian communities in three northern towns were involved in riots, posting at least a question mark against the assumption that things had improved. David Muir, chairman of the steering group overseeing the implementation of Macpherson's recommendations, says the change is more concrete than just in words and climate. Mr Muir says substantial achievements include the Race Relations Amendment Act, giving public bodies a duty not to act in a discriminatory way; reforms to stop and search; and the increase in ethnic minority police officers. But still black officers are likely to leave the force with horror stories of their experiences. Mr Muir says the police canteen culture no longer exists, and warns that institutional racism needs time to be defeated: "It will always be a problem until there is cultural change. The ingredients for cultural change are there." Commander Cressida Dick, who heads the Met's diversity directorate, said after the initial burst of activity it is natural the pace would slow: "We went through revolutionary times, and now we are in evolutionary times. A lot of the things that needed to be tackled and fixed quickly required a huge amount of instant energy. "There is still a great deal of racist hate crime within communities. But I believe it has become more socially unacceptable to behave in a racist way." The government and police say improvements will take time, but the reforms are on stream and more benefits will be seen. This analysis is disputed by Suresh Grover, of the Monitoring Group which helps victims of racial harassment. "Emergency calls to us number 5,000 a year, up 100% in the last year," he said. Mr Grover dismisses the paper promises and points to the reality on the ground: "We are in a worse position now than we were pre-Macpherson. There is a massive increase in race and religious based attacks; there is a war on asylum seekers by the media, politicians and by violent thugs; black communities are underdeveloped, suffering more deprivation, poverty and marginalisation." Since the Macpherson report, the landscape of race has changed. The vehement and hostile debate on asylum seekers affected race relations, say observers, and the needs of refugees settling from eastern Europe will need to be addressed. In another change Britain's 1.6m Muslims increasingly identify themselves by faith rather than ethnicity, and attacks after September 11 heightened their sense of fear. Makbool Javaid, of the Muslim Lawyers Committee, says there was next to no legislation in the last decade to tackle Muslims' problems, which needed an equivalent of the Macpherson report: "Muslims are seen as fifth columnists, the terrorism and immigration legislation has created a lot of anxiety." A decade ago the notion that police could be incompetent and prejudiced in a murder investigation would be derided. Now the debate has moved to tackling that prejudice. Mrs Lawrence whose family's loss and fight brought racial justice to the forefront of national attention, says more will need to be done: "The awareness is there, but the lesson has not been completed."