Detectives investigating the attack on Abigail Witchalls, the young mother left paralysed after she was stabbed in the neck, were today waiting for the go-ahead to show her a photograph of a suspect who was found dead after taking an overdose of painkillers.Officers are keen to show her the image of Richard Cazaly, who disappeared five days after the stabbing in a Surrey lane which left Mrs Witchalls partially paralysed, but cannot do so until they are given permission by doctors and her family.Police last night confirmed that knives were discovered in Mr Cazaly's car, which was found on a forest track in the Scottish highlands. Tests are being carried out on them but will take several weeks.It also emerged that two Surrey officers have flown to Australia to interview the former girlfriend of Mr Cazaly, a 23-year-old pub worker and gardener. She left the UK at about the same time as he vanished, possibly after the couple split up.Mrs Witchalls, 26, was attacked on the afternoon of April 20 as she pushed her 21-month-old son Joseph in a buggy along Water Lane in Little Bookham after attending a mothers and toddlers group.The police yesterday denied they had missed clues which would have brought Mr Cazaly to the forefront of their attention sooner. He was spoken to twice by officers before he left Surrey and the description Mrs Witchalls gave of her attacker matched him in some respects, though he only became an important suspect after his death.The family of Mrs Witchalls, who was pregnant at the time of the attack in the village of Little Bookham, were yesterday helping with the filming of a reconstruction for the BBC's Crimewatch pro gramme to be screened next week. Surrey police emphasised that the death of Mr Cazaly was just one line of inquiry, albeit an important one.Mrs Witchalls first saw her attacker at the wheel of a blue car. She hurried towards the house she shares with her husband, Benoit, but the attacker followed her and after holding the knife to Joseph's throat, ordered her to walk towards him and stabbed her in the neck.A huge manhunt was launched. So far three people have been arrested. Two have been eliminated and a 25-year-old Surrey man was arrested and freed pending further inquiries.In the days after the attack Mr Cazaly was spoken to by police twice, once during a routine inquiry when officers visited the house on Water Lane he shared with fellow employees of a local plant nursery and a second time at a road block. Though he drove a blue car, a Volvo 440, he was not considered a suspect.Five days after the attack, on April 25, Mr Cazaly left, telling his employers that he had found another job. Such a sudden move did not particularly alarm friends. He frequently moved around the country, getting jobs where he could in pubs, restaurants and garden centres.At about the same time his 25-year-old girlfriend flew back to Australia, apparently after the couple broke up - to the dismay of Mr Cazaly.On the same day as Mr Cazaly's sudden departure, police finally talked to Mrs Witchalls. Communicating with blinks, she gave them an account of her ordeal and a description of her attacker. Soon after, a member of the public rang the police to tell them they ought to take a look at Mr Cazaly and he was added to a list of 40 people police were interested in.Mr Cazaly was born in Bedford but his life was split between Fleet in Hampshire, where his family have a house, and Australia, where his father, David, worked as a systems analyst.Some neighbours in Fleet claimed that Mr Cazaly, who had an older sister, had been a nervous and sensitive young man, though he was not seen as a trouble-maker. After school he flitted from job to job and travelled across Australia and the UK with friends.His manner and appearance did not endear him to everyone - at the Isles Inn in Portree on Skye, where he worked for six months in 2003, staff claimed he was "frightening". One of his bosses, assistant manager Kim Miller said: "I was petrified of him. He just had a bad and frightening look about him. I would describe him as 'crusty' - a well worn traveller type and scruffy. He had a big hole in his ear with a piece of metal in it."Police briefly looked into Mr Cazaly's life but moved on having found that he had no criminal convictions and, though he is believed to have drunk quite heavily, had no known history of drug abuse.Nor did he completely match Mrs Witchalls' description. She said her attacker was clean shaven with scruffy hair while Mr Cazaly had a goatee beard and short hair. Mrs Witchalls also said the attacker had two looped silver earrings -quite different to Mr Cazaly's very distinctive piercing.After leaving Little Bookham, Mr Cazaly drove to Scotland, possibly heading for Skye. On the night of April 27 he stopped his Volvo on a forest track in the Wester Ross area and took an overdose of paracetamol.In the early hours he dialled 999 to say he had tried to commit suicide. An am bulance crew found him lying outside his vehicle. Inside the car were a number of knives, a note - the contents of which are not known - and, according to one report, a balaclava.Mr Cazaly was taken to the Raigmore Hospital in Inverness but was transferred to the Edinburgh Royal, where he died on April 30. At first he gave a false name but as his condition worsened he gave nurses his real details.Lothian and Borders police asked their Surrey colleagues to inform his next of kin of his death. It was only then that the police investigating the attack in Little Bookham found out that one of the men on their list of 40 had killed himself. He immediately became an important suspect.Back at the Cazaly home in Fleet, neighbours were told that Mr Cazaly commit ted suicide because he was upset about breaking up with his girlfriend.Neighbour Sinsillia Rutherford said: "I was told that the girlfriend was going back to Australia and he was upset that she was going back when he committed suicide."Police have examined his blue Volvo and his DNA will be compared with traces found at the scene of the attack.They did not go public with the development and since the start of the month have worked quietly on it but it emerged when a Surrey newspaper discovered the link between the suicide in the Highlands and the attack on Mrs Witchalls.Police must now remain patient until Mrs Witchalls is in a suitable condition to view the photograph of Mr Cazaly.