Women prisoners are still being forced to "slop out", a practice that officially no longer exists in prisons in England and Wales, according to a report published today.The report on Bulwood Hall in Essex expresses concerns about the sanitation. Cells in Bulwood Hall have no internal toilets. This means that at night women are automatically unlocked if they wish to use the toilet. Security procedures dictate that they are unlocked one at a time. In practice long delays are inevitable and some inmates, including juveniles and pregnant women, are reduced to using "potties". In the days of slopping out, sluices were installed in landing recesses, enabling inmates to deposit their waste. No such facility exists in the Essex jail. The women often empty the contents of their pots out of their cell windows. Anne Owers, chief inspector of prisons, said: "It is completely unacceptable for women and girls, some of them pregnant, to be slopping out, in what is listed as one of the prison services' highest-performing prisons." She went on to say that, on her last inspection, she recommended that in-cell sanitation should be installed at Bulwood Hall. She added: "This should now be done as a matter of urgency." The installation of in-cell sanitation was one of the main recommendations of the Woolf report, published in 1991, after the Strangeways prison riots. Slopping out was ended nationwide by the close of the decade. The remaining few exceptions to this are found only in a small number of segregation units. The report also highlights concern over the arrangements in the jail for the care of juveniles. There were 20 young girls in the prison at the time of inspection, six of whom were pregnant. Some of them were described as "very vulnerable" by the inspectors. Child protection procedures at the jail were described as "inadequate". But Phil Wheatley, the director general of the Prison Service, praised the jail's performance despite its problems: "I am pleased the chief inspector recognises that Bulwood Hall, one of our high-performing prisons, is safe and decent, despite staffing and accommodation problems." Juliet Lyons, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "It will come as a shock to people that, in a modern prison service, young vulnerable girls, some of whom are pregnant, are still required to slop out, a practice which contravenes article three [inhumane and degrading treatment] of the Human Rights Act."