"When we walked up the hill from the waterfront to the town, the Wogs and Arabs and Moors ran after us crying 'Ya, Mister Flamingo. We clean your shoes. You sleep with my sister. No, nothing to pay to the English bandits'," wrote Billy Hill in his 1955 autobiography, Boss of Britain's Underworld, of his time in Tangier.Hill was on board a ship called the Flamingo, and news had just emerged locally that he was wanted in Britain in connection with what was then the largest ever robbery in the country, a £287,000 mail van haul.Now, half a century later, Morocco is again unwittingly at the centre of an investigation into Britain's largest robbery, the £53m haul from the Securitas depot in Tonbridge in February. Lee Murray, 28, a martial arts expert and renowned "cage fighter," who was arrested in Rabat last weekend in connection with the robbery, is now fighting extradition.It will be, said a Moroccan policeman yesterday, "a very long process", not least because Murray and his associates have now been charged locally with possession of cocaine and hashish and assaulting police, which could mean a five-year sentence if they are convicted.In Rabat, the robbery for which Murray is being sought is "le plus grand hold-up de l'histoire", and Murray is seen as a Moroccan, whose family name is Moulay Brahim Lamrani, returning to his roots. Murray's father, a Moroccan who moved to England from Sidi Ifni in the south of the country in the 1970s, married an Englishwoman and settled in Britain. According to the weekly Maroc Hebdo, which features Murray on its front cover, he has a half-sister whom he has never met, in Casablanca, first visited the country in 1995, and speaks no Arabic.Murray, from Sidcup, south London, was arrested at the Mega Mall, the country's largest and most lavish shopping centre, after what Morocco's police general directorate (DGSN) said yesterday was "a three-month probe". More than 50 armed Moroccan officers were involved in his arrest, about 30 in plain clothes. The Mega Mall, built last year to cater for the capital's growing middle class, who have profited from the recent explosion of privatisation, was a favourite haunt of Murray's. With its Tommy Hilfiger and Gabbana stores, its Food Court and Quality Burgers, it is almost indistinguishable from any other mall from Dallas to Dubai.The villa where Murray lived with his three English friends is in the Souisse district outside the city walls, near homes owned by members of the Saudi and Emirates royal families. Neighbours thought the men were gay because it is unusual for men to live together.Rabat may not have the high profile of Tangier, Casablanca or Marrakesh, but Murray found entertainment at the Cameleon club in the Tour Hassan hotel, just round the corner from the old French cathedral, where Rabat's wealthy young start dancing at midnight under the watchful eye of the doormen. Murray and his friend Paul Allen, anxious to keep fit, also liked to visit a sports shop in the 17th-century medina, just round the corner from the Cafe Maurre, where Moroccans and tourists sip mint tea and gaze out over the Atlantic.The locals who know Murray like him. "He was très gentil," said Choukri Abakarim, who served him his capuccinos at the Cafe Armando in the mall. "He came here many times and spoke a little French." "They said they were businessmen," said Yusef, who drove the men on a number of occasions. "But they did not look like businessmen because they had tattoos. They were very good tippers - they paid 300 dirhams (£18.60) for a 120 dirham fare."Apart from Murray and the three men arrested with him, there are two other Britons in prison in Morocco, according to the organisation Prisoners Abroad. In recent years, the main arrests have been for drugs, although increasingly there has been concern about British paedophiles.Last week the Kent chief constable, Mike Fuller, announced the latest in a series of arrests which have now led to nine charges. Of the £53m, £21m has been recovered.Back in the old days, Billy Hill liked Morocco so much that he and his wife, Gypsy, set up a club called Churchills in Tangier. "The club was an oasis for any successful criminal," said the former cat burglar Peter Scott this week.Ronnie Kray said, when he was in Broadmoor, that if he was ever released he would have settled there. What has happened over the past 10 days would seem to indicate that those suspected of major crimes cannot expect the same kind of treatment that Billy Hill so fondly recalled.