The snarled warning, "I know where you live", long ago became a cliche in gangster movies, but it retains meaning in real life. The argument over whether parents have a right to know where convicted paedophiles are living has now extended to the question of whether there's a case for telling us the new face and place of the ex-girlfriend of a murderer.There are only three valid reasons why any of us would need to know where and who Maxine Carr will be from now on: that she poses a threat to the general public; that we are simply curious about the future life of someone who has attained a dark fame; or that we wish to take revenge on her for delaying the apprehension of the Soham murderer, Ian Huntley. Can any of these be justified?The idea that society has a right to know where Carr has been secreted derives from the debate over the rehabilitation of paedophiles. Few parents, no matter how theoretically schooled in liberal tolerance, would much like the idea that a convicted sex offender might be living in their street. And, given the past failures of the public services, they are reluctant to trust the policing of freed paedophiles entirely to local authorities. The tabloid-driven case for publication of full nonce lists clearly raises the risk of vigilante action, which has led David Blunkett to the compromise of having public representatives on protection panels. Carr, however, is not a paedophile (lack of forensic evidence and confession means it cannot even be established that Huntley was). Though her covering for the killer delayed his arrest and prolonged the agony of the murdered girls' parents, it seems certain that no action of hers could have saved their lives, and it can reasonably be inferred that, had she been in Soham that weekend, the tragedy would not have happened. On the available evidence, Carr's crime was stupid perjury. And if society had to be protected from liars and the love-struck, we'd need to build several million safe houses. From her court-room evidence and other biographical information, it seems probable that the biggest risk from Carr's release is that she will again attach herself to a dangerous man. As far as we can tell, her crime resulted from bad choices, compounded by misplaced loyalty, and even those of us whose romantic mishaps avoided climaxing in murder trials can tend to a pattern of relationships. The probation service, however, will be alert to this possibility, or the perhaps greater risk of Carr falling for an undercover journalist posing as a local bloke. The problem, clearly, is not that the general public is at risk from Carr but that she is under threat from a section of the populace. A double-think is going on in which some newspapers and lobbyists complain that Carr is being granted a level of anonymity and protection generally only given to murderers, as if this were an acknowledgement by the state that she is a bigger criminal than her conviction says. The confusion, though, is not in the minds of the judiciary but potentially in the heads of public vigilantes fed on satanising tabloid copy. The size of the disguise goes beyond the gravity of the conviction because the scale of the public reaction was also out of proportion. The most subtle of the arguments, implied in the submissions of some red-top journalists, is that we simply have a right to know how the story continues: that Carr, through her notoriety, is public property and that big news, once rolling, cannot be artificially stopped. This case is nourished by the fact that, even in Britain, information of all kinds has become slightly more free recently. For example, it has become routine since 9/11 for the security forces to publicise specific threats. Even so, there's a difference between public interest and prurience, and the fear of vigilante reprisals again negates any case for reading about or seeing Maxine in freedom. In fact, the anonymity and secrecy imposed on Carr can be viewed, in modern culture, as a severe punishment. If there was any notion in her mind that notoriety was just fame's naughty younger brother, and that she might have a book ghosted or appear on TV shows, that possibility has been scuppered by the need for her to live nowhere, as no one. For many of her type and generation, prevention from celebrity is a kind of jail. It seems to me a blessing that the parents of Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells will now not risk seeing her interviewed by Martin Bashir or finding Love And Lies: My Story piled up in bookstores. Most of us would be happy never to hear of Maxine Carr again. The only real reason for knowing where she lived would be to stop her living, and no decent society can take that risk. comment@theguardian.com