Ian Huntley lost his temper as he was cross-examined about the deaths of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman in his murder trial at the Old Bailey yesterday.On his second day in the witness box, the caretaker admitted that he had killed Jessica and that he had been "ruthless" in disposing of the girls' bodies. But he lashed out as Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, accused him of holding Holly Wells under water and disputed his claim that she died in a freak accident. The barrister said that the only reason Holly would have drowned was if Mr Huntley wanted her dead. "I did not want her dead," Mr Huntley replied. Mr Latham: "The only way that child could have drowned in that bath is if you held her under water." Mr Huntley: "I didn't hold her under." Mr Latham: "Jessica was screaming because you were murdering Holly. That's the truth, isn't it?" Mr Huntley: "No." Mr Latham: "That's the only reason she was screaming rather than helping her friend, isn't it?" Mr Huntley: "No, that's not true." The defendant said he was "frozen by panic" when he realised Holly had fallen into the bathwater and was not moving. But Mr Latham said he would have instinctively rescued the schoolgirl, had she fallen in by accident. In the tensest exchange of the 21-day trial, Mr Huntley raised his voice and snapped: "In these circumstances it is very rational to know what you are doing. "In those circumstances it is not so rational. Believe me, I know." Mr Latham suggested that the defendant was "perfectly assertive" when he wanted to be. "Yes," Mr Huntley replied. Mr Latham went on: "You can get angry, can't you, Mr Huntley?" Mr Huntley: "Yes." Mr Latham: "You just lost your temper with me, didn't you?"  Mr Huntley: "That's because you..." and stopped. He continued: "You have your opinion." Mr Latham: "You have just lost your temper with me, haven't you?" Mr Huntley: "Yes" Mr Latham: "Did you lose your temper with one of these girls on that Sunday evening?" Mr Huntley: "I had no reason to lose my temper." Mr Latham: "Did you become the assertive individual you became two minutes ago?" Mr Huntley: "No, I did not." But he admitted suffocating Jessica by putting his hand across her mouth to stop her screaming "You pushed her" as she saw her friend lying in the bath. He said he was trying to think. He could not remember what he had done with his other hand, but had "probably" used it in restraining her. Mr Latham asked what a "fit, healthy 10-year-old" would have been doing if a hand went over her face and she was unable to breathe. Mr Huntley replied: "Struggling." "Fighting for her very life, wouldn't she, Mr Huntley?" Mr Huntley: "Yes." "What was it you were doing to prevent her fighting for her very life? For her last breath?" Mr Latham continued. "I can only remember putting a hand over her mouth. I can only tell you what I'm clear about," said Mr Huntley. He added: "I didn't deliberately do anything to kill her." But he accepted that Jessica would have lived if he had given her the "slightest chance". "That sort of thing doesn't happen accidentally, does it?" asked the QC. "I didn't mean to kill her," replied Mr Huntley. "You didn't mean to let her live, did you?" asked Mr Latham. "That's not true," the caretaker replied. The defendant has previously accepted responsibility for both deaths, but has never publicly said that he killed either girl. Earlier, he told the court: "I would say that one died as a result of my inability to act and the other died as a direct result of my actions." Mr Latham: "You wanted them both dead." Mr Huntley: "I didn't want them both dead, I didn't want either of them dead." The QC took the defendant through the events of the day in detail, pressing him on every aspect of his encounter with the girls. He questioned the caretaker's claim that the girls had entered his house because Holly was suffering a nosebleed, asking why they had not gone home or called their parents for help on Jessica's mobile phone. Mr Huntley said he could not judge a 10-year-old's thinking. The barrister also repeatedly challenged the defendant about his failure to rescue Holly from the bath, asking him: "You watched her drown?" Mr Huntley: "I wasn't watching... I tried to think." Mr Latham: "Think what? How many choices have you got, Mr Huntley?" Mr Huntley: "One. I know that." Mr Latham: "Why didn't you do it?" Mr Huntley: "I really don't know." Nor could he explain why Jessica, who by his account was also in the bathroom, had failed to help her friend. He suggested that perhaps she had panicked as well. "Effectively, the two of you stood within touching distance of this child and watched her drown?" asked Mr Latham. Mr Huntley replied: "I did not watch her drown." In another tense exchange, Mr Latham questioned the caretaker about his disposal of the bodies in a ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk. Mr Huntley said that he had had to bend the girls' legs to fit their bodies into the boot of his car. Mr Latham: "You were behaving quite ruthlessly, weren't you?" Mr Huntley: "Yes, what I did was ruthless." Mr Latham: "How did it feel to carry these dead bodies down the stairs, Mr Huntley?" Mr Huntley did not reply. "How did it feel?" the QC asked again. After a pause, he continued: "How did it feel when you carried Jessica's body down the stairs?" He elaborated: "That you had just killed." After another pause, he asked: "Well?" "Not good," said Mr Huntley.