A victim of a serial rapist who was jailed indefinitely on Friday has told how she was so scared he would strike again after police initially released him without charge that for a year she slept in her bathroom, her only room she could lock.The woman, Miss C, said she considered suicide after being told there was not enough evidence to prosecute Brian Witty, a banker and former Territorial Army captain. She became depressed and lost her job, and has hardly worked since.Witty, 41, was convicted in April of three rapes – including that of Miss C – and one sexual assault on four women between 1995 and 2011. On Friday Yesterday he was sentenced to six years imprisonment for the 1995 rape, to run concurrently with three separate indeterminate sentences for the other offences. He will have to serve at least eight years before being considered for release.The ex-Parachute Regiment member – who met two of his victims through a dating website and the others in bars – told one victim who rejected him: "I don't believe this, I'm a good-looking bloke."Judge Nicholas Price QC, sentencing Witty at Kingston crown court, south-west London, told him: "Each of your victims described in chilling evidence how you went from being plausible and caring into a bullying, self-obsessed, arrogant sexual predator who was determined to indulge in fulfilling your desires, irrespective and dismissive of their pleas that you should desist."Witty was arrested and interviewed after the rape at his home address in 1995, again after a sexual assault in 2006 and after raping Miss C in 2008, but charges were not brought by the Crown Prosecution Service until after another rape.Sentencing Witty, Judge Price said the lack of action from the CPS had led Witty to believe he was "untouchable".Price said: "With the benefit of hindsight it is perhaps too easy to say that, had you been successfully prosecuted in 1995, you may well not have been free to commit these other later serious offences."Witty had set out to prey on vulnerable women, said Price. "You hid your base intentions behind a veneer of charm and lulled your victims into a false sense of security," he said. "Each of them was beguiled into believing that with your military background and apparent social attributes that you were a gentleman and would behave as one."Price praised the women for coming forward again after so many years, saying if it had not been for the determination of Witty's last victim he may never have been brought to justice.Witty had already raped one woman and sexually assaulted another – and been arrested and released on both occasions after claiming the contact was consensual – when he violently raped Miss C in October 2008, telling her he could kill her and no one would do anything about it.Three years after the CPS decided not to bring charges in Miss C's case, Witty raped another woman. Police, who have described Witty as a "predatory rapist", believe there could be more victims."The police let him do this," said Miss C, who was attacked by Witty in his flat after meeting him for a drink in Richmond, south-west London. "It's awful, because they're the only people you depend on and they let you down."I wanted them to tell me why they let him go and rape another woman. They could have stopped this a long time ago. Who should we turn to, if the police don't believe in us?"Miss C, who is in her late 30s, said the way she was cross-examined during Witty's trial in April risked putting other women off reporting rape.The defence tried to discredit her account by claiming she had made up the allegation in a bid to get compensation, and told the jury she had previously made four "false" allegations of sexual assault.Miss C said they were not false, but merely did not go to court. She had no idea the allegations would be mentioned, at the end of several hours of questioning in which she had had to relive details of the rape."I thought, 'Why are you letting him do this to me?'," she said. "I was telling the judge, 'This has nothing to do with the rape.' They need to stop them bringing in your life story. They made everyone in there think, 'I'm never going to report something like this, because they make it so hard.'"Miss C, who fled Witty's home, calling 999 and knocking on doors of neighbouring flats following the attack, said she was distraught after police told her he would not be charged."I stood on the platform at the station and just wanted to throw myself in front of the train. I was really worried, angry, upset about the police."I was so scared of Brian. He knew where I lived, where I worked. He'd said he was going to kill me that night, he'd told me he was ex-army and he could do anything."I really thought the police would get this man. Because it was horrible. He held my hand on a hot radiator. The more I said it was hot the more he raped me even harder. I thought: 'He is going kill me now and just throw me into the canal somewhere.'"He made me lose my job, because [after the attack] my performance was really bad."Police got in touch with Miss C last year to say another victim had come forward. But even then officers did not initially want to reopen her case, she said, instead asking if she would be a witness to Witty's bad character. Among the reasons given was the fact she had made reports of sexual assault before, said the campaign group Women Against Rape (WAR), who met the police with Miss C."They [the police] said there were all sorts of 'problems'," WAR's Lisa Longstaff added. "We just said: 'You have to present the facts and argue them. Let the jury decide.'"It is not unusual for women to be assaulted more than once, she said. According to a recent survey by Mumsnet, 23% of those who had been raped or sexually assaulted had been attacked four or more times."It obviously doesn't mean that if you didn't get a conviction you were lying," Longstaff said.The CPS later said it would charge Witty over Miss C's allegation.When he was found guilty of three counts of rape and one sexual assault, after five days of jury deliberations, Miss C was at the hairdressers. "I was crying," she said. "The girls asked me what had happened and then everyone was crying too, crying and hugging me."But the case has reopened memories. "I'm scared because now everything has come back to me fresh," Miss C said. "I have headaches, and I can't sleep."I want the police to do their job properly. I want men to get the message and stop raping other women. Because they will watch and think: 'You raped, and they didn't believe her, so I'll do the same.'"Detective Inspector Michael Murfin, of the Met's Sapphire unit which specialises in investigating rape and sexual assault, said: "Sapphire moved under the command of the Specialist Crime Directorate in September 2009, with the aim of providing a more consistent service to victims whose care and well-being is at the heart of each investigation."We want victims to have the confidence that we are here for them, will believe them and will conduct our investigations professionally."We want rapists and those committing other sex offences to know that our dedicated teams are committed to ensuring we arrest them."A CPS spokeswoman said: "There are strict rules governing the cross-examination of victims in rape cases and lawyers instructed by the CPS have been told to object to unnecessary and inappropriate questions to a victim, such as those on a person's previous sexual history."In this instance, the prosecution made written and oral submissions and the judge ruled on the appropriate scope of questioning."We appreciate how harrowing cross examination during a rape trial must be for a victim and we do our very best to provide the appropriate support to assist them in giving evidence."