Cut-price alcohol promotions in pubs and clubs should be banned to curb drink-fuelled antisocial behaviour, according to an MPs' report published today.The influential Commons home affairs select committee says pubs and clubs should pay a levy to fund the policing and other services needed to cope with the effects of large-scale binge drinking. In a report on the government's moves to tackle antisocial behaviour, the all-party committee says the balance between prevention and enforcement is about right but the strategy is being undermined by different philosophies, methods and tactic. The committee goes on to suggest that social services departments in particular could achieve more by providing more support to perpetrators than at present, adding that this could be encouraged by ensuring that money for preventive work gets to them. The committee chairman, John Denham, said the problems of antisocial behaviour had not been exaggerated by the government or played up by the media. The report says antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) are effective but steps should be taken to reduce the 42% which are currently breached. It adds that the minimum two-year period for each Asbo should be reduced for under-18s. Parenting orders - which force mothers and fathers to learn how to cope with tearaway children - often work well, it says, but are "underused", and similar help should be available to parents before problems reach crisis point. The MPs welcome the suggestion from the British Crime Survey that fewer people see antisocial behaviour as a problem in their area. They add, however, that there is not yet the consistent downward trend over time that is needed to draw a firm conclusion."Our concern is that some organisations are rejecting the current antisocial behaviour strategy as too punitive, but foregoing the chance to influence how this strategy is carried out at local level." Mr Denham said criticism of the government's plans for 24-hour drinking missed the point when it came to tackling alcohol-related disorder: "Problems of disorder are occurring now. Effective enforcement, mandatory contributions from pubs and super-clubs and minimum pricing policies all have a role to play. But the underlying problem is of too many people drinking heavily in small geographical areas." The committee suggests that it would be more effective for local authorities to use their existing powers to ban cheap drink promotions and to set minimum prices for alcohol. The report also suggests that pubs and clubs pay a mandatory levy to be used to cope with the effects of large-scale drunkenness in public places. Critics of the government's antisocial behaviour strategy said they were surprised by the MPs' endorsement of the government's approach. "After six years of legislation the report makes clear that evidence about antisocial behaviour is thin and the effectiveness of government strategies is unproven," said Richard Garside of the Crime and Society Foundation. He said reading between the lines the report actually offered a sharp riposte to the government's "spin" that it knew the extent of so-called antisocial behaviour and had the tools to deal with it.