Lord Falconer, the home office minister responsible for criminal justice, faced embarrassment this morning as he opened a CCTV system in Manchester - on the day a report revealed that filming criminals was less effective than improved street lighting.The minister rejected suggestions that CCTV was "overrated" as "ridiculous" and added: "It is absurd to suggest that this does not help reduce crime." Lord Falconer, who was opening the £3m CCTV control centre, said the state-of-the-art equipment would give extra peace of mind to all those worried about the rise in street crime. Police at the centre, which has been piloted since February, will be able to watch high-quality images from across the city on huge plasma TV screens. Some incidents caught on camera will even be kept for up to 30 years. Lord Falconer said: "Building on existing CCTV in Manchester city centre, the control centre will be an effective tool in tackling criminal activity and anti-social behaviour, allowing more and more people to enjoy the attractions of the city centre knowing that they are in a safe environment." There might be some places where CCTV was less effective than others, he said, adding: "Come here and see the film actually as it happens - I think it is ridiculous to suggest that that does not reduce crime." The crime reduction charity Nacro said the effectiveness of CCTV in cutting crime had been "overstated". It warned against over-investment in CCTV at the expense of "more effective measures" such as good street lighting, which might be up to four times as effective in cutting crime. Between 1996 and 1998, three-quarters of the Home Office crime prevention budget was spent on CCTV, it said. But a forthcoming academic review of the impact of CCTV concluded that the overall reduction in crime was 5%, said Nacro, compared with a figure of 20% from a Home Office review of street lighting. High profile cases such as the abduction and murder of James Bulger and the arrest of Brixton nail bomber David Copeland had given CCTV a "common sense appeal", today's report said. It went on: "But while CCTV schemes in car parks can be effective in reducing car crime, cameras in town centres have little impact on serious or violent crime. "Without the constant oxygen of publicity CCTV schemes can quickly lose their effectiveness. "Ironically, evidence shows that the biggest falls in crime linked to CCTV installation occur before cameras are operational, coinciding with the period when publicity is at its greatest." Rachel Armitage, of Nacro's crime and social policy unit, said: "It would be foolish to claim that well-planned CCTV can never have an impact, but the effectiveness of CCTV is often overstated. "This places a big responsibility on councils and others to think through the implementation of CCTV and ensure that is not favoured in place of cheaper and more effective measures such as adequate street lighting. "CCTV is not a panacea. "Areas need to be appropriately policed, not remotely policed. Given the choice between walking down a dark alley monitored by CCTV or having that alley adequately lit, which would you prefer?" The report found that the number of crime prevention cameras in England and Wales would have soared from 100 in 1990 to an estimated 40,000 by the end of 2002. Mark Littlewood of civil rights campaign group Liberty said: "It is time for a reassessment of the worth of CCTV in terms of is cost, both financial and in terms of privacy. "The report confirms that the effectiveness of CCTV as a tool to fight crime is greatly overstated. "While there may be situations where the use of CCTV has assisted in the detection of crime there is no evidence to support the argument that it prevents crime taking place. "Indeed the report suggests that street lamps are far more effective way of deterring crime." He added: "Even if CCTV were proved to reduce crime the overriding need is for strict statutory regulation to protect privacy. "Each day we are tracked by cameras and there are inadequate laws to ensure that the footage is not misused and inadequate enforcement of those laws. "Permission for CCTV cameras to be put up should only be given if it can be clearly established that there is a need for them."