A former refuse collector described as a "cruel, callous killer" yesterday pleaded guilty to four murders which led to one of the biggest police manhunts in British history.Mark Hobson, 35, admitted killing his 27-year-old girlfriend Claire Sanderson and her twin sister Diane in July last year at a maisonette in the village of Camblesforth, near Selby, North Yorkshire. Paul Worsley, prosecuting, told Leeds crown court that after killing Claire with 17 hammer blows and placing a plastic bag over her head, Hobson carefully wrapped her body in binbags. A week later, he phoned her sister Diane claiming Claire was ill with glandular fever and asked her to call round. "It was all part of a carefully laid plan to lure Diane into the house," Mr Worsley said. "Some months earlier, he made a comment that he had picked the wrong sister. "He told a fellow refuse collector that he was 'going to have Diane'. That threat came true." Hobson also admitted murdering a frail and elderly couple, James and Joan Britton, who were found dead in their home 25 miles away near York. Mr Worsley described the four deaths as "horrific and chilling". The killer was on the run for eight days, before he was arrested in a field off the A19 after visiting a garage to buy cigarette papers, matches and a bottle of water. He was recognised by the garage owner, who discreetly phoned the police. Hobson was found to be armed with a knife stolen from the Brittons' kitchen. When he was arrested, Hobson said: "I'm a fucking murderer, aren't I?" Mr Worsley said. In a police interview, he told detectives he had taken a cocktail of drugs including cannabis, cocaine, ecstasy and alcohol and could not remember anything about his girlfriend's death. He claimed to have "lost a day-and-a-half" and come round with a bloodstained hammer in his hand. Hobson called Claire "his little China doll" and spoke of his wish that the murder had never happened. He had talked to the corpse and claimed to have accidentally strangled her sister, and to have no recollection of the Brittons' deaths. The court heard that Hobson had met Claire Sanderson 18 months earlier. Both had problems with alcohol and Claire was anorexic. Their relationship was violent and punctuated by arguments. Witnesses said Claire's eyes were frequently blackened. In the middle of 2003, Hobson was seen to grab her by the hair and drag her across a pub floor and punch her. He had been given a community service order after stabbing a man five times during an argument in one of a number of violent episodes in his past. Hobson concocted a series of spurious stories to cover his movements after he murdered Claire on July 10 last year, and a week later lured her sister to the house. Diane had been due to meet her boyfriend, Ian Harrison, in the Cricketers Arms pub in Selby on July 17. When she failed to turn up, Mr Harrison phoned her mobile, which was "strangely" answered by Hobson. The court heard Hobson claimed that the twins' father, George Sanderson, had died of a heart attack, and that Diane was "very upset". He arranged to meet Mr Harrison in the pub, and then calmly invited him into the maisonette, "where Claire's body lay decomposing near to that of her sister's sexually mutilated body", said Mr Worsley. The prosecutor said Mr Harrison noticed the "very unpleasant smell". Hobson claimed he had a problem with the drains. When Mr Harrison got up from the sofa he found his trouser leg soaked in blood. Hobson said Claire was "poorly with women's problems". Next morning Mr Harrison called at the twins' parents house and was "shocked" when George Sanderson opened the door, fit and well. "They drove straight to Hobson's house," Mr Worsley said. "The door was unlocked, so they went inside and noticed the smell of rotting flesh. When they went upstairs, they found the bodies of the twins in the bedroom." A postmortem showed that Claire had received 17 blows to her head with a blunt instrument. A binbag placed over her head would "certainly have resulted in death". Diane had died of strangulation and also had a bag placed over her head. She had also been subjected to a "bizarre and macabre" sex attack. After killing Diane, Hobson attempted to sell her blue Peugeot to a friend for £400, claiming she was emigrating. He appeared nervous and the friend was suspicious and asked him to return the following day. Early on July 18, Hobson drove to his mother's house and asked her to drive him to York hospital, claiming the twins had been involved in a road accident on a night out in the city. On the way to the hospital, his mother said he appeared "agitated, upset and morbid". He left her in the car park and spoke to a porter. Mr Worsley said the porter had a "very uneasy feeling" and said there was "something evil" about the man. Hobson kissed his mother goodbye, saying the twins' parents would give him a lift home. Then he went to the home of James and Joan Britton in Strensall, near York. They were found by a neighbour. Mrs Britton, who was almost blind, was dead in the hallway. A wooden knife handle lay by her side. Mr Britton lay dead on the living room floor. A postmortem showed the retired surveyor had multiple head injuries, a stab wound, and had been hit with a walking stick. Three of Hobson's fingerprints were found in the house. The couple had been housebound. Mr Britton, an apiarist, had sold honey from his house. Detective Superintendent Javed Ali, of North Yorkshire police described Hobson as a "cruel, callous killer". He said the killings were "brutal, savage and totally unnecessary". Round the clock police protection was provided for those people on a hit list found in Hobson's maisonette and the police operation eventually cost almost £700,000. Afterwards the two girls' parents suffered from stress, anxiety and depression. Mr Sanderson took an overdose of tablets in December and has been unable to work since their deaths. In a statement, he said he felt "dead inside" and he could not put into words the "anger and hatred" he felt towards Hobson. "I feel guilty that I am alive and they are dead," he said. The case was adjourned until May 27 for sentence for psychiatric reports to be carried out.