Copper thieves were blamed today for a power surge which sent flames leaping out of microwave cookers and smoke seeping from TVs in local homes.Almost 400 houses in Bolton were cut off after the neutral switching gear at a sub-station, worth only £20 on the illegal metal market, was ripped out.The theft caused supply levels to rise from the normal 230 volts to 400, far beyond the range of most household appliances. Several hundred fuses blew immediately and firefighters were called to 71 homes where damaged equipment also included washing machines and a baby monitor.United Utilities, the area's main supplier, said no one was injured and fire damage kept to a minimum. Spokesman Mark Williamson said that repair teams went straight to the sub-station and power in the Westhoughton area was due to be restored tonight.Pensioners May Wilkinson, 65, and her husband Albert Knight, 70, were among those left shaken when the surge hit appliances as they turned them on. Mrs Wilkinson said: "I was just making myself a cup of coffee at about 8am and I put my television on."Then suddenly I heard a 'poof' noise. At first I thought, 'What was that?', and sat down in my chair."Then I saw smoke coming out of my digibox and I jumped up quick and turned off the box at the plug."Shortly afterwards my husband was in the kitchen, and he saw a huge flame come out of the microwave. It frightened him to death."It all shook me up. You don't expect to see smoke coming out of your television."A spokesman for the Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue service said: "At around 8am we started to receive a large volume of calls in the Westhoughton area of Bolton. There were no injuries from the incidents and no substantial fire damage."Within the properties, though, a number were affected by the smoke. The cause of the power surge was the theft of a copper component, which is now under investigation by Greater Manchester police."United Utilities staff checked wiring at the affected homes today as the firm warned thieves that they were endangering their own lives as well as those of others – and facing the threat of prosecution. Scrap metal dealers report suspicious items to the police and many forces run regular checks on yards.Williamson said: "Anyone going into a sub-station is risking their lives. There are thousands of volts in there and if someone takes a wrong turn, then they could be dead. It just isn't worth the risk."He appealed for information about the break-in and a similar incident at another sub-station in Bolton 10 days ago, and said: "If you see anyone acting suspiciously near or on a sub-station, please call the police."