The man who has got off jury service at Southampton crown court chose a disconcerting way of doing so. Having been shortlisted to be a juror in a trial for assault and dangerous driving, he wrote to the judge brazenly asserting his unfitness for the task: "I hold extreme prejudices against homosexuals and black/foreign people and couldn't possibly be impartial if either appeared in court."He undermined his position by adding that he would be so keen to see the case concluded, he would simply vote with the majority anyway and not give his true opinion. This rather implied that he wouldn't let his prejudices, however extreme, hold back the jury from reaching a speedy verdict.Even so, the judge was in a dilemma. On the one hand, such a blatant lack of tolerance might well seem to disqualify a person from sitting in judgment on a fellow citizen. On the other, it was quite possible the man had presented himself in this obnoxious light purely as a ruse for getting out of jury service. Judge Burrell questioned the man about the sincerity of his beliefs but, with no satisfactory result. He was dismissed – though with the threat of a possible prosecution for contempt of court hanging over him.If he were indeed prosecuted, it would not be for being "honest" about his prejudices. It would be for deceiving the court into rejecting him as a juror. After all, if claiming to be a racist or a homophobe or the holder of any kind of extreme view came to be seen as a way of dodging a jury summons, thousands would be at it.Not so long ago, it was a gaping flaw in the jury system that all manner of well-heeled folk were either exempt altogether or could easily wriggle out of doing jury service by claiming they were needed at the office or had a skiing holiday booked. The consequence was a widespread perception, especially among the chattering and jury-dodging classes, that juries were entirely peopled by the feckless, the illiterate and the unemployed.Some years ago I was a juryman on a long kidnap trial at the Old Bailey. Journalist colleagues thought I was insane not to have got out of it, which I easily could have. I was glad I hadn't. The experience inspired a book about the jury system in which I made it something of a mission to urge the ending of this middle-class opt-out, so that juries might indeed represent all walks of life.In 2004, things changed. Now everyone must do jury service, even policemen and high court judges, unless they have compelling reasons to be excused. Jury service is legally recognised as a civic duty for all, irrespective of class, profession, religion or race – which is as it should be, and which brings us back to the Southampton man and his self-proclaimed prejudices. I think the judge was wrong to dismiss him.Any randomly picked jury may include people with uncommon or unfashionable views, or extreme political opinions. Some will be outspoken about their prejudices, typically against the police or immigrants. Some have religious reasons for not wishing to be judgmental at all. How could it be otherwise? And if these people have the right to vote, even for the BNP, surely it should not be otherwise.That is the beauty of a tribunal of 12 men and women. Common sense nearly always prevails. In my own experience and that of former jurors I have spoken to, juries take their responsibilities enormously seriously. They try very hard to live up to their oath to "faithfully try the defendant and give a true verdict according to the evidence". The bigots and extremists tend to be out-argued or out-voted – if needs be by a majority verdict. It's a fair bet that if the Southampton man had been allowed to sit, his unpleasant views, if genuine, would have turned the other jurors against him.Serious challenges face the jury system, especially the risk of jurors researching their cases in mid-trial on Google or even Facebooking a defendant, as we have recently seen. But this was no such threat. Judge Burrell should have shown more confidence that the jury system could neutralise a nutter. It does so all the time.