Police officers and government ministers issued warnings to the public last night in response to the letter bomb attacks across the country. The latest target, the DVLA centre in Swansea, was seen as a further indication that the campaign could be the work of an extremist motorists' group or individual. One campaigner said the attacks could be "payback time" for the government's road policies.Seven bombs have been sent in the past three weeks, causing injuries that so far are minor. While the first batch are thought to have an animal rights connection, police say they are keeping an open mind about the second wave.The home secretary, John Reid, said the bombings were now "a cause for concern" and the prime minister expressed his sympathy for those injured. The hunt for the culprits being led by the National Coordinator for Domestic Extremism (NCDE), assistant chief constable Anton Setchell, who said a "very substantial investigation" was under way involving several police forces.The DVLA office worker, a woman in her 30s, was treated for cuts after the bomb went off in her hand. Last night she said: "I was shaken, shocked and frightened. Everybody started running around me but I didn't really know what had happened."The devices are contained in a padded A5 Jiffy bag and contain "pyrotechnic" material, similar to that used for making fireworks. Police believe the intent is to alarm rather than kill. Rather than being addressed to individuals, they are sent to "post-holders" at companies.Last Saturday, a 53-year-old man was slightly injured when a package arrived at a company address in Folkestone, Kent. Two days later, a woman was injured while opening the mail at the London offices of Capita, which collects congestion charge fees. On Tuesday, a package injured two people at the postal address in Wokingham, Berkshire, of Speedcheck, which deals with traffic regulation devices.An angry motorist could well be responsible for the latest attacks, according to "Captain Gatso", the campaigner responsible for attacks on speed cameras and who operates under a pseudonym."What we are looking at now is a war on the motorist," said the man who represents Motorists Against Detection (Mad). "And the motorist is fighting back," he said. "It's payback time."He said motorists were angry about the congestion charges and speed cameras. He also suggested that they had learned from Fathers4Justice, the organisation that campaigns for estranged fathers to have more access to their children, that the best way to attract publicity was by breaking the law.He denied that he and his group were responsible for the letter bombs or had ever been responsible for attacking people rather than machines."I would happily punch Ken Livingstone on the nose but I wouldn't ever blow anybody up," he said, adding that he had been contacted by the authorities in connection with the attacks."My group only terrorises the government's cash machines - speed cameras - by the roadside," he said. "I do not condone any personal injuries." He suggested that a single individual "with a big gripe" might be behind the campaign, which he anticipated would accelerate.Captain Gatso's group claim to have carried out 1,000 attacks on speed cameras, causing more than £29m damage. The group also opposes the congestion charge and the government's attempts to expand it.The first batch of three packages, sent to addresses in the Thames Valley and Birmingham area in mid-January, are being linked to animal rights extremists as they appeared to have been sent by the same person and one package contained a reference to the late animal rights activist, Barry Horne. The targets included forensic laboratories.Mr Setchell said: "The packages received so far have caused minor injuries, but could have been more serious. I am appealing today for companies, organisations and individuals to take extra care when handling mail." The motive is still unclear, he said, adding that animal rights extremists and an angry motorist were the two priority lines of inquiry.The Local Government Association, which represents more than 400 councils in England and Wales, urged traffic wardens and other workers to be on their guard. The chief executive, Paul Coen, said he hoped police would catch the "vicious" bomber before someone is killed or seriously hurt."Many council workers are on the frontline of this important work and deal on a day-to-day basis with either parcels or people," said Mr Coen. "It is vital at this time that people employed in councils work together and remain alert to help protect themselves and their colleagues from these vicious acts of vigilantism."