A woman who contested her parents' will after they left their £2.3m estate in North Yorkshire to the RSPCA today won her battle to inherit their farm. The RSPCA said it would appeal.Christine Gill, 58, a university lecturer from Northallerton, started a legal action in July to challenge the will, which she claimed her father had forced her mother into making.Gill, an only child, had helped out on Potto Carr farm, near Northallerton, part of Joyce and John Gill's estate, during her spare time over three decades. At a high court hearing in Leeds, the judge, James Allen QC, said it would be "unconscionable" if she did not inherit the farm, and he set aside the will.After her mother's death three years ago, Gill discovered that her parents had made wills leaving their 287-acre (116-hectare) farm to each other and then to the animal welfare charity when both died.During previous hearings, Allen heard how Gill was given repeated reassurances she would inherit the estate. Her mother was said to have had "an avowed dislike" of the RSPCA, but had deferred to pressure from her husband to make the will.Gill told the court she had devoted most of her spare time over more than 30 years to helping out at the farm. When her father died in 1999, aged 82, she was left to look after her mother and run the farm. It was only when her mother died in 2006, also aged 82, that Gill saw the will, which left everything to the RSPCA.The judge said that he was satisfied the claimant's father pressured his wife to make the will "which was contrary to her wishes. It amounted to coercion."He directed his domineering and bombastic personality to Mrs Gill, utilising her anxiety and fear of his explosive character and of the possibility of her losing his support, on which she was so dependent," the judge said.Her fear of her husband losing his temper, combined with her shy personality and the severe anxiety based on her agoraphobia "duly influenced her to make the will that she did".Outside court, Gill said that the fight for the farm had been very stressful for her, and it was a will "which should never have been made. It's all been tremendously hard – the waiting was hard, the uncertainty," she said. She said her father would not have anticipated the will would create such conflict. "I think he probably had a bee in his bonnet, and I'm not certain he intended it to be carried through to this bitter end as it has."The RSPCA said it was concerned at any implications this could have for charities and other groups. "What this case does show is how important it is when making a will that people discuss their intentions with their family and beneficiaries, otherwise the impact can be very upsetting."