Political correctness is the work of Satan. So claims Archbishop Peter Akinola of Nigeria, the hero of American conservatives, who see him – as he sees himself – as the real leader of global Anglicanism. It's worth looking in this light at his presidential address to the Church of Nigeria this week, perhaps because it makes him the only world spiritual leader to have denounced a case of sheep-shagging in Bromley. As a Church we cannot but continue to decry the disturbing level of moral decadence and spiritual degradation eating deep into the soul of western societies. In the United Kingdom, all through Europe and in ever increasing number of states in America, lgislators make laws to upturn the natural order and throw God away from the public domain. Marriage and family life as we know them in the word of God have been jettisoned. People of the same sex are legally permitted to marry. Parents' right to discipline their children is legally denied.As if these are not bad enough, only last week the TELL magazine reported in its 36th edition on page 12 that a 27 year old man was arrested for having sex with a sheep in Dulwich, south east London.That story is almost true, by the way, though the only place on the net where people have got as upset about it as the Church of Nigeria is a neo-Nazi bulletin board, to which I will not link. Akinola also wants an end to religious toleration, at least as it extends to Muslims in the west. Here's what he had to say on that subject: Hiding under the principle of 'political correctness' Satan has misled many to deny the reality of sin and God's final judgment ... The western world is not only losing its Judaeo-Christian heritage from which it received its civilisation; it is fast becoming antichrist and anti-Church.For Muslims in Britain, it is no longer a matter of asking to be tolerated or begging for equal treatment. Today, Muslims are given preferential treatment. They build mosques in most prime areas and strategic locations in the city of London. It has been reported that it is likely, Muslims might be allowed to introduce sharia law in the UK. And if you must know, Islamic banking has already begun in the UK!But what do Christian minorities in Muslim societies face every day of their life? They may cry and beg for tolerance ad infinitum –all they'll get is persecution and in many instances face the danger of extinction. In general, Muslims have been unable to give to Christian minorities in their domain the sort of freedom and space they enjoy in Christian societies. Thus, they do not tolerate Christian presence nor is there reciprocity.What is to be done about this? His answer seems to me quite clear: British Muslims must suffer as Iraqi or Pakistani Christians do. Otherwise it's not fair and "Religious tolerance [becomes] a one sided principle that favours one particular religion and inimical to the other. [But] What is good for the goose is good for the gander. It is only if we all embrace the divine injunction: 'do unto others, as you want them do unto you' that we can truly and in all sincerity preach peaceful coexistence and religious tolerance."If I have followed his reasoning, he is claiming that since "we all" – ie "you Muslims" – have not embraced this divine injunction, they must themselves be treated as they treat others, and Christians can no longer preach peaceful coexistence and religious tolerance.This is the logic of ethnic cleansing and civil war and it is coming from a man who is taken very seriously by millions of otherwise respectable Christians. There is more here at stake than the good name of Bromley as a borough where sheep may safely graze.