Trafalgar square is flickering with the light from thousands of candles. A rainbow flag flutters full mast from the spire of St Martin-in-the-Fields. Around 6,000 people – mostly gay men, some lesbians, a few transgender folk and a tiny scattering of heterosexuals – stand in silence; somberly holding the candles aloft. They're here to remember the victims of homophobic hate crime. They're here in defiance and anger as more and more reports of violence towards sexual minorities surface. I'm here because I'm terrified about what's happening.Last month, Ian Baynham, a 62-year-old out-and-proud Londoner, died two weeks after he was attacked in this square. Last week, James Parkes, a 22-year-old policeman, was left critically ill after being battered by a mob of homophobes in Liverpool. And the week before last, Jan Moir gave the gay community another kicking in her now infamous column about Stephen Gately. But if the columnist were here, she would see what a spectacular own goal her rhetoric has proved to be.As well as the countless attendees, streams of speakers have come to pay tribute and to inspire action. Compere Sandi Toksvig introduces Mark Healy, from 17-24-30, the group that helped organise the vigil. "We are going to stand up to hate crime again and again and again until we put an end to it," he vows from the stage. David Watkins, the founder of A Day in Hand, an organisation that encourages gay people to hold hands in public, continues the battle cry: "Until we show our affection to each other in public we remain invisible." Messages of support from Gordon Brown and David Cameron are read out. Chris Bryant MP links Jan Moir's words directly to the violence. "Every time someone writes an article like that they put a little bit more poison into he world." Applause erupts.Baynham remains the focus of evening. An old friend of his reads out a statement from the victim's sister, Jenny: "Ian would go out of his way to help people. It is so tragic to think his life ended on the very streets of the city he loved so much."At 9pm we observe a two-minute silence. But throughout it is interrupted by the insistent bleat of an ambulance siren. It's chillingly apt – a reminder of the consequences of violence. The comedian Sue Perkins reads out a list of people who have been killed because of their sexuality in this country in the last decade. We learn from the compere that just 1% of homophobic attacks end in conviction.I ask a young transsexual woman to my right why she's here. "I get abuse every single day," she says. "From name-calling to threats of murder. It's so important for everyone to know they're not alone. This is fantastic."Not far from her is a small group of men, one of whom is Dan Gillespie-Sells, the lead singer of the pop band The Feeling. "I'm here to stand up for my city, for my culture and because I believe in freedom and diversity," he says. Gillespie-Sells cites the recession as a cause of the apparent increase in homophobic hate crimes. "When things go tits up people need someone to blame," he argues.Behind us are two men in their 50s. "I was in Soho the night of the bomb 10 years ago," says one of them – Joe Stanley, who works for a bank. "I've been mugged and I've had abuse shouted at me. His friend Patrick Lyster-Todd, a charity worker, adds: "I'm angry. These things shouldn¹t still be happening in 2009. We need zero tolerance on all forms of hate crimes. I include Jan Moir's column as a hate crime."At the end we place our candles at the foot of Nelson's Column. The rows of tiny flames spell out "NO TO HATE". I leave with renewed hope that this – along with the other vigils taking place in Brighton, Norwich and Liverpool will mark the start of our zero tolerance to gay hate. Ian Baynham deserves it.