Scotland's top law officer today authorised the release of all police reports submitted on Dunblane killer Thomas Hamilton.The decision by the Lord Advocate Colin Boyd QC follows public controversy over the length of a ban on publishing the reports and speculation on whether the report showed links between Hamilton and prominent Scots. Hamilton murdered 16 pupils and a teacher at Dunblane primary school in March 1996 before committed suicide. The decision by Mr Boyd means all police reports submitted to the procurator fiscal in relation to the killer will be made public.He confirmed none of the reports contained allegations against politicians or other prominent figures, and said personal data had been removed to make sure there was no prospect of any of the children or witnesses being identified. The report includes an internal memo about Hamilton's firearms certificate, which was read out in full to the Dunblane inquiry, which was held in Stirling shortly after the tragedy. Mr Boyd said: "In light of recent public concern expressed about the 100-year closure period, all police reports submitted to the procurator fiscal in relation to Thomas Hamilton have been reviewed. "I have considered whether or not it would be appropriate at this stage to make such reports available for public inspection." He added: "Given the sensitive nature of much of the material, which might cause anguish to those involved, my prime concern in considering this request has been to ensure that the privacy of those children referred to in the report should be maintained." He said due to the "exceptional circumstances" of the case, he had decided it would be in the public interest to publish the reports dated from 1988 to 1993 - before the Dunblane killings. A report from 1991 includes information from a police investigation into "incidents" at a summer camp held by Hamilton. Witness statements will also be made available, Mr Boyd added. Photocopies of the reports have been available at the National Archives of Scotland in Edinburgh. Mr Boyd said the originals would be reviewed and released at a later date. Last month, first minister Jack McConnell gave his backing to the publication of parts of the police report into the Dunblane gunman to end speculation that it contained information connecting Hamilton with high-profile figures in Scottish life. Legal chiefs had ruled that the report should not be published for 100 years. Hamilton, a former scout leader from Stirling, opened fire on the gymnasium at Dunblane primary school on March 13, 1996. Sixteen pupils died and another 12, all aged five and six, were injured.After the massacre, it was discovered that the 43-year-old bachelor had an unhealthy interest in young boys.A scout leader in Stirling from July 1973 to March 1974, he was asked to resign from the organisation following complaints about unstable and possibly improper behaviour following a scout camp. He made a number of attempts to come back into scouting but was never accepted.