There is only one road into, or out of, Moyross. Ponies, kept for trotting races, are tethered on grassland between the streets. The view, facing north, takes in the mountains of County Clare.In modern-day Ireland, where there is a severe shortage of affordable homes, the terraced, two-storey properties should be easily marketable. Yet those who want to move out of the estate are unable to sell their homes.Moyross, a sprawling housing estate in Limerick, is one place in the home of the Celtic Tiger economy where property prices are tumbling. It has gained national notoriety for its drug-fuelled gang warfare, raised questions about how widely the benefits of the Republic's new-found wealth have been spread and provoked a national debate about arming the police.With fewer than 100,000 residents, Limerick, which straddles the mouth of the River Shannon, has been trying for years to live down its reputation as "Stab City", a nickname acquired a decade ago because of a spate of fatal knife attacks in a time of high unemployment.The latest violence involves youths wearing bullet-proof vests and equipped with machine guns and hand grenades. Six people were murdered there last year, at least four in gang-related feuds. The homicide rate, per head of population, is equivalent to that of Glasgow, the murder capital of western Europe.The problem in Moyross is so severe that a special coordinator, reporting directly to the cabinet in Dublin, has been appointed to address local crime and social exclusion.The feuding became a subject of acute political concern when two children, aged six and four, received disfiguring burns after their mother's car, in which they had been playing, was set ablaze. It was alleged that gang members had been clearing families out of Pineview Gardens using petrol bombs, in order to tighten their control over the estate.The following week "Fat Frankie" Ryan was shot dead while sitting in a parked car on the same litter-strewn street in one corner of Moyross. He was 21 and a member of a drug gang. Since then the violence in the city has escalated. A 16-year-old with a sawn-off shotgun was arrested on a bus travelling from the estate to the city centre. Hand-grenade and petrol-bomb attacks, as well as drive-by shootings, have continued.Armed police checkpoints, targeting the gun culture, have appeared on the streets of Limerick as part of Operation Anvil. But recently Kathleen O'Toole, a former US police commissioner from Boston who heads the Garda Inspectorate, suggested that officers might need to be armed at all times."I have a strong sense that the Irish people and, indeed, the Garda Síochána themselves would prefer maintaining a routinely unarmed police service," she was forced to add a few days later. "I genuinely respect that position and hope that it will remain the case."Built in the 1970s, Moyross is a mixed environment. Some areas are well kept. Carts and small horseboxes for the trotting ponies stand in front gardens.But in other parts there is a sense of social isolation and decay. Walls are scorched and covered with graffiti. "Scumbag Killers" reads one comment. Amid occupied terraces, there are burnt-out houses. Many have been closed with metal shutters over doors and windows. "They found a hand grenade two weeks ago and had to get the bomb squad in," said one resident. "Some of the kids run around wearing bullet-proof vests, but they are just a handful who are giving Moyross a bad name."Father Frank O'Dea, the parish priest who officiated at Ryan's funeral, warned that recurrent bad publicity was demoralising. "The majority of people here are not involved in crime," he insisted. Of the gunmen, he observed: "You see people with no visible means of employment driving new cars. There's a sense of power and people get credibility in their area because of the drugs and money. They have to enforce their positions with guns. It's survival of the fittest."Councillor John Cronin, a former mayor, lives near the estate. "The big problem in Limerick is drugs," he said. "There are gangs because of the drugs. The feuding is over control of the drug trade. Young kids from good families are being sucked in, they are paid €200 [£130] to deliver drugs. These kids think they are invincible."The Garda are doing the best they can. I would hate to see the day the Garda have to be armed all the time but in about 10 years it would be hard not to see [it happening]."No one is sure why the drugs trade and gang warfare has become so entrenched in Limerick. It may have started when there were few job opportunities and simply persisted. It is close to one of the early drug-trafficking routes when boats smuggled consignments into south-west Ireland from Latin America. Compared with Cork, Galway and Dublin, redevelopment in Limerick has also been relatively slow.The justice department in Dublin insists that Operation Anvil has been successful in combating gun crime. But Garda staff associations say that officers often receive threats from criminals, including bullets through the post. Some have been beaten up and others have had devices - made to look like IRA bombs - planted under their cars.The Garda Representative Association claims that police units are not being provided with the resources needed to combat the increasingly well-armed gangs they encounter on the streets.In one incident a car, packed with gunmen wearing body armour, was stopped in west Dublin. "The officers had to let the guys go because they were not as well armed," a GRA spokesman said. "The officers would have come off worst in a shoot-out."