A mentally ill man with a fetish for plastic bags was seen near the house in Hastings, East Sussex, where Billie-Jo Jenkins was bludgeoned to death with a tent peg, a court heard yesterday.The 13-year-old was killed as she painted the patio doors at the back of the family home in February 1997. A neighbour who tended to her after the attack found part of a black plastic binbag stuffed deep inside one of her nostrils. The trial of Billie-Jo's foster father, Siôn Jenkins, for her murder yesterday heard evidence from defence witnesses who said they saw the man, referred to in court as Mr B, in the area on the day she was killed. Mr Jenkins's defence alleges that the man, who is believed to have had paranoid schizophrenia could have murdered Billie-Jo when the former deputy headteacher left the house with his two elder daughters to buy white spirit. Brian Kent, who runs a guesthouse on the road where the Jenkins family lived, told the Old Bailey that Mr B rang his doorbell at about 3pm on the day of the murder. He said: "We had a rather confused conversation and it was obvious that he had mental health problems." Suggesting he might find accommodation in the centre of the town, Mr Kent pointed the man in the direction of the Jenkins' home. On the final day of Mr Jenkins's defence, the jury heard from two witnesses who said they saw Mr B on a bench in a park opposite the Jenkins' house, on the day of the murder. Samantha Mott, of Chelmsford, Essex, told the jury she was walking in the park with her grandparents. "He stared at us as we walked by," she said. "He was rubbing his nose and making a snorting noise. It made me feel uncomfortable." A few minutes later she saw an ambulance going past. Lucy Pew, 24, from Hastings, who was also in the park, said she saw the man on a bench. She said: "I didn't like the look of him. He was playing with his nose and he was snorting on something." DC Dawn Briggs, of Sussex police tried to arrest Mr B two days after the murder. She said: "I held on to him and I was being dragged down the street. He was very strong. He tried to get me off him by grabbing me round the throat and kicking me in the shin." Mr B was eventually restrained with the help of a member of the public and taken to the police station. Two officers described seeing him holding part of a blue plastic bag up to his nose as he lay on the bench in the police cell in a "foetal position". They later found two more pieces of plastic in his underpants during a strip search. Mr Jenkins denies murder. The trial continues.