Anyone familiar with life in a country where the police have never been relied on for law-enforcement has probably witnessed a lynch mob. Once witnessed, it is not easily forgotten. A typical scenario is the pickpocket is caught snatching a handbag at a market; the victim raises the alarm, and the thief is caught, surrounded and beaten by an instantaneously assembled crowd of men. Death is not an unusual outcome.Judging by their recent remarks on the law of self-defence, there are probably things about this scenario that appeal to Conservative sensibilities. Not the prospect of a bloodied body in the street, perhaps, but the notion that the public are in tune with an inherent sense of justice, and feel entitled to inflict a swift punishment in response to its violation. If this seems like an unfair comment on the Conservative position, have a look at some of their recent indications that a Tory government would change the law on self-defence. An intruder who has broken into someone's home has "left their human rights outside," David Cameron said at the weekend. Anything other than "grossly disproportionate" force should be a legally valid response to a burglary, shadow home secretary Chris Grayling said last month.Once a thief has no rights whatsoever, as Cameron suggests, it's up to the person who catches him whether to detain the intruder until the authorities take over, or whether to simply beat him to a pulp. The difference between a society that has a police, courts and prisons to rely on, and one that does not, starts to narrow.In this respect, the Conservative position on self-defence is simply sloppy. It is at odds with the rest of Tory policy on law and order – which claims to be in favour of effective law enforcement by the state, and for ordinary people to be able to rely for protection on the criminal justice system. It is incompatible with other areas of self-defence, where the pressure is to strengthen the law, not relax it. For example one of the areas ripe for reform under future governments will be deaths in police custody, or Ian Tomlinson-type scenarios, where it is widely acknowledged that the current law makes it too easy for police to claim they were acting in self-defence.But more importantly the Conservative position is backward and barbaric. Perhaps rather than thinking of poorer countries where mob justice still exists, the idea that householders should conduct extrajudicial punishment is a nostalgic nod to medieval England. In the "land of villages" there was no policing, and a thief caught red-handed would have the stolen goods bound on his back, be brought before a "court" assembled for the purpose – and promptly hanged, beheaded or precipitated from a cliff. Rights to a fair hearing, to argue a defence, or to life – were also suspended the moment said thief was caught in possession of stolen goods. For the avoidance of any doubt about the sophistication of this society, it was also one that thought trial by hot iron (if the wound gets infected, the defendant is guilty) and immersion in water (only a guilty man would float) – were reliable methods of evidential inquiry.All this, critics will no doubt say, is to focus on the rights of the burglar, instead of the innocent victim in this scenario – the householder facing a threatening and often terrifying intrusion. How can a reasonable state persecute the resident who uses force to protect themselves, their home and their family from a criminal intruder? The answer is, it can't. There are three safeguards under the current law which means that a householder is unlikely to be unjustly dealt with under the current law.First, prosecutors are deterred from even pursuing a case against a householder who acted with reasonable force. Not "reasonable" by an objective standard, but "reasonable" in the sense that they had a genuine belief at the time that their actions were reasonable. Second, if prosecutors get it wrong and the case does come to trial, a jury faced with a householder who has acted reasonably is unlikely to convict them.Third, even if a person is convicted – as in the case of Munir Hussain, the businessman who reignited this whole debate after he was convicted of GBH for causing brain damage to a burglar – the circumstances can still provide mitigation in sentencing.Hussain eventually walked free with a suspended sentence because, as Lord Judge said delivering the court of appeal's decision, the attack was "totally out of character" and one which "can only be understood as a response to the dreadful and terrifying ordeal and the emotional anguish". Judges are bound to take such factors into account when dealing with a householder who has responded too violently to a burglar, but is nevertheless a victim of crime.Judges are also bound to take the correspondingly serious nature of the burglary into account when dealing with the perpetrator. The maximum sentence is 14 years in jail – not a term to be sniffed at. Although compared with summary execution, I suppose it seems quite lenient.