In "The dark side of shopping" (13 June) by Neal Lawson and Julie Bindel, we hear the stories of five female shoplifters. Some steal because of poverty or mental stress. One woman, who would prefer to stop but feels she has no choice, says: "I shoplift out of desperation, not greed." Lawson says that "few want to look at ... the other side of a society ... run on the assumption that the more we buy, the happier and freer we become. Shoplifters expose the fraud of turbo-consumerism." But it is not only shoplifters who pay the price. As a retail systems consultant with 21 years' experience in the industry, I have worked closely with store and head office staff in both large and small retailers. I have seen how the problem of store "shrinkage" can affect the people who work there, not just the business's profit margins.Retail managers are measured on how well they keep the shrinkage down, and the stress can be horrendous. Many of them spend hours of their own time counting stock and re-checking security procedures to make sure that they can't be held accountable for any losses. In extreme cases, managers can be demoted or sacked.I sympathised with most of the women in the article, but Sarah made me angry. She seems to have made a career out of shoplifting - "eighteen years ago, when I started shoplifting, it was a lot easier, but I have got much better at it, so it balances out in the end" - and takes "about £100 worth of stuff a week". She believes that hers is a "victimless crime" as "I would never nick from a corner shop or steal an old woman's handbag. I only take from big stores, and they're insured for it."Lawson tells us that women like the shoplifters in the article "pose no threat, except to retail profits". What he forgets is that shops are run by people, for people, and they are an integral part of the way our society and economy works - despite their flaws. The cost of theft doesn't just disappear. Retailers can't use insurance to cover the continuous leakage of stock, as the premiums would be crippling. As you report: "Shoplifting is a huge and rising epidemic. In 2007 it cost companies £205m. The actual losses are thought to be at least three to four times as much." These losses are absorbed into the cost of running the businesses. Retailers spend millions of pounds a year on systems and equipment designed to prevent their customers - and sometimes their staff - from walking off with their property. And all this translates into higher prices for the rest of us. Sarah says she steals because she has a partner with a drug problem, has no qualifications, and can't get a job. Many of the managers I have worked with also left school without qualifications, but they have spent years working their way up from trolley duties and shelf-stacking. She also believes that her son is less deprived than other children whose families are on benefits. Though he no doubt has a lot of "stuff", his deprivation is actually worse - he has a mother who will teach him that stealing is acceptable.• Lesley Blankfield is a retail systems consultantlblankfield@artesianretail.co.uk