The lawyer for the parents of Stephen Lawrence yesterday accused ITV, which is planning to screen an interview with his alleged killers, of cashing in on the murder. Imran Khan, solicitor for Doreen and Neville Lawrence, said they wanted the broadcast stopped. The five prime suspects in the unsolved murder have recorded interviews with ITV's new current affairs programme, Tonight, presented by Trevor McDonald, which could be transmitted for its debut edition this Thursday. Gary Dobson, David Norris, Luke Knight, Jamie Acourt and his brother Neil Acourt have all at one time been charged with the racist murder of Stephen at a south-east London bus stop in April 1993, but have not been convicted. The interviews were conducted by Martin Bashir, who shot to fame after securing an exclusive interview with Princess Diana. In the Lawrence family's first reaction to news of the interviews since the Guardian revealed them on Saturday, Mr Khan said: 'The family abhors the idea of this programme. We have to think about the possibility of getting it stopped. 'Mr and Mrs Lawrence see this as a means of cashing in on their grief, and that is something they abhor. 'They can't see any advantage in having this programme made.' When the five were ordered to testify before a public inquiry into the killing last year, they took court action to block key questions being asked of them.They also refused to answer any questions at an inquest. Mr Khan said: 'It doesn't assist the family in their quest for justice. It gives the five a platform, and they have had plenty of chances to answer questions in the past. 'They have put the family through enough grief in the past as it is. ' Ros Howells, a friend of the Lawrences, said that she was disappointed the interview was being conducted by an Asian journalist Martin Bashir on a programme hosted by a black presenter Trevor McDonald. Mrs Howells said: 'I'm surprised that Martin is doing this. 'I'm not surprised that Trevor McDonald would do this. He's so integrated into the system. He's more likely to feel it's just that the five should be given the opportunity to appear.' Mr Khan said he had contacted ITV on Saturday requesting a copy of the programme but had yet to receive a reply. He said: 'We have thought of a number of possible things to do. We could either ask for the programme to be stopped, or ask people to boycott it.' A spokesman for Granada Television said that it had been trying to contact Mr Khan, but so far failed: 'We believe the interviews and the gramme present important new material which takes the case further. 'It will not provide a platform for these people. We are very keen to speak to Mr and Mrs Lawrence before the programme is transmitted.'