The parents of the five men suspected of murdering Stephen Lawrence have complained to the Press Complaints Commission about a weekly newspaper for the black community. A PCC spokesman confirmed yesterday that the press watchdog had received letters from the group's parents and from their local MP, the former Tory schools minister Eric Forth, alleging that an article in New Nation amounted to "incitement to racial hatred and violence". The five men, Jamie and Neil Acourt, Gary Dobson, Luke Knight and David Norris, previously declined to take action against the Daily Mail after its front-page headline described them as murderers. PCC sources say it was made clear to the five suspects that they would be entitled to complain about the Mail on the grounds of accuracy, even if they decided not to sue. An insider said: "It seems the difference this time is that the parents are concerned that action might be taken against them and their homes." David Norris's mother, Teresa, initially wrote to Mr Forth, her MP, complaining about a 60-word article about the five men published in New Nation last September, headlined "Do You Know Where They Live?" The piece appealed for their addresses, suggesting black Britons might like to visit them and "offer our suggestions as to how their media image or indeed their facial features may be enhanced". Mr Forth contacted the PCC and then wrote a formal letter of complaint. His letter said: "The material on this page is a clear incitement to racial hatred and violence and poses a threat to one of my constituents, who is the mother of one of the individuals identified and threatened." Other parents of the five men are since believed to have written to the PCC, which asked New Nation for its comments last week. A similar case against the London Evening Standard for publishing the home address of a public figure ended with a complaint upheld against the paper. Michael Eboda, the editor of New Nation, said: "I was shocked to receive the PCC letter. It's another example of them discriminating against the black community." 