Police conceded last night that they might never know exactly what made Derrick Bird – a seemingly sociable, outgoing man who had just become a grandfather – shoot dead his twin brother and 11 other people, many seemingly at random, in a succession of towns and villages around west Cumbria.Some locals spoke of an apparent argument with fellow taxi drivers in Whitehaven, the port town where the 52-year-old, known to many as Birdy, was a well-known figure. Some spoke of a supposed dispute over the will of Bird's reportedly ailing mother, with whom he lived, which could not be verified. The Bird family's solicitor was one of the presumed victims.But a picture began emerging of a man engaged with colleagues, friends and family, some way from the tortured loner of stereotype.Bird, those who knew him said, enjoyed going to pubs, tinkering with his car and scuba diving. He regularly travelled to places such as Thailand. He was divorced with two adult sons, one of whom became a father just a fortnight ago.Speaking to reporters late last night, Deputy Chief Constable Stuart Hyde from Cumbria police said his force would have to painstakingly piece together all the details of Bird's life."That involves understanding what he has been through, his family circumstances, a whole range of things before we can make judgments," he said. "And it may well be that we never actually find that out. But hopefully by speaking to people, looking at his history we will be able to figure out what caused this."According to colleagues and neighbours, Bird argued with friends on Whitehaven's Duke Street taxi rank the evening before he began shooting. Two of his victims are believed to be fellow cab drivers. Bird was a self-employed driver and had been in the trade for 23 years.One driver and friend of Bird's, who asked not to be named, said there had been a disagreement between at least three drivers. "He had an argument with a couple of the other drivers. Last night somebody has said something to him and he has taken it to heart," he told a reporter.Another Whitehaven taxi driver told the Guardian there had been a rise in tension at cab ranks in the town because of an increasing number of drivers and a decreasing number of jobs."There are so many new drivers out there and not a lot of jobs. There have been fights over fares, and accusations that some drivers are coming in from Preston and Blackpool to take jobs," he said.Other theories took in the death of the Bird family lawyer, Kevin Commons, believed to have been shot dead at his home in the village of Frizlington, a few miles outside Whitehaven and close to Bird's cottage in Rowrah.Bird's property is one of 13 small two-up, two-down pebble-dashed cottages in a tight row opening out on to the street. It has peeling and stained paint and plasterwork; one dusty upstairs bedroom window is paint-splattered.A rusting satellite dish leans upwards from under the eaves. The downstairs curtains were tightly drawn yesterday, but on the windowsill were a number of letters, including some from the Bird family's law firm, KJ Commons, and one from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority; clues perhaps to some private problems Bird was enduring.Local newspaper reports show that in 2007 Bird had been attacked by a fare-dodging passenger. He was knocked unconscious and sustained two broken teeth after challenging a teenager who leaped out of his taxi with three friends. The assault left him "nervous and anxious", a subsequent court case heard.Most of those who knew him remembered Bird as a friendly, even-tempered man; the kind of neighbour with a ready smile who would stop for a chat.Ryan Dempsey said he had known Bird since he was a child. "He was a very easy-going sort of fellow; never walked past without saying hello. The last time I saw him was last night or the night before, and he was just as happy as before. He waved through the window, nodded and smiled, and the next thing I hear is this tragedy."Dempsey, 26, had first met Bird when Dempsey's parents bought their cottage two doors down 15 years ago. Six months ago he took over the property himself.Dempsey never saw Bird – a man reputed locally to be keen on railways – with guns or heard him talk about an interest in shooting or any membership of a local shooting club."I wasn't aware of it. I didn't see him with a firearm," he said. He added that in such a rural area, with its gamekeepers and farmers, shotgun ownership was commonplace. But then again, many gun owners also tend to keep their firearms out of sight.Sue Matthews, a telephonist at A2B Taxis in Whitehaven, said: "To be honest, he was a quiet fellow. I am in absolute shock. I can't believe he would do that – he was a quiet little fellow. I know him through work, he was self-employed but it's a small place."She described Bird as a regular in town who would often be seen on nights out.Michelle Haigh, the landlady of a local pub, the Hound Inn in Frizington, said yesterday's events were "not in character with the Derrick Bird we know". He had been a regular customer.Haigh told the BBC: "He was a nice guy, nothing out of the ordinary. He would come in to the pub, have a couple of pints, have a chat with his friend and go home."Ben Penneson, 21, who works at his father's Whitehaven pub, the John Paul Jones, where Bird was also a regular, spoke of the last time he saw him: "I saw him here on Saturday. I said, 'You alright Birdy?' He was stood leaning against the wall with a blank look on his face. He was hammered. He liked to drink."For many who knew him, Bird was "very placid" and well known on the Whitehaven taxi ranks.One man told BBC Radio 4 he appeared to be a mild-mannered, content individual: "I can't see how this piece [the murder spree] fits into his jigsaw. It's just completely out of place."Indeed, Bird had very good reason to be a happy man: he had just become a grandfather. Last week, his son Graeme and his son's wife, Victoria, who lived only a few miles from Bird's shabby cottage in a neat and quiet cul-de-sac, had a son.Today, the curtains at their home were closed. On the sitting room windowsill was a row of greetings cards crammed tightly together. The couple had retreated to Graeme's mother's home a few miles away in the bucolic village of Lamplugh, a rambling collection of farms, pubs and idyllic country homes.At the gate of the housing association home where Bird's former partner, Linda Mills, lives, a policewoman stood guard yesterday.Lamplugh was also home to Bird's two brothers, David and Bryan. His twin brother David is believed to have been Derrick Bird's first victim yesterday.