We're in the grip of a new addiction – high-speed, high-stakes gambling.What's fuelling this destructive habit is the fixed odds betting terminal (FOBT), a machine that allows people to bet £100 every 20 seconds for 13 hours a day.These digital roulette terminals are making millions for the gambling industry, and making losers out of those who can least afford to lose.And there's also growing evidence that they're turning bookies from places where people have a flutter on the horses into criminal dens linked to money laundering.That's why I want FOBTs curbed and the government to get a grip of this disgraceful situation. David Cameron must stand by his pledge to me at prime minister's question time that the government will take a "proper look" at FOBTs.I'm also calling on other MPs to take a stand today by saying "no" to proposals by the Department of Culture Media and Sport (DCMS) to keep the maximum stake on FOBTs at £100.The government is making a huge mistake in maintaining the status quo. There are several reasons why it reached the wrong decision. Powerful lobbying by the gambling industry has ensured that this Whitehall review of FOBTs was watered down. The key issues weren't explored adequately because FOBTs were considered alongside other gaming machines that are already capped at £2 or lower per spin.Another influential body, the Responsible Gambling Trust, is expected to publish data this month into gaming machines. Its much-delayed report isn't expected until September 2014. But this organisation is funded by the gambling industry and can't be relied upon for unbiased research. Besides, the trust's work does not touch upon the addictive nature of FOBTs.The industry has also fought a furious lobbying campaign, which has involved attempts to silence anyone who criticises FOBTs. When those with power and influence go into overdrive then I know from experience this is usually a good indication that MPs are on to something. Just consider the millions bookmakers have to lose from any reforms.Pressing the pause button and putting the DCMS proposals on hold would provide the opportunity for a proper investigation into the impacts of FOBTs. And this is desperately needed.For a start, just consider the evidence on the addictive nature of FOBTs. Findings from the 2007 British gambling prevalence survey revealed that these machines, which have transformed bookies into high-street casinos, have a stronger association with problem gambling than any other activity.So why did the Gambling Commission, which was set up to regulate gambling in Britain, fail to include this evidence in its advice to ministers?All the government had to do was read the testimonials from problem gamblers to realise the harm FOBTs are doing to communities. These include people who have been made homeless, who have lost jobs and relationships after pumping hundreds of pounds into these machines day after day.One reformed gambler, James Petherick, has even set up his own petition through avaaz.org to reduce the maximum stakes on FOBTs.Many players are drawn in by the promise of huge cash wins. But the odds are heavily in favour of the bookies and if you play them long enough you are guaranteed to lose.Then there is the link with crime. In October this year, the gambling regulator rebuked bookmakers Coral for allowing £900,000 to be laundered through their shops by a drug dealer. So how did Coral respond when it discovered this money-launderer was a frequent visitor to their shops? It rewarded him with a VIP trip to the races.So how do we stop the growth of FOBTs, which continue to invade our high streets like Japanese knotweed and with the same destructive force? It's simple. We reduce the maximum stake from £100 to £2. No other country in the developed world allows £100-a-spin machines on the high street.Today there is a vote in parliament about the type of society we all want to live in. MPs need to act now before we all have to pay the price.