Death in custody is always shocking, and rightly so. The death of Jimmy Mubenga on Tuesday, as he begged for help from fellow passengers on flight BA77, should sound alarm bells throughout the Home Office. A postmortem has so far failed to confirm the cause of death. But eyewitnesses report that the 46-year-old Angolan citizen was being forcibly restrained as the plane prepared to depart for Luanda. Deportations are an unavoidable aspect of any immigration policy. But they must be carried out by guards who are properly trained to minimise both the stress and the distress. It is about patience, compassion and calm, not the pre-emptive use of overwhelming force.It would be wrong to prejudge the current police inquiry. But the prisons ombudsman – who has been asked by the Home Office to report on Mr Mubenga's death – has investigated nine deaths in immigration removal centres since 2004 and, although no deportee has died since 1993, when Joy Gardner was suffocated after being gagged with 13ft of sticky tape, two years ago concerned organisations compiled a dossier of nearly 300 separate claims of abuse by failed asylum seekers. An inquiry commissioned by the Home Office that reported earlier this year could investigate only a small fraction of the allegations, and found no systemic abuse. But it was strongly critical of the lack of proper process, which meant that more than half the allegations examined had simply been ignored by the Border Agency. Meanwhile, the year before, the prisons inspector had also reported that there were too few effective safeguards, wide variations in standards, and worrying gaps and weaknesses in complaints and monitoring.Against this backdrop, the Home Office's initial response that Mr Mubenga had "died after being taken unwell" is at the very least inadequate. If eyewitness accounts given to the Guardian are correct – and they corroborate one another – it is inaccurate too. Occasionally, it is necessary to uphold the law by force. The accompanying safeguard has to be that any death while in the care of the state is swiftly followed by an adequate and transparent investigation. A report from the prisons ombudsman is not enough.In the past 20 years, understanding of the dangers of restraint has greatly improved, but there is no system to ensure that every organisation empowered to use force in the name of the state applies the lessons of earlier tragedies. There is too much evidence that some private security firms do not properly understand the risks of restraint techniques. More fundamentally, it also seems there is neither the oversight nor the accountability that are the preconditions of the safe and proper exercise of state power.