Soon after Elizabeth Campbell held an Elvis party at her home in a picture-postcard Cotswold village, she was sent a letter, which read: "Music too loud. Elvis is dead, you will soon be as well".This was just one of 13 poison pen letters sent to Mrs Campbell, 60, in a 20-month hate campaign waged against her, a court heard yesterday. The letters were anonymous and she had no idea who had written them or why. Some contained ashes, animal bones or writing in Welsh and one seemed to imply that the author had been in her bedroom. Others referred to her as a sex maniac and asked about the people she had been seen with. One read: "I see you walking the dog ... I see your red bin by the back door. I see glasses in the kitchen window. "I'm watching, I'm waiting. Burn dogs. Burn pussy cats, burn you, burn you." Mrs Campbell told the jury at Gloucester crown court that the campaign, which ran from April 2002 to November 2003, went beyond hate mail. She said that her house was "flooded and trashed" in 2001. Sauces were poured into her television and CD player, her washing machine was dismantled and wax candles were put in the back of the oven while she was away. The house was also subjected to an arson attack in April 2002 and she found various containers in her garden smelling of petrol or flammable substances. Mrs Campbell was not the only victim, the court heard. Other residents in Painswick had received threatening letters and a car belonging to a friend was set on fire. Martyn Sheppard, 50, who lives in the terraced cottage next to Mrs Campbell's home, is accused of conducting the hate campaign and sending abusive letters to himself to put the police off the trail. He delivered one letter to Mrs Campbell in person, saying it had come through his letterbox by mistake. When she showed it to him, she said he "just seemed surprised". Sheppard, of Tibbiwell Cottages, Painswick, denies two charges of arson, one charge of harassment, one charge of threats to kill and one charge of threats to damage property. When cross-examined, Mrs Campbell said Sheppard had always been polite to her and never hostile. She agreed that whoever wrote the letters "must have hated her very much indeed". But she could not think of anyone who would have been motivated to write them. Michael Hubbard QC, defending Sheppard, said: "The oddity seems to be that there is no obvious candidate who has hated you or had reason to hate you for things that have been said or done." Peter Blair, prosecuting, had earlier said Sheppard had "masterminded an extraordinary series of events" and had sent 37 letters, including 13 to Mrs Campbell and seven to himself. The events in Painswick could have been a script for a TV detective show such as Midsomer Murders or A Touch of Frost, Mr Blair said. "This is a case which is unusual and frightening about a real village ... It initially left police puzzled in the extreme." A police expert had analysed Sheppard's handwriting and concluded that five items were definitely written by him. The court heard that in addition DNA swabs taken from matches found after the arson attack on Mrs Campbell's' home matched fingerprint samples provided by Sheppard. The trial continues today.