During a study of street crime I conducted in 2002, professionals were already raising concerns about the increasing numbers of young people carrying weapons, while 15-year-olds in our focus groups were frighteningly matter-of-fact about the threat of violence they faced daily in some areas. Commenting on the murder of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor, one girl asked: "Why do they only want to know once someone gets killed?"By 2003 the murder of 14-year-old Luke Walmsley by a fellow pupil in a school in Lincolnshire sparked the flickering of moral panic. And the tragic coincidence of the current knife amnesty with several knife murders has now fanned this into a fair old blaze. With politicians, pundits and the media daily adding fuel to the fire, knife crime offers the new home secretary an obvious platform on which to make his mark; and he will find it tempting to talk tough, promising instant solutions, including draconian sentences for anyone found carrying a knife.Succumbing to this temptation will miss the point and could actually prove counterproductive.Knife crime is a problem that has long been relatively neglected; tackling it effectively, however, cannot be achieved overnight. It requires a strategy of carrots as well as sticks and it must be based on hard facts, rather than a gut reaction to individual cases or Daily Mail editorials. Yet hard facts are in short supply. The Home Office does not collect data on crimes where knives have been used, as it does for firearms; and this currently makes it impossible not only to measure trends but also to evaluate the impact of policy.One indispensable stick will be police searches since these are the main source of arrests for carrying offensive weapons. However, this should not be used as the pretext for an overall increase in police searches. Fewer than 10% of searches are for offensive weapons and the priority must be to improve their effectiveness while minimising their potential for creating tension between the police and the public - for example by more extensive use of devices which can scan for weapons without the need for a more intrusive personal searches.Effective searching, though, also requires good intelligence; and this means offering young people carrots. For they know better than anyone who is carrying knives with the intention of using them. But getting them to pass on this information is extraordinarily difficult; and this can only get worse if current concerns over knife crime add to the relentless demonisation of young people. Instead, we need to recognise that most young people who carry knives do so, as they see it, for their own protection - especially when they themselves have already been victimised. Until and unless young people are convinced that adults in general and the police in particular are taking their victimisation seriously, it will be difficult to break this cycle.