What was taken in Monday's robbery? Up to 3,000 new blank passports and vignettes - the blank stickers for visa stamps – were stolen when the van driver stopped to buy a newspaper. They were en route from the manufacturer to RAF Northholt, north-west London, from where they were due to be sent to British embassies overseas.They are  new-style passports, introduced in 2006, which contain machine-readable chips among other security features.Police said their value on the streets was about £2.5m.Why do passports have chips in them?After the September 11 2001 attacks, in which fake passports were used by the terrorists, the US tightened immigration procedures: foreign citizens who presented themselves at its borders had to have more secure "machine-readable" identity documents. The US told 27 countries that participated in a visa waiver programme that citizens with passports issued after 2006 would need microchipped biometric passports or would have to apply for a US visa. Are they vulnerable to fraudulent use?The government says the passports taken in the raid would be unusable due to their hi-tech security features. It points to their  digital signature - showing the encoded data is genuine – as protection against skimming, and the chips being locked, to prevent the data on them being changed.But Adam Laurie,  of RFIDIOt.org suggests taking these claims "with a massive pinch of salt".He says there are  difficulties in checking that the digital signature is genuine; the chips can be cloned or other chips put in their place; and skimming is possible from 10 metres away.Although the encryption technology is technically advanced - it is used by the military - the key needed to access the data on the chips is made up of the  basic biographical details of the holder, says Laurie.He describes it as similar to building a strong front door and putting the key under the mat.Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at Cambridge University, says the security measures only work if border procedures are effective. "A few years ago, if you had 3,000 blank passports you could issue 3,000 British identities. Now it comes down to how much checking goes on at border crossings," he says.But the Home Office cannot give theguardian.com details of what proportion of passports used at border crossings are checked against a central database or how long before the stolen passports pass into circulation.Could the passports be used for proving someone's identity? Yes, according to industry expert Steve Beecroft. Forgers could print the passports for use as proof of identity for banks."From that one document you could create your own identity as a foreign national who last month got a British passport," he says.How prevalent is passport fraud? Despite increased security, more than  10,000 fraudsters successfully obtained a passport in the year to March 2007. Another 1,500 passports went missing in transit to government agencies in the two years to March 2006, and a further 646,000 were lost or stolen since the creation of the Identity and Passport Service in 2003.