Humberside police authority today issued a bullish defence of its embattled chief constable as the home secretary, David Blunkett, seeks a judicial review to ensure the top officer is suspended.Mr Blunkett is due to launch a high court action this afternoon sparked by the police authority's refusal to suspend chief constable David Westwood over failings identified in the Bichard inquiry into the Soham murders.But the authority today declared that him remaining in post was "the best way" of maintaining an effective police service.The authority chairman, Colin Inglis, said his members had agreed by a majority of 15 votes to two to adjourn the issue of the suspension of David Westwood pending the outcome of the legal proceedings.Speaking outside the authority's Hull headquarters, Mr Inglis said the meeting had considered the "question of the efficiency and effectiveness of Humberside police" following the Bichard report. It had concluded that it was not necessary to call upon the chief constable to retire or resign for this reason. Mr Inglis said: "We have considered our powers of the Section 11 of the Police Act 1996 as amended and we've concluded by a majority of 14 votes to three that it is not necessary for us to call upon the chief constable in the interest of efficiency or effectiveness to retire or resign. "Quite the contrary. We're satisfied that the best way in which the police authority will continue to secure the maintenance of an efficient and effective police force for Humberside is through having David Westwood as its chief constable." The two police authority members who voted against deferring the decision came out of the headquarters and said they stood by their belief that Mr Westwood should be suspended. Councillor John Neal said he thought the other 15 members of the authority should be removed from their posts if the high court rules against them. Mr Neal said: "If the high court finds in favour of Mr Blunkett, I would say all those who voted against suspending him should be removed." He criticised the authority for spending public money on taking the matter as far as they have. Mr Neal added: "We are spending public money here unnecessarily. They are throwing money away as if it was theirs." Mr Neal said the meeting had not been "vitriolic", but added: "The chairman did demonstrate to me a degree of petulance." He added: "I have been threatened with the Standards Board of Great Britain, I have been threatened with being removed from the meeting this morning, also another member accused me of saying that we have broken the law. My recollection was that I said they could be accused of breaking the law." The other member who voted against today's decision, councillor Albert Penna, said: "I thought it was against the law. I have got principles. "The police authority can't be seen to go against the law. It's got to be seen to uphold the law." The authority asked Mr Blunkett last Friday to reconsider his decision to press for Mr Westwood's removal, which followed Sir Michael Bichard's severe criticism of the force in general and the chief constable personally for failing to manage its intelligence systems in relation to the Soham murderer, Ian Huntley.Mr Blunkett did reconsider but did not alter his position. On Monday, the police authority sent Mr Blunkett a further letter asking him to think yet again, this time setting out specific matters to be taken into consideration. The home secretary, having looked at those issues, repeated his call for the authority to suspend Mr Westwood on the grounds that it was necessary to maintain public confidence in the police. Today at 2pm, lawyers for Mr Blunkett are expected to ask Mr Justice Stanley Burnton, sitting at the high court in London, to give him the go-ahead to seek a ruling that there is no legal basis on which the police authority can continue to refuse to act. Unless other developments make the hearing unnecessary, Mr Blunkett could also seek some form of interim measure against the authority. In a brief statement yesterday, the police authority confirmed that it was meeting at 9.30 this morning to discuss the suspension, and the efficiency and effectiveness of Humberside police. Mr Westwood has refused repeatedly to resign despite accepting the criticisms of Sir Michael Bichard over the fact that Huntley was able to get a job as a school caretaker despite having a string of sex allegations recorded against him when he lived in Lincolnshire. Huntley went on to murder 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman in August 2002. At last week's meeting, the 17-strong police authority - which is made up of magistrates, local councillors and independent appointees - voted by a majority of 12 to five to ask Mr Blunkett to think again.