A postman and his brother in law who masterminded £20m cheque-book fraud involving a nationwide network of at least 220 accomplices were jailed today.Dido Mayue-Belezika and his "right hand man", Ishiaba Kasonga, both refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo, swindled hundreds of people in a fraud so widespread that police ran out of manpower to keep track of the number of people involved.Mayue-Belezika stole cheque books from a sorting office in the affluent north London suburb of Golders Green.Police investigating the case said that the fraud was so widespread that at one point victims were queuing up outside the local police station to report that money had been taken out of their bank accounts."Most people in Golders Green either were victims or knew victims," said Det Insp Murray Duffin outside court today.Mayue-Belezika, 34, of Camden, north London, was sentenced at Harrow crown court to six and half years in jail after admitting 12 counts of cheque book theft between April 2004 and April this year. Kasonga, 40, of Brixton, south London, was sentenced to three and a half years after admitting conspiring to conceal criminal property.Mayue-Belezika hid a criminal past to get his job and then wallowed in luxury by intercepting hundreds of cheque books at the sorting office, the court heard. Kasonga helped by selling them to a 220-strong gang of money launderers across Britain.Up to £1,200 a time was later harvested from the accounts of unsuspecting bank customers in the "biggest con of its kind" in the country.Up to £5m was pilfered from 1,300 "mainly Jewish" residents in the north London area of Golders Green. Police believe that nationally the fraud was as high as £20m, with "thousands" more losers, but limited resources prevented a wider investigation.The court heard that Mayue-Belezika's "prolific thievery" and large-scale breach of trust funded a breathtaking string of largely cash-only spending sprees for both men. Luxury car showrooms, top-class jewellers and Savile Row shops were "almost like second homes", said police.In addition, their wrists glittered with £10,000 Rolexes, while wallets invariably bulged with £50 notes. Salesmen fondly recalled Kasonga handing over wads of cash for bespoke suits costing up to £1,500 a time.He also had a love of handmade shoes. One pair, complete with initials engraved in the sole, cost £1,400.Mayue-Belezika's criminal empire finally ended in a series of synchronised raids across the country earlier this year. Hundreds of officers were involved in Operation Bangor, expensive vehicles were seized and enough luxury goods recovered to fill a shop.Dozens of people were arrested, but the sheer scale of the inquiry forced police to concentrate on the Golders Green area and let hundreds of other suspects go free.Mayue-Belezika, a former parking warden and married father of four, also pleaded guilty to 13 offences of using stolen credit cards and asked for 56 similar charges to be considered.Passing sentence, Judge Ronald Moss told an emotionless Mayue-Belezika that his criminal activities amounted to "rampant dishonesty"."These offences could not have been committed without your willing and enthusiastic assistance."Your activities are as serious a breach of trust for a postman that I am aware of. You were at the very centre of what was a very successful and profitable web of deceit."The judge said that while it was not clear just how much his "cut" was, "it must have been reasonably significant, otherwise the risks would not have been worth taking, and it reflects your central role in all of this."You were a postman, employed and earning no more than £260 a week and yet living far beyond your means. Forty thousand pounds was in a bank account into which your salary cheque was paid. But you didn't need to draw that because you had other sources of income, which kept you very comfortably off. You had access to other people's money."The judge continued: "We expect our postmen to be honest and it is right the vast majority are hard-working and honest. The dishonest few like you cause enormous problems and public loss of confidence."Furthermore, other innocent employees must have been under the magnifying glass [of the police investigation]. They had no idea who was responsible ... when they started investigating these huge losses."The judge said that one of the results of his "prolific" criminality was its effect on the Golders Green community. The judge added that because his activities had so "undermined the good order of society" and because of the threat he posed in the future, he had no doubt his "continued presence in this country would be a detriment to it".Consequently, he was recommending his immediate deportation on release from prison.