A lot can change in 14 years, and there are few people left on the Brook estate in Eltham, south-east London, who have ever met any of the suspects in Stephen Lawrence's murder. Two of them, Neil and Jamie Acourt, used to rule the roost, carrying knives and boasting of being the "Eltham Krays".But, although the pair haven't been seen for years, residents say they still cast a shadow over the area. "They gave the place a bad name," said one local. "There's no racism here."The brothers, along with the three other suspects - David Norris, 31, Gary Dobson, 32, and Luke Knight, 31 - fled the area, two of them claiming they had suffered abuse from anti-racist groups. But they all still live in south-east London.Neil Acourt, 32, now goes by his mother's maiden name, Stuart. He has shaved his head and claims he has been forced to live as a recluse.Yesterday, no one was at home at the three-bedroom council house in Greenwich he shares with his mother. Residents said they had seen both brothers at their mother's house, parking their cars, a black Mercedes and a dark pick-up truck.One local said they dressed in sharp designer clothes, "looking like they own the place". Another resident said: "Whenever there's stuff on the telly or in the papers, things go quiet for a while. They keep their heads down."Neil Acourt has a string of convictions. In 2001, he was convicted of possessing an offensive weapon. A year later, he was jailed along with Norris for a racist attack on an off-duty police officer on the same road where Lawrence died. Acourt threw a Coke can and shouted "nigger" at him. Both were jailed for 18 months, which was shortened to a year on appeal.Jamie Acourt, 31, has moved to Sidcup, 15 minutes away in a semi-detached house on a leafy street. He lives with his partner and son. There was no answer at the door yesterday.Norris was forced out of the £800,000 home owned by his drug-dealing father, Clifford, two years ago after a legal wrangle with HM Revenue and Customs. Norris, who has four children, lives in Plumstead. Before they were jailed, he and Acourt wrote letters of support to the London nail bomber, David Copeland, who killed three and injured 139 in attacks against ethnic minorities and homosexuals in 1999. The letter said: "We are being done for abusing a black copper. We hope we don't get stuck in with a load of niggers."In 2004, he was back in prison, jailed for 27 months for burglary and handling a stolen Range Rover.Mr Dobson has a seven-year-old son and lives with his partner, Charlotte Hunter, in Woolwich. He was arrested in connection with a series of burglaries in 1999, but there was no prosecution.Mr Knight has kept the lowest profile. He lives with a girlfriend in Chislehurst. He asked unsuccessfully to be rehoused by Greenwich council a few years ago, claiming he had been harassed by anti-racist groups.The men may have tried to keep out of the limelight, but they know they will be recognised wherever they go.