The missing British backpacker Peter Falconio was alive and apparently in good health one week after his supposed murder in the outback, two witnesses today told a court in Australia.Melissa Kendall told the committal hearing of Bradley Murdoch, who is accused of shooting Mr Falconio on a deserted highway in the Northern Territory, that she had been working at a service station in Bourke, New South Wales, when a man who looked like Falconio walked in and asked for the key to the toilet. She said she had seen Falconio's picture in the paper several times after his disappearance on July 14 2001, and saw it again soon before he walked into the petrol station on July 22. The court, in Darwin, heard that she had gone to the back of the shop, where her boyfriend, Roger Brown, was working in the kitchen, and told him Falconio was at the station. "Melissa came out the back and told me that the old mate that's in the papers [was] in the shop," the Sydney Morning Herald quoted Mr Brown as telling the court via video link from Bourke police station. "I spun out. I went out and had a look at him. I seen [sic] the bloke that looked exactly like [the man] that was in the paper. It was just him."Mr Brown and Ms Kendall told the court that Falconio had bought a Coke and a Mars bar. "I served Peter Falconio myself," Mr Brown said. "If it wasn't him, they were twins."He said that, apart from a scab near his lip, the man appeared to be calm and in good health. "He wasn't limping or anything - he was as good as gold," he told the court. Ms Kendall and Mr Brown were the first witnesses to provide evidence that Falconio may have faked his own death. They were called by the prosecution, although their story undermines the prosecution allegation that Mr Murdoch, 45, murdered Falconio and assaulted his girlfriend, Joanne Lees. Prosecutors say Falconio was driving along the Stuart highway in a camper van after dark with Ms Lees, 27, when they were ambushed by a lone gunman. Ms Lees has testified that she never saw Falconio again after he stepped from the van to speak to the stranger who had flagged them down. She heard a gunshot, and a pool of Falconio's blood was found on the roadside, but his body was never recovered. Ms Lees escaped by fleeing into the desert scrub after a brief struggle with the gunman.The Australian Broadcasting Corporation reported that Mr Brown believed the man had a "slight" British accent, "but nothing that really stood out that much."When the man left the station, Mr Brown told the court he went out to "have a sticky beak" at the man's vehicle and companions. Neither Mr Brown nor Ms Kendall questioned the man, and they did not ring the police.He said the man was travelling with another man, who had shoulder-length dark hair, and a woman in a four-wheel drive. "I didn't want to stare because I think they might have shot me or something," he said.Ms Kendall said she was shocked and frightened, particularly when the man with shoulder-length hair came into the shop and bought dog biscuits. The service station has since burned down, the Sydney Morning Herald reported. The hearing continues.