The description Kafkaesque gets overused. But it seems apt when applied to events in the Old Bailey over the last year. There are echoes – some faint, some stronger – of Kafka’s Trial, in which the accused, Josef K, finds himself in a legal nightmare. One of the most disturbing aspects of K’s dilemma is that the proceedings are held in secret.A fundamental principle of English law since at least the 17th century is that cases should be held in public. Media Law, a standard work for journalists and lawyers, written by Geoffrey Robertson and Andrew Nicol, offers up a clear explanation of the rationale for this. “The most fundamental principle of justice is that it must be seen to be done,” they say.But the case of Erol Incedal, a London law student, and his friend Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, completed on 1 April when the two were sentenced on terrorist-related charges, departs radically from English legal tradition. It has been one of the most secretive trials since the second world war, when cases against German spies were held in camera at the Old Bailey.Initially, the crown sought to hear the present-day case in secret, but it was forced to back down after a media appeal. A messy compromise followed, with part of the case held in public, part before half-a-dozen journalists, and part in secret, although the jury was present throughout. Incedal was jailed for 42 months for possession of a five-page document on how to make a bomb, while Bouhadjar was sentenced to three years for possession of the same document. Incedal was acquitted of the more serious charge of plotting a terrorist attack in London.Why was Incedal acquitted? We are not allowed to know. The evidence remains secret. Why does the evidence have to remain secret? We don’t know that either. In a particularly Kafkaesque touch, journalists were permitted to hear some of the secret evidence but not report it. This evidence is deemed so sensitive that their notebooks have been removed from them and locked in secure storage at Thames House, the headquarters of MI5. It is hard to see the logic behind this. Reporters may no longer have their notebooks, but they cannot erase their memories. The journalists involved are banned from talking about the secret parts of the trial – to do so could mean putting themselves in contempt of court.Why all this secrecy? Is it to protect the lives of individuals involved in the case? In such circumstances, a partial gag would be understandable, though not this sweeping ban. Or is the secrecy to protect some operational details involving security? That too might be understandable. The court of appeal has referred to “the tensions between the principles of open justice and the needs of national security”. What would be unacceptable would be if secrecy was in place to cover up something that is embarrassing to government.It is not just the media that is being censored here. MPs have no access to the material either. Parliamentarians cannot reach any considered view about this trial when the heart of the case is being concealed from them. There is an open-justice system so that politicians and the public have a chance to scrutinise the behaviour of the courts. That requires journalists, acting as their eyes and ears, to be present and to be allowed to report. The open-justice principle is a part of our democracy. If prosecutors and courts are prepared to abandon it, then it is left to the media to restate its importance. The Guardian, the Times and the Mail, supported by Sky and the Press Association, are launching a legal challenge to the judge’s refusal to lift reporting restrictions. It is important this succeeds, not just for this case but to avoid a precedent where secret trials become the norm. The open-justice system must not be dispensed with.In an ironic twist, the judge who presided over the trial and ruled that the restrictions should remain in place is Andrew Nicol, the co-author of Media Law. That book notes: “Trials derive their legitimacy from being conducted in public: the judge presides as a surrogate for the people, who are entitled to see and approve the power exercised on their behalf … No matter how fair, justice must still be seen before it can be said to have been done.” We agree.• Comments on this article will remain closed