Date:10 March 1987 Place: Sydenham, London Facts: Private investigator Daniel Morgan was found dead in the car park of the Golden Lion pub with an axe in his head. There have been four investigations into his death, but no one has been convicted. Claims that he was about to expose links between local police and criminals led to the arrest of several police officers, but the CPS has dropped the prosecution. His brother Alistair is leading a campaign for justice. I always felt like the older brother to Daniel, despite us being only 11 months apart. When our dad died we were teenagers and his death brought us closer together, although we grew up different characters. Daniel was the streetwise type, whereas I was a dry academic studying Scandinavian languages. At 32, he jumped career into the shady world of private investigations. Daniel learnt very quickly and soon set up his own business in south London. It was called Southern Investigations. He was happily married to Iris and had a second child on the way.Then he took on a business partner, Jonathon Rees, who had excellent police contacts. A lot of tension developed between the two men over the years, to the point where Daniel considered splitting up the partnership. It was at its worst just before Daniel was murdered. A month before he was killed, Daniel's house and office were broken into. Then he had to investigate a serious car fraud in Malta and asked that I look after his wife and kids at his home. I felt very anxious before he died - I knew there was trouble going on. One of the last conversations I had with Daniel was about corrupt policemen - he said they were everywhere. I'll never forget the phone call I received early on 10 March 1987 - it was our mum saying that he was dead. My initial reaction was that it was murder. On the night he was killed, Daniel met his partner Rees at the Golden Lion pub. Rees explained how he had left Daniel finishing his drink there. According to the police, Daniel was fatally mugged in the pub's car park. His £900 Rolex watch was missing, but £1,000 in cash had not been stolen. My sixth sense told me it was not a bungled robbery; it was too brutal. Rees identified Daniel's body with the axe still embedded in his head. I had a gut feeling about who was involved from the outset, but I was dismissed by the police as interfering with the inquiry. A few weeks later, six people were arrested - including several police officers and three civilians. Rees was one of them. But everyone was released without charge. The 17-day inquest in April 1988 was astonishing. It resulted in a verdict of unlawful killing, as our worst suspicions came true. To gasps of shock in the courtroom, the first witness, a book-keeper for Southern Investigations, told the coroner that Rees had arranged a £1,000 contract for Daniel's murder. In his evidence Rees denied any involvement in Daniel's death. We expected the handcuffs to come out but the coroner stressed that there was no forensic evidence and that no other witness had confirmed the allegation about a murder contract. The 14-month long inquiry proved similarly fruitless. I continued my fight for justice, and three more investigations were subsequently launched. In the second inquiry, in January 1989, Hampshire police arrested three people. All three were released, and the outcome of the inquiry was, again, 'insufficient evidence'. HTV Wales produced a documentary, but it took seven years before a national paper touched the story. I wrote a report for my local MP, Chris Smith, and we lobbied Scotland Yard's anti-corruption unit. In November 1997 we finally had a meeting with Sir Paul Condon, the police commissioner, after he had just announced a corruption problem in the force. He promised to review the case. Then, in 1999, a surveillance operation using bugging devices began at the offices of Southern Investigations. Rees was later found guilty, alongside a serving police officer, of fitting up an innocent woman on drugs charges, and sent to prison. The bungled investigations, web of corruption and deceit in Daniel's case was so complex, involving a large number of people, that details only emerged after the fourth inquiry, in June 2002. However, the CPS dropped the case after an informant who named suspects withdrew his statements. The Metropolitan Police has consistently refused to divulge reports relating to the investigations, so I started court proceedings against them and finally won disclosure of the Hampshire report in July 2003, on condition that I do not speak out about the contents. We are in litigation again with the police to get our hands on the report from the fourth inquiry. Our family is determined there should be a public inquiry - I want all of the details on the handling of the case publicly aired, and my lawyer has sent a submission to the Home Secretary. One thing I've learnt in the 18 years since Daniel's death is never, ever trust a policeman.