Two investigations have been triggered by claims that police bungled a rape investigation during which a woman claims information she told investigators was leaked to the alleged attacker.In written statements seen by the Guardian, the Muslim woman says her alleged attacker then sought her out threatened to kill her, and mutilate members of her family as revenge for her going to the police. The alleged attacker bragged about how he was "protected" by the police, after testifying in a high-profile case that led to a conviction.The woman alleges that not only did detectives fail to take her allegations seriously, but that they accused her of making them up for money. Five months after she first complained to the police, she claims the same man raped her for a second time.A new investigation into the alleged attacks was ordered last month by Bernard Hogan-Howe, the new Met commissioner, after he received a complaint from the woman, who is in her late 20s.The Independent Police Complaints Commission is supervising an investigation into the allegations against the Met officers' conduct.Legal restrictions mean the Guardian is heavily limited in giving the background and the full context of the case.The first alleged rape took place in London in April 2010, during which implements are alleged to have been used. The woman and man had dated, but split up. In September 2010 she reported the incident to the police, but told no one else. The next day, she says, the suspect telephoned her sister: "He already knew the fact that I had reported him to the police."I had not shared that information with anyone, not even my close friends or family," the woman said in a written statement.Days later, she says, the man called her and she recorded the conversation. She said: "[He] threatened to kill me if I went to the police. He did not deny raping me, instead he repeated the threat that he would throw acid in my face." She handed the recording to the police investigating her case.During an interview where she laid out details of the alleged attack, the woman says officers accused her of being paid to make the allegations by an enemy of the suspect: " They saw [the attacker] as a victim, not me."The suspect was arrested, but the woman claims that her attacker became emboldened and in January 2011 tracked her down and threatened her again. She says he claimed officers had not even searched his house after his arrest."He threatened me and told me that he was aware the police had not done anything. He told me they [the police] were supporting him."Fearing the police would not help her and the attacker would maim her, the woman says she withdrew her complaint.But in February 2011, she alleges the man came to her home and raped her again: "I did not say anything. I was too scared. I knew he could do whatever he wanted to me." The woman says her alleged attacker threatened to kill her again in July.Earlier this month Scotland Yard appointed a new team of detectives to investigate the rape allegations.In a statement, the Metropolitan police said: "We can confirm we have a received an allegation of rape that took place in February this year. Detectives from the specialist crime directorate are investigating."