The Home Secretary is being pressed from several sides to put back the clock and reintroduce flogging as a punishment for crimes of violence. The subject is to be debated both in the Commons and in the Lords.Those who deplore this pressure will be wise to treat it with respect. There have been in recent months a series of brutal assaults upon elderly women which have shocked many people. When the culprits have been caught and convicted, the judge has more than once expressed regret that since the abolition of corporal punishment in September, 1948, he cannot impose a sentence of flogging in addition to a stiff term of imprisonment. Mr. Justice Streatfield at Leeds Assizes observed that "the degree of violence in these cases, whether against women or men, old or young, is more brutal and cruel now than it ever was. In such circumstances it is no comfort to the wounded and terrified victims of the most brutal and savage assaults to be told that there are fewer crimes of this character than there used to be".The statistical aspect becomes relevant, however, when members of Parliament use the "increase" in crimes of violence as an important argument in favour of restoring flogging. What are the figures? Mr. Ede [James Ede, Home Secretary] has said that in the nine months to September, 1948, there were 711 cases of robbery with violence or armed robbery known to the police. The law was then changed. In the corresponding nine months of 1949 the figure had fallen to 597.It looks therefore as if, since flogging was abolished, there has been less, not more, violent crime, and that what has increased is the space allotted to these incidents in the newspapers. An indignant judge rarely goes unreported. The argument for restoring flogging may therefore rest less on the culpable kindness of the Criminal Justice Act than on a wider basis – the urge to meet violence with equal violence, until the more hardened criminals are frightened into lawfulness or milder types of crime.There is a section of opinion in this country which habitually turns to the cat-o'-nine-tails whenever there is a run of well reported crimes. Eleven years ago, one of Mr. Ede's critics of this week wanted us to flog the misguided Irishmen who left bombs in London railway stations. We were once urged to fight car bandits and window slashers with the "cat." Indeed, at one time or another the courts have used the "cat" with intensest zeal to fight gangsters in Liverpool, pimps in Glasgow and Manchester, assaults on drunken sailors in Cardiff. The result was always the same; people were glad to feel that "something is being done," yet in no case was flogging the key to victory.