At his last court appearance, Gary Atkins (not his real name), a 29-year-old drug addict, was found guilty of 24 burglaries and was sentenced to two-and-a-half years in prison. Within two weeks of release, he reoffended and landed himself back in a cell.For the past 10 years, Atkins's life has followed a predictable path. He robs to fund his £500-a-day drug habit until he gets caught and is sentenced to a spell behind bars, only for the cycle to begin again when he is released.It was only after he was helped by the Avon and Somerset Prolific Offender Scheme (Aspos) that his life took a different turn. He is now undergoing drug treatment at a centre in Devon.The monitoring scheme, based at Southmead police station in Bristol, was set up in 2002 to tackle the city's worst offenders. Several hundred are now signed up, and the scheme has been adopted across the Avon and Somerset area.Once identified in prison or picked up by the police, a persistent offender is obliged to cooperate as part of a court order or parole conditions, although some refer themselves so they can be fast-tracked for scarce drug treatment.Some 98%, like Atkins, are addicted to class A drugs, and between them have committed hundreds of crimes to fund their habits."The peak age is late 20s, early 30s," says Jim Allum, a senior probation officer who works at the unit. "By then they have been taking drugs since they were teenagers, been in and out of prison, and seen a few of their friends die. They just want to get their life in order." He says even the most persistent offenders eventually tire of their chaotic lifestyle.National estimates suggest that persistent offenders represent just 10% of active criminals, but commit half of all serious crime.Offenders on the scheme receive four visits a week from a probation officer - four times the norm - and are drug tested twice a week. The approach is not a soft option, insists scheme manager Garry Holden. "If they cooperate they are subject to increased monitoring, and if they don't comply they are targeted by Aspos staff and also by police officers."Failure to meet the conditions of their prison licence or drug treatment and testing order results in swift and vigorous enforcement. Offenders can be arrested and returned to a prison cell within hours of breaking their conditions. "We also have a duty to protect victims of crime and get these people off the streets if they are offending," Holden stresses.A close working relationship between probation, police and prison services is at the heart of the scheme. Two probation officers are based at Southmead police station and a third works at Bristol prison, alongside two prison officers. It means information is exchanged regularly."A team at the local prison enables us to track offenders while they are there," Holden says. "We see these as 'golden months', when the offenders can really think about themselves and work on themselves. We can also move them around to prisons where they will receive the treatment and support most appropriate to them. Their entire sentence is planned. When they come out, we are waiting for them."A study of the scheme published last month shows a marked improvement. Of 17 offenders who committed 459 offences over a 15-month period, only seven have been charged with further offences since joining the scheme. Robbery and burglary across the areas covered are down by a fifth.The unit forms the template for the government's national framework for prolific and priority offenders, which was published last year and has just been rolled out across the country, with the aim of identifying 9,000 persistent offenders anddiverting them away from a life of crime.Following his arrival at the Devon centre, Atkins wrote to his two probation officers: "You were both so right. I have only been here a week and it is exactly what I need. I have not looked at my inner self like this before. It is very frightening and real. It's like a major wake-up call, and I am certainly waking up."