"That's it, man," says Kevin. "Got letters after my name now. My mum, she's going to be so pleased.""What letters are they, then?" Carl asks, and a couple of the guys make one or two suggestions. Kev turns to me. "Nobody believes anything good, do they?" "Is it the photos?" I ask him and get the big beam. "Yeah," he says. Kev has been doing the photography course for about 18 months now and it has taken him over. Alan, the photography tutor, tells me how quiet Kev was at first. "This was something he wanted to do, but technically it was just too daunting. He kept on coming to class, though, and his pennies started dropping. I did the trick that always hooks people, used the light from the keyhole in the darkroom to show the guys a camera obscura, get them to realise that they're standing inside a giant camera. I try to get them to believe in photography as a way of making history, the history of their families. Photos are 10 a penny nowadays, but I want these guys to take pictures that people will want to keep, something that you know has been made by an artist." Alan is a dapper figure, bow tie and sensitive looks, and this emphasises the fact that the artists in his class would look more at home in Gladiator school. "I want them to think theatrically," says Alan. "I ask them: could their pictures hang in a theatre foyer and command attention like a living actor would?" I start to ask him about equipment but he brushes this aside. "It's the guy behind the camera that counts; the actual kit can be as cheap as you like. We've got a Jessops SLR, dead simple. What Kevin's learnt about is people, about how to interview them and draw them out. His strength is with people and he's obviously thinking of them as individuals. A big leap, that is. I was sick one week and Kevin took the class. The maths teacher was in to supervise and he was stunned by the way the guys worked together." Up on the wing, Kevin shows me the pictures he sent to the Royal Photographic Society. "Once the technical stuff is right I just relax and get them into conversation, chat 'em up a bit, then I can get them in a natural way. I wanted to catch this bloke with the big jawline, put him right up against the wire, but that wasn't on, obviously. So, I got his face emerging from the gravel, for the arrogance, got him on the upshot. "That one of Alistair, I was after the constricted look in his eyes. I didn't want gangster poses. I'm looking at all sorts, films and adverts, in a different way. It's brilliant for me; I keep thinking it's a fluke, but then I keep on doing it. I've never been confident - I know I look it, but I'm not. OK, I might have been confident in a crim way, a seedy way, but it's different now." "Confident?" says Alan. "He is now. Well, they've all learnt that. Confidence allows you to be patient and creative and for us in a limited environment and with limited equipment that's what we really have to have. "Now that Kev's got this licentiateship of the Royal Photographic Society, and now that people have seen his work, they're starting to show trust in him. He really knows how to photograph men, but one or two of the female teachers are asking about having portraits done. It shows faith in him though, not just as a photographer but as a person." "Alan's put me through all this," says Kevin. "It's only when you look back that you realise how much there was to do, and I've done it. I want to do this as a living. I've been thinking about weddings and social groups. I've done a business plan with Business in Prisons: market research, accounts, VAT. I keep on getting stuff done, but I'm ashamed of being in here. Really, you know, I have been a bad lad."