In the 1970s, there was a war on. The enemy was sexual repression. It was everywhere, and it accounted for all of civilisation's discontents. But liberation could begin at home. Never mind that we'd been fucked up by our parents. We would save ourselves by saving our children from the scourge of shame. We would teach them that the body was beautiful, no matter what its age. So we left the bathroom door open and decorated the rest of the house with arty black and white photographs of all the fun we got up to in the tub.Any question a child might ask about any bodily function got an instant and deeply thoughtful answer, whatever the venue, and never more thoroughly than in front of an appalled great aunt. The world stopped until we'd done the encyclopaedia on the egg, the sperm, and the fallopian tubes, and of course we did not stop there, because we also needed them to know that sex was not just for making babies, that it was deeply pleasurable in and of itself, and not just for heterosexual couples either! And oh, how we laughed when they came back later with an armful of action figures to ask why Darth Vader didn't have a penis, or how Princess Leia was ever going to have an orgasm, seeing as she lacked a hole.But there was one thing that we didn't talk about, and that was child abuse. That's what shocks me most when I think back, and never more so than this week, which has seen Roman Polanski arrested in Switzerland and facing extradition to the US on charges of raping a minor in 1977; and a nude photograph of Brooke Shields, taken with her mother's permission in 1975, removed from the Tate Modern. The debates about the rights and wrongs of these cases sit uneasily with the horrifying reports of the Vanessa George nursery abuse case, and all lines of argument led me back to the same question: what was wrong with us back in the 70s? Why couldn't we see it coming?I don't recall condoning Polanski when he fled the US 31 years ago, but the story didn't particularly surprise me. Because wasn't that how people acted in Hollywood? And it wasn't until the police marched into the Tate Modern in London this week to remove the installation with the steamy photograph of a sultry 10-year-old Brooke Shields wearing nothing but her makeup that I had any idea such a photograph existed. When it was first published in a Playboy book in the mid-70s, and even when the pop artist Richard Prince used the photograph in an installation in 1983, there was no moral panic. There wasn't even a ripple. And this despite Shields's own later (unsuccessful) legal action to have it removed from circulation.Of course I'd seen Shields as the 12-year-old brothel child in Pretty Baby. And I'd read the many and furious condemnations of its director, Louis Malle. But in those days, we had a name for people who harangued against sexual candour in films, music and novels. We called them the religious right. We knew that unless we defended artistic freedom vigorously and relentlessly, we would lose it. That danger is still with us: the "extreme pornography" causes in the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 erase the distinction that the Obscene Publications Act made between pornography and literature: that is why the police were able to take matters into their own hands at the Tate Modern.Nevertheless, it is hard not to wince when reading what nice, liberal People magazine had to say in 1978 with regards Shield's role in the Malle movie. "Her nude scene in the film is a shocker", the headline concedes. "But Pretty Baby star Brooke Shields remains a very normal little girl". The article goes on to praise her flawless skin, deep blue eyes, black lashes, silken hair and her "direct gaze … full of ambivalent sexuality". She's still a child, we are assured. ("I don't even have my period yet.") And she can't understand all the fuss. ("It's only a role. I'm not going to grow up to be a prostitute.") She has no intention of seeing the film alone. ("Gross!") But listen. Her "nude" scenes were all shot using a body stocking. Except for the one when she "chastely poses naked for the photographer Bellocq (Keith Carradine) – for this one Malle closed the set to everyone but himself and the cinematographer Sven Nykvist.'" Somehow that doesn't go a long way to reassuring me.This public innocence about paedophilia is even more perplexing when I think back to the world I myself knew as an adolescent. My school years were amply decorated with groping teachers, panting priests, and doctors who insisted on doing full physicals, even if you'd gone in complaining of a sore throat. I don't remember any of us keeping any of this secret, which is why I know that it was not just me these people were after. But there seemed no way to talk about it outside the locker room.I am prepared (to some extent, at least) to see this as a personal failing. But again, I have a lot of company. In The Dialectic of Sex, Shulamith Firestone, the great feminist firebrand of the 1970s, most famous for imagining a world in which gestation happened in test tubes, and child rearing in communes, thereby liberating mothers from maternity and children from parental control, suggested that "a child might form his first physical relationships with people his own size for sheer convenience … But if not, if he should choose to relate sexually to adults, even if he should happen to pick his own genetic mother, there would be no a priori reasons for her to reject his sexual advances … all close relationships would include the physical."The German politician Danny Cohn Bendit, or Danny the Red, as we knew him in 1968, seems to have been playing with the same ideas when he wrote the following about his time working at a hipper than hip nursery school in Frankfurt. "On several occasions certain kids would open my fly and start to stroke me. I reacted differently according to circumstances, but their desire posed a problem for me. I asked them: 'Why don't you play together? Why have you chosen me, and not the other kids?' But if they insisted, I caressed them still."At least, that was how he remembered it during the 70s. When his words resurfaced in 2001, he was appalled. "I admit that what I wrote is unacceptable nowadays. When I look at those sentences today, I say to myself, 'Hey Danny, that's impossible!'" He went on to imply that he'd just been exaggerating (though without saying categorically that he'd never touched them). But (without quite seeking to exonerate himself) he did try to remind people of the context: "Collective discourse of a new sexual morality," he said, "had yet to be defined."There was, however, another collective discourse in full swing then. In The Red Decade, Gerd Koenen describes how the kinderladen movement in Frankfurt set out to solve the fixation of children towards their parents and the establishment of a children's solidarity "battle group" to fight imperialism. This reasoning was very much in line with Herbert Marcuse and the Frankfurt school. Having located the seeds of Nazism in authoritarian child-rearing practices, they sought to save the new generation by liberating them, sexually as well as politically. They viewed their parents, many of whom were Nazis that had gone unpunished, as "contaminated" and they wanted to make a "total break".We can see the same sentiments in the Oz trial, or rather, in the issue that led to the magazine being prosecuted in 1971. The villains in this instance were not Nazis, but when it came to sex, they might as well have been (or so we righteously complained while soaking nude in the family bathtub). It was because Oz published a sexually explicit issue directed at schoolchildren that the law stepped in. It is worth noting that a magazine putting out the same issue would almost certainly get prosecuted now, too, even if the reasons would be differently phrased. But in the those days, when second-wave feminism was only a few years old, and the gay rights movement was just as new, it seemed ungenerous to leave children out of the story. They needed to be liberated, too.Or to quote writer and activist Kate Millett in an interview in 1980, "One of children's essential rights is to express themselves sexually, probably primarily with each other but with adults as well." Certainly this was the rationale behind The Little Red Schoolbook – written by two Danish teachers in 1969, translated into many other languages in the early 70s, and banned in France and Italy – but (especially after an unsuccessful obscene publications prosecution in England) rather popular in certain circles here. It is also an argument I recall hearing from the more radical sectors in pre-Aids San Francisco in the late 70s. Why should children be left out of the fun? Why was it always left to their uptight parents to set the rules? Couldn't the age of consent be brought down to reflect the actual state of play?It was not until the 80s, with Cleveland and the spate of scandals that came in its wake, that there was anything like a meaningful "collective discourse" about child abuse. And in its early stages, it was anything but smooth. I remember an extraordinary number of people insisting with blue faces that the whole thing was a malicious invention. But that was then. For the past 20 years, we have had child abuse scandals every day for breakfast. That is why the Polanski story looks so much different now. That is why the photograph of Shields nude aged 10 can cause such discomfort, 34 years after the fact. When we look back, what we see first is what we didn't know then. There's some satisfaction here: see how far we've progressed! In fact, we still have no idea how to protect children from predators. We just keep swinging from one extreme to the other, fearfully, and without reflection.So the Criminal Records Bureau checks get even more draconian, and at the same time a nursery school assistant with clearance can abuse 100 children and record it on her mobile phone and still evade detection. We want more men to teach at primary level, and when they do, they become lightning rods for parents' fears. Though we know that abusers can be female, it is the man in a park with his own toddler who can expect wary looks. And woe betide the man picking up holiday snaps in which his small children appear nude while building sand castles. Ditto for the stepfather who is foolish enough to let his new partner's children see him when he is not fully dressed.Meanwhile, young girls much sexier than Shields carry on parading ambivalently down the catwalks. Girls up and down the country spend half the day taking pictures of themselves in alluring poses, and the other half putting them on Facebook. These are only for their friends to see. But every school in the country can tell you a story about grooming. Internet pornography is always a step ahead. One click away is the ever more virulent religious right, claiming, as always, that the only way forwards is backwards, and with our eyes shut. But since we've been there, done that, and seen what got brushed under the carpet, it would make more sense, I think, to learn from past mistakes.