A former public school art teacher made tens of thousands of pounds by churning out vases and bowls in his garden studio and passing them off as the work of the renowned artists Bernard Leach and Lucie Rie, it emerged yesterday.Jeremy Broadway's fakes were so convincing that auctioneers Bonhams sold two pots that he claimed were by the great St Ives potter Leach and a Rie piece for almost £10,000.Christie's also offered three bowls supposedly made by Rie for £17,000, though they were withdrawn from sale when their authenticity was questioned.When officers questioned Broadway he claimed he had inherited the pieces but in an outbuilding of his home in the village of Child Okeford, near Blandford, Dorset, police found a studio with a potter's wheel and kiln, fake seal mark stamps, and a pile of fake Rie pots, which would have been worth as much as £50,000, stacked on top of each other in a toilet.Police said Broadway, 52, who has a degree in ceramics, made up to £20,000 by selling to collectors across Europe and in the US. Experts believe he may have sold many more pots that have not been accounted for.He began by selling via the internet and lesser-known galleries but became confident enough to offer his fakes to world-famous auction houses.In 2004 Ben Williams, formerly head of contemporary ceramics at Bonhams, received a call from Broadway stating he was acting for a "little old lady" who had a number of ceramic pieces for sale. Two "Leach" pieces were sold, together with a little pot apparently by Rie.Broadway then turned his attention to Christie's. Three bowls purporting to be by Rie were valued at £17,000. But when Williams went to take a look at the pieces he was convinced they were fakes.Williams said: "Technically he is very good. But there was a spontaneity missing. An artist of genius can create a line without effort. If you are copying, you are being more careful, less free. On Lucie Rie bowls, there are often thin, scratchy blue lines but on these the lines were thicker and more precise."Williams said the weight of the bowls also raised his suspicions. "From the feel of the pot, from the distribution of weight you feel that something is wrong."He told Christie's and checked his records, recalling the Rie and Leach pots Bonhams had sold. The buyers of the Leach pieces were contacted and they were confirmed as fakes.Police were contacted and have recovered fake pieces from disappointed buyers in Copenhagen, Oxford, Liverpool and Portsmouth. They have also traced a collector in the US who may have been duped.As well as using Ben Williams' expertise, police brought in John Leach, a grandson of Bernard Leach and a well-known potter in his own right, to examine the works.Williams said: "The worse thing to do would be to have let it continue, which would have undermined the market. If people start to get worried that there are fakes out there that nobody can identify, then that undermines the confidence in the market."Detective Constable Jon Bayliff, of Weymouth CID who investigated the case, said: "The amount of time this deception went on for - and the number of people duped - is staggering."Leach lived and worked at a studio in St Ives, Cornwall, though he is probably more famous in Japan than in the UK.Rie was born in Vienna but settled in Britain and became a leading figure in 20th century pottery. She was influenced by Leach.Broadway denied charges of obtaining money by deception but the case was proved in his absence at Bournemouth crown court as he was mentally unfit to plead. He was given a 12-month supervision order in November.The details of the case can only be revealed now after proceedings against his wife, Catherine, were discontinued.