People who overreact when defending themselves from an attack or an anticipated attack may be entitled in future to be convicted of manslaughter rather than murder.The reform, under consideration by the law commission, could help householders like the Norfolk farmer Tony Martin who use excessive force against burglars. It could also be invoked by battered wives who suddenly snap and kill their husbands. The commission, the official law reform body for England and Wales, has been asked by the Home Office to look at the existing "partial defences" to murder - diminished responsibility and provocation - which, if successfully pleaded, cut murder to manslaughter, and to consider whether self defence with excessive force should be added. At present, self defence is a complete defence to a murder charge, entitling the defendant to be found not guilty, but only if the amount of force used was proportionate to the threat. If the force was excessive, the defendant is guilty of murder. Critics of this law argue that, in the heat of the moment, it can be difficult to gauge how much force is reasonable. While murder carries an automatic life sentence, defendants convicted of manslaughter may walk free or face any sentence up to life imprisonment, depending on the circumstances. Martin was convicted of murder but his conviction was reduced to manslaughter on appeal because of diminished responsibility. His life sentence was cut to five years. The review, backed strongly by the solicitor general, Harriet Harman, as part of the effort to strengthen the law on domestic violence, will look particularly at the use of partial defences in domestic violence cases, but will consider their application to murder in general. Killing through a suicide pact and infanticide will not be included. The commission will consider whether diminished responsibility and provocation should continue to be partial defences to murder and, if so, whether they should be combined in a single defence or remain separate. The study will be backed by research in which people around the country will given a range of scenarios and asked for their opinions on them. Various options for reform will be set out in a consultation paper promised by the end of October. The commission has agreed to produce a final report and recommendations by spring 2004, in time for amendments to be made to domestic violence legislation due to be introduced this autumn. · A claim for damages by Brendon Fearon, the burglar shot by Tony Martin, is to be heard between February and April next year. A high court procedural judge yesterday fixed the "trial window" for the action being brought by Fearon, who recently won the right to sue Martin for a reported £15,000 damages for wounds he received during the break-in at the farmer's home in Emneth Hungate, Norfolk, during August 1999. The hearing is expected to take five days and involve legal arguments over the effects of a psychiatric disorder Martin was said to have had at the time of the break-in. Raising the possibility of a counter-claim by Martin against Fearon, Chris Corney, appearing for Martin, said: "We believe our client suffered injury as a result of the actions of the claimant."