Two men have been convicted of killing an off-duty police officer who died following a fatal “piledriver” punch during a Christmas party last December.Andrew Taylor, 29, and Timmy Donovan, 30, were found guilty of the manslaughter of PC Neil Doyle by joint enterprise after they went “out of their way” to get into a fight with three off-duty officers in Liverpool.The friends had denied striking Doyle, 36, who was punched twice before staggering across the street after Taylor “baited” him for a fight at about 3am on 19 December 2014.Taylor, a football consultant for the Wasserman Media Group, and Donovan, a sports event manager, were acquitted of murder after a five-week trial but unanimously convicted of manslaughter by the jury, which deliberated for more than 17 hours.Doyle and his colleagues Robert Marshall and Michael Steventon had been out for their police station Christmas party when they came across Taylor. Taylor had been described as acting in a “disinhibited and antisocial way” prior to the attack, while Donovan was said to have been “bouncing around like a boxer in the ring”. Liverpool crown court heard Taylor had taken issue with Doyle as he made his way to another bar, asking him directly and in an “unsettling” manner, “are you having a good evening officer?” – yet claiming to not know he was in the force. Despite being told to go away, Taylor declined, repeating the word officer and saying “that’s not very nice, officer”. Doyle and his colleagues were attacked outside the Aloha bar, part of which was captured on CCTV, showing PC Marshall being kicked and punched. The defendants claimed they had been acting in self-defence in the belief that they were coming under attack from the officers. The jury of six men and six women found the pair guilty of wounding Marshall with intent.Taylor was also found guilty of causing grievous body harm with intent to PC Steventon, who suffered a fractured cheekbone. Donovan was cleared of the same charge and another charge of inflicting GBH. Their co-defendant, Christopher Spendlove, 30, who was also present and “froze with fear”, was acquitted of murder and manslaughter by joint enterprise. He was also acquitted of wounding with intent and wounding Robert Marshall, and cleared of grievous body harm with intent and inflicting GBH in relation to Steventon. The defendants had been drinking in the city to celebrate Spendlove’s 30th birthday. Following the attack, Taylor told his co-accused that he had “knocked the big fella out” as they made their way to another bar, the court heard.The blow to Doyle’s neck ruptured his vertebral artery and resulted in bleeding on the brain. A postmortem revealed that he did not have any injuries to his hands. The following day, Taylor admitted hitting Doyle on the chin “as hard as he could” and said he knew he had knocked him out, because he “saw the fella’s legs go under him”. He told police he struck Doyle but later said he had been mistaken as to which officer he had hit, and had only acted in self-defence.The prosecution argued that Taylor delivered the fatal punch and Donovan, who was extradited after fleeing to Germany for a month, had acted in joint enterprise. Nicholas Johnson QC, prosecuting, said the defendants had been “determined to get involved in a physical confrontation” and that it had been “one-way traffic”. Taylor and Donovan will be sentenced in September.