Police have said they are struggling to find a motive for the execution-style killing of a bank manager at his home in a Scottish Highlands resort.Alistair Wilson, 30, was shot in the head on the doorstep of his house in Nairn on Sunday night, minutes after putting his two young sons to bed. Armed police patrolled the town yesterday in their hunt for the gunman, who had knocked on the door and told Mr Wilson's wife he wanted to speak to her husband. Senior officers and local people have been left stunned by the murder. Nairn, population 11,000, is a small resort on the Moray Firth. The last killing in the community was a stabbing in 1986. "It is almost bizarre, these things don't happen in Nairn," said Detective Superintendent Gordon Urquhart of Northern constabulary. "We are completely surprised - it is a quiet place." The gunman, who was wearing a baseball cap, was said to be between 35 and 40, stockily built, with no discernible accent. It was just before 7.15pm on Sunday that he walked up to the Wilsons' three-storey Victorian villa in Crescent Road. When Veronica Wilson, 33, answered the door, he asked for her husband by name. Mr Wilson, a Bank of Scotland business manager, had been helping to put the couple's four-year-old and two-year-old sons to bed. Minutes later, Mrs Wilson heard shots and rushed to the door to find her husband fatally wounded and his killer escaping down Crescent Road towards the seafront. She ran to a nearby hotel to raise the alarm. Alistair Wilson was rushed to Raigmore hospital in Inverness but died later from his injuries. Detective Chief Inspector Peter MacPhee, who is leading the inquiry, said the killing was "horrific" and one of the most unusual he has investigated in his 27-year career. He said: "When Alistair approached the door he was what can only be described as brutally gunned down on the steps of his house. "His assailant then made off, leaving Veronica to run to neighbours for help. There appears to be no motive for this. Alistair was an upstanding member of the Nairn community and respected within banking circles. "The town is shaken and the family are devastated. We have appointed a family liaison officer to look after Veronica and her two young children." Detectives were examining Mr Wilson's career in commercial banking to see, as one put it, "if he had upset someone in the past". Originally from Ayrshire, Mr Wilson had joined the Bank of Scotland as an accountancy and business law graduate and started in the bank's Fort William branch, before moving to the specialist lending sections in Edinburgh. He moved to business banking in Inverness in November 1999 and was appointed to jointly lead a new business banking team for the Highlands and Islands in May 2003. There were reports that he had been due to leave for another post shortly. He and his wife bought their current home, which was formerly a hotel and restaurant, almost three years ago. They reopened it as a business but it is believed it was not successful, and they returned it to being the family home. A businessman who knew Mr Wilson, but did not wish to be named, said he was a charming man. "You would not expect someone like him to be a victim of such a terrible incident," he said. A team of 40 officers has been drafted in to take part in the hunt, which also involves other police forces, Grampian police's forensic laboratory and Strathclyde police's ballistics experts. As the police worked at the scene yesterday, a small number of onlookers gathered to watch. Deborah Bircliff, 23, said she was stunned by the news that someone in the town had been murdered. She said: "I'm still in shock, to be honest. You just don't expect anything like this to happen. You just don't know what to do or what to say."