Amid the media coverage of two reports last week about women and the criminal justice system, links between domestic violence and the causes of crimes by female offenders were largely overlooked.The Prison Reform Trust's research, Brighter Futures, repeatedly cited the links between women's offending and their experiences of domestic and sexual violence, and stated that their offending "was more likely than men's to be linked to their relationships". Yet analysis of 42 police and crime plans showed that while most demonstrated a commitment to tackle domestic violence, few acknowledged the distinct approach required for responding to women as suspects or offenders. Certainly, of the hundreds of women and girls in prison I have met, most have experienced domestic and sexual abuse from their partners, fathers, brothers and extended family. On my most recent trip to a women's prison, all but two of those I spoke to had experienced domestic abuse, which was directly linked to their offence.Mistrust of the police still prevents many women from talking about their abuse. Domestic abuse policy often assumes that "first contact" with the police is when a woman calls to report an incident. However, the women I have met in prison have often only had contact with the police when they have been arrested, and have never called to report their experiences of abuse. For them, "first contact" means something very different, and we are far from acknowledging the link between domestic abuse and women's offending in these instances.Her Majesty's Inspectorate of the Constabulary's report on police response to domestic abuse found that officers needed to "understand the nature of domestic abuse when the victim may present as a suspect" and that, on arrest, many women would have disclosed the abuse they were experiencing if they had felt the responding officer would have been "more supportive or understanding".The challenge is to turn this finding into action. Yet the same HMIC report discusses first contact with an exclusive focus on when women call to report domestic abuse, not recognising that first contact may be at the point of a woman's arrest. When a woman is processed through the criminal justice system, it is likely that those responsible for her case will not be from specialist domestic violence teams. All officers, not just those trained in domestic abuse, should be able to spot the signs and support women to disclose experiences of abuse. It is critical that police forces and the crown prosecution service work together to ensure that when they make decisions to charge women, enough has been done to identify potential links between domestic violence and their offence. As the HMIC report notes, "domestic abuse is a priority on paper but, in the majority ofing forces, not in practice"; this is particularly true for women in the criminal justice system, and the dots between domestic abuse and offending must be joined to ensure this is not the case in the future.