The Russian prosecutor general today said the country would not extradite suspects in the Alexander Litvinenko case to Britain.Yuri Chaika also insisted that polonium 210, the radioactive element with which the former spy was poisoned, could not have come from Russia.In what is likely to be seen as a setback for the Scotland Yard investigation into Mr Litvinenko's death, Mr Chaika said it would be "impossible" for British investigators in Moscow to arrest Russian citizens in connection with the case."If they want to arrest them it would be impossible - they are citizens of Russia and the Russian constitution makes that impossible," he said, adding that any Russian citizens suspected of involvement would be tried in Russia.His words contrasted with those of Tony Blair, who insisted no political or diplomatic barrier would be allowed to stand in the way of the British investigation into Mr Litvinenko's death. Mr Chaika said Russian prosecutors were interrogating all the people UK investigators had asked to see in connection with the case, and the interviews would be conducted in the presence of Scotland Yard officers. The prosecutor general confirmed that a potential central witness, another former Russian agent who met Mr Litvinenko in London on November 1 - the day he believed he was poisoned - was in hospital. He said the British officers could be allowed to visit Andrei Lugovoi and listen to him being interrogated by Russian prosecutors if doctors permitted it. "Everything will depend on the doctors' opinion," he added. However, the UK team will not be allowed to visit the former security officer Mikhail Trepashkin, who is serving a four-year prison sentence after being convicted of divulging state secrets. In a letter from prison, Mr Trepashkin claimed he had warned Mr Litvinenko several years ago about an alleged government-sponsored death squad that intended to kill him and other opponents of the Kremlin. Mr Chaika dismissed the allegations as "nonsense", but said added that if substantial facts were collected to support Mr Trepashkin's claims, Russian prosecutors could consider giving the British police an opportunity to visit him.A Home Office spokesman confirmed that the Russian legal system did not permit the extradition of its own citizens. Nobody has been extradited from Britain to Russia for 15 years. The arrival of British police officers in Russia marks the start of a crucial period for the police investigation and for Anglo-Russian political relations. The Russian foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, has already warned that persistent suggestions of Russian involvement in the Litvinenko case could harm diplomatic relations between the two countries. It emerged today that Mr Litvinenko's funeral would be held this week, but the exact day remains unclear. The coroner has given his family dispensation to proceed with the burial following last week's post-mortem examination. Experts from the UK government decontamination service are carrying out radiation tests on a room at the British embassy in Moscow, believed to be where Mr Lugovoi gave a statement about his meeting with Mr Litvinenko at the Millennium hotel in London to Britain's deputy ambassador. Yesterday, the Health Protection Agency confirmed that two more addresses in the capital were also being examined for traces of radiation. They include the Parkes Hotel in Knightsbridge, where Mr Lugovoi reportedly stayed during a previous visit to London. Officers from Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism unit are hoping to interview several potential witnesses in Russia, including Mr Lugovoi and possibly his associates Dmitry Kovtun and Vyaceslav Sokolenko. In a deathbed accusation, Mr Litvinenko blamed the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, for his poisoning - an allegation the Kremlin has vehemently denied.