Plans to overhaul the court system to hold evening and weekend hearings, first introduced at the height of last summer's riots and now being deployed for the Olympics, have met strong opposition from lawyers being forced to work longer hours.A government white paper on criminal justice due later this week is expected to endorse the extended, flexible openings that were pioneered by magistrates courts during the 2011 riots.Ahead of publication, the Ministry of Justice has begun a series of largely unannounced pilot projects across the country to explore how the changes might work.But solicitors have warned that ministers will squander the goodwill demonstrated during the exceptional circumstances of the riots by imposing regular weekend duties on criminal justice professionals.A flexible court scheme in operation around the Olympics has already been announced by the Crown Prosecution Service. Weekend courts trials began in Durham last month. In Cardiff, courts are working from 8am until 6pm, starting with video-link hearings where defendants are not present.The white paper, focusing on "Swift, Sure Justice", will be presented by the Conservative minister Nick Herbert, who works out of both the MoJ and Home Office.Among proposals already floated are having magistrates sit on their own to deal with cases involving guilty pleas, magistrates working out of police stations or community centres to speed up the delivery of justice, and greater use of video-links for police officers or defendants to give evidence remotely.But Richard Atkinson, a solicitor and chair of the Law Society's criminal law committee, said: "They have introduced the schemes without any real consultation. I'm not against flexible courts. I think there's potential for improvement in efficiency."But I have real reservations about Saturday and Sunday sittings. Solicitors are contractually obliged, by the Legal Services Commission, to work nine to five, Monday to Friday. Most of the criminal solicitors' firms are small, sometimes sole practitioners. They cannot compensate with time off during the week."Atkinson is opposed to video-links for initial hearings where a solicitor's first contact with a client may be on-screen."Another of our concerns is that the government has not followed through from earlier evaluations," he said.John Turner, of Hewitts Solicitors in Bishop Auckland, County Durham, where one of the trials is happening, said he was informed only two days before the first weekend court began on 30 June."There was no prior consultation," he said. "We have to turn up. You can't leave a client unrepresented. No one knows how this will be evaluated. We are a bit queasy about it."At weekends, the bus service round here is abysmal. How will people travel? The courts are already disorganised and demoralised. During the weekdays there are often two or three courts left unused."For the government, the riots have provided so many silver linings. We already have duty solicitors on Fridays and Saturdays. This will be on top of that. It would nice to see my wife and kids occasionally at weekends."The CPS is relying on "volunteers" to prosecute at weekends.A spokesperson said: "The CPS fully supports efforts to introduce greater flexibility into the criminal justice system. To that end, we are currently participating in a limited pilot scheme in Cardiff and Durham to introduce extended court hours throughout the week and expand the use of Saturday magistrates courts from remand hearings to full trials, which will benefit victims and witnesses who may find it difficult to attend court during regular hours."These hearings will be staffed by prosecutors who volunteer, as many of our staff already do for Saturday remand hearings across the country. If extra prosecutors are required, external advocates can also act on our behalf. Providing prosecutors for the court will not be an issue for the CPS."John Fassenfelt, chair of the Magistrates Association, said: "Anything to improve the effectiveness of the local courts should be down to the local magistrates to discuss with those who put on the courts."By and large magistrates are keen but it should not be a matter of 'swift' first and 'justice' last. Working late, which we have done in the past, is OK provided local people are consulted about it."There was an experiment done on flexible courts four or five years ago that found it was not economically justified. The government is trying to duplicate the service the courts gave during the riots; but the riots were a one-off."Magistrates working out of police stations is a no-no. It calls into question our judicial independence. I could see a possible use of community centres."An MoJ spokesperson said: "We are working with local areas to test whether a more flexible criminal justice system is able to better respond to the needs of the public, including victims and witnesses."This may include courts sitting outside of traditional hours, sitting at weekends and increasing the use of video technology. We are working with all criminal justice agencies to iron out any issues which arise as a result of the pilots, in order to create the most effective system for local communities.""During last summer's riots we saw the justice system at its best – working flexibly to deliver swift justice in response to local demand … It is vital we learn from this experience."