The wall-mounted sign with the NHS logo, white letters on a blue background, is instantly recognisable. And underneath it, the phrase "walk-in centre" (WiC), needs little explanation either. But the words "Full Sutton" provide something of a jolt, because this is a maximum security jail. The Full Sutton WiC - the only one inside a prison - is a satellite of one that covers Selby and York, and it operates the same nurse-led treatment protocols (no appointments necessary), although among its users are some of the most dangerous offenders in the country. It is perhaps the boldest example of the transfer to the NHS of responsibility for prison health, which was instituted in April this year after more than a decade of critical reports about the sub-standard care available "inside". But marrying two cultures that, in many respects, are diametrically opposed is going to take time - and tolerance. Paul Fallon, who leads the NHS prison health development team in the Northern Region and Yorkshire, says: "You've got a basically open system, the NHS, being imposed on a closed one, the prison service. And whatever rights prisoners will have to see a nurse in the walk-in centre, no one is forgetting that they then go back to their cells, and all the restricting rules of prison procedure. So, it is going to need fresh thinking on both sides." For inspiration, Fallon and 12 other senior managers from the Prison Service, the Department of Health and primary care trusts, visited the US to see how healthcare is delivered in New York state to a prison population of a similar size to that of England and Wales. At a time when suicide and self harm are reaching unprecedented levels among prisoners in this country, they were staggered by what they found. One of the group, Tony Clark, head of health-care at Belmarsh prison, says: "The number of deaths in custody here is about four times the level of New York. There, anyone who self-harms is regarded as mentally ill and shipped out immediately to a specialist mental health facility. They also pay inmates to act as observers, and staff spend the night with the inmates - unlike here, where they leave at a certain time." Another notable difference is laden with a big dollop of irony. We know, don't we, that the US has no national health service, free at the point of need and delivery. Well, not true. It does - inside prisons. Under the Eighth Amendment to the constitution, denying a prisoner adequate healthcare amounts to "cruel and unusual punishment", and lawyers are swift to issue writs if standards are not upheld. "You don't have a lot to do in prison; you can either work on your biceps or litigate," says Nancy Dubler, professor of bioethics at the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, New York. "The constant threat of litigation has been one of the main drivers keeping up standards in the prison system." Dubler will be addressing a meeting in Britain later this week, run by the Centre of Public Innovation, at which key players in prisons and the health service on both sides of the Atlantic will be brainstorming ideas. Telemedicine in jails is one possible import. It links prisoners to their local hospital via video screens, so a diagnosis can be made without even visiting a doctor. In New York state, with its vast distances and inhospitable winters, telemedicine is regarded as an essential tool of healthcare. Another New York idea may be transplanted to Yorkshire, where a prison and a PCT are in talks about creating a dedicated secure ward in an NHS hospital to mitigate the cost and disruption of providing escorts and 24-hour bedwatches for prisoners needing in-patient treatment. Hull prison alone spent £300,000 last year on hospital bedwatches, so it could be a shrewd move. Lester Wright, the deputy commissioner for prison healthcare in New York state, recently visited Brixton prison to compare notes. He left concerned not only about how a cramped Victorian building can cope with the demands of the 21st century, but also about the devolved method of healthcare in England and Wales. "In New York, we set standards and priorities centrally, which are applied in every institution in the state," he says. "Under your model, it will be up to the primary care trusts [PCTs ] to decide how the money should be spent. If competition for resources comes down to a choice between services for those on the street and those in prisons 'who don't deserve care anyway', the outcome is predictable." Even though the NHS has chipped in with £45m "growth money" for prison healthcare, few on this side of the Atlantic are playing down the dilemma, which is one reason why the transfer to the PCTs is being phased over two years until April 2006. In the vanguard is South-West Dorset PCT, which has six prisons on its smallish patch. Its deputy chief executive, Carole Lawrence-Parr - another member of the New York touring party - says: "When I am talking to my coronary heart team, for example, about community needs, I keep adding 'and prisoners' to make the point that they are patients too," she says. "We have appointed two practice managers who will be based full-time inside prisons, and we are using this opportunity to rethink the traditional doctor-centred approach, so that nurses, community paramedics, even social workers, can be brought into the process." In Full Sutton, the difference the WiC has made is in the throughput of prisoners being seen for fairly minor ailments, which used to take days. However, according to one inmate coming out of the WiC, the service could still be a lot quicker. "They say no appointment necessary, but I put my name down at 9am and it's now 3.30pm," he says. "I've got a raging toothache and I've been without painkillers for 12 hours." Welcome to the NHS.·  The Centre for Public Innovation is at www.publicinnovation.org.uk