It's welcome news that the coalition government and Labour party are united in their determination to tackle child sex abuse. This follows allegations that a senior Tory politician was involved in child abuse at homes in north Wales and the fallout from the Jimmy Savile revelations. It's just a shame that they weren't so keen a few months ago.Earlier this year, we reported on one of Britain's most prolific paedophiles – a prison officer called Neville Husband, who preyed on young offenders at Medomsley detention centre over a 15-year period. His victims told us how he had systematically abused them in the 1960s, 70s and 80s.It was a horrific story – he chose teenagers who were unlikely to be believed, were isolated and too terrified to report him to the authorities. He took them to his store room above the kitchen where he ligatured them and raped them. He was so confident that he was untouchable that sometimes he took them out of Medomsley to his house, where other men abused them.Kevin Young told us that a rope was put round his neck till he passed out and was then raped by three or four men in Husband's house. He was one of a number of victims who alleged that Husband was part of a paedophile ring involving establishment figures from the prison service, the police and local politicians.And it gets worse. The prison service had substantial evidence for many years that Husband was a paedophile. Indeed, it was stamped in his records. In 1969, eight years before Kevin Young was jailed, Husband was arrested at Portland borstal in Dorset and charged with importing pornography, including sado-masochistic images involving teenage boys. Husband admitted he showed it to the boys, and said it was all part of "research" he was undertaking for a potential book. Police and the prison service accepted his word.Yesterday the home secretary, Theresa May, announced that there would be an investigation into the initial investigation into abuse in children's homes in north Wales. May said: "If you have suffered and you go to the police about what you have been through, those of us in positions of authority and responsibility will not shirk our duty to support you. We must do everything in our power to do everything we can to help you, and everything we can to get to the bottom of these terrible allegations." Well this is exactly what Young did – and he found that the police did everything in their power to bury the allegations.When Young came out of Medomsley on 17 June, 1977, a day before his 18th birthday, he went straight to Consett police station and told them he had been raped again and again. He was told that simply by making a claim like that he could find himself locked up again. Twenty years later when another victim, "Steve", told police about Husband's abuse, he was advised to forget it because "you wouldn't want people on your estate to know about stuff like this".Eventually in 2003, Husband was convicted of abusing five young inmates, after pleading not guilty. The recent testimonies about Jimmy Savile echo many of the statements made in that court 22 years ago, as officers came forward to say they suspected Husband was an abuser but did nothing about it. One officer said: "Husband used to keep one boy behind in the kitchen at night. We always felt sorry for that boy." None were charged with failing in their duty of care.Husband was sentenced to eight years in prison. In 2005, this was increased to 10 years after new victims came forward and he admitted to attacks on four more boys. The police knew that there were many more cases but decided it was not in the public interest to pursue them. In 2009, Husband was released from prison after serving just over half his sentence. A year later, he died. Yet the fallout from his decades of abuse continues.Young had a breakdown and was left homeless and "Steve" became a paranoid alcoholic and surrounded himself with CCTV cameras..So how did the government react to news of Husband's conviction, and his victims' subsequent fight for compensation? When the Medomsley victims first sought redress, the Home Office used the statute of limitations to avoid payment. It defended that decision in a costly legal fight that went all the way to the House of Lords, but the Home Office lost.At the end of the hearing of Young's case, in 2005, his lawyers asked the Home Office if it intended to carry out a review or investigation of Medomsley. They were told there were no plans to do so.Earlier this year a spokesman for the Ministry of Justice told the Guardian: "In the late 1970s, several detainees held at Medomsley detention centre were physically and sexually abused by Neville Husband … At no stage has the Ministry of Justice attempted to defend the actions of Mr Husband. The prison service has come a long way since the 1980s, and significant efforts have been made to eliminate, so far as is possible, the mistreatment of prisoners."Victims said they were appalled at the suggestion that only "several" detainees had been abused. Husband is thought to have abused hundreds if not thousands of teenage boys, and victims are still coming forward. None has been offered counselling or psychiatric help.Perhaps the most shocking response came in 2010 from then home secretary, Jack Straw, when Stephen Byers, then local MP for one of the victims, wrote to him asking for a public apology. Straw replied: "The terms of the agreement did not include an apology."That's right – Jack Straw, on behalf of the Labour government, said that victims, some of whom had been tied up and raped by an officer of the crown, did not deserve an apology.Presumably, in light of the renewed vigour to pursue paedophiles and protect victims, those abused at Medomsley will eventually be deemed worth of an apology. Let's hope so. And let's hope that any inquiry into child abuse will examine how Husband was allowed to go on abusing for so many years unchecked. Then, and only then, will we be able to begin to right the wrongs done to these victims by abusers, the prison service, police and politicians.