In his article on gangs, work and pensions secretary Iain Duncan Smith talked of "the rise of dysfunctional and broken homes, fatherlessness, and a culture in welfare and in schools that puts entitlement and rights above responsibilities and hard work" (We can do this together, 19 August).Days before, prime minister David Cameron had made a speech in which he said: "We need more urgent action on the families that some people call 'problem', others call 'troubled'. The ones everyone in their neighbourhood knows and often avoids" (Tough love and tougher policing: PM's solution for broken Britain, 16 August).As a young citizen of this country, from what many perceive as a "troubled" background, I am absolutely disgusted with our prime minister's ludicrous preconceptions of young people today who have grown up without the constant presence of their fathers. Not every fatherless family is to blame for the "slow-motion moral collapse" he says we are witnessing.Although I come from one of the "120,000 most troubled families" Cameron spoke of, this has not negatively affected my upbringing. I have still completed my GCSE exams a year early, and completed two AS subjects and extra GCSEs. I am an intelligent young girl. I know what is socially acceptable and what is not, and I have never been in any trouble with the law. The same can be said for countless other youths. I believe the main reason why people join gangs is because they feel deprived. Adolescents are fed up with unemployment rates and spending cuts resulting in the lack of luxuries they feel they deserve.My mother was a single parent for 11 years – most of my life. Although Cameron would consider this a great misfortune, I have to disagree. Some people lack proper parental instincts and the children in lone-parent families left behind by these types of parents are better off without them.I understand the nuclear family form is the one the Conservative party supports, but this is not an excuse to discriminate against alternative family forms. Having learnt my morals and values from a single mother, I have to address the misconception that these can only be effectively taught in families with a male and female parent present.Duncan Smith said that the recorded incidences of rising gang influence in 2004 should have been a "wake-up call to spur national and local government action"; I believe if this had been the case, the rioting in parts of the country could have been avoided. And, yes, Cameron did argue that only some fatherless families have to take responsibility for the riots; but I still believe his comments are an example of stereotypical and sexist discrimination against single mothers and their children. You cannot take select groups of people, such as gang members, and make generalisations for whole populations.Before Cameron makes such assumptions again, he should show they accurately describe everyone in that social group. Our politicians should know by now that they cannot use those less respectable parts of society to take the blame for their own incompetence.