The government has to decide whether to get smart or to be popular in its criminal justice reforms. The danger of the populist approach is that by adopting a series of one-sided reforms the government may throw away the best opportunity for generations to transform the criminal justice system.Take, for example, plans to change the rules to allow a defendant's previous convictions in evidence. These are said to reflect the government's new-found confidence in juries, following several ill-fated attempts to restrict the right to jury trial. So, they ask, why not let juries hear all the evidence and use their own common sense to decide what is relevant in the particular case?This laissez-faire approach is unlikely to be applied elsewhere. Indeed, new rules have been introduced to restrict the scope of the defence, as in the questioning of rape victims about their previous sexual history. Such evidence is thought to be so prejudicial and irrelevant that juries should not be allowed to hear it. Such questioning may also deter rape victims from coming forward in the first place. The same arguments apply to defendants' previous convictions. Research has shown such evidence to be highly prejudicial. The risk is that defendants may be wrongly convicted not on evidence relating directly to the charges against them but because of their supposed criminal character. This is one of a number of changes to criminal trials that the government hopes will 'rebalance' the system in favour of 'victims and witnesses' (and the police and prosecution). The reforms mooted seem directed to fundamentally alter the standard of proof in criminal cases, abandoning the presumption of innocence and the requirement to prove guilt beyond reasonable doubt. But the failings of criminal justice do not lie primarily with the courts. Already, the vast majority of those charged with criminal offences are convicted. Only those who believe that everyone charged by the police must be guilty would seek to manipulate the rules in order to push court conviction rates even higher. The real problems lie elsewhere: in the public's lack of confidence to report crimes or to cooperate with the police, and in the police's failure to obtain evidence on which to base charges in the first place. In areas where crime is endemic victims are also likely to know someone in their families or neighbourhood who has been harshly treated by the police or dealt with unfairly at court. Their willingness to co-operate with the system will hardly be enhanced if the government is seen to be trying to rig court rules even further against the accused.The government should stop treating criminal justice reform as a "zero-sum" game, currying popularity with victims and the public by constantly attacking the rights of the accused. Instead, it should pursue 'smart' reforms that will enlist the support of both victims and defendants. It also needs to link changes to the criminal courts with its wider sentencing reform. Both victims and defendants have an interest in the fair and efficient disposal of criminal cases. The way to achieve this is not by restricting defendants' rights to jury trial or introducing wider practices of 'plea bargaining', under which defendants receive automatic reductions in sentence for guilty pleas. Defendants rightly regard plea bargaining as imposing an extra penalty for exercising their right to defend themselves in court. Meanwhile, victims often feel that those "let off" on guilty pleas in exchange for reduced sentences have escaped their "just desserts". Defendants should be given an incentive to opt to be tried - not simply to plead guilty - in magistrates' courts by placing limits on the maximum sentence that they could receive. This would only apply to cases which magistrates themselves deemed suitable for trial by them. Similarly, defendants in more serious cases might be encouraged to choose a new form of 'judge only' trial, perhaps before professional magistrates (now known as District Judges), again with limits on the maximum sentence they might receive if convicted. Only the most serious cases would be likely to go to the Crown Court and full jury trial in such a system. The aim would be to give both defendants and victims their "day in court" but at a level which is more appropriate and convenient for all concerned. Limiting the sentencing powers of magistrates would also fit in with the government's aim to reduce the use of prisons. Prison overcrowding is the result of too many short sentences and prevents prisons from undertaking positive remedial work with more serious offenders. Magistrates are largely responsible for the explosion in short custodial sentences. They also clog up the system with cases they refuse to deal with and send to Crown Court instead - primarily because magistrates consider that the defendants deserve longer sentences than are open to be imposed by them. Yet, in most of these cases the Crown Court actually gives a non-custodial sentence or a prison term of less than six months - sentences that would have been within the current powers of magistrates. This suggests that if the sentencing powers of magistrates are increased so that they can deal with more cases, they will end up sending even more people to prison and for longer terms than the Crown Court does at present. The implications for prison overcrowding and costs are frightening. The powers of lay magistrates should be limited, perhaps to only non-custodial sentences (as has been advocated by prison governors). District judges sitting in magistrates' courts could be given somewhat wider powers, say up to 12 months combined custody and supervision in the community. This would enable them to deal with most of the tens of thousands of cases currently sent by magistrates to the Crown Court, leaving the latter to focus on the really serious cases. Such a move is unlikely to be popular with lay magistrates, who tend to think that their status depends on the extent of their powers to send people to prison. Will the government be willing to take on this 'vested interest' in order to introduce sensible, smart reforms to the criminal justice system? Lee Bridges is Professor and Director of the Legal Research Institute, School of Law, University of Warwick. Lee.Bridges@warwick.ac.ukSend us your viewsEmail Observer site editor Sunder Katwala at observer@guardianunlimited.co.uk with comments on articles or ideas for future pieces. You can write to the author of this piece at Lee.Bridges@warwick.ac.uk. About Observer Comment ExtraThe Observer website carries additional online commentary each week, responding to recent pieces to continue the debate and offering additional coverage of the major issues. The online pieces are also trailed in the print pages of the newspaper. The Crime and Justice debate pages bring together the best of the paper's analysis and commentary with a range of exclusive online commentary to provide a forum for the broadest debate on criminal justice reform.