Ordinary people were challenged yesterday to "get out of their armchairs" and play an active role in the community, by supporting police in an effort to stamp out yob culture.Charles Clarke, home secretary, and policing minister, Hazel Blears, speaking at two police conferences, both called for the public to get more involved in local issues as part of the government's drive to instil "the politics of decency" in British society.Both said intelligence-led neighbourhood policing was the key to cracking down on crime and antisocial behaviour, which blighted many areas, and underlined their commitment to community support officers. But they stressed that many others outside the police family had an important part to play. Addressing rank and file officers at the Police Federation conference in Blackpool, Mr Clarke said creating safer communities, where "ne'er-do-wells" could not flourish, would be the major challenge of this parliament. He said police would lead a wider policing team of community support officers (CSOs), neighbourhood wardens, special constables, voluntary groups, neighbourhood watch and faith groups in helping to beat crime. Ms Blears, speaking to senior law enforcers at the Association of Chief Police Officers' conference in Birmingham, said that instead of just whingeing about yobs, people should consider what they could do to help police. "It's time to encourage people in their communities to lay down a marker that they are not prepared to accept this kind of behaviour. We need people who don't sit in their armchairs, reading their newspapers, complaining to themselves and their families, but are genuinely prepared to get up and do something about it." Echoing Tony Blair's call for more respect, she said everybody needed to consider their responsibility to improve society. She was not telling people to take the law into their own hands, but to work with police and local councils to improve life for everyone. Ms Blears said every local police force in England and Wales would be covered by neighbourhood policing teams, permanently dedicated to local communities, within three years. These teams, many of which have already been set up, were not a throwback to a nostalgic "Dixon of Dock Green" era but hard-nosed, intelligence-led operations. Run by sergeants, with fully trained constables as part of the team, they also include community support officers. CSOs have been dubbed "plastic policemen" by their critics but Ms Blears said the government was fully committed to their role and their numbers would increase from the current 6,300 to 24,000 by 2008. Red tape was another big theme of both ministers' speeches. Mr Clarke pledged to tackle the bureaucracy which he recognised was the number one concern of most police officers.