Like the murder of Robert McCartney, it began with a petty scuffle on a night out. Joseph Rafferty was a hardworking courier from the warren of working-class flats that nudge up against the Georgian squares and glass towers of Celtic Tiger, south-central Dublin. At a 21st birthday party in April, a short walk from the Irish parliament, Rafferty's sister was assaulted by a local hood. The next day, Rafferty told him to leave his sister alone. When the man said his family had connections to the IRA and could get him killed, Rafferty laughed it off. But after six months of threats that "the 'Ra" would "get him", he was shot dead with a sawn-off shotgun in broad daylight.Rafferty's sisters believe he was murdered by an IRA man who is a Sinn Fein member and has worked on party election campaigns. They say the case is a "carbon copy" of the murder of Robert McCartney, who was stabbed and beaten to death after an argument in a Belfast bar in January.Like McCartney's partner and sisters, who took their campaign for justice to the White House, Rafferty's family accuse Sinn Fein of creating a "wall of silence", and covering up for the killer and others who planned the murder. They say they are still being intimidated and witnesses are afraid to come forward. Seven months after the murder, no one has been charged.The case - with its echoes of the McCartney killing that sickened public opinion in the Republic - threatens to upset Sinn Fein's carefully laid plans to take electoral advantage of the feelgood factor that has come with the IRA's decision to renounce violence.If the McCartney killing was seen as a shocking reflection of life in a typical, nationalist area of Belfast, where the IRA are the "protectors" of the community, the same was not supposed to happen in wealthy, well-adjusted Dublin. There, Sinn Fein has cast itself as a party "that gets things done" on the ground, and is seen as untouched by the corruption that engulfed Irish politics in the 1980s, when it was still very much on the fringes. The party won 25% of the vote across south-east Dublin in last year's local elections, and is focused on the ultimate prize of a place in an Irish coalition government.But there has always been a deep ambiguity about the IRA in Dublin. While sanctioning the murder of criminal lords such as Martin Cahill - aka "The General", Ireland's most notorious gangster - it had itself "licensed" other criminals, allowing them to operate under its protection and regulation.Sinn Fein is adamant that no republican or party member carried out the murder. But the Raffertys say the party initially made similar claims about McCartney's killing, before admitting that IRA members were involved.In her flat, Esther Rafferty, a 38-year-old bank clerk who has been on sick leave since her brother's murder, gives her parrot some nuts to shut him up while she recounts the story. The parrot has heard it all before, as residents and politicians have filed in and out to hear about the "Justice for Joe" campaign, run from a tiny computer table in the corner.Esther Rafferty drives everywhere, even to the local shops, afraid she will bump into the "hoodlums" that threatened her brother. Other family members are scared of walking along certain streets. One afternoon, a councillor and two journalists took a walk around the estates after meeting Esther Rafferty. One of the writers, who already has police protection after reporting on Dublin's armed drug gangs, was approached by a local man on a bicycle, who told him to back off the story or he would get "six of the best like Veronica Guerin", the journalist shot dead in 1996 after challenging Dublin's drug barons."I never would have expected anything like this down here in Dublin," Esther Rafferty says. "I never knew anything about the IRA. I heard the odd story here and there about a man being put into a van and having his legs broken or something, but that was it."Rafferty, 29, was a courier five days a week and on Saturdays ran a window-cleaning business to pay off his mortgage. Like McCartney, he was determined to better himself, and to move up and out of his working-class enclave. He pumped iron and was one of a family of seven that voted Sinn Fein. As his father, a Dublin lift engineer, told the family: "If Sinn Fein are going to do good, you have to give them a chance to do it."He had just moved to up-and-coming west Dublin to be near his four-year-old daughter. "He had loads of friends. You couldn't get a nicer bloke," says Esther Rafferty. "The plan was to move to be near enough to his daughter to collect her from school. But he didn't live long enough to see her start school."One Saturday night in October last year, Rafferty went to a 21st birthday party in a hotel in central Dublin. Lots of people from the estate were there and the younger crowd went on to an after-party in a flat. Rafferty went home to bed. Meanwhile, at the party, a man whom the Raffertys describe as a local troublemaker began taunting Rafferty's 25-year-old sister Carmel about him, saying, "Go and get 'Muscles'", and threatening to give him a hiding. He threw a drink at Carmel Rafferty, kicked her and a group then beat up the Raffertys' 19-year-old nephew."This guy bore a grudge," says Esther Rafferty. "He was a fat, ugly low-life on social welfare, who never did a day's work in his life. Joe was well-educated, he was the opposite. He was fixated on Joe and jealous of him. He seemed to think his girlfriend fancied Joe. That is a small thing to get someone killed over."On the Sunday after the party, Rafferty came back to his mum's for dinner as he did every week. He saw the man and asked him why he had attacked his sister. "My family's bigger than yours. You don't know who you're dealing with," the man told him. When Esther's husband, a taxi driver, dropped Rafferty at the bus stop that afternoon, the man told him: "The 'Ra will put you in a van and bring you up the mountain." Rafferty's mother, a 67-year-old who delivered meals on wheels, was told this trouble would all end up "at your door".Rafferty laughed it off. But his family started to panic at the mention of the IRA. "We had heard rumours that another man who stood up to the same brothers on the estate had been driven up to the mountains and given a hiding," says Esther Rafferty. She went down to the surgery of the popular local Sinn Fein councillor and rising star in the party, Daithí Doolan, to ask if he could do anything to get the threats lifted. According to the family, Doolan said he would look into it.For six months, the threats against Rafferty continued. There were six warnings that were taken to be death threats. Silent hand signals of a gun were made; Rafferty was told the IRA would "take him out"; property was damaged; and threats were given to family members to pass on. One of Rafferty's sisters was told to tell him he would be "got at the gym". They seemed to be tracking Rafferty's movements.The family says that at the beginning of the year, Doolan came back to them after his own investigation, assuring Esther Rafferty that "these people had been spoken to", and they should not worry. "I will never forget that handshake," says Esther Rafferty. "It was a hearty handshake, he said I didn't need to worry. I was crying. I believed him."But on April 12 this year, Rafferty was shot twice with a sawn-off shotgun as he left his home to go to work.When Doolan came round with a condolence card, Esther Rafferty says: "I freaked and lashed out. I said, 'You could have prevented this, you assured me that this was sorted out'. He never even crossed the road and gave his condolences to my mother and father."Doolan's account of events is different. He says he met the family three times but never told them he would "investigate" the threats. He claims he never said that "these people" - including the man whom the family and others in Dublin believe killed Rafferty - had been "spoken to". "I never said that," Doolan says. "Sometimes, what is said and what is heard are two different things. I'm not known to carry out investigations. I don't do investigation[s] ... I know for sure, 100%, that the murderer was not a republican or Sinn Fein activist."Doolan says he has made a statement to the police, condemned the murder and urged anyone with information to come forward. "I am an innocent party in this equation," he says. "I have become the focus for their anger ... This guy [the murderer] is a criminal and I can't be held accountable for every criminal action in Dublin."In a speech to the senate last month, the Irish justice minister Michael McDowell said: "A chief suspect in this case remains someone who would be regarded as a member of the IRA." He described the case as a "cold-blooded murder" and a "death foretold". Like the McCartney murder, he said, it was not a killing ordered by the IRA leadership, but by people in Sinn Fein and the IRA who had information and were not telling what they knew. Others were too frightened to cross the "thugs who invoke the name of the IRA".The minister said Doolan's cooperation with the police "has extended to providing no more than an uninformative, perfunctory written statement, which has done nothing to progress the murder investigation". The British government's ceasefire watchdog, the Independent Monitoring Commission, said this month that "a member or former member of the IRA" may have been involved in the Rafferty murder, which it would be investigating further."Everybody knows who killed Joseph," says Esther Rafferty. "We are 100% certain that person is a member of the IRA. The killer is being protected in the same way Robert McCartney's killers were. To have to plead with a political party to hand over a murderer is an absolute disgrace. They are tripping over themselves with lies."As with McCartney's murder, a whispering campaign began shortly after Rafferty was killed, suggesting that society was better off without him. The month he was killed, Ireland experienced its worst bout of gangland shootings in years - five men were shot dead in just over a month. West Dublin was notorious for drug gangs, and the rumour began that the murder was one of the same spate of killings, and that Rafferty was a dealer. Esther Rafferty says detectives have raked over her brother's life and found nothing.Earlier this month, when Gerry Adams went to Brussels to talk to MEPs about the historic decommissioning of IRA weapons and the IRA's transition from paramilitary group to a purely political movement, the Rafferty murder was raised by reporters. Adams said: "Joe Rafferty's killing was a very, very brutal murder - one of a series of such murders in Dublin in the recent past."The family took this as another smear. Asked if the killer was a Sinn Fein worker, Adams said: "I am quite ready to meet the family of Joe Rafferty if they wish. We repudiate the killing." The family has turned down the offer of a meeting for now. They are wary of providing what they call "a PR opportunity", and believe that Adams has not helped the McCartney family, who are still being intimidated by republicans.Last week, Paula McCartney, the last sister living in the Short Strand, reluctantly sold up and moved out after intimidation, which the family say is getting worse. McCartney's partner, Bridgeen Hagans, will soon move out of the area, too, after her house was attacked. One man has been charged with murdering McCartney and another with the attempted murder of his friend. But the family say many more people were involved in the killing and subsequent cover-up.Garry Keegan, a Dublin Fianna Fáil councillor who is helping the Raffertys' campaign, said: "There are people in Sinn Fein, or members or former members of the IRA, who are still using the hard-man image to push their weight around in local communities in Dublin. Even though they might be out of the IRA, the indication to people is, 'You will be sorted out. We will get the 'Ra to sort you out.' In the community in the past, people have been taken away in vans, beaten up and had their legs broken. People know if they have an association with the IRA, they are untouchable."Since the family spoke out, other people have come to me. One said he had been threatened [that] his legs would be broken, but hadn't taken it seriously at all until Rafferty was killed. People are saying, 'Well done' to the Raffertys, 'It's about time somebody took these people on'."Keegan says he can detect an air of intimidation in inner-city Dublin, as Sinn Fein gets stronger in the city; Doolan has accused him of taking political advantage of the murder.The week after next, with the backing of the McCartney sisters, the Raffertys will meet the US ambassador to Ireland. "A trip to Irish-American politicians in Washington might be our only hope to put pressure on Sinn Fein," Esther Rafferty says. America, where Sinn Fein raises much of its funding, is the last place republicans want to deal with such an embarrassing case."We are not going away until the murderer is where he belongs," says Esther Rafferty. "If they hand him up, our campaign is over. But I may as well be dead if they let someone [get] away with this"