Lawyers for Duwayne Brooks accused Scotland Yard of suppressing a crucial statement that yesterday led to a sex assault charge against him being dropped at the Old Bailey.Mr Brooks, 25, was with Stephen Lawrence on the night the teenager was murdered by a racist gang in April 1993. The collapse of yesterday's case means that Mr Brooks has been arrested by police six times since the murder without being convicted in what he alleges is harassment.The judge yesterday halted the trial of Mr Brooks before it even got before a jury, after the defence argued that continuing the prosecution for indecent assault would be an abuse of process. The case collapsed after evidence emerged of a statement made to police by a mediator appointed to help the 18-year-old alleged victim, in which doubt was cast on the teenager's account. Mr Brooks's lawyers are angry that this statement was not revealed to them for two months. After hearing a day of legal argument, Judge David Stokes QC ordered that the prosecution be halted because it would be unfair to to let the case go before a jury. The case against Mr Brooks rested solely on the alleged victim's account. The reliability of that was potentially undermined by the statement made to police by the mediator, Augusta Gibrill. She saw the victim 11 times after the alleged attack was first reported to police on September 16 1999, a fortnight after the teenager said the assault had occurred. By November 3 Miss Gibrill had become concerned about the reliability of the complainant. The mediator told an investigating officer that the alleged victim had said Mr Brooks had not assaulted her and that she had made it up. The mediator later altered this, saying that when she asked the alleged victim if she had made up the allegation, the teenager had neither confirmed nor denied the suggestion. Miss Gibrill never signed her police statement, but was allowed to remain in her post as a mediator for several weeks. She agreed to talk to defence lawyers and again would not sign her statement, rendering it useless.  'Series of errors'  The Macpherson report into the Stephen Lawrence murder called for police to use mediators to liaise with black crime victims. Miss Gibrill was the first such appointment. A pre-trial hearing was told that the alleged victim's mother claimed that her daughter was being used by police to get at Mr Brooks. The mediator was appointed by the Greenwich area commander Peter Zieminski and briefed over lunch - which was "not appropriate", the judge said. Judge Stokes said Miss Gibrill had been appointed with the best of motives in mind, but had not been properly briefed on what to do. He said: "The fact is that the prosecution have caused this situation by a series of errors and misjudgments." Judge Stokes said no notes had been kept by the mediator of conversations with the complainant and added: "She was told not to coach the complainant but she ignored that advice." The crown prosecution service had initially charged Mr Brooks with rape, but dropped this before the case came to the crown court. Judge Stokes said he had no choice but to halt the trial for indecent assault. "Bearing in mind the potential conflicts and inconsistencies demonstrated on the face of the papers between that potential witness and the complainant it would indeed be unfair to try this defendant and therefore I propose to stay these proceedings." Mr Brooks described the judge's decision as a victory for justice. "I have never done anything wrong. If we had gone to trial I would have stated that in my evidence," he said. "The judge agreed with defence counsel that the failings of the police and prosecution would not have allowed me to have a fair trial. All this public money wasted. All these taxpayers' money wasted." Mr Brooks's solicitor, Jane Deighton, said: "The crucial statement was suppressed for two months by the police and/ or the CPS. The prosecution of Duwayne has to be looked at in the context of his role over the last six years, where he is the surviving victim of the attack on him and Stephen Lawrence. "From that moment he has been stereotyped by police as a villain when in fact he is a hero. Since then on at least six occasions, for no good reason, he has been arrested and released. "This is the second time a prosecution against him has been stayed by a judge as an abuse of process. I know of no other individual to whom that has happened in my 20-year career as a defence lawyer." Mr Brooks is already suing the Metropolitan police for the way its officers treated him after the murder of his friend Stephen Lawrence. The report by Sir William Macpherson found that Mr Brooks had been stereotyped by officers because he was black. His lawyers said they were considering suing over the arrest for indecent assault. Asked about the allegation that the crucial statement by the mediator was suppressed, Scotland Yard said: "At an early stage we were pressing the CPS for a decision regarding the disclosure of certain matters. We will now be discussing the issues that have arisen with them." A Met spokeswoman said that police had carried out a "thorough and professional investigation" and added: "The officers investigating this case ensured their actions were at all times as open and transparent as possible. They worked closely with both the complainant's family and local people to maintain confidence. There were particular sensitivities involved in this case which the officers were aware of throughout the course of this investigation. We will reflect on the judge's comments and look into what has happened." The CPS denied that it had treated Mr Brooks unfairly. A spokesman said: "The judge made no specific criticism of the CPS. There was no criticism of our decision to prosecute."  The failed prosecutions September 16 1999 Arrested and charged with attempted rape and indecent assault. Originally refused bail by police and court. Finally bailed on September 29 on condition he resided in Birmingham. At his committal hearing on November 5 police announced they had dropped the charge of attempted rape. Yesterday an Old Bailey judge threw out the case as an abuse of process.  August 17 1999 Arrested in Peckham, south London, for taking and driving away a car and threatening behaviour. Taken to Peckham police station and bailed until August 6, when police notified him that they were taking no further action.  July 4 1999 Stopped by police in in his car, which was searched. A photocopying tool was found (he works as a photocopying engineer). Police alleged it was an offensive weapon and charged him with possession of a bladed article. They also found credit cards and chequebooks in the car and he was arrested for handling stolen goods. He was bailed to appear before Tower Bridge magistrates. The case was discontinued on August 3.  July 8 1998 Stopped under the Prevention of Terrorism Act in the City of London. Searched and arrested for possession of a knife and theft of a credit card. Bailed from the police station and when he returned on August 4 was charged with possession of an offensive weapon. The action was discontinued in September after his employer confirmed the knife was part of his work toolkit.  May 27 1998 Police requested an interview about an allegation of kidnapping at Catford station. He was bailed until July 23 when police announced that they were taking no further action.  October 1993 Surrendered voluntarily to Bexleyheath police station, where he was charged under section 2 of the Criminal Justice Act, relating to an allegation of violent disorder at a British National party march. Eventually the proceedings were stayed on December 13 1994 after the judge ruled an abuse of process. The judge had invited the CPS to discontinue the case earlier, but it refused to do so.