Ministers have failed to act decisively against postal ballot fraud because they fear stirring up controversy in ethnic minority communities where most cases of abuse have been uncovered, senior Labour MPs admit.One conceded that the government had also been reluctant to tighten procedures in case it depressed the Labour vote.The criticism, made on the eve of the local elections, comes from the Labour-controlled public administration select committee as part of its inquiry into the government's constitutional reforms. It is likely to demand the introduction of some form of individual - rather than household - registration, which would require photo ID. The committee believes ministers have been resisting change for three years despite calls from the Electoral Commission to tighten procedures to prevent identity fraud.The chairman of the committee, Tony Wright, called for an end to Labour silence on one source of the problem. "Almost all the abuse cases that we have had have involved minority communities. We should not be mealy-mouthed about it. It is importing cultural practices from one place to another, and if we are serious about Britishness, surely one of the things we have to got to be serious about it is telling everybody that lives here about the integrity of democratic politics. "If we are honest about it, we have been so anxious to get turn-out up that we have been rather casual about some of the implications ... I think we have (been) casual because we have resisted individual voter registration." Kelvin Hopkins, Labour MP for Luton North, urged the government to bring in individual voter registration, which is already in place in Northern Ireland. "I hesitate to say this, but one of the reasons our party is reluctant to do this, is because it might actually dent our support in certain areas. This is something I think we ought to address," he said. A third member of the committee, Gordon Prentice, Labour MP for Pendle, said: "Our elections are wide open to fraud. We have judges that have said in recent months and years that the UK is like a banana republic when it comes to an election. The electoral commission has for three years now been saying we should bring in individual voter registration." He "had an instance in my constituency at the moment," he said, "where 27 voters are registered at a certain address, which begs the question who the head of household is, who signed the form that certified the other 26 are legally entitled to vote. The only way you can get round that is to go with individual voter registration ... it has got to happen and it has got to happen quickly."A Conservative on the committee, Charles Walker, MP for Broxbourne, described the electoral system as debauched, adding: "In many parts of this country, it is one man, one woman, three or four hundred votes". The attacks came on the eve of local elections which involved widespread use of postal votes. In London alone, more than 515,000 postal ballots are thought to have been sent out. Turn-out is likely to be vital to Boris Johnson's chances of becoming mayor of London.Earlier this week, the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust reported it had found no evidence that fraud had increased since the introduction of postal voting on demand in 2000. But it added: "Greater use of postal voting has made the UK elections far more vulnerable to fraud and resulted in several instances of large scale fraud." The report conceded there was anecdotal evidence that Pakistani clan politics played a role in some of the fraud. Michael Wills, the justice minister, told the select committee: "The idea that we are just shrugging our shoulders, saying it does not matter, it belongs to that community, this community, is not true. It is fraud."