An inquiry was launched yesterday after police shot dead a gunman who opened fire on a house in Greater Manchester after earlier smashing its windows and the owner's 4x4 pickup with a machete. Police later named the gunman as Craig King.Horrified neighbours watched as the man used a rifle in a quiet terraced street in Ashton-under-Lyne, where armed police had arrived after an emergency call following the earlier attack.Officers were interviewing Peter Bromley, 42, whose partner and her children were in the house during the first attack, when the man phoned to say: "I'm going to blow your fucking head off."He appeared within minutes, fired through the window and was then fatally injured as officers returned fire. He died later on Saturday in Tameside hospital.The shooting is the first time that Greater Manchester police have killed a civilian, and the Independent Police Complaints Commission began an inquiry last night. Among issues on the agenda was why the area around the £70,000 house in Crawford Street had not been cordoned off after the machete attack.Investigators are also expected to question detectives about how much effort had been made to arrest the man after the machete attack, when his car registration number and suspected identity were given in 999 calls by neighbours, as well as one from the victims.Mr Bromley had been drinking in a local pub before the first incident, watching the Premier League derby between Manchester United and City. An argument is said to have started involving the brother of Mr Bromley's partner, who moved in with him six months ago with her two children.Marilyn Rider, a grandmother who has lived in the street for 11 years, described the attacker as "a really burly type, quite fat and about six foot tall". After the machete attack, she ran across the road and took in the two children, Ben, 10, and 12-year-old Alex."They were terrified after the first incident and I brought them into my house to calm them down," she said. "I believe it was their mother's brother who turned up with the machete. We heard the sound of smashing glass and then he drove off."A number of people got his registration and phoned the police. While they were interviewing Pete the man phoned, But I don't think Pete or the police expected him to actually come back so quickly, if at all."Another resident, Jean Fox, said: "This has always been a lovely family neighbourhood. Pete is a hard-working man who doesn't attract trouble, and this has been a terrible shock."