Police in Manchester are seeking to reassure local imams and councillors after the shooting of an Asian man gunned down while in a car with three friends over a violent new year period.Muhammad Arif Iqbal, 26, was murdered in the Cheetham Hill area of Manchester on the afternoon of New Year's Eve. He and his friends were shot at by at least one gunman who was on foot, according to police. The gunman was described as mixed race or Asian.The 23-year-old driver of the car suffered a minor graze to his head, but drove his friends to North Manchester hospital where Iqbal was pronounced dead. A third man, believed to have been the front passenger of the silver Vauxhall Vectra, was shot in the back and remains in a serious condition. The fourth man, Suhail Rafique, 25, was unhurt.Rafique's father, Muhammad, 65, said yesterday the four men had driven off to celebrate the New Year and had paused at a T-junction when one gunman, or possibly two, fired at the car. He had no idea why they had been targeted. "They are all good boys who rarely go out."Iqbal's killing is one of at least five separate murder inquiries across the country after attacks on New Year's Eve and New Year's Day.A 52-year-old man, Ron Sharples, died of severe head injuries after being attacked by youths early on Tuesday near Redcar, Cleveland as he was returning home after looking for his dog. Four young men have been arrested.Leicestershire police were last night holding four people in connection with the death the same day of 16-year-old Bradley Whitfield, who died from a neck wound near his home in Leicester. It is believed a bottle or piece of broken glass may have been used in the attack.Meanwhile a 55-year-old man was being questioned by Northampton police investigating the death of Mavis Clift, 73, in a house fire on New Year's Day.In north London, an 18-year-old man was stabbed to death after he was chased getting off a night bus in Edmonton following a new year celebration. He was named locally as Henry Bolombi, also known as Black H.