Two sisters and a man found shot dead in the same flat had been tied up, police revealed yesterday.Detectives investigating the killings in Harlesden, north London, said they want to speak to three youths who were seen entering the block of flats close to the time the victims are believed to have been shot. Scotland Yard named the three victims, all of whom were black, as sisters Lorna and Connie Morrison, 34 and 27, and their mother's partner, 62-year-old Noel Patterson. Detective Superintendent Gary Richardson said: 'It would appear that the victims had been incapacitated by the use of restraints.' He declined to give more details. Richardson said the sisters' mother, Evelyn Daley, was working as a carer on Thursday night when the killings are believed to have taken place. A family friend arrived at the flat to find the front door open and the victims downstairs in the main living quarters, and contacted the sisters' mother. Lorna's nine-month-old son, Christiano, was also in the flat. He was unharmed and is being cared for by the local authority. Richardson said detectives were keeping an open mind about the possible motive. "That is one of our main lines of inquiry,' he said. 'To find out why these people were targeted, if indeed they were. 'Our inquiries have led to police wishing to identify three black youths who were seen to enter Clark Court at about 8.30 to 9pm on Thursday, 4 August. It is believed that those youths may have parked a vehicle on Diamond Street before entering the flats. We have no sighting of them leaving. They are described as two being around 6ft tall and one considerably shorter, all wearing hooded tops turned up and concealing their faces.' He emphasised that the youths are not being treated as suspects at this stage and declined to comment on whether any of the victims had been known to police or had a history of criminality. Commander Cressida Dick of Operation Trident, which deals with gun crime among London's black communities, said: 'My information is that this is not actually a high-crime estate, but the borough of Brent more broadly has suffered over the years from gun crime, and it is very much a priority for Trident.'