Drivers found guilty of minor motoring offences face having their cars clamped outside their homes or being sent to driver re-education night school as part of a government package of penalties to tackle car crime unveiled yesterday.Motorists who kill and those who repeat offences will face tougher penalties, with longer driving bans for very drunk drivers. The package - the outcome of a review of penalties for the 9.5m motoring offences committed every year in Britain - is designed to help reduce the annual 3,400 death toll on the roads by 40% within 10 years. Motoring organisations last night welcomed the measures, particularly the emphasis on driver improvement and alcohol rehabilitation, as well as increased penalties for the most serious offences. Ministers are also proposing to shake up the points system with the introduction of a more punitive "second tier" of points for those who drive at excessive speeds, particularly in built-up areas, and extended driving bans. Some banned drivers will be encouraged to retake their tests in return for a reduction of up to 25% of their disaqualification period. Speeding motorists could find themselves banned automatically after a second offence. Charles Clarke, the Home Office minister, insisted last night that the government was not declaring war on the motorist: "The vast majority of our 30m drivers have a responsible attitude to road safety which we want to build on. The review is carefully targeted on areas where current penalties could be made more effective and where better driving would have a significant impact on road safety." Among the measures proposed in the consultation paper, which is unlikely to be put before parliament this side of the general election, are: • Greater use of short-term bans, even as short as a fortnight. • Temporary forfeiture or im mobilisation of the car involved for a week or a month - it could be clamped outside the offender's home as a "badge of loss of wheels". • Reviewing the penalty points system, with more points for second offences and a greater threat of a ban. • Introduction of an automatic six month penalty point "totting up" ban, without a court appearance. • New two-tier fixed penalty system for speeding, with an increasing threat of a quicker ban for the worst drivers. • Greater use of compulsory driver retraining programmes. • Compulsory retesting after lengthy bans. The package also includes proposals for longer sentences for the most serious driving offences, including a minimum three year ban (instead of two) for death by dangerous driving, and imposing a lifetime ban on those with previous serious convictions. On drink-driving, ministers want to see a new penalty for those with very high blood alcohol levels (above 160mg per 100mls, twice the current level), with an automatic 18 month ban and the possibility of a six month prison sentence. The AA last night said the proposals started a discussion on the penalties needed to weed out and punish the worst drivers, many of whom offended repeatedly. "Without this, although the UK has the safest roads in the world, we will not achieve by 2010 the target of a 40% overall reduction in road deaths and 50% reduction in child fatalities."