  Graham Cahill, who killed Toby Cooke in a motorway road rage incident. Photograph: Bedfordshire Police/PAA driver who "lost control" and killed another motorist in a motorway road rage incident was jailed for 27 months today.Graham Cahill, 44, punched 25-year-old Toby Cooke once on the hard shoulder of the M1 in Bedfordshire in May last year.Cahill was sentenced at Luton crown court today after previously admitting manslaughter. He was also disqualified from driving for 18 months.The court heard that Cahill, of Harrow, north London, pulled over on to the hard shoulder of the motorway to confront Cooke over his driving on May 22 last year. The network manager then felled his victim with one punch during the attack on the northbound carriageway near junction 10.Cooke, a forklift truck driver, from Luton, Bedfordshire, died in hospital four days later from injuries caused by his head striking the ground.Cahill kept his head bowed during sentencing in front of a public gallery packed with Cooke's family.Judge John Bevan QC said: "These cases – cases such as these of one-punch manslaughter, or death by dangerous driving – can on occasions present the sentencer with the most difficult sentencing problems of any in the spectrum."He said a letter from Cahill, expressing his remorse over the tragedy, had presented a "refreshing absence of the usual request for leniency".The court heard yesterday that Cahill was on his way to work in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, at about 6.45am when Cooke drove up behind him, gesturing him to move over.Defence counsel Maria Karaiskos said there was nowhere safe for the defendant to move over so he had stayed where he was, but Cooke overtook him on the inside lane and pulled sharply in front of him.The pair pulled over and Cooke called police to report the incident, but it seemed there was then a scuffle, Ms Karaiskos said. The court heard that Cahill then punched Cooke once, breaking his nose.The 25-year-old fell to the ground and his attacker instantly helped to pull him out of the motorway, shouting for fellow motorists to come to his aid.The court heard that Cooke had previously been involved in a similar incident, gesturing for someone to move over and then overtaking them on the inside lane. The victim of that incident had reported it to police as he was so upset by it.The judge said today: "The victim was given, on occasion, to aggressive, risk-taking and provocative driving and did so indulge in that on this occasion. However, these events did occur some moments after the road rage incident was over. The defendant simply and wholly uncharacteristically lashed out."The court heard that Cahill told people afterwards: "I hit him and he went down and hit his head."Ms Karaiskos said the defendant, who lived with his long-term partner and her two teenage sons in Harrow, was suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder after the incident.She said he regretted even pulling over that day because, if he had not, none of the incidents would have happened. She said: "That punch was not anything planned by this defendant. There was no planning, there was no vicious intent whatsoever. There was no thought process whatsoever. It was a split-second decision. To result in the death of the young man – it was really the last thing that Graham Cahill intended at all."She added: "He is very remorseful, he can't forgive himself for what he has done and he is never going to forgive himself and, although the word sorry means absolutely nothing to a lot of the people in this courtroom, he is deeply, deeply sorry."He wakes up every morning and Mr Cooke is in this thoughts and he remains in his thoughts until he goes to sleep. He has suffered, through his own doing, and he is going to continue to suffer and his life has been destroyed as well."She read out a letter from the defendant, in which he said: "There is not a moment that goes by that I don't think about Tobias Cooke and I wish that things had turned out differently."In a statement released after today's sentencing, Cooke's family said: "If Toby had to leave us so that just one person thinks twice and rejects violence as a course of action, then he won't have gone in vain. So many people have been devastated by this man's 'momentary loss of control'. His family must be suffering dreadfully too. The sentence is acceptable, because how long could ever be long enough?"Nothing will ever bring Tobes back to us or replace him. Priceless is an apt word to describe him."