Labour MPs claimed last night that the Nottinghamshire chief constable had been put under "extreme duress" by a Sunday newspaper to make the politically charged allegations that he was struggling to cope with murder cases.Graham Allen, the Labour MP for Nottingham North, claimed that the Sunday Telegraph had threatened Steve Green, the Nottinghamshire chief constable, that unless he gave the interview they would reveal details of covert operations being undertaken by his force against key criminals. He said he had spoken to the chief constable twice last week, but Mr Green had not raised any of the issues and had told him he did not want to give the interview. "In putting a gun to his head in this way, I asked the chief constable if he felt he had been blackmailed. He said [he] would use the term 'extreme duress'. "The outcome of this is the creation of a story in the Conservative party's mouthpiece Sunday newspaper to fit a highly political partisan agenda," said Mr Allen. He raised the issue when Nottingham MPs met the police minister, Hazel Blears, yesterday to discuss Mr Green's warning that he was so overstretched that he may, for the first time, have to "farm out" an entire murder case to an outside force. Mr Allen said last night that, regardless of whether it was right for the chief constable to buckle under such pressure, it could not be acceptable for a national newspaper to behave in this way. A Sunday Telegraph spokeswoman denied it had behaved unethically: "This is a preposterous allegation. We deny any unethical behaviour by our journalists in reporting this important story." Other Nottingham politicians were unhappy with Mr Green's outspoken attack on the government's police funding policies. John Clarke, the chairman of the Nottinghamshire police authority, said: "I am horrified by this article. It was the wrong move by Steve Green." He also said: "We have had significant improvement in resources. The question has to be whether the resources are being properly used." In the interview, Mr Green said that Nottinghamshire police were struggling to cope with the number of murders they had to deal with, and were able to cope only because of the number of officers brought from other forces. He was preparing to pass the next "category C" murder - such as a domestic case - to outside detectives to investigate. The Tory leader, Michael Howard, yesterday cited Nottinghamshire as an example of where bureaucracy and paperwork were crippling the police, and promised to scrap Whitehall's "target culture". The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said Nottinghamshire was "an extreme case" of the problems facing police forces across the country. He said that so much police time was spent on paperwork they could not even respond to murders effectively. "They simply can't stay on top of the crime. It's a spiral of decline," he said. But Downing Street said that Nottinghamshire had been well funded, with a 4% increase in its grant - well above the minimum - and that it recognised the drug-related gun crime problems in Nottingham. The prime minister's spokesman said the question of why the chief constable had gone to the press was a matter for him and for the Nottinghamshire police authority. After MPs met Ms Blears, the Home Office said last night that ministers were considering a request for extra cash to deal with the cost of murder investigations.