An ice cream business owner who kept a vulnerable man like a slave has been jailed for six-and-a-half years by a judge who said it was staggering that it could happen in modern society.David Rooke forced Craig Kinsella, 34, to live in a garage where he suffered regular beatings and ended up scavenging for food in bins, Sheffield crown court heard.Rooke, 44, admitted falsely imprisoning and attacking Kinsella and was jailed along with his wife Donna, 40, and son Jamie, 19.CCTV footage of various members of the Rooke family assaulting Kinsella was shown to Judge Peter Kelson QC who said it was impossible to watch without wincing.The judge said the family used Kinsella like a punchbag. "It's almost unbelievable," he said. Kelson told the Rookes: "His will had been completely broken by the way you treated him. You treated him like a dog."He said: "Man's inhumanity to man never ceases to shock."He was fed very little – fed by way of food left out. He was kept hungry. He was constantly beaten and battered. He was just your punchbag, all three of you."If you were in a bad mood you would just go and kick and punch Craig Kinsella."It is staggering that this is happening in our society, absolutely staggering."He concluded his sentencing remarks saying: "The hatred is simply immeasurable."Commending the work of South Yorkshire police, he said: "My fear is that there are more of these cases about and we are now only beginning to discover them."David Rooke admitted false imprisonment and several counts of causing actual bodily harm. Jamie Rooke admitted affray and several counts of causing actual bodily harm. He was jailed for four years. Donna Rooke admitted a specimen count of battery. She was jailed for four months.David Brooke, for the prosecution, said the victim's life was completely controlled by the Rookes using casual violence and intimidation.One neighbour told police: "He was like their slave. They used horrible words. He never retaliated."Brooke said the family used "unpleasant and casual" violence to leave Kinsella so terrified he would work from 7.30am to midnight for no money cleaning their garden and vans.He ended up living in their garage, eating occasional cold meals left out for him and using a bucket for a toilet.Brooke said the attacks on Kinsella involved weapons such as pickaxe handles, spade handles and a crowbar.Brooke said the victim initially told officers he deserved one of the beatings because he had been stealing food from a wheelie bin.He said Kinsella began to work for the family a number of years ago and was paid £40 a week so he could keep claiming benefits.But the Rookes took him to the post office to withdraw his money and took control of his finances, the prosecutor explained.He had a flat in the city and was occasionally driven there to have a bath, although the prosecutor said it was in a terrible state. He was spotted washing his few clothes in a bucket.Kinsella eventually told police what happened to him after officers were called to the bungalow following an incident in which Jamie Rooke produced a knife during an altercation with a neighbour.Kinsella was taken to hospital after an officer spotted a range of injuries and he eventually told his story.The court heard Kinsella had learning difficulties and neighbours described him as being a bit "slow".The judge ordered David Rooke to pay Kinsella £15,000 that police found in cash in his home.Speaking outside court, Detective Inspector Vicky Short, from South Yorkshire police, said her officers could easily have been investigating a murder.Short said: "The physical and mental abuse meted out by the Rooke family on a highly vulnerable man plumbed the depths of depravity."Short said that when Kinsella was taken to hospital he was found to be suffering from a broken right arm, a fractured rib, extreme bruising to his back and around his kidney, a fractured chin and cuts, and lumps and bruises on his head and legs.She said: "He is still recovering from his injuries. He is still in pain physically. Mentally, he is still reliving the incident that's occurred."But he's being looked after by a number of outside agencies. He was greatly in fear that his life would be taken."