A 19-year-old woman whose skeletal remains were found in woodland had posted a motto on a social networking website encouraging people to "live life like it's your last day" it was revealed today. Victoria Couchman, thought to be a single mother who lived with her father in Beecham Place, St Leonards, described herself as a lover of comedy and romance films on her Bebo profile, adding her motto: "Live life like it's your last day." Children playing in Redgeland Wood in the Queensway area of Hastings found a skull last Monday, around a mile from where Couchman lived with her father. Further remains were later found, including an upper left leg, pelvic bone and tibia, which were discovered near each other and did not appear to be buried. Medical records were used to identify Couchman. One key piece of information for police came from the disclosure that her upper left leg had suffered a full break and had been pinned. On Saturday night police announced they had arrested a 45-year-old man on suspicion of murder. Sources said the man was Couchman's father, known locally as Tony Couchman. Yesterday police were granted permission to hold the suspect for an additional 36 hours, until 11.22pm tonight. Other messages on her Bebo profile indicate Couchman's friends had been concerned about her disappearance. One message on her profile reads: "Is this Vicky Couchman, if you are please inform the police … we are worried about you." A Sussex police spokesman would not comment on reports that Couchman was not reported as a missing person, saying it formed part of the ongoing investigation. Police said on Friday that around 90% of the skeleton had been recovered and that the bones were degraded. Detectives have not yet disclosed the results of a post-mortem examination carried out on Couchman.One neighbour, Oliver Ellis, described Couchman as a "dedicated mum", adding that he thought she had moved away after starting a new relationship. It was originally thought the remains had been in the woods for up to 10 years, but further discoveries led police to revise their estimate to around 18 months.