David Cameron's "tough love" response to the riots emphasises tough rather than love (Tough love and tougher policing: PM's solution for broken Britain, 16 August). What in his proposals aims to help young people feel valued and cared for, and develop a responsibility to their community because they have a real say and stake in what happens there? The American Psychological Association evaluated "zero tolerance" policies in schools and found them worse than useless. They result in a "school to prison pipeline" for the most vulnerable, and to untrusting, negative relationships between all adults and young people. Neither behaviour nor academic outcomes improve overall.Disciplinary measures alone aim at a quick fix that can make things worse in the long run. Good role models, high expectations, increased participation, meaningful activity, a focus on building strengths rather than addressing deficits, strong community involvement and a good dollop of respect are all part of the recipe for changing behaviour. And why are we not hearing more about restorative approaches as a viable alternative to punishment? Is the government willing to invest in these strategies for intergenerational gains – or would they rather spend the cash on increasing prison places? My experience teaching "disruptive" kids in Tottenham, Camden and Islington for over a decade supports what the research says is more effective – and none of it is a quick fix, any more than there is a simple cause and effect to what has happened.Dr Sue RoffeyUniversity of Western Sydney• The cost of the government's planned family intervention programme is estimated at £400m over the next four years. You may be wondering where this money is coming from. The answer can be found in an announcement the government made on 2 August 2011, outlining plans for "localising support for council tax in England". This measure was originally mentioned in the 2010 spending review announcements, and a contribution to the government's deficit reduction strategy of £490m was listed in the Treasury red book. The City of London contributes £30,000 towards the £490m total, or £3.13 per head of the working-age population. Salford contributes £2.59m, or £16.81 per head. The largest contribution will be made by the residents of Haringey, who will have to find £3.84m, or £24.20 per head. You couldn't make it up.Al FrancoSalford, Lancashire• "Broken Britain" in your headline, and not in quotes? So it's official then?Alan FinlaysonGlen Esk, Angus• "I thought it was shit and he's a knobhead" – the summing up by one young man present at David Cameron's "Wake up, Britain" speech (Report, 17 August). Took the words right out of my mouth.Barbara MckiernanLeeds