The Independent Sentencing Guidelines Council, chaired by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, maintained its stance yesterday that murderers who plead guilty should receive a discounted jail term.But it halved the amount after objections from the home secretary and the home affairs select committee. Lord Woolf was widely criticised for the council's first draft guidelines in September, which suggested that criminals who plead guilty should receive a discount of up to one-third, depending on how early they admitted their guilt. The draft said the same regime should apply to fixing the minimum jail term for murderers, who are sentenced to life imprisonment but with a "tariff" - the time they must serve before they can apply to be released on licence - set by the trial judge. That would have allowed the standard 15-year tariff to be reduced to 10 years if the killer pleaded guilty at the earliest possible opportunity. In its place the final guidelines, published today, allow a maximum discount of a sixth, reducing the standard murder tariff to 12 years. There will also be a cap of five years on the maximum discount allowed to murderers for pleading guilty. But mitigating factors such as age or the fact that the crime was a mercy killing could still produce a tariff considerably less than 12 years. The council has partly met the objections of David Blunkett who, as home secretary, demanded a cap on the discount, but has overridden his insistence that murderers should receive the discount only in exceptional cases. The examples Mr Blunkett gave were where a murderer admitted a killing which was previously unknown, or where there was no evidence to implicate the killer. Last month the home affairs select committee said the will of parliament and "public disquiet" should overrule the reductions. It went on to urge the council to reconsider its proposals so as to reflect "parliament's wish that murder should be treated as a separate and especially grave category of offence". The council must consult the home affairs select committee and the home secretary, but it is not obliged to take their advice. Lord Woolf said yesterday that the council had changed its mind on the size of murder discounts, because a discount of one-sixth would put a murderer in the same position as someone who had committed a lesser offence and received a discount of one-third. That was because other offenders were released on licence halfway through their sentences, so a five-year discount meant only 2 years off the actual term served. That equated to a 2 year discount for a murderer, who would serve the whole tariff period. He said that had not occurred to the council when it produced its draft guidelines. The council's membership includes representatives of prosecutors, defence lawyers, the police forces, and victims of crime. The final guidelines also provide that there will be no discount for a guilty plea in cases which are serious enough to justify the imposition of a whole-life tariff. The guidelines stress that any possible reduction will have to be "weighed carefully" by a judge, so that it does not lead to "an inappropriately short sentence". "Where it is appropriate to reduce the minimum term having regard to a plea of guilty, the maximum reduction will be one-sixth," the updated paper says. It adds: "The reduction should never exceed five years." This contradicts the earlier draft, which said offenders could get even more than a third off their sentence in "exceptional cases" where they displayed "absolute candour". A Home Office spokesman said: "The revised guideline goes a long way towards meeting our concerns by ruling out any reduction for the most heinous crimes, halving the maximum reduction for guilty pleas to one-sixth in other cases, and emphasising that in all other cases the tariff must adequately reflect the seriousness of the offence." The spokesman added that the question of guilty plea reductions in murder cases would be considered in parallel with the newly announced review of the law on homicide.