A police traffic officer who moonlighted as an electrician between shifts is to be jailed for killing a schoolgirl as he chased a suspect car at 94mph without using his blue lights or siren.PC John Dougal was told by a judge that prison was inevitable after a jury unanimously convicted him of causing the death of 16-year-old Hayley Adamson by dangerous driving.The jury took an hour-and-a-half to deliver the verdict after a five-day trial, which heard that Dougal, 41, was driving so fast in a built-up part of Newcastle upon Tyne that he was effectively "a passenger in his own car".A camera on the front of his high-powered Volvo showed the collision in detail, as the schoolgirl tried to run out of the way while crossing the road in a 30mph zone. She had been out with friends for the evening before the start of GCSE exams last May.Dougal claimed in his defence during the trial at Newcastle crown court that he had been in control of the car and remained satisfied that his driving had been safe. He said he had not used his "blues and twos" – the lights and siren – to avoid alerting the suspect car.A police driving standards expert, Gordon Robertson, told the jury it was unimaginable to drive so fast without lights and siren at night in a 30mph zone. He accused Dougal of "surrendering the car to physics" and having as much control over it as a passenger would have done.The trial heard that the officer and a colleague had spent the morning before their night shift working as electricians, which they did regularly. Dougal, who has 12 years' experience of high-speed patrol cars and motorbikes, denied that this had made him tired.He was remanded in custody by the judge, David Hodson, who told him: "You must appreciate that the inevitable outcome of a conviction of an offence of this nature is custody." Sentence will be passed on 1 May.The judge said: "I am sure everybody who has sat through this case will be acutely conscious of the grief there has been to the Adamson family. I think it is right that the court should express its condolences to them."Family members in court welcomed the verdict with cries of "Yes!". A statement from Hayley's parents issued through Northumbria police described her as "a happy, bubbly person who was loved by everyone".She had been planning to study childcare at university and worked as a volunteer with children. A youth club was launched in her memory in Newcastle this year, with its base named Hayley's Den.She was walking home with her friends at 11.20pm, dressed in a white tracksuit, when the tragedy happened. Dougal had been alerted to a suspicious number plate on a Renault Megane and set off in pursuit.The court heard that the alert was mistaken and the Megane was being lawfully driven by a Czech national, Kalaman Galambos. He was travelling within the 30mph limit which, said Andrew Dallas, prosecuting, made the patrol car's speed even more unjustified.Chris Enzor, the chief crown prosecutor for Durham, said: "Dougal left Miss Adamson with no chance of getting out of his way. The jury has supported our view that this was completely unacceptable."Outside court Hayley's aunt, Elizabeth Broom, thanked the jury, police and lawyers and said: "It has been truly devastating for the whole family. We have coped with it as best we can but it was just a terrible, terrible tragedy."