The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday 17 December 2009  The opinion piece below, from a victim of sex trafficking, published under a pseudonym on the Guardian's Comment is free (Cif) site did not give an accurate account of articles by Nick Davies about sex trafficking, which were also published by the Guardian. Nick Davies did not say or suggest that sex trafficking does not exist. His front page story, on 20 October, reported that a police investigation, Operation Pentameter Two, did not result in the conviction of anyone who had forced women into prostitution, but acknowledged that other investigations had done so. His story on page 6 the same day examined definitions of sex trafficking and figures put forward in studies, in parliament and in the media about the number of women who have been trafficked for sexual exploitation. The opinion piece below was wrong to suggest that he is either indifferent to, or tries to hide facts about, sex trafficking. I read Nick Davies's article of 20 October, and it made me wonder how people educated to that level could write all those things. It's so easy for some people to say "trafficking does not exist". These are people who cannot see beyond their noses, who live in a beautiful world where pimps and sex slaves are just stories to be discussed in the pub. But trafficking does exist. It is happening everywhere.I was trafficked to the UK when I was 22, but was in the grip of the traffickers for two years before that. As soon as I arrived here I was forced to work in brothels, and was controlled not only by the traffickers but by the owners of the brothel and the customers, who pretended to feel sorry for me and the rest of the women. When they had finished what they were there to do – get pleasure – they would close the door behind them, leaving me and other women to suffer on in the hellish world you said did not exist.The report says the police didn't arrest anyone in the operation Pentameter Two except women or the owners of the brothels. Of course they didn't. Pimps do not stay at the brothels. The business is not run by stupid people. It is a well-developed industry; it is organised crime. And now journalists such as Davies are helping them to grow their business and make women more afraid to tell people what is happening, because no one will believe us. And he has proved pimps right when they say, "No one can touch us".I was in brothels all over the UK from early 2003 to mid 2007, when I got my freedom. I was under the protection of the Poppy Project for about one-and-a-half years, and they gave me help and support to survive and get my life (what was left of it) back.In my opinion, Davies doesn't know what real trafficking is, and I wonder if he has ever met any women who were trafficked. Believe me, I know plenty, including myself. I can't explain to you on a piece of paper my years of experience in that world, but I have made an effort to stand up for what Davies and other people like you are trying to hide. He is behaving as if trafficking does not exist. Human trafficking does exist. Don't close your eyes to it.