Strathclyde police confirmed this week that they would be taking no action against the prime minister's wife following reports she had given a teenager a playful slap after catching him making "rabbit ears" gestures behind her head. Cherie Blair told Miles Gandolfi, 17, it was lucky she "had such a good sense of humour".A rather more serious form of assault emerged in January 2005 when the new trend of "happy slapping" was reported in the newspapers. Thought to have originated in south London, it involved hitting an unwitting victim while filming their reaction on a mobile phone. Initially, it was dismissed as a playground prank - the latest fad for schoolchildren who had grown bored of yo-yos and Pokemon cards.By May 2005, the BBC was calling it a "nationwide phenomenon" as happy slapping spread outside schools and became more violent. The British Transport police said they'd investigated around 200 incidents in six months.The biggest outcry came this January when a gang of four people were entenced to a total of 44 years' imprisonment for a series of random attacks on London's South Bank in October 2004 that led to the death of David Morley, a 37-year-old barman. Chelsea O'Mahoney, the only female member of the gang, then only 14, was caught filming one of the attacks on her mobile.The term was obviously a misnomer. "There is no such thing as happy slapping," said a judge in another case. "It is an offensive phrase." Liz Carnell of the Bullying Online charity says it's "like calling someone who steals a car and kills someone a joyrider".Yet national media interest dissipated almost as quickly as it started and Mrs Carnell believes that the trend itself has died out. A spokesman for the British Transport police says that it "doesn't seem to be an issue at the moment". Adrian Bailey, a Labour MP who initiated a parliamentary debate and continues to campaign on the issue, admits he "hasn't had the same level of public response in the last six months".That's not to say it's disappeared. Last Sunday, it was reported that the Irish police were investigating the first instance of happy slapping in a secondary school there. In February, a man in Saudi Arabia was given a 10-year sentence, 600 lashes and told he was lucky to escape the death penalty after filming an assault. Incidents have also been reported in Denmark, Belgium and France."It's still a routine item in local UK press coverage," says Graham Barnfield, a media lecturer at the University of East London who has taken an interest in the subject. "But it doesn't have the drama of 18 months ago."As the hype dies down, there are two conclusions to draw. One, as Mrs Carnell points out, is that bullies and thugs will always exploit new technology, whether video phones, text messages or internet chatrooms. Perhaps these assaults would have taken place anyway, whether filmed or not. The fault is not the medium.More depressingly, happy slapping appears to be part of a wider voyeuristic, and often sadistic, trend in a modern society where images are king and the world sits up and takes notice whenever terrorists behead hostages, soldiers abuse captives, yobs thump strangers and idiots bite the heads off mice and show the results on YouTube.· This will be the last Loose Ends. Thank you for all your suggestions and correspondence.