For sentencing policy to command public respect, it must be the result of consensus between executive, legislature and judiciary.No single institution or office can dominate or attempt to own the sentencing process to the exclusion of others. While ever the UK remains a democracy, that would be a recipe for continual conflict. Trust must be carefully rebuilt between the three institutions - all of whom deserve anti-social behaviour orders for their recent tantrums.A sensible mechanism for reconciling the genuinely held views of all interested parties is what is needed - that is why a broad-based sentencing guidelines council is being proposed in parliament next week.At the very moment when such confidence-building measures are most necessary, it was, to say the least, unhelpful that David Blunkett, the home secretary, made his unilateral announcement in the media on murder sentencing. He said he was "not prepared to allow sentences to be passed for the most horrendous, shocking crimes which do not reflect either the punishment required or the need to give a clear signal to perpetrators that we will not tolerate their presence in our society". For this reason, he is bringing forward proposals to ensure that "for the most serious crimes ... life should mean life, as opposed to current practice of a 20-year minimum term. For other serious crimes ... a minimum term of 30 years imprisonment should be passed, an increase of 10 years on current sentencing practice". The home secretary is entitled to his opinion and I for one happen to agree with it.However, what is arguable is his right to impose it on the judiciary and parliament, rather than seek to win them over in mature debate. Government by process is preferable to government by will and whim. Can he impose his will? - Yes. Is it good governance? - No.To imagine the judiciary would take such impositions lying down is foolish. They would fiercely defend judicial independence, seek to erode executive diktat by their decisions on case law, and others would use human rights and European law to expose its illegitimacy. The whole unnecessary battle would continue.To prove he hasn't lost his sense of humour, Mr. Blunkett added that he was "determined that there should continue to be accountability to parliament for these most critical decisions."Parliamentary input would be through the chairman of the home affairs select committee, averting the danger of a bidding-up process, with government and opposition MPs attempting to prove themselves tougher on crime than each other... Parliament will set the framework for sentencing the most abhorrent crimes". To claim that parliament will decide is at best disingenuous. The executive is the sole owner and proprietor of parliament and can steamroller whatever it wants through a supine legislature. For example, in recent weeks both the criminal justice bill and the anti-social behaviour bill have been railroaded through parliament with no pre-legislative scrutiny. When ministers mount stout defences of parliamentary liberty, it is time to count the silver. However, away from the media posturing, many parliamentarians have been working extremely hard to find a better way to devise sentencing policy than the current megaphone diplomacy between judges and home secretary. Our answer, devised in the criminal justice bill committee, is to have a broad-based sentencing guidelines council involving the judiciary, executive and legislature working together. This proposal received support from representatives of all the parties on the bill. The council's members would include the home secretary, the chairman of the home affairs select committee, and the Lord Chief Justice. Also included would be serving judges, a serving prison governor, a serving police officer, a serving probation officer, a representative of victims' organisations and others. Parliamentary input would be through the chairman of the home affairs select committee. We deliberately kept the precise form of the sentencing guidelines council open to allow the necessary flexibility. The council would receive a report from the already existing sentencing advisory panel, which is made up made up of experts and academics. It would then consider at length the best way forward and agree sentencing guidelines within which judges would have discretion within law to decide on cases. If a final safeguard for judicial independence is felt necessary, the judicial element of the council could retire and deliberate. The outcome of this process would be sentencing guidelines supported, endorsed and bought into by all with an interest.Despite their prancing and preening on this issue, the law is not owned by these arms of the constitution. It is the property of the public who it is intended to serve. The public are confused by dishonest sentencing and feel no ownership of, or understanding of the system they pay for. To keep the public informed, an annual report, in ordinary language, would be issued to each taxpayer.However, if, as Mr Blunkett has indicated, certain sentences will be determined by him (and rubber-stamped by the parliamentary majority of the day) and therefore excluded from the remit of the council, then its credibility as an organisation, along with the values it represents, will be compromised. Any decision of the sentencing council which the home secretary of the day didn't like could be similarly cut down. This is a particularly curious development, given that the idea of a sentencing guidelines council first appeared in the criminal justice bill. Why has the home secretary asked parliament to pass a bill to create a sentencing guidelines council if he intends to usurp at least some of its functions himself, even before it is established?Electors are losing faith in the way law and order is administered. If we are to win them back, the three branches, the executive, legislature and judiciary, have to climb out of their playpens and work together.Sentencing must be built on the basis of consensus and trust, rather than dominance, otherwise it will lack legitimacy and be called into question.Judges, the home secretary, MPs and everyone else who has the interests of the criminal justice system and the public's faith in it at heart, must call a ceasefire and build the structure through which their legitimate concerns can be reconciled. In so doing, they will be able to sit down together to devise a lasting and firm foundation for sentencing policy.· Graham Allen is Labour MP for Nottingham North