Interpol was established in 1923 as the International Criminal Police Organisation. It became known as Interpol, which had hitherto been its address for telegrams, in 1956.The organisation is based in Lyon, France. It has 182 member countries and is the second largest international organisation after the UN. It provides a conduit for international communications between its members' police forces, enabling them to share intelligence. It analyses international criminal trends and tries to share best practices and new thinking on cutting crime.Interpol itself has more than 300 staff, including just over 100 police officers, stationed in across around 50 different countries.It has to remain politically neutral and would not, for example, intervene in a criminal case unless it involved more than one member country. It focuses on organised crime, terrorism, drug production and trafficking, people smuggling, child pornography and money laundering. A member country may request that a person or threat may be put on Interpol's wanted list, but the organisation's website says: "It is domestic police who, for the most part, must track and arrest them." Interpol describes its core services as providing "a unique global police communication system ... a range of criminal databases and analytical services and proactive support for police operations throughout the world".This is the kind of support it will be giving to Colombian police hunting three Irish republicans who were on the run after an appeal court yesterday overturned their previous acquittals of training Marxist rebels in the South American country. It has an international notices system which it uses to send out alerts to its members with information about people wanted for serious crimes, missing persons, unidentified bodies, intelligence about threats and criminals' modus operandi. Red notices are used for dangerous persons who a member state may seek to have extradited back to them if they are arrested beyond their borders; they are not "international arrest warrants" but indicate a desire for their arrest or extradition. Last year there were just over 1,200 red notices issued.Notices are also used by the International Tribunals for the Former Yugoslavia and Rwanda to seek people wanted for serious violations of international law on human rights.