As the general election approaches you can expect to hear rather less about "hug a hoodie" and rather more about "mug a hoodie" when it comes to the Conservatives' approach to law and order. This is because the shadow home secretary, Chris Grayling, a former TV executive, has been licensed by David Cameron to "harden up" the party line.The language he uses is a million miles away from the social justice approach encapsulated by Cameron in his "hug a hoodie" speech. Grayling talks about tackling "street rats" to the approval of the Tory tabloids, which see him as closer to the old-style Tory home secretaries such as Michael Howard, who openly declared his ambition to lock up more criminals.As Grayling himself puts it: "I am advocating a hardline approach. Hardcore thugs must go to jail, not be let off as many are at present."Some of the headline policies highlighted in Manchester appear to endorse that approach: headteachers to be given back the power to deal with discipline; young thugs who terrorise housing estates to be punished with "grounding orders"; police chiefs who refuse to tackle families from hell to be sacked; and 5,000 more prison places.But if the language sounds tough, a cursory glance at the detail of the policies reveals that they are not so far away from the current Labour approach. The "grounding orders" sound rather similar to acceptable behaviour contracts or asbos, but won't carry a criminal record, so the youngster won't be disadvantaged later in life.The power to hire and fire the local police commander is to be given to a network of locally elected police commissioners, who will also control budgets. This is already mired in controversy, with strong opposition from the police and fears that it will lead to a repetition around the country of Boris Johnson's sacking of Sir Ian Blair in London.The new approach to prisons includes what is arguably the most barking policy of the party conference season – paying prison governors by results. The Tories hope to reduce the jail population in the long run by putting a new emphasis on rehabilitation. The idea is that prison governors and private prison companies that provide rehabilitation services in prison are paid a basic fee and if an offender stays on the straight and narrow for two years, they will get a bonus. With prisoners serving their sentences in so many different prisons, it is difficult to see how the bonus payments will be worked out.Second prize for barkingness should go to shadow justice secretary Dominic Grieve's unfounded claim that confusion about the Human Rights Act was preventing the police putting up "wanted posters" in shops. His pledge to ensure that wanted criminals could be publicly named would have had more force if the police had not already got the power and if Crimewatch hadn't been doing the same thing on TV for as long as I can remember.But combined with firm pledges to scrap the ID card scheme, scale back the DNA database and provide a "second chance" for ex-offenders, their law and order programme starts to sound a lot less like the "lock 'em up" rhetoric of Howard and some his Tory predecessors. Perhaps it is going to be "hug a hoodie" after all.