The integrity of horse racing was once again in question yesterday after the head of Britain's leading bookmakers claimed that at least one race a day in Britain is fixed.Chris Bell, chief executive of Ladbrokes, made his comments in a BBC television programme about betting exchanges, which allow punters to bet against each other on the internet or back a horse to lose, leading to accusations that they have been responsible for increasing corruption within racing. Mr Bell, speaking on BBC2's The Money Programme, said: "I am personally convinced that at least a race a day, if not more, are now being corrupted by the availability of laying horses to lose on betting exchanges." Mr Bell's comments come as the Jockey Club, horse racing's governing body, is investigat ing three cases of corruption in which it is alleged that the outcome was fixed following unusually high betting patterns on betting exchanges. One case being investigated took place in March when it is alleged that jockey Sean Fox jumped off his horse Ice Saint midway through a race. The bookmaking industry has been arguing for greater regulation of betting exchanges and says they are being used by organised crime and corrupt figures from the world of horse racing. Ladbrokes' managing director, Alan Ross, said: "The integrity of British racing is being undermined by betting exchanges. Betting exchanges allow unlicensed, anonymous layers to lay horses to lose. All bookmakers in the high street have to be licensed and have a permit." New regulations on betting exchanges are to be introduced in a gambling bill that will come into force by next summer at the earliest, but the bookmaking industry claims that they do not go far enough. The Jockey Club dismissed Mr Bell's claims. Its executive director, Christopher Foster, said: "It could be that it was a throwaway comment, because we know of no basis on which he could make such a claim." He said that under a memorandum of understanding with bookmakers, "if Ladbrokes had any evidence of a pattern of so-called fixed races, they should have shared it with the Jockey Club. They have not done so." Betfair, a leading betting exchange, claimed that Mr Bell's comments were driven by commercial envy. A spokesman, Mark Davies, said: "Ladbrokes and many other bookmakers ... have been doing everything possible to wrap our business up in red tape and criticise us because they see us as a serious competitive threat."