Sports fans were conned into spending thousands of pounds on faked autographs of their heroes, a court heard today. Signatures of England rugby player Jonny Wilkinson, and footballers David Beckham, Steven Gerrard, Michael Owen, and Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson, were "systematically" forged and sold by businessmen Graeme Walker and Faisal Madani, a jury at Chester crown court was told. Other counterfeit goods, it was heard, included replicas of England international caps and Worthington and European Cup final shirts, which were sold as genuine. Walker, 45, is accused of more than 50 counts of cheating the customers of his shop, Sporting Icons Ltd, which has a store in Chester city centre and also operates on eBay. Madani, 43, described in court as the "middle man", faces 20 counts of supplying the forgeries. Andrew Thomas QC, prosecuting, opened the trial saying: "Those charges are only a sample of the many hundreds of forged and counterfeit goods either sold or offered for sale by Sporting Icons. "Not every item in the shop was a forgery. The bogus stock was mixed in with genuine stock. We say that was all part of the fraud — by hiding the fakes among the genuine goods it was much easier to deceive the public." Mr Thomas said that prosecutors had relied on evidence from a handwriting expert and some stars themselves, including Wilkinson, Gerrard and Owen who have denied signing the items. Some of them are expected to give evidence, or have statements read to the jury. Walker, of Mountain View Close, Connah's Quay, Deeside, and Madani, of Grange Road, Bramhall, Stockport, Greater Manchester, deny the charges and deny the items are forgeries. The pair claim that the goods were bought in good faith and from reputable sources. The jury was told that Sporting Icons sold not just sporting memorabilia. In photographs of the shop and printouts of the website they saw framed autographs and pictures of actors Laurel and Hardy, Mae West, Rock Hudson and Sylvester Stallone. Musicians whose autographs and pictures were on sale included the Beatles, Elvis Presley, Buddy Holly, Queen and Nat King Cole. Mr Thomas told the jury that the bulk of the fraud took place between 2003, when England lifted the Rugby World Cup after Jonny Wilkinson's last-minute drop kick, and 2005, when Liverpool FC recorded their fifth Champion's League victory.He said: "The defendants were involved in selling effectively worthless items to the public. "Customers paid premium prices — hundreds or even thousands of pounds — in the belief that they were buying genuine goods, such as items autographed by their heroes. "The defendants, we say, betrayed the trust of the public. In short, they were ripping fans off." Mr Thomas told the jury that in 2002 Madani had paid George Best compensation of £10,000 after he was caught selling fake autographs of the footballing legend. He showed the jury an email in which Walker threatened staff at Jonny W, Wilkinson's management company, with court action because the company had requested proof that the fly half's autograph, which Sporting Icons was advertising for sale, was genuine. He also told how David Beckham fans, who saw Sporting Icons' adverts for an autographed picture of their idol, immediately spotted that it was a fake and reported the matter to trading standards officers, who are now prosecuting the case.The trial continues.