Cycling home recently I stopped at some traffic lights and a group of men in a car next to me wound their window down and made clear their feelings. "All right, love, wanna get in the car?" Weighing up the situation – four of them, one of me, car versus bike – I decided against a pithy reply, but pretended I hadn't heard them and dawdled when the lights changed, assuming they'd speed off. For a few moments they did, but then slowed right down and crawled alongside me, this time shouting sexual obscenities. Eventually I got off my bike, stepped on to the pavement and started to walk in the opposite direction. They pulled away, swearing at me as they went.A couple of days later a man in the street shouted, "Give us a kiss love, it's Christmas." And last night, walking out of the supermarket laden with bags, I got "All right, princess" as I walked past two men. When I didn't respond, they followed me, asking for my number; and as I hurried away they started shouting and making suggestive noises. A bus pulled up and I made my escape.Something similar happens on average once a week, more in the summer; but now, in the boozy run-up to Christmas, it seems to be happening a lot. If you are reading this thinking, "What's she complaining about, doesn't everyone like a nice compliment?" let me explain: there is a big difference between receiving a genuine compliment and being the object of someone's persistent and aggressive attention, and I'm sure men know the difference.My line is: if I know you, compliment me as often as you like; if I don't, keep your thoughts on my appearance to yourself. I would never dream of telling a man I passed on the street what I thought of his outfit, let alone that I'd like to see him without it. I'd never ask a man on the bus for his phone number, and I'd certainly never swear at him if he refused.Some days I feel threatened by the hassle, others just annoyed. But I seldom speak about it. What's the point, it's just something you have to put up with, isn't it? Or is it?Not so, says Vicky Simister, founder of the London Anti Street Harassment campaign (Lash). Simister set up Lash after a group of men kerb-crawled her, asking her to get into the car and shouting vulgarities, speeding up and slowing down, for about 20 minutes. She got so annoyed she hit their car. The men stopped, chased her, grabbed her by the neck and shoved her against a wall. The police were called. They told Simister not to bother pressing charges, because she had attacked the men's property. When Simister explained what had led her to act, she was in effect told she should lighten up and take any attention, no matter how threatening, as a compliment."I felt frustrated and let down by the police, and when I went searching for support from any women's charities I couldn't get any. I knew other women suffered from this so I decided to raise awareness," says Simister. Her campaign has already received political support from mayoral candidate Ken Livingstone, and MP Diane Abbott, and due to the positive response Lash has now become the UK Anti Street Harassment campaign.The campaign aims to raise public awareness and to make sexually harassing women on the streets as socially unacceptable as it has become in the workplace. Says Simister: "I want to encourage women to speak up about it, so the message gets through that it's not OK. I don't think you can criminalise it, but you can make it socially unacceptable, so people stop turning a blind eye. I want politicians and educators to know about it and for the authorities to take notice of it as an issue – so that when the police are called they have policy on how to deal with it."Her campaign runs alongside Hollaback, an international website that encourages women to take pictures of street harassers and upload them, together with their stories – though Simister appreciates that taking a picture of someone harassing you might not always be a great idea.The Stop Violence Against Women group defines sexual harassment as: "Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favours, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature."Simister has compiled a London Street Harassment survey, to give a clear picture of the situation in the capital. I sent her survey to 10 women and three men aged between 18 and 60. Every woman reported that they regularly experienced leering, honking, whistl-ing, kissing noises, sexist comments, sexually explicit comments, touching and grabbing.This occurred on average on a monthly basis, but often weekly. Only one man responded, but I suspect his response is typical: "No one has ever sexually harassed me on the street in any way. I think most men assume all women have to put up with is the odd wolf whistle and sexist comment." If only.The most common misperception about street harassment is that it's a harmless bit of fun. But those who believe this have clearly never been asked for their phone number by a stranger and then told to fuck off when they politely decline. Sexual harassment on the street is not harmless, and it's not funny. It quickly escalates, and it leaves women feeling threatened, alienated and humiliated.Women who don't like it are not prudes or stuck up. We just don't enjoying being objectified and leered at by men who should know better. Men need to take responsibility, and women need to speak up. They are our streets too.