Meeting Sabine Dardenne is disconcerting. She is what would once have been called a slip of a thing: small, pale, blonde, slight. In the hushed bar of a plush hotel in Lille, in north-eastern France, perched on an outsized armchair in a thoroughly sensible woolly, she looks nowhere near her 21 years.Can this really be the person who survived more than 80 days chained by the neck in the squalid dungeon of probably the world's most notorious paedophile? The gap-toothed 12-year-old girl who set off on her bike for school one May morning and who, for the next three months, was starved half to death and repeatedly raped and sexually abused? Then she fixes you with her eyes, a clear, frank and level gaze. She tells you plainly, bluntly, matter-of-factly, that no, of course she's not a hero; that quite honestly all this care and compassion is very nearly as hard to take as captivity; that there really is no point at all in crying over spilt milk anyway. In her determination, her detachment and her lucidity, the girl is extraordinary. When she gets a bit older (she laughs out loud at the idea), she'll make a great agony aunt. "Look, I didn't ask for any of this," she protests, puffing hard on an umpteenth fag. "I'm not a star, a singer or an actor or something. OK, I'm quite proud of myself, I suppose, for standing up to what I stood up to. And I'm proud of myself for standing up to what I'm standing up to now. I've dealt with it all fairly well, I suppose. But I haven't actually done anything." That is not true, of course. What she has done, principally, is resist. She resisted Dutroux, who last year was sentenced to life imprisonment for the kidnapping and rape of six young girls and the murder of four of them. Throughout her long weeks as his hostage, when, by his own confession, he would, among many other abuses, force her to perform oral sex and then give her a sweet "to take away the taste", she never stopped getting at him, pestering him, complaining, moaning, badgering, demanding. "I'm very strong-willed," she says. "I know what I want and I know what's important for me. I won't ever give up if that's what's at stake. In his cellar, I knew what was important for me was to see my family again, my parents, my sisters. So I didn't give up; I kept going." After it was over, when the gendarmes finally hauled her out of Dutroux's cellar on August 15 1996, along with Laetitia Delhez, who had been held there for six days, she continued to resist. This time, it was against the well-intentioned efforts of just about everyone - her family, her friends, the medical profession, the police and more or less the entire shocked and guilt-stricken Belgian nation - to appropriate her suffering as if it was their own. The doctors and the psychiatrists she rejected outright. "The psychiatrist was the worst," she says. "I didn't want to go, my mother made me, and I only went once. This woman showed me splotches of ink, asked me what they were. I said, splotches of ink. She showed me a picture of a little girl with flowers, asked me what it was. I said, a little girl with flowers. She said, is that all? I said, of course it is! That's the day I understood that if I wasn't careful I really would go mad - not with what had happened, but with all the whys and the wherefores afterwards." She resisted her parents too, particularly her mother, who wanted badly to be confided in, to share her burden. "I just wasn't going to do it," she says. "There was no point. It had happened, it was over, end of story. Telling her about it would not have changed that, and it would only have made her feel 10 times worse." For nine years now, in fact, she has stood firm against pressure from all quarters to look, speak and behave like a victim: at the first possible opportunity after her release, she got back on her bike again and set off for school, alone. She is still resisting the pitying looks she gets in her home town, the comments, the letters. She will not play the role of "la pauvre petite Sabine" in which Belgium's, and then the world's, media cast her. "It's hard, really it's hard," she says, "though it's getting slowly better now. But I still get stared at in the train every morning on the way to work. I get asked for my autograph. I get long, long letters from women who say they don't understand how I can act like I do, how selfish I must be at heart, how I'm not sharing enough. Or from other rape victims who say that they sympathise, they can understand. It just makes me furious. There is nothing to understand. It happened and that's the end of it." The act of resistance for which Sabine Dardenne is most remembered came in the packed courtroom in Arlon, Belgium, about this time last year. At the end of her hour-long testimony during Dutroux's trial, she was asked if there were any questions she wanted to ask. It was an electric moment. Standing feet away from her former torturer in his plate-glass box - the man who swore to her that her parents had abandoned her and refused to pay a ransom; the man who, when she was haemorrhaging from his assaults, gave her a pile of old Pampers to wear - she said: "I would like to know, coming from the man who has said I was pigheaded, why he didn't liquidate me." Dutroux's mumbled reply was that he had "grown attached to her". She could, she recalls, barely contain her laughter. She can barely contain it now. "He was just so pathetic," she says. "I thought he would try to manipulate me again, like he did in the dungeon, but he wasn't even capable of that. He was tiny. He was abject. He couldn't tell the truth, not even once in his life. He didn't frighten me in the least. He made me laugh." When Dardenne finally decided to write a book about her ordeal, it was in part simply to get everyone off her back. She would like nothing better, she insists, than to be forgotten: "It annoys me intensely that I can't really go out in the evening, that every time I get asked my name, at the dentist's or the video store, someone says, 'Dardenne? You're Sabine Dardenne?'" I Choose to Live, published in French last year, was book of the year in Belgium, has sold extremely well in France, and has so far been translated (or is being translated) into 22 languages. It is entirely in its author's image: direct, unpretentious, chatty, feet-on-the-ground. Sometimes shockingly so. But how much of that is her, and how much a defence mechanism? When Dardenne talks of Dutroux, she never calls him by his name, but nor does she ever slip into hyperbole. He is never "the monster of Charleroi", "the butcher", "the torturer". He is always "le con" (the idiot), "le fou" (the madman), "le pauvre type" (that pathetic little man), "l'autre" (that guy), just occasionally "le sale connard" (the dirty bastard). He does not, she says when asked for an explanation, merit being called by his name. "Yes, I am matter-of-fact, I am Little Miss Tout-le-monde," she says. "That's me, I'm afraid; it's the way I'm made. But I suppose it is also a strategy of a kind. You have to detach yourself in order to move on. You have to stand back, to keep your distance. You can't just spend the rest of your life crying. You can't always live in the past. That shocks some people, I know." Today, apart from being recognised in the street and having to submit to press interviews to promote her book, Dardenne, nine years on from her ordeal, leads what looks like a perfectly normal life. She has a job (in council offices in Brussels) that she loathes. This month, she is sitting the police entrance exam (not because of what happened to her, but because her father was a gendarme and it has been a dream of hers since she was very small). She has a boyfriend, with whom she has been for more than two years now and is very happy (although they sometimes row). She first went out with a boy when she was 15, and found it "very difficult at first". The whole sex business was tricky, of course, but she dealt with it. She had to set a girlfriend straight when, during a teenager's "how far did you go" conversation in the playground, the friend called Dutroux her "first man". But on the whole, she insists, she is just like any other 21-year-old. "Let's see, what would be different now if that shit-for-brains hadn't crossed my path?" she wonders. "Well, I'm sure I'd have a boyfriend, though getting him might have been a little bit easier. My family relations are rather strained, but that would probably have happened sooner or later anyway. Work would be the same. Maybe I'm a little bit more suspicious, a little bit more demanding of people. But basically, I think I'm me." Leafing through her book, recalling the horrors that were recounted during the trial, it is difficult to accept that that can be so. Are there really no nightmares, no cold sweats, no foul images flitting through the mind when they are least welcome? "Nope, none of that," she says cheerily. "My head's screwed on straight. There's no point taking pity on yourself, after all. You live with it, you move on." But there is, perhaps, one difference: at home is a big trunk crammed with all the thousands of newspaper articles, all the video-recordings of all the hundreds of television programmes made about "l'affaire Dutroux". She doesn't look in there, not very often. But when she does, or when she re-reads the diaries she kept while she was chained up in his cellar, her reaction is always the same. "Those diaries, I can read them 15 times and they're still not me," she says. "They're a 12-year-old girl who was once me." One day, maybe, her children will want to know what is in the trunk, and she will say: "There. Have a look." It's no big deal, after all. Just the story of a young girl who had the misfortune, once upon a time, to run into a dirty old sickhead. And that young girl no longer exists.· I Choose to Live by Sabine Dardenne with Marie-Thérèse Cuny is published by Virago on May 9 at £12.99