Mischa Niering was 19 when he became another statistic in the history of young black boys who die violently in the UK. Interrupted in the act of ram raiding Tiffany's jewellers of Sloane Street, his moped crashed and he was subsequently run over by a police car in pursuit. A casual reader of the news would have been hard pushed to see it as anything remarkable: he was guilty of attempted robbery and crime shouldn't pay.But there are no shortage of articles that apportion blame for the reality behind the stats, dividing between those that hold black culture to task for its single parenting, love of rap and bling and its macho posturing, and those who bemoan the government's failure to recognise any special needs for young black men, leaving it to an over-stretched, heavy handed police force to respond disproportionately.But the truth is, Mischa was not black but brown, not failing at school but a high achiever, not an angry rap artist but a talented dramatist and not lacking in love or respect from his family and friends. So what went wrong? Mid-teens Mischa was a member of the highly acclaimed inclusive theatre company Chicken Shed and it is his aunt, Chris Niering, who co-directs a dance drama exploring that question, currently playing at their north London theatre. Working directly from his mother Karen's words in the months following his death, As the Mother of a Brown Boy ... gives us an unusual insight into the complexity of the causes leading up to Mischa's choice to go out with the gang that night, and how that careless decision led to his death.Despite there being "almost too much love" in the early days of the family, Mischa's father couldn't cope with the responsibility: he bailed out before Mischa got to school age, leaving him alone with his white mother. In the drama they are heard together challenging the distrust and often open hostility such a mix can still engender, even in cosmopolitan London. (If you have any doubts about that, check out journalist Lowri Turner's worrying admission in a recent Daily Mail article that she, herself, feels alienated from her mixed race child and fears for her future.)Although an early high achiever, Mischa was consistently an outsider at school and began to look for "brothers" to identify with, beyond his immediate crowd. Truancy led to expulsion and the end of his safety net. His mother laments to her child: "When they excluded you they only did half the job. You finished the job for them because you started to exclude yourself. But worse, the school excluded itself ... the school stopped learning from what you had to offer. The school stopped learning." The mother's pain is that her devoted, unconditional love is not enough on its own.It's the same point that Camila Batmanghelidjh, director of Kids Company - whose activities have been credited with saving over 3,000 children from a life of crime and violence - makes in an interview for the British Council, to be published later this year. Camila says children - particularly those with single parents - need groups of friends and adults to look out for them, answer their questions, respond to their needs and be aware of their vulnerabilities. Where one parent may become the focus of a child's rebellion, another adult has to be there to take over temporarily.The mistake made by reactionary politicians is insisting that these people have to be parents within "decent, hardworking" nuclear families, as if the mere fact of biological relationships and jobs will make the child safe. Often children of broken homes themselves, many parents are not ready for the task of emotionally raising their offspring. In addition, if they are working long hours, they are not available. Creating the culture and the circumstances within which parents can feel free to choose the raising of children above overworking - whether for the sake of consumerism or survival - is vital. But it may be a long while coming.On the other hand, says Camila, any committed, consistent, caring adult can fulfil that role. "We need to conceptualise family experiences that are beyond that of working parents stuck in their high rise flats on their own." Because "when these supportive nets are missing, emotional disengagement begins and it is this that is at the heart of social breakdown today."Tragically, it was exactly one of these newly conceived family experiences, in the form of the Chicken Shed Theatre Company, in which Mischa had a brief respite from his social exclusion. Built on the simple premise that inclusion means "not exclusion", anyone can apply to join Chicken Shed's company and all are prized for their unique contributions. Able-bodied children work closely together with children with disabilities of all kinds, understanding that the benefits are mutual; their T-shirt proclaims: "I need you to be me." My own son has attended these sessions since he was six and has received an insight into the lives of others as well as emotional, creative relationships he would not have found at school or at home.What unsettled Mischa again, enough to take him away from even this safety net? Did his reconnection with his father and his black family - after years of absence - stir up new yearnings? Low wages and low expectations left him frustrated in a one-room flat with his white girlfriend, soon expecting a baby of their own. In a moment of weakness, just one - he had no previous criminal record - he joined in with the scooter gang.What happens next is another cornerstone of the story for young black boys. Having made repeated raids over the past few weeks (without Mischa), the gang was being watched by the police and were ready for them on the fateful day. Rules and proper risk assessments were ignored in the chase: when the police car hit the back of Mischa's bike it was travelling less than a second behind him. At the inquest the police were held responsible for their mistakes.Yes the boy was committing a crime, but is any amount of jewellery worth more than a boy's life? Again, the drama of As the Mother of a Brown Boy ... asks this question of both Mischa and the police. The European court of human rights, article 2, clearly states that the criminal has a right to life, even if the police - in their zeal to meet their crime-fighting targets - forgot this. Mischa, out of the net and floundering, had forgotten to take care of his own right to life too. The police will have the chance to re-engage their emotions and think again about their impulses. But it's too late for Mischa to do the same.At the end of the drama we are grateful that, over time, Karen the mother has been able to process her emotions enough to carry on, determined to learn from her son's life and help others. But what hope is there that its complex, holistic message will be heard by others - both politicians and all ordinary citizens - enough to make a difference in the future? Certainly, watching the extraordinary spectacle of Chicken Shed's inclusive company dance this piece I felt my sense of responsibility for my part of society's "net" grow substantially: hopefully future audiences in London and Edinburgh will feel something similar. Now, can't we just put it on in the House of Commons?