Ian Huntley's barrister conceded yesterday there was evidence that he was guilty of killing Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman and deserved to be punished.But Stephen Coward QC argued that the prosecution had not proved that he had murdered the girls, because it had not provided evidence to support its claim that Mr Huntley's motive was sexual. During his closing speech Mr Coward told the jury they could reach three verdicts - that Mr Huntley was guilty of murder or manslaughter or that he was innocent. He continued: "Let's be blunt. On the evidence you have heard, we are not going to argue on behalf of Mr Huntley in the case of either girl that what he did makes him innocent and unworthy of punishment. He is worthy of punishment." Mr Coward spoke about Mr Huntley's account of how the girls had died - that Holly had fallen into a bath of cold water as he tried to help her staunch a nosebleed and he had then "laid hands" on Jessica to stop her screaming. The barrister said it was accepted Mr Huntley owed Holly a "duty of care" and may have breached that duty by failing to get her out of the bath more quickly, by not trying to revive her, and by not calling for an ambulance. Of Jessica, he said: "She died because Ian Huntley laid hands on her. He had no right to do so." Mr Coward went on: "We conclude... there is evidence that Mr Huntley is guilty of the manslaughter both of Holly Wells and of Jessica Chapman." The lawyer told the jury the "real issue" was whether the prosecution had proved Mr Huntley intended to kill or cause the girls "really serious bodily harm". The jurors had to consider "what was in his mind". This would bring them back to the question of motive. Mr Coward said there was not a "single shred of evidence" that there was a sexual motive. "If you can say I am sure on the evidence that there was a sexual motive, then other pieces fall into place which would tend to lead to murder. "But if you say, I do not think there is any evidence of a sexual motive, or I am not sure there is evidence of a sexual motive, in our submission the proper verdict for Mr Huntley is a verdict of not guilty of murder, but guilty of manslaughter." The barrister pointed out to the jury that Mr Huntley was portrayed by the prosecution as a man who had covered up his crime with skill. But he highlighted a number of "very puzzling" apparent blunders. The "most staggering" was that he brought the girls' clothes back to a building at Soham village college, where they were later found. "Is it that part of him wanted to get caught?" asked the lawyer. Mr Coward suggested to the the jury that when she gave evidence, Mr Huntley's ex-girlfriend Maxine Carr may have been trying to "distance" herself from the caretaker. She claimed in the witness box that Mr Huntley had asked her to provide him with an alibi. Mr Huntley denies this. Mr Huntley's counsel said: "Do we have some shrinking violet here in the body of Maxine Carr? We do not. We have a modern woman, mistress of her own mind, and it's against that background that we say you should judge what she has had to say to you." Mr Coward told the jury the case had penetrated "deep into the psyche of everyone in Britain". Many outsiders would think they had a simple task: "lock him up and throw away the key". He said "hundreds and thousands, if not millions" were expecting the jury to find Mr Huntley guilty of murder. But Mr Coward concluded: "If anybody has the temerity to come up to you and say, 'How could you find Ian Huntley not guilty of these murders?', look them straight in the eye and say 'On the evidence'."