Police officers jeered and heckled a home office minister today, accusing her of subjecting them to "death by patronising" as she put the case for community support officers (CSOs).Hazel Blears, a junior home office minister, was addressing the Police Federation - which represents the bottom rung of police officers - when she was jeered and heckled by constables who expressed concern at increasing use of CSOs.The federation has a history of heckling Labour ministers, with Jack Straw being booed at the 2001 conference, and his successor, David Blunkett, narrowly avoiding the same treatment when he attempted to reform policy overtime and sickness abuses the following year.The tit-for-tat exchanges today continued when Ms Blears responded to the "death by patronising" jibe by calling the attack "one of the most patronising [things] I've heard in a long time".During the debate, Association of Chief Police Officers president Chris Fox said the number of police officers in England and Wales may fall slightly as CSOs' ranks swell. Mr Fox told the conference: "We are probably at the peak of the number of police officers we can afford and therefore expansion may be at CSO level. "The number of police officers may reduce but it won't reduce by many, and the number of CSOs may increase. "It depends entirely on how much money we have available." Ms Blears was jeered as she insisted: "As far as we're concerned CSOs are here to stay." They were very popular with the public, who like to see uniformed officers on patrol, she said. But she stressed the government was committed to maintaining the current record number of 138,155 police officers. The CSOs - of whom there are now around 3,500 in England and Wales - were introduced by Mr Blunkett in 2002 as part of his reform bill, and are essentially civilians who lack the power of arrest but may detain suspects for up to 30 minutes. They usually patrol streets in pairs and are paid around £18,000.The federation immediately dubbed them "Blunkett's Bouncers".Metropolitan Police delegate PC Des Keenoy told the minister: "All the people on my branch would say you never shut up - there is such a thing as death by patronising." He dismissed CSOs as "yellow-clad numpties", after their reflective jackets. Ms Blears responded by describing Mr Keenoy's comments as "one of the most patronising ... I've heard for a long time". Delegate PC Nick Dimmer from Sussex police said: "We have two CSOs walking down the road at a time, each costing £18,000 - that's £36,000. A police officer on his own is £21,000. It's a false economy." One delegate claimed the beat he patrolled alone in the north-east when he joined the service 25 years ago was now staffed by 12 CSOs. "I can't see the economy in that," he said. Mr Blunkett, who adopted a conciliatory approach two years ago by admitting he had created "immense suspicion" of his reforms, will address the Bournemouth conference tomorrow morning.Ms Blears said the government had introduced new schemes to boost officer retention and increase promotions for talented police.She told delegates: "The government has delivered record investment in the police service, with more police officers than ever before, at more than 138,000. But we need to make the most of those officers, as we continue to modernise and improve the police service, to further cut crime and improve community safety."Improving leadership at all levels within the service is a major part of the second phase of our police reform programme."The government was forced to back down on some of its negotiations with the police on pay and sickness ahead of the police reform act, postponing changes to a later date.The second phase of police reform was set out in a government green paper, "Policing: Building Safer Communities Together", which the Home Office is now studying responses to it consultation on.