The government has rejected the US supreme court, in which judges are granted tenure until their death, as the constitutional model for Britain's new highest court.Ministers said they regarded the American system as politically corrupt and are determined that the British version of the supreme court, which was announced during last Thursday's cabinet reshuffle, must maintain the independence of the judiciary from politics. It is expected that the new supreme court members will be appointed by the proposed judicial appointments commission on which the government had - before the reshuffle - already promised to consult. Ministers believe that if members of the supreme court are allowed to choose their retirement date, they can manoeuvre to ensure that their successor holds similar politics, so politicising the judiciary. It is likely that the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, will be appointed head of the commission, but no decision has been made by ministers ahead of a consultation paper due to be published before the summer recess. The outgoing lord chancel lor, Lord Irvine, will seek to build into the commission's terms of reference an assurance that judges are appointed solely on the basis of merit, and not on the basis of any need to fill either female or race quotas. The template for the reforms are to be found in a book called Law Reform Now, written in 1996 with a foreword by Tony Blair. The chapter in the book on the reform of the judiciary, including the abolition of the post of lord chancellor and the appointment of a supreme court, was advanced by Lord Williams, the leader of the Lords and a former attorney general. Lord Irvine had opposed a supreme court on the grounds that the law lords made a valuable contribution to the Lords committee work as well as debates on judicial issues. He added it might prove expensive to find a new building in which to house the supreme court. It was being suggested yesterday that Britain's new supreme court may find a home in a wing of Somerset House currently occupied by Inland Revenue offices. The frontrunner for the new court is the west wing of the magnificent 18th century building rising from the banks of the Thames, which was originally designed for public of fices including the administration of the navy. Other parts of the building are currently home to the Courtauld Institute Gallery, the Gilbert Collection and the Hermitage Rooms. The building is seen as distinguished enough to house the country's highest court and is acceptable to the law lords, who would leave the House of Lords to become the first new supreme court judges. There is no question of making them reapply for their jobs because their independence is protected by tenure. The senior law lord, Lord Bingham, holds office until 75. The framework for the new supreme court is expected to take about three years to bring into effect. The present top court, the appellate committee of the House of Lords, sits in committee rooms along the Lords' committee corridor, and looks nothing like the august court it is. The judges, who normally sit in panels of five, are unrobed and unwigged. Wearing ordinary business suits, they sit in horseshoe formation around a table. Counsel addressing the judges are on the same level and only a few feet away. Lord Bingham is thought to want to keep the same format in the new supreme court, and to have the judges continue to sit in fives, and in sevens for the most important cases. The demise of the lord chancellor's role as head of the judiciary puts a question mark over the job of the lord chief justice. Lord Woolf currently holds the title, and as the senior judge would expect to lead the judges. In other countries with supreme courts, the chief justice presides over the top court. But Lord Woolf is not a law lord - he heads the criminal division of the court of appeal. The options would be for him to move to the supreme court and preside over it, or for Lord Bingham to be given the title and Lord Woolf's role renamed. Lord Woolf, who in a House of Lords debate today will attack David Blunkett's plans to legislate for minimum terms for murderers, will face even worse problems with minis ters in future, a former permanent secretary in the Lord Chancellor's Department warned at the weekend. Sir Thomas Legg, permanent secretary until 1998, told a conference of lawyers and academics: "The demise of the lord chancellor will have a major effect on the lord chief justice, who will presumably become the head of the judiciary. He will acquire a much higher, and possibly therefore more uncomfortable, profile. And his relations with government and parliament will become more fraught, without the buffer of the lord chancellor between them."