The coverage of the murder of Rhys Jones made it plain; his parents were "hard-working, respectable" people. There were photos of the comfortable home in a comfortable, leafy suburb. The 11-year-old was returning the few hundred yards from football training to his home, passing a pleasantly refurbished pub. Every detail reflected the utter normality of secure middle England. It was the turning point in a summer of increasing anxiety about law and order. The death of this poor boy was the point at which gun violence spilled over from being a horrible characteristic of impoverished inner-city neighbourhoods - something that middle England could watch from afar with horror - to being perceived as a threat to anyone, almost anywhere. Rhys Jones's sadly famous face has now ensured that the issue at the centre of the next election will be the state of British society.Elections were once won or lost on economic issues, now it's social issues; the detail of parenting policies and youth work have migrated from the derided margins of political debate to the centre. David Cameron adapts Bill Clinton's catchphrase, "It's the society, stupid". That marks a fine epitaph on one of his predecessors' famous claims that "there is no such thing as society". How the chickens have come home to roost.Within hours of Rhys Jones's death, politicians were jumping to their favourite remedies. While Cameron, whose hyperbole had already long since been exhausted on Britain's "social anarchy", urged the importance of marriage, Jacqui Smith talked of mandatory sentences for knife possession and rattled off a set of statistics about the acronym soup Labour has cooked up in the last decade - Asbos and the like. Labour has added 3,000 criminal offences to our statute book during the last 10 years and the prisons are overflowing, but faith in their strategy is running out. Although it may have brought down certain types of crime, it has had little impact on others, such as the rising incidence of random violence spilling over from gang culture or alcohol-fuelled rowdiness on the streets.Where both parties converge is on the crucial importance of parenting and how families must instil values into their children. Both are well aware that this is a good way to win favour with the public - in a recent YouGov poll, 62% felt parents should take the blame for antisocial youngsters and 89% thought parents should be held responsible for how their children behaved.This is the ultimate privatisation, a nasty twist on blaming the victims. You try bringing up a boy on an estate riddled with drug dealing where the local school offers nothing but boredom and failure, and the chance of a job is small. Some parents may be useless - themselves usually the product of stories of abuse and neglect - but many more struggle to bring up their children properly, defeated by a set of circumstances well beyond the capacity of an individual to overcome. And there is a particular edge to this culture of blame: it's the mothers who are usually struggling to bring up their wayward children after the fathers have abandoned them, so it's they whom the poll wants punished for their failure. In the string of killings in recent months, the one anguish we rarely hear told is that of the mothers of the offenders.This privatisation of a crime problem is pernicious, because at the same time as parents - for which read largely mothers - are being blamed, the problem is being inflated by media and politicians for their own advantage (to grab viewers and voters) so that a huge burden of blame is thus laid on the shoulders of people already dismissed as a bunch of losers. They make an easy and emotionally satisfying target. It's akin to the reassurance offered to communities in the past by witch-hunts.It ensures that the wider social and economic circumstances - from which most of us do quite nicely - go unscrutinised. Listen carefully to what those youth workers have to say. The crisis here is not primarily one of parenting, but of the life opportunities of working-class boys. At 14, one in five boys in this country has a reading ability of a pupil half his age - no wonder they give up, humiliated and resentful at being labelled a loser so early in life; about 9,600 boys leave school every year with not a GCSE to their name. There are 1.2 million Neets - not in education, employment or training - between 16 and 24; they have nothing to do and no future. This is not a new problem. For three decades we've known that the decline of industrial manufacturing left a big gap in employment for young men, yet we still haven't worked out what to do with them. As the painful BBC Newsnight programme on Neets reported last week from the West Midlands, the kids sat in the park, and despairing, drank themselves senseless every day.What politician has talked of inequality in the last few days in connection with gun crime? Yet it's not rocket science: the three boroughs of London most affected by gun crime are among the most deprived, and they are also ones that sit, cheek by jowl, with enclaves of gentrified prosperity. Kids growing up in poor neighbourhoods of inner-city Manchester and London know exactly where they stand in the pecking order. It's rubbed in their faces daily, and has only intensified over the last decade as a model of urban regeneration has defined shopping, eating and drinking as the core activities of a city's life - leaving behind the surrounding desert of neighbourhoods with boarded-up shops.The alienation prompts a corrupted economy of respect among youngsters. In a society that neither offers them nor provides them with any, they use aggression to win its substitute - fear. Much of the violence stems from being "disrespected" - a glance, a tossed sweet wrapper: these are the trivialities for which lives are lost. But while the incidents may be trivial, respect and status are not. They are at the core of a sense of self, as essential to our wellbeing as meat and drink. We all need them, and without them, research has established, we all live shorter, unhappier lives. As a report for the Home Office by the University of Portsmouth commented, what the gang violence often has in common is a culture of hyper-materialism that is obsessed with high-status possessions such as cars, clothes and jewellery. This is the literal, unmediated reading of the consumer, celebrity, winner-takes-all rubbish incessantly pumped at us. None of this justifies violence, but it does explain how lovable boys become criminals so young.Condemnation is the easy part of a politician's job. Tough talk of crackdowns and more police on the streets is the rhetoric we've had for years, while the new refrain of parenting classes is icing on the cake - sweet but peripheral. What kids need is basic, the chance of a decent life - an education, enthusiasms such as music or sport, a job and a home. For a minority, these are far out of reach and, tragically, their mindless fury leads them to deprive children like Rhys Jones of them also. This is what an increasingly fearful middle England needs to be discussing. We've failed Rhys but we've also failed his killer.m.bunting@theguardian.com· This article was amended on Tuesday September 25 2007. We were wrong to say that 90,000 boys leave school every year with not a GCSE to their name. Last year the number of boys who failed to get a single GCSE was about 9,600. This has been corrected.