No one denies that Stacey Hyde killed Vincent Francis. On the evening of 3 September 2009, when Hyde was 17, she went out drinking with Francis's girlfriend, Holly Banwell. They returned to the flat where Banwell had been living with Francis, 34, and Hyde passed out on the bed.In the early hours of the morning Hyde says she awoke to hear Banwell calling for help. Hyde doesn't clearly remember what happened next, but she seems to have run to Banwell's aid, and a fight ensued between her and Francis. During the course of the incident, Banwell called 999, and described what was going on, screaming: "My boyfriend is beating my friend," and later adding: "They are fighting."The tussle spilled into the communal hall; a neighbour who was disturbed by the noise later testified that she saw Francis pull Hyde by the hair. Hyde allegedly kicked out at Francis, broke free and ran back into the flat, reappearing with a knife. Francis suffered 17 knife wounds, including two or three to the back, and was fatally injured in what the police described as a frenzied attack. When the police arrived, Hyde sobbed: "He tried to kill me ... I had to help Holly."Justice for Women, a campaign group that has taken up Hyde's cause, believes she had some reason to be fearful. In court, the prosecution acknowledged 27 incidents of domestic violence between Banwell and Francis, and there was evidence that Francis had been violent towards a previous partner too.In court, Hyde pleaded not guilty on the grounds of self-defence. Her aunt, Julie Hyde, says they were told by her lawyers that a conviction for manslaughter was the most likely outcome. In fact, she was found guilty of murder, and sentenced to life imprisonment, to serve a minimum of nine years.Hyde's "only crime was to react disproportionately, out of fear, to a man's violent attack on her and her friend," according to Justice for Women. Francis's family dispute this, and say he was walking away when he was killed, and that Hyde didn't have any injuries that needed medical assistance – although the doctor who examined Hyde gave evidence in court of her "multiple injuries", some of which, in his opinion, were consistent with a forceful struggle, others with self-harm.At a busy public meeting for the Free Stacey Hyde campaign earlier this month, Harriet Wistrich, lawyer and co-founder of Justice for Women, said the case was important because of what it illustrates about the problems many young women face today – rape, eating disorders, self-harm – problems for which they rarely receive proper help and assistance, and for which they are sometimes blamed. These issues disproportionately affect women, and are often either overlooked or dismissed in what Justice for Women describe as a "male-dominated criminal justice system".Hyde now faces her last chance for an appeal, after her first application was turned down. Her supporters hope this might lead to her conviction being downgraded to manslaughter, and that she could be let out of prison with time served.Francis's sister, Deborah Webber, describes the application for an appeal as "ridiculous", and calls Hyde a "dangerous woman". She says Hyde's supporters "know the sober Stacey Hyde, they don't know the drunk Stacey Hyde, and she's a completely different person … I'm sure there are women who are in prison for murder, who shouldn't be there, but just listen to everything in court – we got the right decision." She says she believes that the conviction should stand, "and I base that on facts established in court, which found Stacey Hyde guilty of my brother's murder."The appeal rests on three factors. One is the claim that the judge failed to direct the jury adequately when it came to the question of provocation. Since Hyde's case was tried, the law surrounding provocation has changed, partly as a result of Justice for Women campaigns, to take in to account the loss of control caused by a fear of serious violence.Another factor is that, after she was convicted, a psychiatrist specialising in adolescence diagnosed Hyde as having attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The psychiatric reports also suggest she was suffering from emerging borderline personality disorder and depression at the time of the incident, and from post-traumatic stress disorder at the time of the trial. Justice for Women argue that these conditions could have substantially impaired her responsibility for the offence – and also state, as their third factor, that if Hyde's ADHD diagnosis had been recognised, she would have had assistance from a mediator at her trial.This could have been crucial. During Hyde's two days of evidence, there was apparently a marked change in her demeanour. On the first, she came across sympathetically, says Wistrich, the next, she was far more confrontational. Those who know Hyde describe her as naive and trusting, and susceptible to bullying. After her evidence had been completed, and she was able to speak to her legal advisers again, she told them that between her first and second day on the stand, she had been subject to a mock trial by other inmates at the prison where she was remanded in custody. They had "advised" her on how to give evidence, and Wistrich suspects they were making fun of her, and that their coaching undermined her case.Julia Hilliard, a Justice for Women campaigner, says that, at 22, Hyde still has the manner of a 15-year-old. One of her former teachers recalls the time Hyde appeared as the princess in the local pantomime, a year before the killing. She says that what struck her, especially, "was that there were several 'magic' tricks in the script, and Stacey asked me if it was real magic. I think, at one level, she really believed in the fantasy. It underlined for me her naivety, and also her need for escapism."Hyde's childhood included bullying at school. She began drinking at the age of 12, and suffered bulimia. She has never known her father's identity and when she was in her mid-teens, she grew "desperate to find out who her real father was," says Wistrich. "She fixated on one man, believing it was him. Then there was a DNA test, it turned out he wasn't, and that seemed to unsettle her a great deal." Hyde began cutting herself, and drinking heavily, and on at least three occasions woke up to realise someone either had, or was having, intercourse with her, without her consent. She doesn't describe these incidents as rape, but Wistrich suggests they fit the definition.Hyde also learned she was pregnant in March 2009, and was apparently put under pressure by her mother, and several others, to have an abortion. "I must admit," says her mother Diane, "I pushed for it. I was really angry. I thought it would ruin her life." At this point, Diane suggests, her daughter's mental health deteriorated further. During the summer of 2009, she tried to hang herself from the curtain rail in the shower, and to drown herself in the bath. Two days before Francis was killed, she was seen by a community psychiatric nurse who recorded that she was at risk of serious self-harm or suicide.Her family still worry about her tendency to self-harm, and are desperate for the appeal to succeed. Justice for Women says her case "demonstrates that there are still huge problems with the way the criminal justice system treats young women". In Wistrich's opinion, it is clear Hyde, "is not a murderer, and she should never have been convicted of murder".