Tony Blair has today promised not to "force through" plans to merge police forces, as leading officers from across England and Wales lobby MPs over the controversial proposals.The home secretary, Charles Clarke, wants to cut the existing 43 forces to as few as 12 as part of the police and justice bill being published today to improve local police accountability and coordination. The Association of Police Authorities (APA) accused him of trying to "divide and rule" individual forces, and "bribing" some to agree to the plans.But Mr Blair appeared to undermine Mr Clarke at prime minister's questions today by insisting that the mergers would not be forced through in the face of strong opposition.APA officials will be in Westminster today to meet more than 150 MPs and highlight their opposition to the plans. The APA represents all 44 police authorities in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, whose members are responsible for the governance of policing along with the home secretary and chief officers of police.In an unprecedented revolt before Christmas, the bodies ignored a deadline set by Mr Clarke to submit detailed plans for police force mergers.The rebellion was expected to delay the first of the controversial mergers, which police sources said had been planned for next April.Challenged by the Tory leader, David Cameron, at PMQs over the decision to forge ahead with the mergers, Mr Blair said the reforms were driven by the need to improve police effectiveness by encouraging forces work strategically on a number of issues."We have to listen to what people are saying", Mr Blair said today, acknowledging that "not everyone is in agreement" over the mergers."There are different views about police reforms and one is about strategically working together," he said. "It is not a question of pushing it through," he added. "It is a question of ensuring the point made [in a report] by the inspector of constabulary. The report said that the 43 force structure is no longer fit for purpose and that in the interest of effectiveness and efficiency it should change."Mr Blair chided Mr Cameron for being "in favour of police reforms in general but opposing it in the particular".Mr Cameron meanwhile seized on the different emphasis Mr Blair was placing on the reforms. "He is singing a very different tune to the home secretary," he said."The home secretary said smaller forces must be established and larger ones must be created. The prime minister is saying could survive if they share certain issues strategically".Mr Clarke has argued that the creation of larger "strategic" forces will leave officers better placed to fight terrorism and organised crime and insists there is support for his proposals among police chiefs. But figures released today by the APA show only 13 forces - less than a third of the current structure - said they wanted to take part in a merger. Another 13 forces said they wanted to remain as standalone forces, while a further 15 have not yet expressed a preference. The reform programme does not apply to the Metropolitan or City of London police. The association estimates the proposed mergers will cost up to £600m. The APA chairman, Bob Jones, said the home secretary was looking for "simple solutions" that looked good on paper but might not meet the needs of the police. Mr Clarke was under the impression his plans would mean major savings, he said. Mr Jones told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "There is a view that there are solutions which can meet the needs of 21st century policing, the objectives we share with the home secretary, that can be done much more easily, much more quickly, with less cost and with less disruption than the major reorganising of the forces." Mr Jones warned there had always been risks associated with mergers. "Many mergers that have intended to generate economies that can be reinvested have failed to do so, and clearly it is a major risk, and at the same time it can be a major distraction from some of the key issues, terrorism being one of them, trying to develop neighbourhood policing, that we want to concentrate on." Mr Clarke later insisted the plans did have support among the police. He told Today that chief constables had "very strong views" in favour of the moves. But he acknowledged: "if you go region by region you have got a range of different views held by chief constables and police authorities." Opposition and Labour backbenchers have said the proposals are being unnecessarily rushed through, while others fear the cost of the changes would lead to council tax increases and that rural areas would lose officers to cities. The police and justice bill also includes plan to establish a National Police Improvement Agency to raise the quality of policing and give new powers to community support officers (CSOs). Mr Clarke said there were "very strong and harmonious relationships" between police and CSOs. But he said there had been concerns over a lack of uniformity of CSOs' powers across the country. He said the bill would address that.Lynne Featherstone, Liberal Democrat home affairs spokeswoman, said the proposals were a "double whammy" for local communities."People will be expected to fork out more council tax to pay for the cost of the mergers, but at the same time they will have less of a say in how their police force is run," she said."The home secretary should look carefully at the alternative suggestions on the table. He can deliver improvements in policing without severing local links".