It is the end of a week which shocked and shamed the country at home and abroad. It was a week which led one German magazine to compare London with Mogadishu and a South African satirical website to report that the African Union was preparing to launch a humanitarian intervention to restore order. The riot statistics thus far, to say nothing of the burned-out buildings in parts of Britain, tell a story which few would have dared to predict just a week ago. With the death of Richard Mannington Bowes in Ealing yesterday, five people have now perished in the worst urban disorder since 1981. Nearly 2,000 people have been arrested, just over half of them in London, most of the rest in the West Midlands, with the majority charged with property offences. Massive numbers of police continue to be deployed. The cost so far has been put at £100m, but it is certain to rise.It remains to be seen if this has been a week that changed the country. Much depends on what happens next, and whether the lull towards the end of the past week after the terrifying climax on Monday is continued or whether another weekend brings another spike in destruction. Much also depends, as ever, on which part of the country you live in. It bears repeating that extremely large parts of Britain have not been affected – not merely Scotland, most of Wales and rural England but the heavily urban north-east of England too. Even in riot-affected London, as Guardian researchers have shown, the picture has been uneven. Poverty and deprivation were important correlates in Tottenham, where the riots started a week ago, but since then there have been incidents in prosperous Beckenham and Bromley, and almost none in poorer areas like Brent or Newham. Communities which have been directly hit by the riots have been seriously scarred, literally and figuratively. Communities which have been untouched, on the other hand, have watched as though it was all a bad dream, though they may harbour strong views about who and what is to blame.The state and civil society were caught on the hop. Few expected the Tottenham events. Fewer still expected them to trigger similar outbreaks of destruction elsewhere. The police, who may well bear important local responsibility for the initial tensions in north London, were understandably cautious about how to respond, knowing better than those who berated them for holding back that an over-response could be highly counterproductive in the streets and in the wider public arena. Much of the early indignation against political leaders was also specious. Overall, the government and police response has mostly been appropriate. Parliament was rightly recalled, but the political impact of the past week may be slight, as was also the case in 1981. Initial opinion polling reveals a no-nonsense public mood, which may embolden some police representatives to dig in against Home Office budget cuts, with opportunist Labour support. But it needs to be said, in this of all weeks, that Britain has enough police officers. The prime minister is right to hold the line against the special interests.The real question is whether Britain has learned anything which can help prevent another recurrence. It is hard to be hopeful. The refusal to order an inquiry is a serious mistake by the coalition. These have been shocking events, with implications for – among other issues – policing, criminal justice, urban policy, family policy, community relations and, not least, the governance of the Met. Lessons need to be learned. Even criminality has to be understood, so that it can be prevented if possible. Difficult though the subject is, to ignore it is a counsel of despair. In the communities most affected, from Tottenham to Salford, local people have no alternative but to grapple with the consequences of the riots. The rest of the country got luckier this week. Next time – and there will be one – they may not be so fortunate.