A stormy, turbulent Wednesday night in Springwell, Sunderland: the streets are empty of traffic. Stuart Anderson, 17, sits in his living room seconds before 8pm, having made it home just ahead of his curfew, a nightly race against time before electronic boxes around the detached house are triggered into action. Anderson wears an electronic tag, which means he must stay inside the house for the next 12 hours.He will spend the evening on his PlayStation 2 attempting to complete Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, speeding through the streets of Miami, crashing stolen vehicles and killing policemen. As he sits smoking a cigarette, Anderson recounts his own misdemeanours. 'Arson. Theft of a motor vehicle. Threat to damage property. Criminal damage to a cell door.' One offence escapes him: 'There was something else. Mum, what was it?' His mother said sheepishly: 'I think it was a charge of racially aggravated abuse.' A mischievously grinning young man with the slender beginnings of a moustache, Anderson is one of some 30 persistent offenders in Sunderland on the Home Office's Intensive Supervision and Surveillance Programme (ISSP), a scheme aimed at tackling the worst juvenile crime in England and Wales. The six-month programme targets those young people who are the most socially disadvantaged. In the words of one local social worker who quotes US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, they are 'the worst of the worst'. The supervision programmes, according to a report published tomorrow by the Youth Justice Board, could overhaul Britain's failing system for tackling youth-offending. The benefits of tagging and curfews over custodial sentences are immediate. According to the board, young people serving short custodial sentences - around four to six months - are given 15 hours of activities each week. This compares with a weekly average of 26 hours under the supervision programme. Community service in custody accounts for only one-and-a-half hours a week - under supervision and surveillance, young people spend 20 hours a week working in their communities. The results, witnessed exclusively by The Observer last week in Sunderland, where the scheme has been in operation for a year, have been dramatic. Local teenagers averaged 10-12 crimes in the year before they were put on the supervision programme. That number has fallen to two to three offences while under supervision. Persistent young offenders demand a fresh approach. Home Office figures recently showed the number of young people in custody had almost doubled in over a decade, from 1,328 in 1992 to 2,609 last year. Supervision programmes make use of electronic tagging units and night-time curfews. Fifty pilot schemes around the country have enrolled 3,243 such youngsters. For the first three months on the programme, youngsters such as Anderson are provided with a minimum of 25 hours of supervision each week. This includes education and training; interventions to stop anti-social behaviour; the chance to work with victims of crime; and the development of behavioural skills. The young people are also given round-the-clock support during evenings and weekends. 'The difference in Stuart is amazing,' said Anderson's mother. 'He's starting to think for himself now. He's much more responsible these days. I feel like I can trust him.' She paused: 'We still have a long way to go, though. He has to break out of the cycle of hanging out with older kids and getting into trouble.' Alan Donnelly, programme manager at the Sunderland Youth Offending Service, said: 'It's a scheme that basically turns the way we deal with crime on its head. It's active proof that custodial sentences don't work. By giving the kids such a huge amount of back-up, and making sure they stick to the programme, we're turning them around.' The chairman of the Youth Justice Board is similarly encouraged. 'This is definitely the hard end of the market,' said Lord Norman Warner. He believes supervision programmes offer a more efficient substitute to custodial sentences. A six-month tagging scheme costs £6,000 per individual, com pared with £21,000 for a six-month custodial sentence. Paul, 15, has a history of family problems, depression and anger. His inability to communicate with his parents has led him to three suicide attempts over the past year. Last November, he slit his arms, and last summer, he tried to kill himself with an overdose of Paracetamol. 'I just get so angry sometimes,' he said. 'It feels as if there is no one around that can hear me. No one seems to be paying any attention.' At his home, his parents sat at opposite ends of a couch and explained his problems. 'He never used to listen to us,' said his mother, Michelle, 36. 'He'd get angry and aggressive. He's a big lad, and when he gets angry he can do a lot of damage.' His stepfather, Joe, 32, took a drag on a cigarette. Joe has a history of mental problems himself. Last year he twice tried to commit suicide. 'I don't feel involved with him,' he said. 'Sometimes I just want to get up and kick the shit out of him.' Both parents have seen changes since Paul began his supervision programme. He is better behaved at home; he has begun to take a hold of small responsibilities; the family have conversations. 'The whole thing lies with him,' said Joe. 'If he wants it to work, it will. If he falls off the programme, he will go back into custody. Of course I'd rather not see him in prison. But this is his one last chance.'