The case of Ismail Dogan, who randomly attacked six people with a knife, killing one, raises urgent questions. Why did the 31-year-old with paranoid schizophrenia embark on an hour-long spree of violence? Were there any warning signs? When his mother sought help, the family GP, it transpired, had refused her request for a visit. Was the doctor, who may have been fearful for his own safety, within his rights to do so?Following an Old Bailey trial, which ended earlier this month, Dogan's fate is sealed. Having seriously injured five people and having stabbed a sixth victim to death, he is to be indefinitely detained at Broadmoor hospital under the Mental Health Act. On the instructions of Judge Brian Barker, he cannot be released without the approval of the home secretary or a mental health tribunal.But he begins his sentence amid growing concern about the way his case will now be reviewed. The Haringey teaching primary care trust is examining the affair by way of an internal inquiry. Last week, it told Society Guardian it is not obliged to hold an independent inquiry because Dogan was being treated by his GP and was not a patient directly under its care. It means that no external investigation will take place unless the strategic health authority rules otherwise. "Hopefully, they will find that an independent inquiry won't be necessary," a spokeswoman said.Less transparentBut the mental health charity Zito Trust says this situation reflects a disturbing tendency by authorities to opt for internal reviews, which are less likely to be exhaustive. They say the inappropriate use of internal reviews damages public confidence because the procedures appear less robust and less transparent.Guidance from the Department of Health says an independent inquiry should be held in cases of homicide carried out by people with mental health problems. However, campaigners say various health officials are interpreting that guidance in different ways. Michael Howlett, director of the Zito Trust, says: "Internal inquiries are worthless. They don't consider all the evidence, they don't examine the circumstances in full, and they don't publish the report. Families often have to sign a confidentiality agreement, and get a watered-down version of the report. It's extraordinary that families should have to struggle to get independent inquiries set up."Last year, an independent inquiry was ordered into the killing of Simon Breed in north London by his neighbour, Philip Theophilou, in 1994. Howlett claims the decision to commission an external inquiry was taken only after a solicitor sent a letter to the North Central London strategic health authority reminding it of its legal obligation to have one. "A pattern seems to have developed over the last couple of years where a primary care trust will hold an internal inquiry, which may have some of the hallmarks of an independent inquiry," Howlett says. "The trust will then produce a partial report with confidential information removed. It simply isn't good enough."Howlett argues that the lack of clear procedures, and of a mechanism to disseminate the findings, makes it difficult for trusts around the country to learn from the mistakes of others. "It's as if every health authority in the country needs to have its own homicide before it can learn anything," he says. "It's disrespectful to the victims and their families in these cases not to hold an independent inquiry."Few doubt that there are lessons to be drawn from the tragic case of Dogan. Passing sentence, Judge Barker said it was "the greatest sadness" that Dogan had stopped taking his medicine, and that the "warnings were not quickly heeded". He had heard how Dogan had been deteriorating for six weeks prior to the attacks, during which time he had tried to strangle his mother, Hanim, and had behaved aggressively towards his sister.The jury also heard from Dogan's mother, who said that her "cries for help" went unanswered. "I went to see my GP and begged for him to see Ismail at home," she said. "He refused and said Ismail had to go to the practice. I said Ismail would not go, but he would not listen." She said she also sought help from Haringey social services, "but they told me to contact my GP." She added: "If they had helped me, we would not be in this situation."Paul Chesterman, a consultant forensic psychiatrist, said Dogan had been admitted to hospital on four occasions - the longest of which was a stay of nine days. The last of them, in November 2001, was for just one day.Roger Levy, a 49-year-old dentist, was stabbed five times by Dogan as he walked towards his surgery in Wood Green, north London. He is keen for lessons to be learnt, but already feels that the inquiry process has marginalised him. "Even if they couldn't interview the surviving victims until the court case was over, they could have kept us in the loop about what was going on," Levy says. "At times I felt the attitude was that if I hadn't been standing where I was when Ismail Dogan stabbed me then I wouldn't have been attacked and they wouldn't have to go through this inquiry. I was a victim of a terrible thing. Being made to feel a nuisance about the whole thing by the PCT has made me feel worse."Outstanding questionsVictoria Cann, 30, another victim, was stabbed as she rode past Dogan on her bicycle. She also believes the case merits a full review. "There are a number of outstanding questions regarding the level of care and treatment that Mr Dogan and his family received in the run-up to these events," she says.David Symes, 31, Dogan's first victim, calls for a full review "to prevent a similar incident from happening again".John Finnegan, whose brother Denis Finnegan was killed in Richmond Park, south London, in September 2004 by psychiatric patient John Barrett, says he believes that it was only as a result of media pressure that an independent inquiry was commissioned in that case. The result of that inquiry is awaited.Finnegan insists it is vital that lessons are learned from each case, but that families always face an uphill battle to have these tragedies fully explored. He says: "I think if we had sat back and waited for an independent inquiry to be set up we'd still be waiting."