Young troublemakers should have their phones or bikes confiscated by the police if they indulge in antisocial behaviour, Chris Grayling, the shadow home secretary, said today .Grayling, deploying a more populist touch than his predecessor, Dominic Grieve, has already proposed that troublemakers should be grounded, describing it as "the 21st-century version of a clip around the ear". The Home Office said it had looked at taking away young people's property, but rejected the plan as liable to increase crime.Grayling risks his proposal for the confiscation of phones being ridiculed as the kind of populist gimmick that got Tony Blair into trouble when he proposed marching young thugs to cash machines for instant fines.But he proposed, in a speech to the Centre for Policy Studies, that "the Nokia generation" should have their sim cards removed by the police for as long as a month so they would be unable to make calls or send texts. He also proposed that troublemakers' bikes should be removed. Grayling said: "The name of the game has to be simplicity and speed. Not a response that takes months of complex bureaucracy, like getting an asbo. Not a response that puts a teenage troublemaker before the courts for a minor offence. But a consequence that impacts on their lives and makes them think again."He did not spell out what evidence would be required by the police before they could confiscate someone's property."There is a minority which causes real problems, stirs up fears of trouble and ends up tarring all young people with the same brush. They disrupt our public places. They commit acts of vandalism which disfigure our communities. And in the worst cases they cause huge nuisance and disruption to entire areas and ruin the lives of the people who live there," he said.He also proposed that the police be given greater discretion in how they deal with troublemakers.Alan Johnson, the home secretary, has admitted the government has been coasting on antisocial behaviour.Grayling suggested a Tory government would not pursue asbos, regarding them as slow to implement.He tried to balance his attacks on the behaviour of youngsters with David Cameron's concern for the "broken society" by conceding that local crime figures showed the areas most seriously affected by social problems were most likely to experience serious antisocial behaviour and to see significant levels of teenage crime."The links between family breakdown, welfare dependency, addiction, educational failure, and minor and more serious disorder are absolute," he said.He backed plans to increase reparation orders. "If you kick over the neighbour's fence, not only should you or your parents have to pay for it to be repaired, you should also face a simple punishment – like picking up litter for three Saturdays in the local park," he said.The Conservatives also highlighted figures showing that police recorded 3.9m acts of antisocial behaviour last year, the equivalent of 95,890 people being intimidated every day.Yobbish neighbours accounted for more than 250,000 complaints, while malicious and nuisance calls accounted for 190,000. There were a further 150,000 hoax calls to the emergency services, and 76,000 complaints about antisocial behaviour relating to animals, such as fouling and barking.There were 160,000 complaints about abandoned vehicles and 66,000 complaints about drunken and rowdy behaviour in the street.Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: "Community punishments should involve local people and not just be about policemen snatching phones and bikes from children."