A man who described himself as Osama bin London and trained and recruited young men in terrorist training camps was jailed indefinitely yesterday. He was told that he had used "his charm and knowledge of the Qur'an" to influence impressionable people to train as terrorists.A preacher, who had spoken of his desire to be a suicide bomber, was also jailed. Five co-defendants, who attended camps in Cumbria and a paintballing centre alongside most of those later convicted over the failed July 21 2005 attacks on the London transport system, were sentenced last month to lesser terms, following a five- month trial at Woolwich crown court. The ringleader, Mohammed Hamid, 50, who was found guilty of organising terrorist training and soliciting murder, was jailed indefinitely with a minimum term of seven-and-a-half years. Atilla Ahmet, 44, who admitted three counts of soliciting murder, was jailed for a total of six years and 11 months. "Mohammed Hamid, you are, in my judgment, dangerous," Mr Justice Pitchers told Hamid yesterday. "You can be genuinely amusing and charming. We heard it on tapes and saw it to some extent in this court. You also have real knowledge of the Qur'an and Islamic teaching. "However, that is only one side of you. The other side we heard on the recording that has become so well-known - when you spoke of the 52 dead on 7/7 being breakfast for you. You used your charm and knowledge of the Qur'an to influence others to terrorism." The judge said it was clear that Hamid had been training recruits with a view to sending them to commit acts of terrorism abroad. "I believe you have sent trainees to Afghanistan, as you said." "You continue to be a danger, not directly from your own actions, but from your ability to persuade others to commit terrorism offences themselves. The purpose was to go abroad to commit offences, but was no less serious for that." Addressing Ahmet, the judge told him he had taken advantage of the naivety of would-be recruits. His desire for the limelight would be "laughable" if his views were not so repellent. He also said any real terrorist would avoid him because of the amount of attention he brought on himself. "Your ability to influence the unsophisticated can hardly survive what everybody now knows of you," he said. Ahmet, who did not appear in court for most of the proceedings, had been heard to say in a reference to suicide bombs: "I just feel like packing it, walking it where it needs to be walked and then letting it go." The court heard that he lectured young men in his flat in Hackney, east London, and told them that it was acceptable to kill police officers, judges and politicians.The men were caught after their group was penetrated by an undercover officer known only as "Dawood", who was commended by the judge for his bravery. MI5 surveillance tapes and recordings made by Dawood were played to the jury during the trial. Hamid, a former crack addict, had been heard to say of the death toll in the 7/7 attacks on London in 2005: "Fifty-two? That's not even a breakfast to me."Detectives pored over hundreds of hours of recordings after MI5 planted a bug at Hamid's home in late 2005. Ahmet was a regular visitor to the Friday evening meetings at Hamid's home and often led the bigoted discussions. On one occasion Ahmet told others that it was "halal", or lawful, to kill "big people" such as the police, politicians and judges. He honed his rhetorical skills at the side of Abu Hamza at Finsbury Park mosque in nroth London, even taking control of his notorious Supporters of Shariah group in 2004. During these conversations the pair encouraged others to murder those who do not implement the "law of Allah". At the end of the trial last month, the judge told all the men: "You are all here because of what you did, not because of what you thought. "You did not intend to use those skills at the training camps in committing an act. [But] ... you cannot have been in any doubt from what was said at the meetings and in the form of the training activities that the underlying purpose of those camps was a sinister one."