Britain's most senior judge and the home secretary joined forces yesterday in an unprecedented call to the courts and magistrates to stop sending to prison non-violent offenders who do not pose a risk to the public.The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, said that the record prison population in England and Wales of 69,892 was already 2,000 higher than forecast. In a landmark ruling he said the prison population, which is growing at 400 a week, is far above the 63,653 uncrowded capacity of the prisons and worryingly close to their maximum capacity of 70,834 inmates - known as the "bust limit". The home secretary, David Blunkett, strongly supported Lord Woolf's warning. He called an urgent meeting today with prison governors, who will urge him to use his powers of executive release to curb the rise in prison numbers. "The stage has now been reached when it would be highly undesirable if the prison population were to continue to rise," said Lord Woolf in an appeal court ruling. "It is preferable that the prison service is in a position to deal effectively, uninhibited by the corrosive effects of over crowding, with those cases for whom imprisonment is necessary. "We trust all courts will heed the message which the appeal court is giving today. That message is imprisonment only when necessary and for no longer than necessary." Lord Woolf underlined his tough approach to violent criminals a month ago when he urged the courts to jail for at least three years teenage mobile phone robbers who threaten violence. The home secretary urged the courts not to "overload" the prison system and urged them to use tough community sentences rather than "disruptive" short-term prison sentences. "Community sentences are not a soft option," he said. The last home secretaries to try to persuade the courts to send fewer people to prison were William Whitelaw and Douglas Hurd in the 1980s, but the then lord chief justice, Lord Lane, declined to give the courts such advice. The alliance of the two most influential figures in the criminal justice system reflects the understanding of ministers that it is easy for politicians to "talk up prison numbers" by sounding tough, but much harder to bring prison numbers down. Lord Woolf said the record 69,892 prison population had to be compared with the figure at the time of the Strangeways riot in 1990 when the population was 45,000 and falling. "The overcrowding of the prison system is a matter of grave concern for the criminal justice system as a whole. The ability of the prison service to tackle a prisoner's offending behaviour and so reduce reoffending is adversely affected if a prison is overcrowded." The lord chief justice said that £465m has already been spent on building prisons in the last three years with a further £240m budgeted for next year but "any relief that provided would be short-lived if the prison population continued to grow". The landmark ruling came in a case involving Mark Kefford, 26, a former building society cashier who had been jailed for 12 months for stealing £11,120 from customers' accounts. The appeal court reduced his sentence to four months, so allowing his immediate release. The home secretary backed Lord Woolf and repeated his warning to the courts that sentences of under six months were too short to do much about the criminal habits of the prisoner. "They also displace existing longer-term prisoners to jails around the country. Their programmes of training, adult literacy and preparation for work on release are completely disrupted. Overall crime is falling but the prison population is rocketing." Mr Blunkett plans to introduce a "custody minus" sentence which would divert many minor offenders from prison, but legislation has been delayed until autumn. In the meantime he has tried to boost the number of low risk prisoners released early under the electronic tagging scheme.