For 13 long, tormenting years the body of Melanie Hall lay hidden from her family, friends and the police officers who never gave up the search for her.Today her father, Steve Hall, said he was welcoming his daughter back into the light. "After the darkness of the last 13 years, this is Melanie's day in the sun," Mr Hall told a service of thanksgiving at Bath Abbey. This was, he said: "The day she came back to be with us and with you ‑ the people of the light."Melanie Hall vanished aged 25 in June 1996 after a night out at a club in Bath. It was not until October this year that her remains were found by a workman clearing vegetation by the side of the M5 motorway some 20 miles away.She was initially identified by a gold ring found with the bones which had been wrapped in a black rubbish bag and tied with blue rope. Forensic analysis revealed she had been attacked with a blunt instrument.Hall's disappearance was devastating for those who knew her best but also for the city of Bath as a whole. So today the abbey was packed with 1,200 people and others amid freezing fog outside to pay their respects.Hall's killer, or killers, have yet to be found. In his address, her father called them people who "inhabit a parallel world of darkness ... a world totally alien to our own".He said their world had touched Melanie's, but only momentarily. "We do not know what happened during that brief moment in time but we do know that Melanie remained hidden until a few weeks ago," he said."She is now safely back with us and with you. She is among people of the light ‑ not people of the darkness ... She is among those who love and do not hate."Hall thanked family, friends, staff at the Royal United hospital in Bath where Melanie used to work, the police officers who have worked on the case, and the city: "You have offered your hand of friendship and your love in so many different ways. We have reached out and grasped that support and from it have taken great strength, a strength which has helped us through our darkest days."The image of Hall as a bright, colourful young woman recurred time and again. One colleague called her a "shining star". Another said she reminded them of "rainbows, moonshine". A neighbour spoke of their first meeting under a willow tree and of Hall's favourite girlish fairy wallpaper.Her sister, Dominique, addressed Hall directly: "You were a beautiful person on the outside but more importantly a beautiful person on the inside. You were what I call a good soul. It seems a tragic irony that you of all people who showed such a gentle nature to others should meet your end in such a brutal way."She concluded with a poem:You can shed tears that she is gone.Or you can smile because she lived ...You can cry and close your mind, be empty and turn your back,Or you can do what she would want:Smile, open your eyes, love and go on.