A man has been found guilty of attempted murder after stabbing four women in a supermarket car park in south-west London. Ethem Orhon, 67, said the random attacks on 20 May came after he had felt humiliated by police when they arrested him the previous day. A jury at Kingston crown court took four hours and 55 minutes to find Orhon, of Hampton, south-west London, guilty of two counts of attempted murder and two counts of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Orhon said he felt “like a zombie” and as though he were hypnotised as he walked around the car park at a Sainsbury’s supermarket in Hampton, armed with a Leatherman knife. Two of his victims broke down in tears as the verdicts were read out. Orhon told the court he remembered assaulting one person and following two men. These people turned out to be schoolboys from Hampton school, who warned passersby that Orhon was armed and dangerous, distracted him and called 999. Orhon said he had no memory of going to the car park or the stabbings, in contrast to police interview footage, shown in court, in which he said he had “rushed” at someone in the car park and remembered “stabbing someone in the back”. Dr Philip Joseph, a consultant forensic psychiatrist, said Orhon, who had no previous contact with medical services, suffers from paranoid psychosis, which can put a person out of touch with reality. Charandasi Chandiramani, 71, Jean Sullivan, 68, Janet Morsy, 63, and Suzanna Brand, 53, suffered serious injuries in the incident. Brand, who has learning difficulties, was attacked from behind, stabbed 13 times and left with two collapsed lungs. Morsy said she thought she was going to die after being hit in the arm and chest, and tried to defend herself. She had begged Orhon not to hurt her.Sullivan was stabbed in the back, damaging her chest wall, right lung and liver. Chandiramani was stabbed twice in the back. Orhon said he picked Sainsbury’s, which is less than 10 minutes from his home, because it was a crowded place. Earlier that day, Orhon had left Belgravia police station in central London, where he had been charged with possessing a bladed article in a public place. He had been picked up by officers who thought he might have been carrying drugs. After being released on bail, Orhon went home, picked up his spare knife and began the attack at the supermarket. Police arrived at the scene and pointed a Taser at Orhon, who threw the knife in the air. Jonathan Polnay, prosecuting, said Orhon had wanted to get revenge on police and believed they had treated him badly. Orhon said he had felt humiliated after being strip searched by officers when they arrested him the day before. Orhon, a retired odd-job man, is originally from Turkey but has lived in Britain since 1989. The court heard he was briefly married, had no children, and was often alone. Orhon said he had no friends, was not registered with a GP and did not have anger issues or depression.