Hugh Collins, 49 Sentence: lifeCrime: murder When I started my sentence I stabbed three prison officers. I was in solitary for 14 months before being transferred to an experimental prison. The ground rules were trust and responsibility with freedom. The idea was to use art therapy to get people to express themselves without violence. I was there about seven years, and it worked in that I was more aware of where the violence was coming from. The idea of the special unit was to bring you into contact with as many visitors as possible, and I began to see how fucked up I was. After a while I went back to a traditional system and found it almost impossible. I was continually provoked by officers. Once they put me in a hall that was 99% sex offenders and I was told that if I refused to communicate with them I would never get parole. And if I got into a fight it was always my fault and they would add to my sentence. For about five years I was put in these almost impossible situations. Even though I could feel that the special unit had helped me, I could not say it. I had quite a reputation in prison and if you tell any of your fellow inmates you've changed, they see it as a weakness. I took heroin right through my sentence. I hated being on drugs. During the day I could look at it logically but at night I couldn't cope with the fact that I'd killed a person. The staff knew I was on drugs but were frightened of me, and knew they were safe when I was on heroin. So I left prison with quite a serious drug addiction. Coming out was a nightmare. I was just lucky I met Caroline, my wife. She helped me change the way I was. I've published two autobiographies and fiction, but without that I would have been totally lost. Michael Howard, with that nonsense about "prison works" - the damage he has done is unbelievable. The longer your sentence, the worse state you're in when you come out. I don't think there should be a time limit on a life sentence. It should be when a guy is rehabilitated. But society has got to be ready to take these people on board.