Britain's cosy judicial appointments system - under which judges are appointed by the Government after consultation with existing judges and senior lawyers - is poised for the most dramatic overhaul in its history.Radical plans being drawn up by the Commission for Judicial Appointments (CJA), which advises the Government on legal matters, would see all judges up to the level of the High Court being selected by an independent panel of experts, most of whom would be drawn from outside the legal profession. The dramatic move to take appointments out of the control of the judiciary would end centuries of tradition for a profession which in recent years has become concerned that its fusty image as a bastion for white, Oxbridge-educated males has deterred women and people from ethnic minorities from joining. 'Many people from minority groups would look at who was in charge of the appointments system and think, "Why should I bother applying?" It's not so much the system discriminates against women and ethnic minorities - it's more that it intimidates them from applying in the first place,' said one senior lawyer. Under the CJA's scenario, the panel would select a candidate and submit his or her name to the new Department for Constitutional Affairs, which is replacing the Lord Chancellor's Department. The Government would then be compelled publicly to explain its reasons if the preferred candidate was rejected. The move will surprise many in the legal profession who had believed that the appointments panel would be dominated by members drawn from the judiciary. The Government, too, has been hesitant about such a radical move. In its consultation paper on reforming the legal system it has previously planned a panel comprised of five members of the judiciary, five who had legal qualifications and five 'lay' members. But Sir Colin Campbell, head of the CJA, which is poised to hand its findings to the Government, says the new appointments panel needs a majority of its members to come from outside the legal profession if it is to reassure applicants that the judiciary has truly changed with the times and is committed to recruiting people from a diverse range of backgrounds. 'We've come to the view that there must be radical intervention,' Campbell confirmed in his first interview since the CJA completed its evidence for submission. 'The current consultation system cannot and should not be continued. It's not trusted, it's inconsistent, [and] it's fairly random in its effects. It's a long, long way from the modern human resources approach. The panel should be independent and it should be dominated by laymen.' Lord Falconer, the new Minister for Constitutional Affairs, is unlikely to reject the CJA's advice. He has already seized on the organisation's call for the legal profession to create a younger tranche of judges and has spoken openly about the need to create a more diverse judiciary. As part of the overhaul the CJA also wants to see the appointments system made more transparent. Last year the Lord Chancellor's department processed more than 3,600 applications, interviewed over 1,800 candidates and made 750 appointments. The CJA's last annual report concluded: 'Not enough attention has been paid to providing a clear audit trail.' But despite the radical nature of the plan, Campbell warned it would be years before Britain had a more representative legal system. 'It will take about 10 or 15 years to build the system and the confidence to allow greater diversity,' he said. The moves to overhaul the appointments system are part of a wider initiative by the Government to reform the legal profession. The Government has already announced it is to create a supreme court, similar to that at the apex of the US legal system. As part of the shake-up, it is to abolish the position of Lord Chancellor in a move that effectively separates the judiciary from the legislature. The Government is due to start considering the CJA's evidence in early November. It is then expected to hold a six-month consultation period before issuing legislation with a view to it receiving royal assent next year.