The widow of the murdered headteacher Philip Lawrence wished his killer a "happier, calmer and more productive future" after a jury cleared him of robbery.Learco Chindamo, 31, was alleged to have carried out the robbery four months after being freed on licence from a life term for Lawrence's murder in Maida Vale, west London in 1995.Chindamo was cleared by a jury at Blackfriar's crown court on Wednesday but he will remain in prison as a recalled lifer while the parole board decides whether it is safe for him to be released back into the community.Lawrence's widow spoke from her home in west London shortly after his acquittal. Frances Lawrence, whose husband was murdered by Chindamo as he tried to defend a pupil outside his school, said that it had been "profoundly sad" and difficult to have the details of his murder relived in court during the robbery trial."All I wish to say is that I wish Mr Chindamo a happier, calmer and more productive time ahead," she said. "It's been very difficult to hear all the details again. It's been a very difficult time and a profoundly sad time since he was arrested and taken into custody."Asked if she thought he should remain behind bars, she said: "That's a matter for the parole board."Chindamo was alleged to have used his infamy as a killer as a badge of honour to rob £20 from David Sexton at a north London cashpoint last year. But Chindamo – who denied robbery – said in his defence that Sexton, 20, had disrespected him.He claimed he was approached by Sexton who branded him a "killer". An argument broke out and then Sexton handed him money as a peace offering.After deliberating for five hours the jury cleared him. On hearing the verdict Chindamo hugged his co-accused, Gregory Jananto and Saeed Akhtar. Jananto, who was accused of brandishing a bottle during the alleged robbery, cried as he stood in the dock.Judge Aidan Marron said: "He [Chindamo] will have to stay in custody pending a decision by the Parole Board."Chindamo was 15 when he stabbed Lawrence through the heart when the headteacher defended a pupil outside his school. During the trial last week, Italian-born Chindamo admitted killing Lawrence, telling Blackfriars crown court: "I know what I've done is a terrible thing, a horrible thing." He said he understood calls for him to be deported back to Italy, saying the murder was "entirely selfish".