Few things in the record of the Blair government are shabbier or more destructive than its increasing tendency - intimately related to its own mounting political difficulties - to foster lies and bolster rightwing myths about its own Human Rights Act. The growing readiness of a few ministers to fan fear and demoralisation about the specific and principled contents of the government's own act reached a climax over the weekend with the publication of Downing Street's letter to the new home secretary, John Reid. That letter is not a serious attempt to set out a strategy for addressing the government's problems in administering the criminal justice and penal systems. It is a deliberate attempt to pick a headline-grabbing fight with the judges, and with Britain's tried and tested traditions of justice and fairness. Mr Blair's specific threat this time is to amend the 1998 act so that judges must take account of "the rights of the community to basic security" in their rulings. It needs to be said clearly that this campaign has no real merit whatever.The government is not running this attack on the judges and the Human Rights Act because our judges have lost their reason, or because the 1998 act is a charter for anarchy and lawlessness. It is doing so because Labour strategists are neuralgic about defending the party's positioning on law and order against the Conservatives and because ministers are running scared of a confused and often xenophobic press campaign against a piece of legislation of which the government ought to be proud. Every time that a foreigner commits an offence, some newspaper finds a way of blaming the Human Rights Act. Every time an ex-prisoner reoffends, some politician finds a way of twisting the facts to hold the Human Rights Act responsible. Every time that a court rules against the police, or the immigration authorities or the prison authorities - and none of these things happens very often - the Human Rights Act becomes the convenient whipping boy. With Labour's ratings low, and with a continuing haemorrhage of electoral support, Downing Street clearly believes that it is easier to join a lynch mob than to stand up to it.The current tide of panic about the Human Rights Act and the courts that interpret it is almost entirely misplaced. When a serious criminal is released on licence and reoffends, that is neither the responsibility of the courts which sentenced him nor of the act (the parole system was in operation for a generation before 1998). When a judge rules that a detainee should not be deported to a country that uses torture, that is not an act of judicial prissiness but the strict and proper enforcement of an international obligation rightly entered into by the Conservative government in 1985 which has absolutely nothing to do with the Human Rights Act. And when a court rules that a group of hijackers should not be deported to Afghanistan, that is an entirely proper (but appealable) exercise of judicial judgment of the kind for which courts have always existed.The Human Rights Act is not beyond criticism, and there is a place for a robust argument about the nature of fundamental freedoms. If the 1998 act is being wrongly cited as an obstacle to putting up "wanted" posters, then as the shadow Home Secretary David Davis said yesterday, that is ludicrous. But the most frightening thing about this whole furore is that the government is so ready to pick away at, and undermine confidence in, a system of law and governance that has worked so well for so long and that enjoys deep-rooted public confidence. The public is not divided into a majority who care about security and a minority who care about liberty. Everybody cares about both security and liberty at the same time. The law protects us all, and it is high time ministers understood that freedom, justice and fairness are the birthright, as New Labour might once have said, of the many not the few.