In a quiet child's plot in a London churchyard, four police officers stood watch as a small pastel blue coffin decorated with teddy bears was lowered into the ground. More than five years had passed since the dismembered remains of a boy had been found floating in the Thames, the victim of a macabre ritual killing.Now he was being buried. Without a name for him, or relatives to mourn, it was left to Detective Chief Inspector Will O'Reilly to read a eulogy.He drew on words from the Bishop of Stepney, who had compared the child, known as Adam in the investigation, to an unknown soldier and promised: "Like the unknown soldier, his death should not be in vain - some resulting good must be his epitaph."Then Mr O'Reilly and other officers threw handfuls of soil into the boy's unmarked grave.The ceremony two months ago was a discreet affair, and not the goodbye that Scotland Yard had wanted. No one has been arrested or charged with Adam's death during the complex inquiry that has already taken officers across Africa and Europe and cost the force £1m. But the file is not closed. Without the publicity that has characterised some of the other developments in the case, detectives have been making quiet and potentially significant progress.Now there is, perhaps for the first time, real hope that Adam will be identified - and his killers will be found.Mr O'Reilly told the Guardian yesterday that the inquiry had made "significant progress". The optimism stems from an agreement between Scotland Yard and the Nigerian government, which has helped police pursue a number of promising new leads. They have had a full-time officer stationed in Lagos for the past year helping with the investigation.DismemberedPioneering work by forensic scientists has revealed that the chemical make-up of Adam's bones closely matches samples taken in Nigeria. This has allowed the team to build up a picture of the area the child was born and probably where he grew up. Mr O'Reilly will not give details, but it is known that police efforts are concentrated now on an area of 50 square miles.Officers believe it is remarkable they have got this far. When Adam's body was pulled out of the Thames near Tower Bridge on September 21 2001 police were bewildered. They had a torso of a boy, they knew he was about five years old, and he was dressed in a pair of orange shorts.But they had no one claiming the child, no dental records and no fresh blood in Adam's dismembered body that might have yielded clues about past illnesses. The dearth of information led to pressure internally on the team to give up.What evidence they had pointed to a ritual killing. A postmortem examination revealed Adam had suffered severe trauma to his neck and that his limbs and head were cut off after death. A rare potion of calabar bean found in his lower intestine was of the type used in such sacrifices. Further tests on plant material found in Adam's intestines revealed that he had been brought to Britain days before he was murdered.Detectives went first to South Africa, where "muti" or ritual killing is practised. In April 2002 they enlisted the help of Nelson Mandela and offered a £50,000 reward for information, but without success. An expert there suggested the sacrifice of a pre-pubescent child was more likely to be found in west Africa.Analysis of Adam's DNA confirmed that his ancestors came from west Africa, but Scotland Yard had no way of narrowing it down to where he was born or bought up. The police returned to the only real clue they had - Adam himself. Forensic scientists advised that the bone chemistry might help trace his birthplace.Soil, rocks and plants hold a unique pattern of radioactive isotopes. That pattern is reflected in people's bones via the diet, making it possible to match up individuals with geographic areas. In Adam's case the chemistry of his bones matched rocks of the Pre-Cambrian era, which are found in huge areas of Nigeria and a few neighbouring countries.The trail could have petered out again for the detectives as there are no detailed soil maps of Africa that would have allowed them to refine the search.But the team decided to take their own samples and build their own map. They spent two and a half weeks in Nigeria collecting up to 150 soil, rock and bone samples. This is what has allowed them to match Adam's remains to an area between Benin City and Ibadan in the south-west of the country.TraffickingThe Adam inquiry has also led to other forensic advances. Before this investigation DNA found at a crime scene was only useful if it identified or eliminated a suspect police already had in their sights, or if it matched a sample on the national DNA database. But forensic scientists developed a technique called familial searching to try to identify Adam's parents.Ray Fysh, a special adviser with the Forensic Science Service, said: "In Adam's case we had DNA but no family, so we worked out the possible combinations of parental and maternal DNA, found 30 or 40 potential individuals on the database and began to systematically work through them. Now familial DNA is used as a routine tool to identify close relatives of people on the police database. All police forces are now going through unsolved murders and rapes and, in cases where there is an unknown DNA sample, we can narrow the suspects down."The technique was initially used to solve a reopened case in south Wales. Three teenagers, Pauline Floyd, Geraldine Hughes and Sandra Newton, were raped and strangled three months apart in 1973 near Llandarcy and the killer had never been found. In 2002, thanks to the work done by Mr Fysh, scientists could check the database to find a relative of the killer. The key suspect, Joseph Kappen, had died but his body was exhumed. A DNA sample was taken and matched DNA found at the scenes.The same technique was used two years later to identify the man responsible for killing Michael Little, who died when a brick thrown from a bridge over the M3 motorway at Frimley, Surrey, smashed through his lorry's windscreen. Craig Harman was caught after DNA obtained from skin on the brick was found to be a similar match to his close relatives. Then 20, Harman was jailed for six years at the Old Bailey in April 2004 after admitting the manslaughter of Mr Little.In June 2006 the same technique helped to bring to justice James Lloyd, a 1980s rapist who kept women's shoes as trophies. Lloyd, 50, who was jailed for at least 15 years after admitting four rapes and two attempted rapes of women, was identified after his sister gave a DNA sample following a drink-drive charge.The links the Adam inquiry team discovered between human trafficking and black magic in west Africa have also aided other investigations, opening up at least three unsolved cases across Europe.The British detectives have been able to export intelligence and expertise to officers in Italy, Germany and Ireland, where the headless body of a woman, Paiche Unyolo Onyemaechi, was found in 2004. "There are a number of investigations in Europe where officers are now looking at the possibility of ritual-type abuse from sub-Saharan Africa," said Mr O'Reilly.But identifying Adam and his killers is the priority for the team.The hope is that the boy's body will one day be repatriated so that he can be reburied according to the traditions of his native culture. John Azah, chair of Scotland's Yard lay advisory panel, said: "Our commitment to this case has been second to none. But that is not enough. We know that at the end of the day the best way to honour Adam is to find his killers."