The police force that investigated the kidnapping of Shannon Matthews has been drafted in to help with the search for schoolgirl Tia Sharp, who has been missing since Friday, Scotland Yard has revealed.Tia, 12, from Mitcham in south-west London, had never run away before, but seemingly vanished without trace after telling relatives she was going to the Whitgift Centre in Croydon town centre. She is believed to have been last seen at the house of her grandmother, Christine Sharp, 46, in New Addington, south-east London. Her grandmother's partner, Stuart Hazell, 37, thought to be one of the last people to see Tia, was questioned by police as a witness for more than two hours on Wednesday before returning home.Scotland Yard said officers from West Yorkshire police had been brought in for their expertise in kidnapping cases, in particular the case of nine-year-old Shannon in February 2008.Shannon's disappearance prompted a month-long hunt involving hundreds of officers and her family making emotional appeals for her safe return. Her mother, Karen Matthews, and her accomplice – her partner's uncle Michael Donovan, from Dewsbury – were convicted in December 2008 of Shannon's kidnapping, which they committed as part of a plan to claim £50,000 in reward money."As is routine, we liaise with all forces that have dealt with similar cases," a police spokesman said. "This case is like the Shannon Matthews case. This is a missing persons case and we are putting all our resources into finding her."Karen Matthews, 33, conspired with Donovan, 40, to drug her daughter and keep her imprisoned for 24 days.In January 2009, they were both sentenced to eight years in jail but have since been released.As the hunt for Tia continued on Thursday, police searched the bins on the estate where her grandmother's house is, using sticks to scour through rubbish. Refuse collections had been suspended at the request of officers but later resumed.Scotland Yard has received more than 300 calls and reports of 60 sightings of Tia, including a member of the public who came forward saying they saw her leaving her grandmother's house at about noon on Friday.The Metropolitan police area commander Neil Basu said police could not be "absolutely sure" who the last person to see Tia on the estate was. He stressed that the investigation remained a missing persons inquiry, with no suspects."I am looking to find Tia safe and well," he added.Olympics resources have been redirected to the search, which involves around 40 detectives and 40 specialist search officers. Basu said police had collected more than 800 hours of CCTV footage from buses and trams, and viewed more than 120 hours of the material.Searches have covered a 500-metre radius around Sharp's house, including woodland, garages, lock-ups and a school. Basu said he did not feel the schoolgirl would have left the area and the search was focused on the neighbourhood and Croydon.Phillip Wheatley, her headteacher at Raynes Park high school in Merton, described her as a friendly young person, well-liked by staff and students, who had enjoyed a successful first year at the school."Our thoughts are with Tia and her family at this time," he said. "I would urge anyone who thinks they may have seen Tia, or who has any information on Tia's whereabouts, to contact the police immediately."