Brian Farkas is 37, white, 1.75m tall, weighs 70kg and has green eyes and black hair. He has no tattoos or other distinguishing marks and lives in Apt 124, 145 Brookwood Road, in a terrace house in a complex overlooking a small coppice in Hamilton Township, New Jersey. He drives a silver Ford Contour 1998 with licence plate NCU50V. The neighbours watch him as he comes and goes.Mr Farkas is a convicted sex offender and a publicly accessible register says he "endangered the welfare of a minor male stranger under the age of 13". A government website gives all these details and shows a picture of him taken last summer. He looks ordinary and is losing his hair.This information on Mr Farkas is available to anyone who desires it because of "Megan's law", a piece of legislation that means communities in the United States can discover if there is a child sex offender living in their midst. A click of the mouse and it's easy to find a paedophile in America if he lives at the address he has given to the authorities.Megan's law has been in force in New Jersey since October 1994, three months after seven-year-old Megan Kanka was killed, less than a mile away from where Mr Farkas now lives.It was rolled out across the rest of the 49 states in May 1996. But many in the US who work with sexual offenders and their victims say that in reality Megan's law does not work. They argue that it induces a false sense of security for parents and often drives the paedophile underground, that it places too much emphasis on "stranger danger" when almost 90% of victims under 16 know their attacker.They point out that there has been no empirical study of the effectiveness of Megan's law and no analysis of whether sexual offences have fallen in its wake.Charles Onley, of the Centre for Sex Offender Management in Silver Spring, Maryland, told the Guardian: "In the years since Megan's law was introduced, I am not sure that anyone can provide to you statistics on the impact that these laws have made."Megan's law varies from state to state: in some, offenders have been forced to carry sandwich boards declaring their crimes, wear special clothes, post a scarlet M in their window, or tell their neighbours of their offences. In Texas, a judge ordered 14 paedophiles to display signs in their front gardens saying "Danger! Registered sex offender lives here!" and bumper stickers on their cars with the words "Danger! Registered sex offender in vehicle!"The junior minister in the Home Office, Gerry Sutcliffe, is scheduled to visit the US to look at Megan's law in practice. If he visited New Jersey, where Megan was murdered and the legislation was conceived, he would see that the state has in fact lost a good number of its sexual offenders: 37 people are listed on its website as fugitives.Should he travel to Brookwood Road, he will find that while the neighbours now know of Mr Farkas's presence in their community, they were surprised to learn that the police were not obliged to tell them: this notification is reserved for the most serious of offenders, known as tier three, who have a high risk of recidivism.Kate di Lorenzo is the mother of three-year-old Matthew and lives a few doors away from Mr Farkas. "My niece called me up and said 'there's a child molester in your complex'. I looked on the internet and sure enough there he was. I let my neighbours know."Mrs di Lorenzo's realisation that Megan's law doesn't do what she thought it did and her sudden fear that there is a paedophile on every corner is part of the problem, according to the American Civil Liberties Union.Deborah Jacobs, executive director of the union's New Jersey branch, says Megan's law does more harm than good. "Because the most common type of sex crime so often goes unreported, most sex offenders never become part of the criminal justice system and therefore are not affected by Megan's law.""As a result, these laws give the public a false sense of security, letting us believe that sex offenders have been exiled from their neighbourhood, or that if a sex offender does live nearby, we will receive notification of his presence. If we believe that, we are fooling ourselves and, worse, doing our children a disservice. Sex offenders live in every American community, and children need supervision no matter what."Jack Furlong is a New Jersey lawyer who has challenged Megan's law since its inception and is co-author of The Megan's Law Sourcebook. He is studying the debate over Megan's law in the UK and sees parallels with the US and what has been described as "moral panic" over child abusers which he says are too easily regarded as one monolithic group. "The politicians respond to citizen groups who apply pressure every time they see a stranger kidnapping on CNN. It only takes one man-bites-dog story to move the body politic and the tendency of this reactionary social force is to hit every thumb tack with a sledgehammer."In New Jersey, a sex offender must supply his DNA upon release from jail; he will be supervised in the community for life; and his premises can be searched without warning and without a warrant. He will be tagged for life. Of those considered to be sexually violent predators, since the introduction of a new act almost 400 have been committed indefinitely to a psychiatric institution after completing their sentence.Standing on his lawn, less than 100 metres from the site where his daughter was murdered and a few blocks away from Mr Farkas's house, Megan's father, Richard Kanka, says he would jail all child molesters for life so they never got the chance to reoffend.His daughter was seven years old when she was raped, strangled, stuffed in a plastic toybox and buried in a field by the man who lived across the road in July 1994. Jesse Timmendequas, then 33, had two previous convictions for sex offences against children. He shared a house with two other paedophiles and many of the neighbours knew their history, but the Kankas didn't.The house where Megan met her death was bought by charities, razed and turned into a garden of remembrance called Megan's Place. "There have been ups and downs on the way. But yes, Megan's law works," said Mr Kanka. "If it didn't work there would be something on the front page of the newspaper everyday."He and his wife, Maureen, have been visited by the parents of Sarah Payne, murdered by the convicted paedophile Roy Whiting and the focus of the News of the World Sarah's law campaign."If they don't introduce this law in your country, you are going to be very busy with these offences. According to the civil libertarians, the people that they molested don't have any rights. But these guys don't change. This was my daughter's killer's third offence. So we should err on the side of caution."