A little over two years ago, a confident, well-dressed man arrived at Soham Village College to be interviewed for the post of senior caretaker.Ian Huntley, then 27, charmed the panel. He explained that he and his fiancee, Maxine Carr, wanted to settle down, and argued that he knew what the job entailed because his father, Kevin, was a school caretaker. Most importantly, he convinced the interviewers that he posed no threat to children. Two weeks later, he was settling into his office and getting to know the school and staff. However, Huntley had managed to conceal a disturbing past. When he was in his early 20s, he had a string of sexual relationships with schoolgirls - one aged only 13 - in his native Grimsby. He was also accused, although not convicted, of indecently assaulting an 11-year-old girl. As has been heard at the Old Bailey, he was also once charged with raping a teenager in an alley in Grimsby, but the case was dropped. The victim maintains that Huntley did rape her. Not long before he and Carr arrived in Soham, Huntley was again suspected of a sex attack on a woman. Once more nothing came of it - this time after Carr gave him an alibi, as she was to do in Soham. Beneath the respectable facade that Huntley presented to the interview panel at the college lurked a man with a proclivity to very young women and girls and a willingness to use violence when denied. Well-placed police sources who have knowledge of the profile drawn up on Huntley by a criminal psychologist say that, when he arrived in Soham, he was a "latent predatory paedophile". It is thought that his chance encounter with Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman last summer - detectives have found no evidence that he or Carr groomed the girls - gave him the opportunity to indulge his darkest of fantasies. There is little doubt amongst those who know the case well that Huntley intended to or did actually indecently assault the girls. By the time their bodies were found, they were too decomposed for it to be said for certain whether they had been sexually assaulted. But one police officer said: "Why else does a grown man lure two 10-year-old girls into his house?"Huntley was also a man who must have thought he could get away with just about anything. By the time he arrived in Soham, Humberside police had had 10 "contacts" with him, and social services five. But no firm action was taken to stop him. Like many sex attackers whose crimes are in part an attempt to control, Huntley endured a miserable childhood and frustrating early adulthood. At school, Huntley was quite a small, sickly boy, and attracted the attention of bullies. He left school with five GCSEs, and was keen to get out of the classroom and begin earning money.In January 1995, when he was 20 and working as a machine operator in a food factory, Huntley married 18-year-old Claire Evans after a romance of just a few months. She rapidly realised that Huntley was not the man she had believed him to be, and they split up within weeks - possibly within days. Huntley sought comfort with a number of girls aged under 16. He had grown into quite a handsome young man and found that, if his targets were young and impressionable enough, he could appear charming. Between August 1995 and May 1996, he had sexual relationships with at least four underage girls, three of them 15 and one 13. All saw Huntley as their boyfriend, and brushed off offers of help from social services. Another girl Huntley had an affair with in the late 90s was 15 when she met him. She has claimed that he seemed to enjoy dominating her. "Once it was clear I liked him he seemed to treat me like a child - to bully me and try to control me," she told a tabloid after Huntley's arrest. She claimed he often lost his temper and sometimes slapped her. According to evidence heard during the Old Bailey trial, in the early summer of 1998 a girl in her later teens went to police claiming that she had been raped as she walked home along a badly-lit path in Grimsby after a night out with friends. The girl, who was 5ft 2ins tall, said she was grabbed, pulled to the ground and assaulted. Huntley was identified as the alleged attacker. He was charged and appeared before magistrates, and claimed he and the teenager had had consensual sex. CCTV footage showed that the pair had spent time together in the club. It helped undermine the girl's claim, and the Crown Prosecution Service decided that there was no "realistic prospect" of conviction.The charge was dropped, but not before Huntley had spent a week in custody at the Wolds prison, near Hull. He found this experience "terrible".It is often noted that paedophiles who kill have previously had a taste of what it is like to spend time in prison as a sex attacker. When they re-offend, they choose to murder the only witness - or in this case witnesses - to their crime, rather than allow a victim's testimony to condemn them. The rape accusation prompted Ms Webber to leave Huntley. It also led to an accusation in July 1998 that he had indecently assaulted an 11-year-old girl the September before. The police looked at her claims, but decided that there was not enough evidence to prosecute.On a Saturday night in February 1999, Huntley met a slight, girlish-looking woman, Maxine Carr. A month later, he and Carr, then 22, moved in together. While living in a rented flat in Scunthorpe, Huntley took out a loan to buy the red Fiesta he was to use to dump Holly and Jessica's bodies, and a diamond engagement ring for Carr. But all was not rosy. Neighbours say Huntley would recline on the sofa and bark orders to Carr. If everything was not perfect, he could fly into a violent rage. Suddenly they upped and moved, telling neighbours that they were emigrating to the US. In fact the couple, their dog Sadie and their two pet rats were off to Soham. On November 26 2001, Huntley took up his £16,000 post at Soham Village College. What really happened in the caretaker's house, 5 College Close, on the day of the girls' deaths, will probably never be known.There may be elements of truth in Huntley's account. For instance, police think he may have been washing his dog when the girls went past. They may have asked after Carr, who was away in Grimsby that weekend. One of the girls may even have had a nosebleed - Holly was prone to them. It is likely that they ended up - as Huntley claims - in the bathroom. The fact that the bath was cracked shows that something violent happened there. But it is also clear that at least one of the girls ended up in the bedroom. Huntley's decision to stuff the duvet into the washing machine - the first domestic chore Carr can remember him doing - supports this. Mystery still hangs over what may have happened in the dining room. The carpet was soaking wet when Carr got home, but Huntley has continued to insist it was one of the few rooms the girls did not go into. Even after his arrest, 13 days after he killed the girls, Huntley tried to cheat the criminal justice system. He refused to speak to police and - many officers believed - feigned madness. "He said nothing - he just dribbled," said one source. They had no choice but to surrender him to Rampton secure hospital. Doctors failed to find any "major mental illness", and the scepticism of police officers was reinforced when they found a previous girlfriend who claimed Huntley had once told her that, if he ever got into serious trouble with the police, he would pretend to be insane.Throughout the trial Huntley constantly passed messages from the dock to his legal team, presumably telling them exactly what tactics he wanted to use. Even when he found himself in the most famous courtroom in the land, he thought he could stay a step ahead of justice. His last desperate ploy was to appear in the witness box of the Old Bailey and claim he had battled to remember the incredible truth about what happened so he could tell the parents of Holly and Jessica. Before the deaths of the 10-year-old friends Huntley had charmed, bullied and lied his way through life, concealing his dark side from the world at large. He had fooled his employers, his family, and maybe even Maxine Carr. In the end, however, he did not fool the jury.· A longer version of this article will appear in tomorrow's Guardian