Police yesterday named a man shot dead in a "cold-blooded killing" at an Indian takeaway in Leeds on Friday night as Rohan Anthony Kingston Ricketts, a 34-year-old father of six.Mr Ricketts was murdered at Shahjahan Indian Cuisine, also known as SFC, in the Harehills area of the city. Detectives said he was a regular customer and believe he had arrived to collect food. He was chased back into the shop by four masked men.Detective Superintendent Steve Payne, from West Yorkshire police's homicide and major inquiry team, said Mr Ricketts, known locally as Shonn, had dived over the counter and run into the kitchen. The attackers forced down the door and fired up to five shots at him from two guns.They then fled up the street. They wore dark sports-type clothing with hoods and balaclavas covering their faces.Mr Payne said no other customers were in the shop at the time, although the owner and kitchen staff were present."This was a cold-blooded killing which has left Rohan's six children without a father and his girlfriend without a partner," he said. "Clearly our focus is to trace Rohan's killer as soon as possible. We are now starting to build up a picture of Rohan and his lifestyle and are looking into his background. Rohan is from Jamaica and came to England seven years ago. We are keen to establish his movements in the days and weeks leading up to his death."We are keen to hear from his friends and associates. I believe the answer to this killing lies within the local community and it is only a matter of time before we trace those responsible. I would urge those with information to come to us before we come to them."Det Supt Payne said inquiries were continuing at the scene of the murder and appealed for anyone who was in Roundhay Road, Harehills, at about 11.30pm on Friday to make contact.Local residents said yesterday that crime was a problem in the area. Les Jaskolka said he opened his bedroom window at around 11pm on Friday night and was surprised to hear so much traffic on his street. Outside he saw that two takeaways had been cordoned off."I asked a policeman what had been going on and he could not say anything but I heard from a neighbour a dead body had been found. She's usually right."Mr Jaskolka added: "It's getting worse around here. Mobsters and kids and crooks have got the streets. They do drug dealing here 24/7. There are also no end of break-ins."He said residents felt threatened because of growing crime in the area and he was fearful for his younger children.Dennis Wood, who manages a shop close to the scene of the shooting, said Shahjahan had been open for about eight years and it had been recently refurbished."They're a nice set of lads that own it," he said. "I think it's open nearly all night which isn't a good thing round here."