"Dude, you slept rough to buy Kanye West's trainers? Why?" This was the incredulous question that Vice magazine put to the trainer fans who camped out overnight to get their hands on some limited edition trainers designed by West last week. Yet, for those who know the lengths trainer fans will go to in order to land themselves the right pair, there is no need for the disbelief.West fans have had plenty of chances to gorge themselves on their hero's wares recently. There was the poorly received collection at Paris Fashion Week, the much-hyped Watch The Throne tour with Jay-Z, and Cruel Summer, his latest foray into the world of film, which made its debut at Cannes this year. They've also been led on a wild goose chase around Shoreditch by crafty PR companies who hinted that West would be playing a secret show in the area.But the Yeezy 2, his own Nike basketball shoe, brought out not only West fans but also members of the cult of trainers – aka "sneakerheads". These are people who cannot resist the chance to add a rare trainer to their ever-growing collections. The LA Times summed it up with: "Women salivate over Manolo Blahnik heels. Men covet Nike Air Yeezy 2 sneakers." Famous trainer fanatics, like rapper Fat Joe, can afford to take things even further: he never wears the same pair twice.There is, however, a darker side to the footwear obsession – one where trainers don't always come with a £210 price tag, like the Yeezy 2. Sometimes trainers cost a lot more. During the London riots, Foot Locker was one of the prime targets for looters and was mentioned by Pauline Pearce (aka the Hackney Heroine) during her tirade against the disturbances. The chain has been criticised for aggressive advertising that sells "brashness, competitiveness, obsessiveness and insatiability" and during the riots, stores were targeted in Brixton, Manchester, Birmingham and Dalston. But the lure of trainers isn't a new development and people have gone even further in pursuit of the right pair.The wanton consumerism of the late 1980s and early 1990s, so well satirised by Bret Easton Ellis in American Psycho, didn't just create fictional Wall Street killers such as Patrick Bateman. There were real-life, inner-city teen murderers like James David Martin who strangled his basketball team-mate Michael Eugene Thomas for a pair of Air Jordan trainers in 1989 – and they didn't even fit him. There was a moral panic after Sports Illustrated looked into the phenomenon of children killing each other over footwear with a piece entitled Your Sneakers Or Your Life.When confronted with the story, Michael Jordan said: "I thought people would try to emulate the good things I do, they'd try to achieve, to be better. Nothing bad. I never thought because of my endorsement of a shoe, or any product, that people would harm each other."At the time, Nike's advertising campaigns were partly blamed for the spike in murders related to footwear, another reason being that gang affiliations were symbolised by clothing. That interview was conducted in 1990, and Sports Illustrated noted that the trend had started midway through the 1980s. It still endures around the world today. Rapper The Game wrote about how a childhood friend was killed for his Charles Barkley trainers and already this year there have been two high-profile murders in the US, with 19-year-old David Robinson shot and killed for his Nike trainers and Sergio Pinex murdered after he refused to hand his over in April. In Caracas, Venezuela, one of the world's deadliest cities, gangs have been known to shoot first and take trainers later, whereas in Argentina teenagers have been murdered for wearing the wrong kind.Those who camped out overnight to buy a pair of the Yeezy 2 live in a world where trainers are bought and sold. But for those who can't afford to spend over £200 – or possibly $90,000 if bought on eBay – the lure of "the right pair" has led to more drastic measures being taken. Trainers are a status symbol for young people all over the world, one that some are willing to kill for.• This article was commissioned after a suggestion from pairubu• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree