Police believe a random daylight acid attack on a woman in Salford may have been racially motivated.The 29-year-old, who is originally from Cameroon, was pushing a pram through central Salford when a corrosive liquid was thrown at her, burning through her clothes and on to her back and chest. Her six-month-old daughter was unharmed.The incident took place at about 2pm on Thursday in a subway leading to Salford Shopping City in Pendleton, a busy area in the centre of the city.Police said that as the woman entered the tunnel she heard someone make a sexual and racist comment to her before feeling liquid being thrown on her back. She turned around to see a man in his 40s holding a plastic container. He threw more liquid on her chest before running off towards Broad Street. No liquid hit the baby or the woman's face.  An e-fit image of a man police would like to speak to after the acid attack. Photograph: Greater Manchester police/PAPassers-by found the woman and raised the alarm. She was treated in hospital for burns and released the same day. Forensic tests were being made to establish the identity of the liquid, and extra police patrols were being carried out to reassure people in the area. An e-fit image of the suspect has been released and footage from the numerous CCTV cameras in the area was being examined.Chief Inspector Mark Kennedy, of Greater Manchester police, said the victim was extremely shaken by the attack but was fortunate that her injuries were not worse."This was a shocking incident which was entirely unprovoked; there is no suggestion that the woman knew her attacker or was personally targeted and this is highly unusual for this area. We are treating this as a potentially hate-motivated attack as a result of the comments shouted at her," he said."She received nasty burns to the chest and back but fortunately the injuries were not as bad as they could have been, and her baby was thankfully unhurt. She has been very brave and was able to give us a very good description of her attacker."Police were appealing for anyone who may have noticed anyone acting suspiciously to contact them urgently "as this man is clearly dangerous".The attacker is described as being white, of stocky build, 178-188cm (5ft 10in to 6ft 2in) tall, with short, dark hair, a straight hairline and a bald patch on the back of his head. He had blue eyes, a dimple in his chin and a red, burn-like mark on his bottom lip. He also had white peeling skin on his cheekbones and stubble. The man spoke with a British accent.Anyone with information should phone police on 0161 856 5097 or the independent charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.