Bus passengers could hold the vital clue to catching the killer of the teenager Hannah Foster, detectives revealed today.Just minutes before she was abducted and murdered, the 17-year-old girl walked her best friend to a bus stop, close to her home in Portswood, Southampton, to catch the Solent Blue Line No 48 service.Police investigating the "apparently motiveless" murder appealed for late night revellers and passengers on the bus to come forward. Detective Inspector Tony Adams, who is leading the hunt, said: "We know that three passengers bought tickets on the bus outside the Mitre pub in Highfield Lane - where Hannah had taken her friend before walking home. "We would urge anyone who took that Southampton to Eastleigh service, which left Portswood at 10.40pm on Friday evening, to come forward." Det Insp Adams admitted that detectives were still baffled as to how and why the student was attacked during the short walk from that bus stop to her home in Grosvenor Road - just five minutes away. He said officers were viewing hours of CCTV footage to try to trace the teenager's last steps after leaving her friend. Specialist officers are investigating internet links on her computer and analysing records on her mobile phone to determine whether Ms Foster had secretly agreed to meet anyone later that night. He said: "We are examining many avenues, including whether she had arranged to meet a friend through the internet. However, at this time there is no indication of any such plans. She did not have a boyfriend at the time of her death." He said officers were also investigating a link with Southsea, Hampshire, but would not elaborate. The teenager's body was found yesterday by a walker in undergrowth at the end of Allington Lane, a five-minute drive from the bus stop where she was last seen alive. Det Insp Adams said: "At this time our clear assumption is that she was forcefully abducted. There was no significant attempt to hide the body. "There have been no similar incidents of this seriousness in the Portswood area other than the normal lower-scale offences such as flashing, which are being investigated." As forensic officers began a fingertip search of the surrounding area this morning, more than 100 police officers were making door-to-door inquiries in an area around West End, Southampton. A postmortem examination is to take place later today. Ms Foster's parents, Trevor and Hilary, were expected to formally identify their daughter's body later. They are understood to be consoling her 14-year-old sister, Sarah, at home. Det Insp Adams said: "As you can imagine, this has been an especially hard time for them, as they try to come to terms with the tragic death of their daughter."