The chancellor, Gordon Brown, is believed to be close to agreeing an emergency £200m cash injection to help the home secretary, David Blunkett, ease the crisis in the prisons in England and Wales.It is understood that Mr Blunkett has had to secure the backing of the prime minister to resolve his seven-month running battle for sufficient funding to cope with the soaring prison population. Home Office and Treasury officials are believed to be close to agreeing the emergency package designed to head off a new overcrowding crisis after the prison population hit 72,144 yesterday after rising by 200 new inmates in two days. It is believed that the money will be used to finance at least two extra new private prisons and to build extra wings and houseblocks in the grounds of existing jails. The two new jails are expected to hold 850 prisoners each. It is understood the Treasury has insisted that all 137 prisons in England and Wales should go through a "benchmarking exercise" over the next seven years, with a dozen "struggling" jails facing threat of privatisation as the price of the emergency cash injection. Prison chiefs had already agreed that four "struggling" jails would face "performance testing" this year with the prospect of being handed over to a private prison company if they fail to improve their performance within a set period. A further six of the worst prisons will go through the same process next year. The emergency package has been agreed as new Home Office research showed that community penalties are more effective at cutting reconviction rates among teenage offenders. Figures published yesterday show that the introduction of final warnings and official reprimands to replace the repeated use of police cautions has reduced the overall reconviction rate for juvenile offenders by seven points from 34% to 27%. The extra money for the prison service follows a Treasury review of the "correctional services", which include probation as well as prisons. The prison population has continued to rise despite pleas to the courts from the lord chief justice, the lord chancellor and the home secretary not to imprison minor offenders. The fact that Mr Blunkett has finally agreed the extra funding seven months after the comprehensive spending review was settled for this financial year is embarrassing to the home secretary. The unusual nature of this spending battle is also underlined by the fact that it is believed to have taken the personal support of Tony Blair to resolve the dispute.