If it was a Hollywood film script, a boy who was born blind and, against all the odds, goes on to become the home secretary, it would end with him in No 10. And yet barely are David Blunkett's latest thoughts on terrorism, say, or citizenship out of his mouth before the chattering classes attack him in the most personal terms. His attempt earlier this month, during a trip to India and Pakistan, to start a debate on how the law should deal with potential British suicide bombers was a case in point. Lady Kennedy QC denounced him as "a shameless authoritarian" and compared him with Robert Mugabe; Louise Christian, the human rights lawyer, declared him to be unfit for office. The ferocity of the response, one of the most intemperate for some time, shook him. During his whistlestop tour, the British home secy - as the Indian newspapers called him - had been feted. At the Golden Temple in Amritsar, he covered his head and went barefoot among thousands of Sikhs. He was surprised - and pleased - to hear Brummie-accented shouts of: "Hello, Dave, how are you?" In Mirpur, in Pakistani Kashmir, a children's banner greeted him with: "Hello Blankett." Many of them, he was tickled to discover, had even broader Yorkshire accents than his own. Speaking to Society Guardian aboard the Delhi Express train to Ludhiana, the "Manchester of the Punjab", Blunkett is in a reflective mood. He speaks about immigration, anti-terrorism, his criminal justice reforms, and an overhaul of the laws on prostitution. He muses on the gap between his reputation and what he considers to be his political achievements. "I don't expect to be given credit for being the most progressive and liberal home secretary," he says, "but if people look at what we have done so far they would be quite surprised." Dealing with the problem of terrorism in the past two and a half years has proved the most difficult of all the challenges that he has had to face as home secretary. It would, he says, have stretched any individual cabinet minister to the limit of their abilities. He asks that his record as home secretary is not judged by what he has done on terrorism alone. As it turned out, his ideas for extending Britain's anti-terrorist laws proved only a little more popular in the rest of Whitehall - not because of their content, but because the story broke on a day when John Prescott had been promised a clear run at the news bulletins for his plan for the north of England. The deputy prime minister was not pleased, but he is not the only cabinet minister to be jealous of Blunkett's ability to dominate the Whitehall "media grid" week in, week out. But then, unlike some of his less media savvy colleagues, Blunkett knows what a news story is, and has such strong support from Tony Blair that he can feel free to speak his mind. Blunkett is different from Jack Straw, his predecessor as home secretary. Straw is almost a Whitehall mandarin manque; he grew up playing with the filing cabinets in Barbara Castle's private office, is married to a senior Treasury civil servant, and likes nothing more than a detailed argument about policy. Blunkett is more of a politician who is not afraid to let the world know exactly what is on his sharp, mind, particularly if he thinks it is more in tune with the feelings of people in Sheffield Brightside than those in liberal Hampstead. His blindness has given him an unexpected advantage. It means that, because he has to listen to the tapes of all the papers in his red boxes, he has far more of the detail at his fingertips than many of his cabinet colleagues. The result is that his "musings" are much more interesting than most, and he cannot help but "commit news" whenever he opens his mouth - even if this sometimes leads to the airing of prejudices that dismay even his closest advisers. So how did it come to this? Blunkett confirms that he did spend a serious amount of time before he got the job thinking about what he was going to do when he became home secretary, but adds: "Not as long as I spent preparing to be education and employment secretary. I really did prepare for that." The result was that, the weekend after the 2001 general election, he announced that, as home secretary, he wanted to open up the legal routes for economic migration "to pull the rug from under the gangmasters", and he wanted to push through a fundamental reform of the police to drive up detection and clear-up rates. He is still making the case for legal migration, and the reform of the police is well under way. But somehow his plans seem to get lost when the Westminster pundits start marking his card. The day Blunkett outlined his police reforms to the annual conference of the Police Superintendents' Association it was September 11 2001. Didn't the terrorist attacks on the US knock his plans to be a reforming home secretary off course? "I think the timescale has changed, not the emphasis, and the nature of the job was undoubtedly changed by September 11," he says. "Not because counter-terrorism and the issues around it had not been the focus of previous home secretaries - because, with Ireland, they obviously had, and the Terrorism Act 2000 underlies that - but simply the volume, the scale, the global nature and therefore the focus and attention given to the attacks in the media changed the nature of the job. The whole of the autumn of 2001 was taken up with what I have described as me taking a Phd in the issues. From the middle of September to the middle of December, I first had to prepare for the white paper and I then had to prepare for the legislation. "Given the complexities and the legal niceties, and given the proportionality and human rights questions, that was a major challenge. I found it an invigorating challenge, but I also thought it stretched what was required of an individual secretary of state probably to the limit, given the timescale we were dealing with." In the immediate aftermath of September 11, more than half of his time on some days was taken up with dealing with terrorist issues. It is not as intense now, but the balance changes from month to month. "Over Christmas and New Year, with theexception of Christmas Day, every single day I had to deal with some issue relating to counter-terrorism, and that obviously does impinge," he says. But he insists that it has not knocked his major reform programme off course. The criminal justice and sentencing reforms, the changes to the prison and probation services, the new nationality and immigration laws, and reform of the drug laws have all gone ahead. He has not shied away from another of his "big debates", this time on ID cards. The draft bill, to be published this spring, will set out precisely what will appear on the cards and the safeguards that will be used to prevent abuse. "It has just meant that the hours in the day for sleep and for entertainment have been even more restricted than otherwise would have been the case," he says. His white paper reforming the laws surrounding prostitution - following hard on the heels of the overhaul of the sex offences laws - will follow soon. And the new legislation dealing with domestic violence is already in the Commons. Blunkett says such liberal reforms are only possible if the political balance is right: "You have to carry people with you, rather than being pushed backwards by reaction. I think that we can open up new areas. I think Nixon recognising China is an interesting analogy. You have to secure confidence and trust before you can push ahead with things more rapidly and with greater certainty of gaining consensus than you could otherwise." He cites immigration and asylum as a major example of this "tough and tender" approach. "We were very close to being destabilised by what was happening from Sangatte, from the Coquelles and Frethun depots, and the numbers coming through the Channel tunnel, which was almost a nightly occurrence on television during the summer of 2001," he says. "It still was in 2002, and I had to get a grip on that before anyone was going to hear the message that we need legal, managed economic migration, and that we are now moving to a position where that is being recognised and is possible." And his liberal critics? He was plainly bothered by the strength of their invective - but not that bothered. Louise Christian's denunciation of his terrorism plans is airily dismissed. "She and I go back to the 1980s, when she was vigorously defending the Militant Tendency," he says. "I ask people to take as much with a pinch of salt her surmises now."