A double murder inquiry was launched yesterday after the discovery of a second body in a dilapidated warehouse used by rough sleepers and drug-takers.The decomposed remains were found during a detailed search of the building in Nottingham following the death of Katie Baxter, 18. Nottinghamshire police ruled out fears of a serial killer and said they were working on "positive leads" about the two deaths. Detective Inspector Adrian Morgan, leading the inquiry, said yesterday: "Following the discovery of Katie Baxter's body, officers have been carrying out a meticulous search of the warehouse, behind a local nightclub. "We have yet to establish a cause of death for Katie Baxter or the body found today, but we are now beginning a murder investigation due to the fact that we have two unexplained deaths in close proximity to each other." Katie had been missing since the new year, following a party at her sister's house in West Bridgford, Nottingham. She was described as lively and a keen ice hockey fan with a season ticket for Nottingham Panthers, but had got to know local homeless people and slept out on several occasions. Another missing woman, Zoe Pennick, 26, disappeared on New Year's Eve and it was information from relatives which led police to the city's former Great Northern warehouse. It is a known shelter for drug users during the day, while homeless people often slept rough there at night. Superintendent Dave Colbeck of Nottinghamshire police said: "We have some positive lines of inquiry in relation to what has happened here and because of that we don't feel that there is anybody out there targeting homeless people. It was through the concerns family had for Katie and Zoe that we came here to conduct the search that we did. "The link at the scene is the close proximity in which the two bodies were found. Katie was an occasional member of the homeless community and if this body that we have found is also a member of the homeless community then that is another connection."