The Ministry of Justice said last night it will urgently review its guidance to judges in the wake of the tragic consequences of a decision to grant bail to a senior police officer accused of murdering his wife.Garry Weddell, who was due to stand trial for murder in May, was found dead after first apparently killing his mother-in-law and then turning his gun on himself.His body was discovered at a shooting range on Saturday morning. It is thought he had killed 70-year-old Traute Maxfield, who had been due to give evidence in the case, before driving to a nearby gun club.Fears that he had harmed his three children were allayed when police found them safe and well with a family friend.Weddell, 47, a former inspector with the Metropolitan police, had been accused of strangling his wife, Sandra, at their home in Dunstable, Bedfordshire, last January.He was initially remanded in custody, but in September, a judge granted him bail after his brother, a barrister working in London, agreed to stand £200,000 surety.Last night, a spokeswoman for the Ministry of Justice said it was unusual for a murder suspect to be given bail and added that a review of the guidance given to judges would be carried out after an inquest into this weekend's two deaths.She added: "The decision on whether or not to grant bail is one for the courts. However, we will carefully monitor the outcome of the inquest and will respond to any recommendations in due course." She said one option could be a judicial review of the decision taken by Judge John Bevan to free Weddell.However, Patrick Mercer MP, the senior Conservative on the home affairs select committee, described the government's response as "tame". He said: "It strikes me that this truly horrible business could have been avoided and we therefore owe it to the family to investigate the circumstances that led a judge to give this man bail and that needs to be done at the very highest level."Detectives believe Weddell drove to his mother-in-law's house in the village of Gustard Wood, Hertfordshire, on Friday evening or Saturday morning. After killing her it appears he went to the Broomhills Shooting Club in Markyate where he walked up a lane and shot himself.A spokesman for Hertfordshire police confirmed they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the killings.Det Supt Andy Shrives, who is leading the investigation, added: "We are keen to trace the movements of Mr Weddell on Friday and Saturday. I am also keen to speak to anyone who was at the Broomhills Shooting Club on these days."Weddell's wife, Sandra, a nurse and exam invigilator, was found dead at their home on January 31 last year. They had been married for 20 years. At the time Mrs Weddell, 44, is thought to have wanted a divorce after meeting someone else.Her body was discovered with a cable tie around her neck in the garage. At first police believed she had committed suicide but they were unhappy with the circumstances surrounding her death. There was particular concern among detectives about the suicide note, which they thought was a forgery and on June 26 Weddell was arrested and charged with murder.A couple of days later prosecutor Sarah Browne told a hearing at Luton magistrates court: "Experienced police officers were suspicious from the outset, given the unusual and bizarre means of death. Mr Weddell was initially treated as a significant witness and provided details to investigators."She added: "It was quite apparent the relationship was going through a difficult phase, in fact Mr Weddell had discovered at Christmas his wife had been having an affair and he stated she had been behaving irrationally."Weddell was initially held in custody, but was granted bail after his brother Geoffrey agreed to stand surety. In court Geoffrey described his brother as his "soulmate" and offered to put him and the couple's three children up at his £800,000 home in Horsell, Surrey.Last night leading defence counsel Owen Davies QC said it was "extremely unusual" for someone accused of murder to be released on bail. He said judges had to weigh up whether someone was likely to commit any further crime, abscond or interfere with witnesses."Of the 20 or so people charged with murder I have defended over the past five years maybe three or four were given bail ... I am not criticising the decision in this case because each case is considered very carefully ... but it is very unusual."· This article was amended on Tuesday January 29 2008. Dunstable is in Bedfordshire, not Hertfordshire as we said in the article above. This has been corrected.