The justice secretary, Jack Straw, today turned down an appeal for a pardon by Michael Shields, the Liverpool football fan who was jailed in Bulgaria for the attempted murder of a barman.A statement issued by the ministry of justice said: "Following a detailed and careful consideration of all the relevant evidence the justice secretary, Jack Straw, has made a provisional decision that the application for a free pardon from Mr Michael Shields should be refused."The ministry said Straw made his decision in accordance with a high court judgment in 2008 which indicated that, in order to grant a free pardon, he would have to be satisfied that Shields was "morally and technically innocent".To reach this conclusion the following factors had to be taken into consideration: the Bulgarian courts' judgments as they stood; fresh evidence the Bulgarian courts did not consider; and the evidence they did and their judgment on it.This was a high test, the ministry said, and Straw provisionally concluded that on the evidence it had not been met.Shields' father, Michael snr, reacted angrily to the news."I just cannot believe the way he [Jack Straw] has done this," he said. "They sent the letter straight to Michael alone in jail and not to his lawyer. I don't know what I am going to do. We are going to have to discuss our next step. I think we have 28 days to try to convince them they're wrong. Michael's just absolutely distraught."Shields, now 22, was found guilty in 2005 of attacking a barman at the Big Ben diner in Varna, Bulgaria, in what has been called the "most shocking miscarriage of justice in recent times".Shields was initially jailed for 15 years in Bulgaria but was transferred to the UK in 2006. The term was cut to 10 years on appeal in Bulgaria and he is serving the remainder at Thorn Cross open prison in Warrington, Cheshire.Shields was holidaying in Varna, a Black Sea resort, after Liverpool won the Champions League final in Turkey. He was arrested several hours after the attack but has always denied playing any part – insisting he was asleep in his hotel room at the time and was a victim of mistaken identity.His conviction was based solely on identification evidence with no supporting testimony. Another fan, Graham Sankey, signed a confession – later retracted – that he was the one responsible, but the Bulgarian supreme judicial council said the new evidence did not prove anything and merely introduced doubt. David Kirwan, Sankey's solicitor, said his client was prepared to admit responsibility for the attack but only before a British court.The bishop of Liverpool, the Rt Rev James Jones, has described the case as "a travesty of justice".