Ian Huntley, the man accused of murdering Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, is guilty of their manslaughter, his defence told the Old Bailey today.Stephen Coward QC, counsel for Mr Huntley, said: "We conclude on the evidence available, thin as it is, that there is evidence that Mr Huntley is guilty of the manslaughter both of Holly Wells and of Jessica Chapman."Mr Coward conceded that Jessica died because Mr Huntley "laid hands on her". He also said that he would not attempt to dissuade jurors from concluding that "not getting [Holly] out of the bath quicker", and not trying to revive her or call an ambulance, amounted to criminal negligence.However, Mr Coward insisted there was no evidence to show that 29-year-old Mr Huntley had "intended to kill or intended to cause really serious injury". Mr Huntley's later lies and attempts to cover up the two 10-year-olds' deaths did not prove murder, but indicated a "state of mind of panic and fear", he added.While summing up his client's case on day 25 of the trial, Mr Coward also said there was no evidence that Mr Huntley had murdered the girls because of a sexual motive, as the prosecution claims.Earlier, the court heard Richard Latham QC, summing up for the prosecution, claim that the Soham schoolgirls "had to die" after Mr Huntley's sexual motive for taking them into his home went "plainly wrong".Mr Coward said that there was no evidence for this, telling the jury: "They [the police] treated it [the girls' deaths] as sinister from the start, and we submit there is evidence, and the only evidence there is, which suggests it was entirely innocent from the start."There was "not one single shred of evidence", such as ripped clothes or traces of semen, to back the prosecution's claim of a sexual motivation, Mr Coward told the court. The discovery of just one sperm would have "transformed the case for the prosecution", he said, adding that the absence of such evidence could "at times be important in circumstances where you would expect to find it". Furthermore, Mr Coward said, the girls' clothing had apparently not been interfered with until it was cut from their bodies at the site where they were dumped. Mr Coward said that, if no sexual motive was proved, the prosecution would be forced back on the evidence of Home Office pathologist Dr Nat Cary, who had been unable to give a cause of death for either girl because of the decomposed condition of their bodies.Mr Coward said that Dr Cary had described the scenario outlined by Mr Huntley, in which he said that Holly died after falling into his bath, as "unusual" - but that this did not mean it could not have happened. "All we submit is this: is it possible that Holly had fallen over backwards, maybe going to the right into the bath?" Holly was very slim and would not have jammed into the bottom of the bath, he said.The barrister conceded that Mr Huntley had, for months, engaged in "a series of lies, deceptions, and evasions to a whole variety of people to whom he spoke".However, he submitted that the former Soham Village College caretaker's motive for telling the lies was simply to get out of a "hole" he had dug for himself after the girls died accidentally in his home. Turning to 26-year-old Ms Carr's evidence against her former boyfriend, Mr Coward suggested that she had displayed, in the witness box, "a hint of climbing on the [anti-Mr Huntley] bandwagon". There was "a touch of helping herself and also, at the same time, making things more difficult for him, creating distance between herself and him", he told the court. During police interviews, she had vehemently denied Mr Huntley having a "hold" on her, he said, adding that her responses indicated she was "mistress of her own mind".Some of her assertions had been "quite astonishing", he said, including the one that she came back from Grimsby on August 6 to find her washing machine full, containing a duvet, duvet cover and bathroom mat. Mr Coward also questioned whether it was possible to fit that load into a washing machine. Also, as Mr Huntley normally did very little housework and Ms Carr was "cleaning mad", she would surely have mentioned this unusual occurrence to him, Mr Coward contended. Yet there was no mention of the bedding being in the washing machine during Ms Carr's lengthy interviews with police, he said. Mr Coward said that there were many "blank spaces" in the case against his client, urging the jury to "resist the temptation by improper moves to fill the void". Apart from Mr Huntley's testimony, there was no evidence as to where in the house the girls had died, nor was it known exactly how or when the girls died, Mr Coward said.There was no evidence to prove that Mr Huntley had returned to the site where he had dumped the girls' bodies, Mr Coward added.The trial judge, Mr Justice Moses, told the jury today that he would sum up the case tomorrow after all the closing submissions had been heard. They would be sent out to consider their verdicts on Friday, he said.