A second teenager accused of murdering 10-year-old Damilola Taylor was freed yesterday when an Old Bailey judge ruled that the case against him should be abandoned.The decision means that only two of the four boys alleged by the police to have surrounded and stabbed Damilola will be on trial when the court resumes deliberations next Wednesday. As the jury foreman formally returned verdicts of not guilty yesterday, the 15-year-old defendant, who was wearing a blue and red tracksuit and white trainers, sat expressionless in the well of the court. Damilola's father, Richard Taylor, had his head in his hands. Yesterday's ruling by Mr Justice Hooper that the teenager, known as boy D, should be formally acquitted was a further blow to the prosecution during what has been a roller-coaster nine-week trial. Last month a 17-year-old was freed when the judge struck out the evidence of the key police witness because her story that she saw the murder of Damilola was "embellished with lies" and "demonstrably wrong". The evidence of the 14-year-old, known as Bromley, was also central to the case against boy D. Bromley claimed she watched four boys confront Damilola in a side road on the north Peckham estate, south London. She said boy D acted as lookout while two other youths stabbed him in the leg with a broken bottle. During recorded interviews with the police which were shown to the court, Bromley admitted she had known boy D for three or four years and that she wanted to protect him. At one point during the questioning, an officer told her that she would be able to get her friend "off the hook" if she confessed to being at the murder scene on November 27, 2000, and testified that he had not inflicted the wound. The judge ruled that this was one of a number of inducements that raised the "danger that she was persuaded to tell untruths". Without Bromley, the prosecution case against boy D, who denied being involved in the stabbing, depended on the evidence of two youths who met him at the Orchard Lodge secure unit in south London while he was on remand awaiting trial. They claimed that boy D had confessed to them. A 16-year-old told the jury that boy D had said to him: "I weren't supposed to have done it ... I done it. I was there. It was a joke that went wrong". During cross-examination, John Ryder QC, defending, accused the witness of being an attention seeker who had staged an incident in which he was supposed to have been taken hostage by other detainees. The court heard that the witness was allegedly responsible for more than 100 burglaries. On one occasion, the court heard, he had held a 10-year-old boy at knifepoint and threatened to "slice his belly open" unless he handed over pennies he had collected for bonfire night, the jury was told. A 14-year-old from the same unit said boy D had confessed to being in Blakes Road when Damilola was attacked. The youth told the court that the defendant had said: "We surrounded him and then he got stabbed". But Mr Ryder accused the witness of lying and asked why he had told police he had no information about the murder when he was first questioned in September last year. The witness, whom the court heard was a former heroin addict, admitted that he once made a false allegation against a disabled man. Yesterday, the judge told the jury that he had considered the case against boy D "very carefully" and concluded that as a matter of law, the only proper verdict to the charges of murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob was not guilty. "It is agreed by all counsels that I should not at this stage give my reasons." After the hearing, boy D's lawyer, Sean Longley, said his client was "relieved that justice has been done and that he has been exonerated from any involvement in this tragic incident". The case against the two remaining defendants, 16-year-old brothers, will continue next week. The two have denied involvement in the killing.