A former aide to the Duchess of York who was jailed for killing her lover is to be released from prison after convincing the authorities that she is no longer a threat to society. Jane Andrews has served three years more than the 11-year minimum term imposed at the Old Bailey in 2001 for the murder of Thomas Cressman. She lost a previous attempt to win release on the grounds that she remained a danger to men.A Parole Board spokesman said: “We can confirm that a three-member panel has directed the release of Jane Andrews. The decision to release is a matter for the board, which is independent. Arrangements and the date of the release are a matter for the Ministry of Justice. We are unable to comment further on the details of this case.”Andrews, now 46, stabbed Cressman with a kitchen knife and battered him with a cricket bat while he was asleep at their west London home in 2000. At her trial, a jury accepted the prosecution’s case that she was seeking revenge after he said he would not marry her. The jurors rejected Andrews’ claims that she had armed herself because she was frightened after being abused by Creswell.Andrews, who worked as Sarah Ferguson’s dresser for nine years until 1997, went on the run after the attack. The duchess left two voicemail messages urging Andrews to give herself up, telling her: “You must come forward and help the police.” Andrews sent messages back claiming she did not know why everyone was trying to contact her and insisting that “everything was fine” when she left.Four days later, when she realised there was no escape, she told a friend she was in Cornwall. Police found her curled up under a blanket in her car.After the guilty verdict, Andrews launched an appeal, claiming she had been sexually abused as a child. She said the trauma damaged her personality and meant she was not guilty of murder on the grounds of diminished responsibility. The appeal was rejected.In 2009, Andrews absconded from East Sutton Park open prison in Maidstone, Kent. She was returned to custody two days later after being found at a Premier Inn hotel a few miles away. She was charged with an offence of escaping lawful custody but the Crown Prosecution Service later said it had decided not to pursue the matter. 