A man serving life in prison for the murder of three generations of one family had his convictions quashed by an appeal court yesterday.David Morris, 42, a former scrap metal dealer from Craig-cefn-parc, in the Swansea valley, was jailed for life for the murders of Mandy Power, her daughters Katie, 10, and Emily, eight, and her 80-year-old disabled mother, Doris Dawson. Mr Morris has always protested his innocence, and he mouthed the word "yes" as the ruling was announced at Cardiff appeal court. There will be a retrial at a later date. The family were battered to death with an iron bar at their home in Clydach, near Swansea, in June 1999. Mr Morris was jailed after an 11-week trial three years ago. At the appeal court hearing, Lord Justice Pill directed that a fresh indictment should be drawn up and Mr Morris rearraigned within two months. No application for bail was made and Mr Morris was remanded in custody. Mr Morris's barrister, Michael Mansfield, argued during the appeal hearing that his client had not had a fair trial because of a conflict of interest involving the lawyers representing him. His solicitor, David Hutchinson, first represented Stephen Lewis, a serving police officer, who was detained on suspicion of the murders and later released without charge. Mr Lewis's wife at the time, Alison Lewis, had been having a relationship with Mandy Power and was also a suspect, but was never charged. Mr Lewis's twin brother, Stuart, another serving officer, was arrested over allegations of perverting the course of justice, but released without charge. Mr Hutchinson went on to represent Mr Morris, who was given four life sentences. No application for bail was made yesterday and Mr Morris was remanded in custody. Reading out the ruling in court, Lord Justice Pill said the argument claiming that Mr Morris had not got a fair trial because of a conflict of interest involving his legal representatives had succeeded. At the original trial, Swansea crown court heard how firefighters discovered the bodies after they were called to a house blaze thought to have been started to cover the tracks of the killer. The murders were described as "horrific" and "committed with great savagery on four defenceless victims". All four victims had been attacked with an iron bar. Mandy Power was hit 38 times, the trial was told. Dawson was murdered as she lay in bed. One of the children's bodies was found on the landing and another was still in her bedroom, in a cowering position. Peter Rouch, the defence barrister who represented Mr Morris during his trial, denied there was a conflict of interest and said he had made all evidence available to the jury. Also giving evidence during the appeal, Patrick Harrington, who led the prosecution at the original trial, said the alleged conflict of interest did not make Mr Morris's convictions unsafe. He said the jury "had the advantage of a comprehensive and utterly fair summing-up and they were given every assistance in defence counsel's speech". He added: "These are solid and sound convictions, returned by a jury who had heard all the evidence they needed to reach their conclusions." However, Mr Mansfield argued that the conflict could have subconsciously led Mr Morris's barrister to change his approach, having an impact on the defence. After the court's ruling, Mr Morris's sister, Debra, said: "We are pleased at the outcome ... but this is not something that we should be going through, because my brother is innocent. I have never doubted him in any way." She said that her brother had not been able to see any of his grandchildren in the three years since he had been jailed. Speaking after the decision, Mandy Power's sister, Sandra Jones, described the original defence solicitor's behaviour as "at best irresponsible".