A 12-year-old girl accused of shoplifting spent three days in police cells after her mother refused to collect her and a succession of failures by social services left officers with no choice but to detain her, it emerged last night.The girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was detained at Bluewater shopping centre, in Kent, on Saturday evening and charged with theft. She allegedly stole the items from seven shops during the afternoon. The girl's mother was contacted but, according to Kent police, the woman "refused to attend" and the girl was then denied bail by the police. Despite repeated requests from the duty solicitor representing the girl, social services in Kent and Lewisham, south-east London, where she lives, failed to arrange for her to be released into the custody of a social worker or to her mother. A Lewisham social worker is alleged to have told the solicitor: "We're not a taxi service." After spending the weekend in the cells or detention rooms at Bluewater and Gravesend police stations and at Dartford magistrates court, the girl was finally released into the custody of a social worker and returned to her mother on Monday afternoon. Robin Murray, the girl's solicitor, said: "Where parents fail, through neglect or circumstances, social services are supposed to provide a safety net. Instead they provided a black hole, through which my client fell into a dungeon. I visited her in a detention room, which looks like a cell, smells like a cell and frankly is a cell. She was crying to herself, face down on the bed." After being detained, the girl, who had travelled to Bluewater with older children, was visited by Mr Murray, who was told an interview had been conducted with an appropriate adult provided by Kent social services in attendance. He was assured that the girl would be released to her mother or social services, and having told the girl this he left to see other clients at Gravesend police station. Around midnight, however, he was told that the girl was still in custody and had been transferred to Gravesend police station after Bluewater had closed. On Sunday afternoon, Mr Murray was contacted by the duty inspector at Gravesend police station who, having noted Mr Murray's concerns from the previous evening, informed him that the girl was still in custody. "I called Lewisham social services straight away and was told by the duty social worker, 'We don't operate as an unpaid taxi service, it's not our problem'. " A spokesman for Kent social services said they had contacted Lewisham social services on Saturday evening and were told that the girl would be taken care of. Zena Peatfield, Lewisham's director of social care and health, launched an inquiry and said: "It appears in this instance we may have let this girl down very badly indeed."