The latest damning prison inspectorate report (Editorial, 15 July) highlights how violence, death, self-harm and despair are endemic to the prison system. These are the direct consequences of flawed criminal justice policies on the part of successive governments, where the prison system is a repository for those from some of the most disadvantaged groups in society. Social problems rooted in increasing poverty and widening inequality must be addressed elsewhere. Coming weeks after the Harris review of deaths of young people in prison, this government can no longer ignore the need for the fundamental change the review called for.Prison is an ineffective and expensive intervention that fails in its stated aims. It fails to rehabilitate, thereby failing victims and communities. It fails to protect those in its care, as our casework with the families of those who die reveals time and again, and as is starkly illustrated by the 40% increase in self-inflicted deaths in the past five years. Prisons are places where the safety and dignity of prisoners is increasingly under threat. Until there is a dramatic reduction in the use of prison and a redirection of resources into radical community alternatives, then the death and harm will continue. Deborah ColesCo-director, Inquest Finland progressively reduced sentence lengths over about four decades without affecting the crime rateMartin Wright • Prisons can never provide “purposeful activity” for so many prisoners; the only way is to reduce their numbers. Here are two ways. A high proportion of people sent to prison lack skills; need help with reading, writing or numeracy; have mental health problems; are homeless – the list goes on. To enable them to live productive lives they need appropriate education, training, therapy and so on. But these are more difficult and expensive to provide in prison. The answer is to provide them outside. Where facilities exist in the community, offenders could be required to attend them; elsewhere, courses could be arranged in probation-run day centres, such as existed a few decades ago. These could also arrange restorative justice meetings for victims who want them. Michael Gove, the justice secretary, could pay for them with the money saved by cancelling the secure college and, let’s hope, the mammoth prison at Wrexham.Second, sentencing requires a complete rethink. Sentences are based on an attempt to quantify the seriousness of the crime, with no regard to the best way to prevent reoffending. The tariff is arbitrary: no sentence can be justified except by comparison with other sentences, and if they were reduced by, say, a sixth they would still be proportionate to each other. Finland progressively reduced sentence lengths over about four decades without affecting the crime rate. We could do the same.Martin WrightLondon• Your editorial rightly highlights the multiple pressures on those who work in the prison service, imposed by successive governments. So it is good that the new justice secretary may be looking at more effective and dignified methods of deterring offenders. You observe that, “This is no way to run a prison service, and the people who work in it know that.” The pressures on prison service employees were researched in a recent study from the University of Bedfordshire by Gail Kinman, Andrew Clements and Jacqui Hart, commissioned by the POA union. It reveals the physical and mental effects on those who work in the prison system. While we need to be wary of the potentially corporate language that describes people as assets rather than liabilities, we – including Mr Gove – need to remember that the assets we currently call prisoners are most likely to be maximised if we also capitalise the assets we call prison staff.Rev Dr Peter PhillipsSwansea• Your editorial, while correct to call for abandoning the super-prison at Wrexham, needed to go further. The report noted that the prison population is likely to rise to 90,200 by 2020. This raises questions about the role of the judiciary and successive governments in developing and implementing hard-line sentencing policies that have been central to flaming the current prison crisis, and indeed the crisis that has persisted since the 1970s. Furthermore, your emphasis on learning lessons from the American right is misplaced given the state of the prison system in that country, and its criminal justice system, as black men and women know to their cost. There are a number of historical and contemporary examples in this country – Parkhurst C wing, the Barlinnie special unit, the therapeutic community at Glen Parva and Grendon – that provide a vision for a radical philosophical break with the past. However, these places have either been closed or marginalised. Why? Because they shine a light on the lamentable failure of the current system, and on successive governments, who have endlessly peddled a philosophy of law and order, and whose dire consequences are now being felt within prisons through violence, death and self-harm. Until sentencing is fundamentally restructured, radical alternatives introduced, the prison-building programme halted, resources redirected, cuts around legal aid stopped and penal philosophy radically changed, then the future, despite the chief inspector’s best efforts, looks bleak.Professor Joe SimSchool of humanities and social science, Liverpool John Moores University Everybody believes they know how prisons should be run, yet they have little or no experience of the actualityDavid Sherwood • I was delighted to read that Michael Gove has reversed the policy on prisoners’ books brought in by his predecessor Chris Grayling (Gove lifts ban on family and friends sending books directly to inmates, 13 July). The prisoners in the category A prison where I volunteer on a literacy scheme will need all the books they can get from the outside, as library visits have dropped from between 300 and 400 a week to under 50 following the implementation of the last government’s changes to the core day and savage cuts in prison staffing. The men are “banged up” for longer and longer and have not been able to get to the library because the dedicated officer was repeatedly redeployed to the wings to cover for staff shortages, and then the post was cut. We have not been able to run our mentor and learners’ meetings, which we hold in the library, for over nine months now, despite an agreement with the national offender management service that the literacy scheme must be supported in all public sector prisons. Prisons are immensely difficult and complex (physically and morally) institutions to manage, but many prisons are now being forced on to even more restrictive regimes due to staff shortages, loss of morale and perspective among officers and prisoners, and reductions in “association” time – access to rehabilitative opportunities, like the library, have been severely curtailed. Prisons are the Cinderella of the political system with no party willing to stand up against regressive policies and speak up for prisoners’ basic rights, let alone formulate a coherent, humane vision for our prisons. It will be very strange if Gove turns out to be their Prince Charming.Name and address supplied • I spent a little over 35 years in penal establishments before retiring as governor of HMP Highpoint in Suffolk. If there is one thing that I learned during this time it is that teaching people “to lead a good and useful life in prison” (the old rule 6 of the prison rules) is a complete waste of time and resources.Reading the recent report from the chief inspector of prisons, the most striking part was the efforts of prison officers at Wormwood Scrubs to draw to his attention the condition of cells. There lies the problem. We can provide all the training courses in the world, education in every possible subject, in the hope that the prisoner will change in some ill-defined way. But nothing will alter if we demonstrate that we do not think it is worth bothering about the conditions in which the prisoner is required to exist, and where he or she spends most of their time.My advice to Mr Gove is to tear up the manual and start afresh by spending the budget available to improve conditions and meet the legitimate needs of prisoners. If a prisoner is going to be amenable to changing his ways then do not ask him to change into underwear that is of questionable provenance. One of the most successful changes I made at Highpoint was to allow prisoners to wear their own underwear. The response was prisoners expressing their delight at what was a simple change. The strong message for me was that prisoners do not place much store in vocational training or other rehab-orientated programmes but place a lot of store on the ability to retain their own personality and identity in a system that seems designed to crush their spirit. Mr Gove seems to be looking at the benefits beyond only the business caseMark Heasman Everybody believes they know how prisons should be run, yet they have little or no experience of the actuality. It is worth remembering that many of the siren voices have a strong vested interest in constantly criticising penal establishments. Imagine if we managed to get things right and bodies such as the Howard League for Penal Reform and Prison Reform Trust no longer needed to exist.David SherwoodBury St Edmunds, Suffolk• As part of the work we undertake across the east of England, Ormiston Families has been working with prisoners and their families to minimise the impact of imprisonment on their children for the last 13 years. The action that Michael Gove has taken in allowing books to be sent direct to prisoners, and even more important, the statements he has made about recognising prisoners’ potential are hugely significant, and give much needed public endorsement of the work Ormiston Families delivers in 10 prisons across the east of England.Mr Gove seems to be looking at the benefits beyond only the business case (important though that is) and his mention of redemption is very different to the language we are used to hearing about prisons and prisoners.Approximately 200,000 children in England and Wales have a parent in prison, which is more than double the number of children affected by a divorce in the family. Mr Gove’s announcement that family, friends and charities will be permitted to send parcels of books directly to inmates provides a further opportunity for those vital links between imprisoned parent and child to be retained. The further announcement that up to 12 books can be retained by a prisoner in their cell opens up the opportunity for prisoners’ children to send books that can be kept and cherished for the length of their prison stay, creating a further vital bond between parent and child.Ormiston Families believes that Mr Gove’s actions could herald the start of an approach that is more humane and more effective for prisoners, their families and communities.Mark HeasmanChief executive, Ormiston Families