A Hearts fan who was cleared of a hate attack on the Celtic manager, Neil Lennon, has been jailed for eight months and given a five-year football banning order after being convicted of breach of the peace.John Wilson was originally accused of a sectarian attack on Lennon after he ran on to the pitch during a "poisonous" game between Hearts and Celtic in May and appeared to assault the Celtic manager, only days after it emerged Lennon had been targeted with parcel bombs.But the jury at Edinburgh sheriff court in August provoked a furious row about the prosecution's tactics after it found the sectarian assault charge "not proven", effectively an open verdict which falls short of not guilty.Wilson had denied allegations by Hearts's head of security, Peter Croy, that he had called the Celtic manager a "Fenian bastard". Pleading guilty to the lesser charge of breach of the peace, he insisted he had close family members who were Catholic.Sentencing Wilson on Wednesday, the sheriff, Fiona Reith, said she had to follow the jury's verdict but pointedly made a series of detailed remarks about the ugly atmosphere at the game, staged at Tynecastle stadium in Edinburgh.Wilson, she said, was guilty of having shouted and sworn "all to the alarm and annoyance of others and thereby causing further disturbance within the crowd there and commit a breach of peace".She added: "The crime of which you have been convicted by the jury was a serious one. The football match was a high-profile game between Celtic and Hearts. There was evidence that there was a 'terrible', 'very tense' and 'poisonous' atmosphere in the stadium between both sets of supporters, with racist and sectarian shouting and chanting coming from supporters."The atmosphere worsened markedly after Celtic scored their second goal, which provoked Wilson's offence. A police witness told the trial that the stadium "then erupted".Reith went on: "He described how extreme antagonism between both sets of supporters of a bigoted, sectarian nature 'really kicked off', as he put it. He described the atmosphere at this point as being very, very volatile and he feared a pitch incursion as the crowd was angry."A breach of the peace can sometimes be a quite minor crime but sometimes it is not. In this case it was not minor at all. It was serious, and with serious potential consequences in the context of what was already a highly volatile atmosphere in the crowd of over 16,000 football supporters."Although Wilson had shown genuine remorse, the nature and gravity of the offence made a prison sentence essential, she said. As he had pleaded guilty to a breach of the peace, he was given a discounted sentence of eight months, backdated to his date of remand on 12 May.In addition, he has been banned from any football ground for five years, will have to surrender his passport for overseas games, and inform the police about changes of address. "It has to be clearly understood by you and others that this sort of behaviour will not be tolerated and will be punished, and punished firmly, by the courts," she said.Lennon said he was disheartened and surprised by the not proven verdict for the sectarian assault. Speaking after the jury's verdict two weeks ago, the Celtic manager told the Daily Record: "To be honest I've still not got my head around it."The jury's decision was a shock and confusing."I wouldn't criticise the prosecution for pursuing the religious element of the charges. They were just doing their job."It was left to the jury to decide and the jury found it not proven. That is the way the justice system is and I just have to accept it."