David Blunkett will face a furious rebellion against government policy this week when he calls for a 'national debate' on bringing in ID cards for every British resident.More than 100 MPs, along with pressure groups and trade unions, plan a 'war of attrition' against proposals that ID cards must be carried to access public services such as health, benefits and education. Although the Government will insist it is 'neutral' on the issue, senior Home Office officials made clear this weekend that the Home Secretary is to push for some form of ID card which will be called an 'entitlement card'. He will launch a six-month consultation period, with a final decision by the end of the year. Blunkett has told colleagues that the fight against illegal working, identity theft, benefit fraud, terrorism and illegal immigration is helped by ID cards. And the French authorities have said that ID cards in Britain would stem the flow of illegal immigrants through the Channel Tunnel. But those opposed to the plan describe it as one of the biggest assaults on privacy and freedom since ID cards were abandoned at the end of World War II. 'Packaging ID cards as "entitlement cards" is not going to fool the public,' said Karen Bartlett, director of the political pressure group Charter 88, which will lead the campaign against the proposals. 'A card which you have to show to access services is still an ID card, whatever spin is put on it. Without a written constitution, UK citizens have no fundamental protection against the gradual erosion of their civil liberties. 'Since Labour came to power they have introduced draconian surveillance laws on email, the recent anti-terrorism legislation, new proposals to extend data-sharing between government departments and the "Snooper's Charter", abandoned two weeks ago. A worrying trend is emerging.' Downing Street said last night that the Prime Minister would largely stay out of the debate but also made it clear that it saw 'merit in the proposals'. 'We wouldn't be putting the idea forward if we did not think there was a positive reason for looking at it,' said a No 10 official. The Treasury is thought to be more sceptical, baulking at the cost of introducing the card, which has been put at anything up to £1 billion. Technology experts say it is unclear whether computer firms have the ability to run such a complex system. At least one Minister, Mike O'Brien, formerly at the Home Office and now at the Foreign Office, is known to be opposed to the plans. Along with more than 100 MPs, O'Brien voted against ID cards when the issue was last debated, without government support, in the Commons. He is close to the Foreign Secretary and former Home Secretary, Jack Straw. Writing in today's Observer, the former Social Security Secretary, Peter Lilley, said the Conservative government rejected the idea in the 1990s because of technological as well as civil liberties worries. 'On critical inspection, claims that smart ID cards would solve all our woes evaporated,' Lilley said. 'The police explained that they almost never had problems identifying suspects, only in catching and convicting them.' A government report due in the next few days will propose options on ID cards, including one giving police power to enforce their use. A driving licence style 'producer' power - where people will have to show the card at a police station within seven days - has not been ruled out. The consultation document will say that identity theft - where criminals use people's personal details to launder money, steal goods and open bogus bank accounts - is one of the fastest growing crimes in Britain, rising by more than 50 per cent in the past year. In the first three months of this year more than 10,000 cases were recorded, equal to half of all the cases recorded in 2001. If the trend continues, up to 40,000 cases will be recorded by the end of the year. The Home Office will now consider making identity theft a separate crime. At the moment, stealing someone's identity is not an offence, only gaining financially from it. 'The black economy is one of the most serious problems we face,' the Home Office official said. 'We have to look at ways of taking the fight back to the criminal.' The consultation document will say that a universal entitlement card would allow a 'simple way to access public services'. Benefit claimants would also use the card, which could contain health records, fingerprint information and bank details. Blunkett wants to make the card part of the 'citizenship' debate, with legal residents in Britain receiving a positive sense of identity and rights to services by carrying it. 'We will ensure that people's privacy is protected,' the Home Office official said. Mark Littlewood of Liberty, said: 'Many schemes around the world have failed, either on technology grounds or, as in Australia for example, because of the massive public unrest they've caused. What is the proposed card for? The Government has variously tried to sell this to the public as cards for tackling terrorism, benefit fraud and now illegal immigration. Each time the case falls apart under the simplest examination.'