It sounded radical, bold and decisive. Earlier this year, ministers became converted to the cause of seven-day night courts. The aim was to ensure adult hooligans, violent drunks and persistent teenage offenders should be subjected to immediate punishment. The idea was first floated by Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan commissioner, after a visit to New York. He was impressed by the way in which people arrested in the city "go straight to court whatever the time of day or night - it allows you to process them in a far, far quicker way". The Downing Street policy unit liked the idea. It was given an important push by the prime minister in one of his pre-election speeches and ended up in both Labour's 10-year crime plan and the party's manifesto. But now, as we report today, two trial schemes which were due to start in January in London and Manchester are likely to be put on hold.No one is going to be harmed by a pause. Plucking schemes from one culture and transplanting them to another is often fraught with difficulties - as "zero tolerance" policing, another New York import, demonstrated. Night courts began in New York in the 1960s as much for PR purposes as service need. They were the place to go for an after-dinner slice of the seamy side of New York life. But by the 1970s, with the escalation of crime, they became essential to keep the court system operating. But this factor does not apply to the UK where magistrates' hearings have not increased over the past decade. Ministers would be wise to listen to US lawyers who suggest it should only be copied if absolutely necessary. American night courts have turned into an unseemly assembly line system of justice: defendants are brought up from cells in groups of 10, each only getting minutes before the judge, in a system designed to produce guilty pleas through the bribe of lighter sentences. Delays do blight the British justice system. Assembly line justice, however, is not the answer. It is an ill-thought-out and unnecessary gimmick. How does a drunk (or a heavily drugged down-and- out) get a fair hearing? How does the juvenile get home from a late hearing if he is already under a curfew order? How would a defendant get a chance to find and call witnesses? Magistrates, court officials and Home Office policymakers are right to be sceptical of the model. Our justice system has enough imperfections already without importing any more.