Three people have been arrested in connection with the murder of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor, Scotland Yard said today.The individuals were taken into custody for questioning in south London in relation to the killing of Damilola in Peckham, south London on November 27 2000.In 2002, four youths were all cleared during an Old Bailey trial of murdering Damilola by stabbing him with a broken bottle as he was on his way home from school. Two defendants, then aged 14 and 17, were acquitted on the direction of the judge and the remaining two, both then aged 16, were found not guilty by an Old Bailey jury. After the trial, the police were criticised but a new investigation team was established and in October last year, officers carried out a series of house raids in south London. Detectives were understood to be concentrating on using new DNA techniques on forensic evidence gathered at the time. Scotland Yard would not confirm the ages or the sex of those arrested today.However, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Bill Griffiths of the Metropolitan police's specialist crime directorate described the arrests as "significant". Mr Griffiths said they were the "result of a determined effort to establish the truth of what happened on that day".During the 2002 trial, the judge threw out the evidence of the Crown's key witness, a 14 year-old girl referred to only as 'Bromley', who was 12 at the time of Damilola's death. The police's only apparent witness, she had claimed to have seen the incident and the defendants from behind a car.But the judge said she had admitted telling a series of lies and there were fears she may have been persuaded to lie when the police offered her inducements. Defence barristers said Bromley only claimed to have witnessed the murder because of a £50,000 reward offered by a newspaper. The defence argued Damilola's fatal wounds could have been the result of a fall on shattered glass. After the trial, police said they had been given little assistance by youngsters on the estate.An inquiry into the case published in December 2002 said the search for justice for Damilola was let down by a series of failings by police investigators and the criminal justice system.The eight-month independent review by the Bishop of Birmingham, John Sentamu, particularly criticised the way Bromley was handled. The ongoing investigation is being led by Detective Chief Inspector Nick Ephgrave, who today confirmed that Damilola's parents had been kept informed of the latest developments. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Griffiths said: "I pay tribute to Mr and Mrs Taylor for their patience, understanding and support throughout the course of this investigation." Gloria and Richard Taylor had brought their son to Britain from Nigeria with his brother and sister in the hope of finding an epilepsy cure for his elder sister.