Styal prison, recently the subject of a damning inspector's report, is to almost double its population, making it the largest prison for females in Europe.The Guardian has learned that the Cheshire prison, where six women died, apparently by self-inflicted means, in 2003, has been given the go-ahead to increase its capacity from the current figure of just over 400 to 770. Two weeks ago, Macclesfield borough council told the Prison Service that it would not oppose the expansion. The service, which made its initial planning application last December, intends to develop the jail on land adjoining the prison which it bought from Manchester city council two years ago. A report by Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, recently criticised the management at Styal for failing to implement changes which the inspectorate had recommended as a matter of urgency two years earlier. Then, the inspection team had urged the jail to put a detoxification unit in place. However, it was only after the sixth death had occurred in 2003 that a unit was put in place. The facility was described by the inspectors as "far from being a satisfactory regime for women in the early days of custody". Pauline Campbell, whose daughter Sarah died in Styal last year, now campaigns against the conditions in women's prisons. She says that she is shocked to learn that the jail is earmarked to become the biggest women's establishment in the country. "The idea of expanding this prison appears to be based on flawed logic, given that Styal does not provide a safe and decent environment for women now." She went on to say that the recent report revealed appalling problems at Styal and that "common sense would indicate that the jail should be closed now". Louise, a 25-year-old from Liverpool, was released from Styal this year after spending more than two years at the prison. She says that inmates were often locked in their cells for two or three days at a time because of staff shortages. She paints a picture of disarray and lack of coordination between departments. "When I first went in, they knew full well that I had a history of self-harm and depression outside. "Yet it took them five months to put me on medication. I tried to hang myself four times and cut-up or overdosed on other occasions. "They kept telling me that I was an attention seeker." She added: "No wonder that so many women try to kill themselves. The place should be closed down." Anita Dockley, from the Howard League for Penal Reform, said that her organisation found it "incredible that the service could even contemplate increasing the size of Styal prison ... the recent history of the prison should make it a contender for closure rather than expansion. "The criminal justice system ought to be getting to grips with finding effective ways of dealing with women offenders rather than sending them to prison, which is harmful not only to them but to the rest of the community too as it does little to to prevent future offending." A spokesman for the Prison Service confirmed that planning permission had been granted for a site adjacent to Styal prison for 360 extra places, but said there was no immediate intention to build. "This approach enables us to plan strategically and begin building when we need to rather than identifying need and having to go through the clearance process."