A 17-year-old A-level student who was planning a career in the City was stabbed to death after standing up to muggers stealing his friend's mobile phone.Rizwan Darbar, an avid West Ham United fan who would have been 18 today, is the 20th teenager to be fatally shot or stabbed in London this year. Yesterday his father said: "I could not have asked for more from him."Around 100 friends gathered outside the family's house in east London on Sunday to pay their respects after hearing of the attack in nearby West Ham Park.Rizwan was studying accounts, finance and business studies at Newham sixth form college and hoped to go to Queen Mary, University of London to study economics. Family members said it was typical of him to stand up for himself.Rizwan's father, travel agent Aiyub Darbar, 46, said: "He was a good boy. A very well-respected and quiet boy. This is very tragic and we would never have expected this to happen to a boy like Rizwan. He was a very good son to me."The teenager's brother, Tausif, 19, said Rizwan had gone out with two friends on Sunday afternoon because he was fasting for Ramadan and was bored. He was with friends, listening to music on a mobile phone, when he was stabbed in the stomach after a group of youths demanded the trio hand over valuables."They were asking them for money and phones, anything valuable," his brother said. "His friends eventually gave their phones and jewellery. I think Rizwan twitched or moved or something. An argument broke out. Someone standing behind the boy in front of Rizwan put his arm round and stabbed him in the stomach."Detective chief inspector Matt Horne said Rizwan had been listening to music on a mobile phone with his friends."They were approached by three young black lads in their mid to late teens. The phone ... was taken from them. At the instigation of one of the youths, the third stabbed the victim."He added: "At the moment it appears this was an unprovoked robbery with gratuitous violence ... they were reasonable lads doing nothing whatsoever that would explain that level of violence. The victim had very little warning. It's fair to say there was a level of dispute. There is a difference between remonstration and trying to get the phone back and it seems the victim did not do the latter."Mr Darbar, who was called to the scene by the friends, described his brother as a vibrant young man. "He was dedicated to all of us, especially our mum," he said. "He was very, very loving and had lots of friends. He was always the good one, the quiet one." He added: "He had just filled in his Ucas form."Mr Darbar said when he got to the park Rizwan was on a stretcher. "I went with him in the ambulance," he said. "He couldn't say much at all because he was in such pain." The family thought at first that he was going to pull through, but then he suffered two cardiac arrests at Newham general hospital.Rizwan's 18-year-old cousin Saqib Ahmed said Rizwan had been about to come home to break his fast. "He was just protecting his property," he said. "He was someone who would stand up for himself."Mr Horne urged anyone who had seen the youths leaving the park or acting suspiciously at around 5.30pm on Sunday to call the police.