When a trial finishes and a verdict is given, it is meant to be like the fifth act in a play: an ending which, if not happy, is at least authoritative and certain, providing a meaning, offering answers, and drawing a firm line under the mess and tragedy of what has gone before. So the curtain falls and the lights go up once more and we turn, blinking, back to the daylight where no ghosts lurk.The trial of Harold Shipman was never like that. A year ago, he was convicted of murdering 15 women, but it was always thought that the actual number was higher; perhaps as high as 100, it was said, although that seemed far-fetched at the time. So when he was found guilty, there was none of the dramatic relief that is found in other such murder cases.The trial had been long, wretched and baffling, his presence in the dock tetchy and pedantic, and the ending left us with no sense of redemption or of understanding. We did not know how many of his patients he had killed in his 24 years as a GP. We did not know if we would ever know. And we did not know why he had killed any of his mostly elderly victims. It was an ungraspable horror, like a sheer cliff face with no finger holds. Last Friday, a Government dossier - product of a year's meticulous research - revealed that Harold Shipman may have killed as many as 265 of his patients. This figure has been arrived at through a clinical audit, comparing the medical records of Shipman with those of his fellow doctors in Manchester and Todmorden, West Yorkshire. His massacre was quiet and methodical. Most of the deaths occurred between noon and three in the afternoon. Assuming that the victims were all injected with diamorphine, they would not even have realised that they were dying. The possibility of a retrial has been pretty much ruled out - it would be impossible to get an objective jury, and many of the relevant documents have been destroyed or lost and many of the witnesses are now dead. Shipman himself, held in solitude at Frankland Prison, near Durham, for his own safety, has not spoken, despite appeals for help. The relatives of the potential victims are left suspended in brutal doubt and agony. For them, the Shipman trial will never be over. They will never know how their loved ones died. This shattering new figure makes Shipman Britain's worst serial killer by far - and perhaps the world's, too (only a Colombian, Pedro Alonso Lopez, may have killed more than him). He left a trail of death behind him. He cut a swathe through the community in which he lived as a revered family doctor. Yet he remains a weirdly unresonant figure, who baffles rather than horrifies us. On Friday morning, some of the newspapers led on the ghastly news; others placed it at the bottom of the page; still others put it in the middle of the paper, under a modestly-sized headline. Big Brother, delayed trains, flooded living-rooms, Madonna's private wedding: these things made as much or more impact than 265 people killed by one respectable man. By Saturday, the enormity of the new evidence had begun to sink in and several newspapers put Shipman on the front page. Nevertheless, his face - clerkish and bespectacled, with a scratchy beard and aggrieved stare - doesn't send a frisson of terror through us, the way that Myra Hindley's obscenely painted face does. He has not become one of our demons, not an icon of evil, and that's because he doesn't hold an evident meaning for us. Why is this? First, and most shamingly, the majority of Harold Shipman's victims and assumed victims were elderly and they were female, which gave them a double invisibility. Everyone's assumption, when Shipman was first arrested, was that he was a mercy-killer, easing sick patients out of a life they'd grown weary of. But even after we knew that this was not the case - that many of them were healthy and happy, liked their life, went out gardening and dancing and courting and visiting, were loved and loving and full of pluck and gaiety and quite unready to die - we were still not gripped by pity for the women he'd killed. They weren't children, sweet innocents slaughtered, nor were they beautiful young women. They weren't the stuff of tragedy for us. We think of life as a line, and the elderly at the end of it, with not much time left and so it didn't matter so very much that time was taken away. The old - even if we are old ourselves - are 'them', the silent others. We don't care enough. Then, Shipman was like a ghastly bureaucrat, a statistician at work. He injected his patients with a lethal dose of diamorphine as they sat docilely in their chairs, sleeves rolled up, trusting the good doctor. He didn't seem to have any reason at all - the trawl back through his life shows a diligent schoolboy who loved his mother and saw her die of cancer; the fact that he used to watch her being injected with the same pain-killing drugs that he later used to kill his patients is both riveting and unrevealing. His murders were not Gothic and tormented, the stuff of horror stories and dark fairy tales, but mute and with a ghastly decorum. He didn't kidnap them, torture them, sexually abuse them, mutilate them or cut them up. He didn't boil them or bury them vertically in his garden or basement. He never listened to them scream. He simply killed them, one by one, down the years. This means that we cannot identify either with the victims or with the killer. When James Bulger was lured away and killed, there was a mass empathy with the parents. We watched, over and over on the grainy loop of the security video, the toddler being led away, and we put ourselves in their shoes. We imagined it happening to us. We started being over-protective of our own children, gripping them firmly in supermarkets, not letting them out of our sight. The same happened with Sara Payne. Conversely, when the details emerged of the murders committed by Fred and Rosemary West, there was another - and far more disturbing - imaginative engagement that we had to grapple with. The Wests were murderous sexual sadists, performing unimaginable acts of torture on their young victims. But while there has never been a case quite like it, most of us have some understanding of sex as potentially dark and perverse and scarily powerful. The couple gave us a collective wince of terror, as if their monstrous actions offered a glimpse into a hidden side of our psyche. We called them evil and unnatural to comfort ourselves, because we feared they were human, like us - though it was a humanity taken to extremes and unravelled before our eyes. Harold Shipman does not do this. He offers us no glimpse into ourselves. He will not become a symbol of anything; his story spreads few ripples. His voice is dry, neutral. His face is blank. His eyes are polite and empty. His lips are closed. His heart is a mystery. What does it mean, to be human?