Conservative leader William Hague was today accused of encouraging a "lynch mob mentality" after demanding a change in the law to give greater protection to people who defend their homes against intruders.Following the public outcry over Norfolk farmer Tony Martin's conviction for the murder of 16-year-old burglar Fred Barras, Mr Hague promised that a Conservative government would introduce a "strong presumption" in favour of the likes of Martin, in a speech at a campaign meeting in Alcester, Warwickshire."What has happened to our courts system when career burglars and muggers get a few dozen hours community service while people defending their homes against the very same criminals risk long prison sentences?" he asked.His comments drew a hail of criticism today from political opponents, who accused him of jumping on a populist bandwagon to boost his party's chances in next week's local elections. Peter Bradley, head of the rural group of Labour MPs, accused Mr Hague of political opportunism. "I'm not quite sure what reform William Hague is promoting unless it is a move to a gun law that we are of course very familiar with in the USA," he said. "We are glad we don't have that kind of lynch mob mentality that they have there." Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes said the Tory leader was guilty of ill-considered populism. "Any hint of what the Tories are suggesting - more people taking more of the law into their own hands - is not just foolish but almost certainly dangerous."Crispian Strachan, chief constable of Northumbria Police, added his voice to the politicians and warned that any shift in the legal position over use of reasonable force in favour of the public would lead to a "serious increase in violent crime". He said he would not want to see Britain become like the United States, with high rates of murder and violent crime. "The definition of reasonable force has, I think, been in place since 1967, and it has stood the test for virtually every case since for the public and for police officers," he added. In his campaign speech, Mr Hague insisted that while there is no place in a civilised society for vigilantes the law must meet the demands of "natural justice". "Politicians aren't doing their job if they don't listen and respond to the unprecedented public outcry which has greeted the murder conviction for this Norfolk farmer who was defending his home against burglars," he said. "I understand that outcry and I share it." The prime minister, visiting Watford, Hertfordshire, as part of the local election campaign, refused today to make any direct comment on Mr Hague's proposal or on the Martin case. "I remind the Conservatives that when they were in power, crime doubled and in all their 18 years in office they never once introduced the rather vague measures they are now proposing," he told an audience of local councillors.At the weekend, government sources more resources could be made available for policing isolated rural areas in chancellor Gordon Brown's July spending review.