Sean Hodgson, one of Britain's longest-serving prisoners, is likely to be freed by the court of appeal today after DNA tests suggest he was wrongfully convicted 27 years ago of the rape and murder of Teresa de Simone.If Hodgson is released, it will mark the end of one of Britain's lengthiest miscarriages of justice.  Teresa de Simone was strangled. Photograph: PAHodgson, also known as Robert, was found guilty in 1982 of strangling De Simone, a 22-year-old part-time barmaid. Her body was found semi-naked in her car outside a pub in Southampton after she was strangled to death with her gold crucifix necklace in December 1979.Last week, Hampshire police announced they were reopening their inquiry into the murder after new analysis of DNA evidence from the scene did not match a sample given by Hodgson. Such tests were not available at the time of his conviction.Following the police review of the case, evidence was passed to the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) which referred it to the court of appeal. It will hear Hodgson's appeal today and is expected to quash his conviction and order his release.Prosecutors are not expected to oppose Hodgson's challenge. If he is released he will be entitled to hundreds of thousands of pounds in compensation.The CCRC has asked the Crown Prosecution Service to consider a review of all similar murder cases where DNA evidence is available and defendants are still alive.Hodgson, who suffers from mental health problems, made various confessions to police before pleading not guilty at his trial at Winchester crown court. His defence team argued he was a pathological liar and that his confessions were false. But he was convicted on the basis of his confessions and matches of blood type with samples found at the scene.No assessment was made of his mental state or his apparent obsession with confessing to crimes he had not committed.Hodgson has spent much of his imprisonment in the psychiatric wing of HMP Albany, on the Isle of Wight. Fewer than 10 other people have currently served longer in jail, including the police killer Harry Roberts and the Yorkshire Ripper, Peter Sutcliffe.The longest serving victim of the a miscarriage of justice in Britain is thought to be Stephen Downing, who was jailed for 27 years for beating typist Wendy Sewell to death in Bakewell, but was released in 2002.