An uninsured driver who killed a medical student on a pedestrian crossing then sped away was yesterday jailed for 18 months. Jaswinder Lakhvinder Singh, 45, was imprisoned for causing the death of Abigail Craen, 20, by dangerous driving in Birmingham on October 30. He also admitted failing to report an accident, failing to stop and driving without insurance in relation to the accident.Singh, who hit Ms Craen so hard he knocked her about 30 metres, gave himself up to police when Ms Craen's mother allowed newspapers to publish photographs of her daughter in hospital. During a court hearing in January, Singh wept as he said he had panicked after hitting the student because he was uninsured and had not been wearing the spectacles he needed.Prosecutor Amjad Nawaz said witnesses reported a loud bang when Ms Craen was hit by Singh's car, which was estimated to be travelling at 40mph in a 30mph zone.He said: "Abigail's body was seen to be thrown into the air and catapulted. The body of Abigail was found 30 metres away from the pelican crossing."Yesterday, Judge Daniel Pearce-Higgins QC, at Birmingham crown court, was told the accident happened months after Singh's licence was reinstated. He had been banned for 12 months for drink-driving.Ms Craen, a fluent French speaker who wanted to work for the medical charity Médecins sans Frontières, was struck by Singh's Ford Mondeo as she crossed the road outside her halls of residence in Edgbaston. She was five weeks into her first term at Birmingham University. She suffered massive brain injuries and her family decided to turn off the life support machine at 1pm the day after the accident. According to her wishes, Ms Craen's liver and a kidney were used in transplant operations.In sentencing Singh, Judge Pearce-Higgins said the incident had caused great sadness for all concerned, but said Singh had shown remorse and guilt and was not a callous man. He said if the defendant had been driving at the appropriate speed, the incident would not have happened.He said: "You are clearly a man of good character with only one previous incident of driving with excessive alcohol and I've taken into account that you surrendered and made full submittance of guilt." Singh wept as the sentence was read out.At the January hearing, Ms Craen's mother Susan, 47, had said the only appropriate punishment for Singh would be to force him to attend her daughter's funeral."It doesn't make any difference to me if he gets three years or life," she said at the time. "He took away my daughter and time spent in prison can never bring her back."If he had come to the funeral and stood near all her family and her friends and witnessed the grief we all felt, he might have realised the pain he's caused."Mrs Craen spoke out against the sentence after yesterday's hearing."Abigail was murdered on October 30 last year," she said. "The man who killed her left her dying on the edge of the road. He did not brake or stop and did not come forward for eight days."Abigail was a wonderful, talented and beautiful girl whose life was full of laughter. The sentence is an insult to her. She is dead and the man who killed her has a small interruption in his life. This is no deterrent or punishment."Singh has already served five months of his jail term and police said he could be out within four months.