It began with a petty dispute over a woman who was dating a member of a rival faction and it has led to a violent chain of events which has rocked Liverpool - culminating in a carbomb attack and a nailbomb being lobbed into a packed pub.Had the nailbomb exploded, the effects would have been devastating. The pub, Dickie Lewis's on the outskirts of the city, was bustling with 60 people last Saturday night when it was thrown through a door. The bomb, made from a bottle and tightly wrapped with blue tape, contained low grade explosive and a fuse and was stuffed with nails and screws. In another incident, two weeks ago, a Peugeot 205 parked outside a nightclub, the 051, in the centre of Liverpool and a man was captured on CCTV leaving the car. Shortly afterwards it exploded. No one was injured but the area was cordoned off and an incident team set up by police. The wreckage of the car and the nailbomb are being examined by specialist forensic teams. One observer described the escalating violence as being like Northern Ireland in the 1980s. "It is only a matter of time before someone gets killed," he said. Car and nailbombs are bad news for the newly cleaned-up image of the city, which is eagerly anticipating an influx of tourists as it prepares to become European Capital of Culture in 2008. Despite the carbomb, police say confidence in the city had not diminished and there were the same number of people enjoying a night out last Saturday as there had been on the evening of the bomb. Tonight, roads will be closed off and there will be a strong police presence in the city centre, to reassure members of the public. The feud began with the row over a girlfriend and two north Liverpool factions. Events took a more violent turn when a nightclub bouncer was attacked by two men in Anfield, north of the city, three weeks ago, allegedly with a machete. His alleged attackers, two men in their early 20s, have been charged with grievous bodily harm and are now in custody, but deny any involvement. There have been two shootings in the city, which may be linked to the warring factions. Merseyside police is keen to see an end to the feud. The police inquiry is being led by Superintendent Alan Cooper, north Liverpool's deputy area commander. He described the nailbomb attack as "really nasty and sinister". On his office wall is a copy of the local evening paper from July when Liverpool was declared England's safest city - based on government statistics. "It was really lucky that the bomb didn't go off," he said. "It would have caused catastrophic injuries and it could have led to fatalities. It was a ridiculous and evil attack in a pub full of 60 people who were blissfully unaware that they were going to be targeted by such extreme violence. With the nailbomb, it was the total disregard for life. We don't even call them gangs - they are factions." The shockwaves from the bomb that exploded outside the 051 Club still reverberate across the city. But Paul Barrow, who represents the club vehemently denied there was a feud. "This reference to a feud is complete nonsense," he said. "Any problems they have had is as a consequence of the club's zero tolerance policy to drugs over the last 20 years. The company employs 200 people and it has become a great concern to hear and read these stories about gangland wars - it is a complete fantasy." He said any links between the sequence of events were coincidental. But a source said: "This has nothing to do with suggestions of gangland in the true sense of the word. Certain factions are decidely more powerful and things start to turn ugly when they are treading on people's toes." Escalation He said the use of extreme violence has escalated in the last few years. "My belief is that most of the shooting incidents which take place are not reported to the police," he added. A decade ago, a feud would have been sorted out with a "straightener". This is where the two parties meet up and sort out the dispute - usually with their fists or knuckle dusters. David Wilson, a criminologist from the University of Central England, said gang was often the wrong word to describe the loose, fluid alliances which emerge between competing dynasties. "A lot of this extreme violence would be absolutely in keeping with what is happening in south Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, Bristol, London and, to a certain extent, Glasgow." He said the only pause to the trouble comes when members themselves realise there is nothing left worth fighting about.