The fact that the four-year-old girl had to climb into the chair in which she was to be cross-examined seemed to symbolise the bewildering and intimidating dimensions of her task. The youngest witness ever to give evidence at the Old Bailey, a daunting environment in which adult witnesses regularly break down, was testifying to being raped more than 18 months previously, when she was two.She was not in Court Eight, where Baby P's mother and her boyfriend were standing trial, but gave her evidence via videolink from a characterless side-room. In an effort to put the girl at ease, the judge, Stephen Kramer, and the prosecution and defence barristers who were present removed their wigs and used their first names. But the result hardly amounted to a child-friendly presentation; with their black cloaks and grave diction, they still looked and sounded like the scary authority figures that populate childhood nightmares.To make matters worse, owing to legal submissions and technical problems with the closed-circuit equipment, the girl was not called until late in the afternoon, when she was getting tired. First, though, she and the court watched an interview the police had recorded with her a year ago, in which she described the rape. The video showed a lively, curly-haired three-year-old in a polka-dot T-shirt and red Alice band. Her speech was not always clear. There were, however, a number of words and phrases that were easy to understand but hauntingly difficult to process. "[He] hurt me. He gave me his willy. He put it in me," she says. Later, she describes lying on her belly with the man above her, in a position "like penguins". "Hurt my bottom," she says, and "I said, 'Don't do it'."As we watched the video, we could also see film of the girl in the side room watching the images of her younger self. Now with darker and straighter hair, she occasionally played with some teddy bears. She looked like any other four-year-old girl, full of energy and vulnerability, eager to please and beguilingly innocent. At one point, she hung her head behind a veil of hair and the judge asked if she was OK to continue viewing. "Yes," she said.You don't have to be a parent of a young girl to recoil at these details, but even if you're not it doesn't help to make them more palatable. I can vividly remember my daughter at four, and at two, and both the rape and its retelling seemed a crime not only against childhood but also the adult responsibility to protect. It was heart-rending, horrifying and, as evidence, utterly compelling - but was it true?The jury, of course, were not aware that the accused were responsible for the death of Baby P, who we now know was called Peter. For those of us who did know of their other crime, the situation that the girl recounted, while almost too depraved to contemplate, came within a supporting context. If someone is capable of viciously torturing an 18-month old baby, what else might he do? Neither did it aid his case that the boyfriend of Baby Peter's mother listened to the girl's harrowing testimony with an expression of bovine indifference.Emotion does not equal justice, though, and the girl's evidence needed to be tested. In our adversarial system, that means a cross-examination. And here the girl's original trauma was transformed into something close to a travesty.Bernard Richmond, QC for the defence, quizzed the girl on her understanding of the difference between truth and lies. She answered for the most part with definitive and admirably sensible answers. "What happens when you tell fibs?" he asked."You are lying," she replied."What happens when you are lying?""You are telling fibs."But when it came to the rape allegation, Richmond said: "He didn't touch you with his willy, did he?"This is a "tag" question, a statement with a question on the end. Even in grammatical terms, it's not easy to answer "yes" - yes, he didn't touch me with his willy. But for a four-year-old dealing with a serious middle-aged man in strange circumstances, the construction must be particularly forbidding.In the event, the girl froze, staring helplessly up at the camera, then sinking back, as if for protection, into the depths of the chair. In effect, she was being asked to recall a series of appalling incidents in her life and then, on doing so, being told by a responsible-looking adult that they did not happen. No wonder she appeared confused. But, tellingly perhaps, she would not and did not answer "No", regardless of prompting.The judge called a break, after which Richmond asked the girl how old she was now, her age when she made the video, and when she last saw Baby Peter's mother's boyfriend. She answered each question correctly. Then he asked about the first time she met a police detective known to her as Curly Kate. On this first occasion, she told the detective that the man had not touched her. But two months later she revealed the rape to a child psychiatrist and a family therapist. And it was Curly Kate she spoke to on the video that the court, and the girl herself, watched. Now, having seen herself tell Curly Kate about the rape, she was being reminded by Richmond that she first told her that it had not taken place. Again she was confused, but she didn't agree. Instead, she yawned. She'd been in court for around seven hours. When she returned next day, she was cross-examined by the prosecution barrister, Sally O'Neill QC. She agreed that the man did something to her, but would not say what. "Can you tell us what [he] did to you?" she was asked a number of times. It was painful to hear the question repeated, however gently. And her anxious expression suggested that the girl was far from immune to the pain. There was something going on behind her silence, memories perhaps, a four-year-old's growing sense of self-protection, pride, possibly, and no doubt many other feelings, but she didn't speak. Finally, she was asked if she had told fibs or the truth on the video. "The truth," she said.In the absence of conclusive medical evidence, the jury believed her. In one sense, her tender age, the very thing that the defence argued rendered her an incompetent witness, may have been the key to the prosecution. One of the police detectives from the Child Abuse Investigation Command involved in the case told me that older children often bury the memory of abuse until much later in life, whereas the very young are too unformed to be imprisoned by guilt. But mostly they are also too young to be believed.In any case, there has to be a better system for gaining justice for infants than cross-examination in court. Perhaps the pre-trial, dual-video cross-examination as recommended in 1989 by the Pigot committee is the answer. Or possibly some intermediary putting the questions in a more favourable environment. But anyone who saw that traumatised little girl in her giant chair will know that, while current practice may gain justice for young victims, it does not do justice to their age.