The home secretary, David Blunkett, today faced moves in the House of Lords to strip him of his power to fix the minimum jail terms for prisoners serving life sentences for murder.In a case that could directly affect 225 prisoners, and indirectly clear the way for the Moors murderer Myra Hindley to seek freedom, defence lawyers argued that fixing minimum "tariffs" was the job of judges, not of politicians. "It is a decision that should be taken openly, publicly and fairly in court by a judge. Not secretly and unfairly by a politician who has never heard the case and is subject to all the inevitable pressures of public opinion," Edward Fitzgerald QC told a specially convened panel of seven law lords. Mr Fitzgerald also challenged the very principle of the long-established mandatory life sentence for murder. He argued that it unfairly exposed offenders who presented no future danger to the risk of incarceration for life, or at least lifelong liability to be recalled to prison. Mr Blunkett is strongly contesting test case appeals brought by three "lifers". Anthony Anderson's 15-year minimum tariff, recommended by the trial judge after his 1988 murder conviction, was increased to 20 years by a former home secretary. The tariffs of Daniella Lichniak and Glyn Pyrah - both convicted in separate and unrelated trials - were set at 10 and eight years respectively. The judges at their trials had said they represented no future danger.Mr Blunkett has made it clear that he will not tolerate killers such as Hindley being freed and has said that he will bring in new laws to prevent such a move if necessary. Hindley is one of 23 prisoners serving "whole life" tariffs where "life means life".The current case before the law lords involves prisoners whose tariffs were originally recommended by the trial judge and the lord chief justice as a specific number of years, and were later increased by the home secretary of the time. If the three-day hearing goes against Mr Blunkett then 225 inmates would be able to have their tariffs reviewed. Up to 70 of them have already served more than their originally recommended time and could be freed immediately.Whole life tariff prisoners such as Hindley, who has spent 37 years in jail for her part in the killings of five children, might be able to apply for new tariffs to be set by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, if Mr Blunkett loses. The right to set the tariff for adult murderers is the only sentencing power retained by the home secretary after a succession of rulings from the European court of human rights in Strasbourg. An appeal by the killers of James Bulger meant that the home secretary lost the ability to intervene in the sentencing of juveniles. In another ruling in May this year, Mr Blunkett largely accepted that he had no power in keeping killers in jail after the parole board had recommended their release.