Michael Howard revived his "prison works" message of the 90s as he launched the Tories' hardline sentencing policies yesterday.The proposals, which include mandatory minimum terms for burglars and drug dealers convicted for a third time, would lengthen time served by about a fifth and add 14,000 offenders to a prison population already near its historical peak. The Tory leader added that he would end the early release scheme and give parliament the power of approval of sentencing guidelines, which are set by an independent body. Launching the measures in Darlington, the seat held by Alan Milburn, Labour's election coordinator, Mr Howard said it was time to tell offenders: "If you can't do the time, don't do the crime." He added: "The decline of individual responsibility, the proliferation of so-called 'human rights' and government's failure to draw a clear distinction between right and wrong have left Britain in a moral quagmire." He also accused the Liberal Democrats of being "soft on crime". The speech bore echoes of his insistence, as home secretary in the 90s, that "prison works". But he promised to give drug addicts a choice between jail or treatment, by increasing residential rehabilitation places from 2,000 to 20,000. Mr Howard's assault on Labour reflects his determination to keep setting the agenda in the run-up to the election, as he has done on immigration. But criminologists and penal reform groups as well as the other big parties insisted that the Tory policies would not cut crime - and could even increase it. Hazel Blears, the Home Office minister, said Labour had already increased prison places by 17,000 since 1997, with 3,000 more to come. "Mr Howard was the home secretary who cut police numbers by 1,132, and Tory plans to cut £35bn from public spending would mean massive cuts to the fight against crime once again." The former Labour minister George Foulkes accused the Tories of "hypocrisy" because their co-chairman Liam Fox has indicated that they would consider allowing Lord Archer to rejoin the party. The novelist would still be in jail had early release not allowed him to leave in July 2003, halfway through a four-year sentence for perjury. "If the Tories were serious about what they say about jail, they would have spent their time demanding Jeffrey Archer went back to jail," said Mr Foulkes. "It's just the same as ever for the Tories. If you are rich and one of them, then different rules apply." A Conservative spokesman said Mr Foulkes had misunderstood the proposals, whose purpose was to create "honesty and transparency" in the system. Judges would sentence offenders to minimum and maximum terms, with release dependent on good behaviour. In theory, that is little different - except in terminology - to the present system, under which offenders may be released early for good conduct. But aides said the average length of time served would increase by a fifth. Burglars caught for the third time would serve at least three years and hard-drug dealers at least seven. Mr Howard also promised to scrap new powers announced by the Home Office, which will allow police to fine shoplifters instead of arresting them. The Tories would spend £760m creating extra prison places by 2010, but deny that means raising taxes. The party argues that money would be saved because inmates would not be able to commit crimes. Mark Oaten, the Lib Dem home affairs spokesman, accused Mr Howard of "conning" the public by suggesting that prison worked when more than half of prisoners reoffended after release. · Support for the Liberal Democrats has been squeezed below 20%, a Times/Populus poll claims today. It puts Labour on 41%, the Tories on 32% and the Lib Dems on 18%.