An obsession with US-style therapy programmes for offenders in Britain is being blamed for an unprecedented crisis in their rehabilitation.Thousands are voting with their feet by refusing to turn up to the self-help treatment sessions designed to enable them to think their way out of a life of crime. Most end up back in court and in some areas ex-criminals have told probation staff they would prefer a short prison sentence to spending three months attending the counselling sessions, where they are forced to bare their souls and address their criminal behaviour. Nearly two-thirds of offenders fail to complete the so-called 'cognitive behaviour' programmes, which have replaced traditional one-to-one sessions with probation officers who gave practical advice on resettling in the community. The probation service was described last night as 'entering meltdown' as staff faced increasing pressure to direct offenders towards therapy in order to hit Home Office performance targets. A second set of targets aimed at enforcing community punishments have also had the effect of sending increasing numbers back to court and prison, according to insiders. Home Office figures seen by The Observer show that all but five of the country's 42 probation areas have had their funding cut for failing to hit targets. Already £4.3 mil lion has been slashed from next year's local probation budgets. Drawing on the experience of Canada and the United States, Home Office research showed that re-offending rates fell dramatically after offenders successfully completed between 30 to 60 group therapy sessions. But here in Britain, staff found offenders deeply hostile to the scheme, which includes a two-hour psychometric test to assess their personality. One-third were dropping out after they completed the test, while a further third dropped out after the first few sessions. The Home Office crime reduction website advertises the programme, entitled 'Think First', in the following manner: 'Skills taught include moral reasoning, perspective taking, self-management and social interaction, and are practised and reinforced throughout the programme.' The Home Office originally hoped that 30,000 offenders would finish the courses by April 2004. This figure was reduced to 20,000 last autumn, and now stands at 15,000. As a result, the Home Office was able to tell The Observer that the probation service is now on track to meet its targets by next year. Harry Fletcher, of the probation officers' union Napo, said: 'As ever, it will be frontline probation staff who will be criticised. But this is wholly wrong: the targets have either been set incompetently or they are setting probation up to fail to allow the private sector in.' One senior probation service manager told The Observer that the obsession with targets was creating chaos. 'These imported North American programmes have a lot of potential,' he said. 'But thousands of those going through the schemes are just the wrong people for them - many are in crisis or addicts. If you stick them on a "cognitive behaviour" programme they just don't turn up.' One solution being considered is to allow private security companies to monitor offenders on therapy programmes and ensure they attend counselling sessions. The National Probation Directorate has already been in talks with private security company Securicor, which runs a similar scheme for young offenders with the Greater Manchester Police and Crime Concern.A spokeswoman for Securicor confirmed that talks had taken place with the Home Office. 'We would be very interested in extending the service to adult offenders,' she said. 'This would involve getting people to training and rehabilitation. We would transport them there, make sure they went in, stayed there and came back.'