"If attracting attention is part of the intent of an action ... then how better than in flames?" Keith Mann recently said.Jailed for seven years in the 90s for attempted arson, he cemented his place in animal rights folklore. Now, four years after his release, Mann, 39, a leading member of the Animal Liberation Front, is back in jail. He is serving six months for contempt of court following a raid on Wickham Laboratories, in protest at what he claims is the testing of Botox on animals. But another spell in jail has not changed Mann's opinion about the need to adopt extreme tactics to end animal research. Speaking by phone to the Guardian from Winchester Prison, he defended the use of such tactics, saying draconian new laws that prevented legitimate protest were leaving people with no alternative. "I would prefer that we could change things using legitimate methods that are there for changing the world," he said. "But the government have taken away their right to protest and driven people to the kind of tactics that are more productive. It is more useful to sabotage property. "We have got Asbos being used against us, we have injunctions to stop us protesting. All that is left now is to turn to extremism." His call to flames appeared in a recent special edition of Bite Back, the magazine for ALF activists, which was dedicated to "burning it down". In an extensive interview, he urged activists to use arson as the best form of attack. "Does it really send enough of a message to a slaughterhouse or university that you broke their windows, contaminated their fuel tanks and flattened the tyres? I wouldn't think so." He encouraged supporters to perfect bomb-making techniques and pass on their knowledge. "Having the 'know how' from one-to-one coaching or those bulletins that come through the door has been imperative to keep the flame burning." A spate of fire bombing seems to have begun in the months after the article was published. Mann has been jailed again for apparently threatening the director of Wickham Laboratories in Hampshire. Mann, who had admitted breaking into the lab in December 2003 and removing 700 mice, was given a community service order last April. But as he left the court he allegedly leaned over Chris Bishop, Wickham's technical director, and said: "Your trouble has only just started, you will need to look under your bed." He was jailed for contempt of court. Celebrated by followers for his escape from Manchester police station, where he was held, in 1991, Mann is also notorious for threatening that someone within the animal testing industry would die. "We are capable of dealing with anyone; no one has died yet, but that will come," he said in 1998. He continues to justify those words, saying activists Barry Horne, Jill Phipps and Michael Hill died trying to make the world a better place. Due to be released at the end of July, Mann says the most important campaign remains that to close down Huntingdon Life Sciences, the research lab in Cambridge which has been attacked many times over the years. Huntingdon and its suppliers and clients have a temporary injunction preventing named activists from protesting at their property. "Huntingdon is the big one," he said. "When Huntingdon falls, there are all these pharmaceutical companies saying they will pull out and operate abroad ... the industry will start to crumble." Mann believes no one wants to listen to the truth of animal testing. He told the court that his raid on Wickham Laboratories was to highlight its alleged use of animal testing for Botox for cosmetics, which is illegal in Britain. But, in court, Wickham said the animals were being used for tests on botulinum toxin (used in Botox) for a product called Dysport, used in the UK for therapeutic purposes to prevent muscle spasms - which was within the licence. With a few weeks to go before his release, Mann says his priority at the moment is his partner, who is unwell. But the activist, whom police consider to be at the top of the ALF pyramid, will never stop his campaign. "They can change the law further, bring on more injunctions and say we can't protest lawfully. But all they are doing is driving more and more people underground and it's underground tactics that are the most effective."