A pregnant woman who was shot at point blank range on her doorstep yesterday morning may have been killed over a parking dispute, police said as they launched a murder inquiry.Officers discovered the body of 22-year old Krystal Hart, who was six weeks pregnant, slumped in the doorway of her flat in Battersea, south-west London. She was shot at around 11am yesterday. Neighbours alerted the police and an ambulance was called but Ms Hart, a former civil servant, was pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics. Scotland Yard said it was investigating the possibility that her death was connected with a row over parking.Detective Chief Inspector Colin Sutton said: "We think that this took place as a result of some sort of dispute. There was nothing at all to suggest it was related to any other crime. It seems it was just a very disproportionate escalation of some sort of dispute."Police say they are looking for a white male suspect, aged between 30 and 50, who fled the scene in a car. "We believe the victim was shot with a handgun and that at least two shots were fired, but it is not clear how many have struck. It might well be true that she was shot in the head. To our knowledge the dispute has been going on over the last 12 months or so. The victim was shot in the hallway of her own flat."Police were examining CCTV tapes. Mr Sutton added that a neighbour who called police after the shooting was being questioned, but was not under arrest and was being talked to as a witness. He said: "We have some good lines of inquiry and we are quite confident that we can resolve this reasonably quickly. Her boyfriend is not a suspect in any way."DCI Sutton also appealed for the driver of a white Ford Transit van parked near the scene at the time of the shooting to come forward.Ms Hart's body was removed from the murder scene yesterday evening. Her stepfather, Clive Lawrence, who was working in his electrical shop opposite her flat, said he heard two bangs, but only realised something was wrong when he saw police cars arrive in the street.He said: "Krystal had been full of life and looking forward to having her first baby. She was so excited when she found out she was pregnant and really looking forward to becoming a mum. It's not just Krystal who has been murdered, it's her baby too. At around 11am an old Transit van pulled up outside my shop and I heard two bangs. I just thought it was the van backfiring. But then a few minutes later the police arrived and that's when I realised there was something wrong."A resident, Annie Harrison, said there were arguments over parking. "You get a lot of aggression sometimes, there are several schools in the area and some roads become gridlocked. I've seen people coming to blows."The shooting came hours after a series of laws to stem the rising tide of gun crime came into force. Carrying a firearm will now be punishable by up to 10 years imprisonment under the 2006 Violent Crime Reduction Act. It has also become an offence to have someone carry or hide a weapon on your behalf. The act extends the range of offences for which a firearms offender can be given to a mandatory minimum five-year sentence.Selling or buying a "primer" - a key component of ammunition - also became an offence which is only excusable if offenders can show they have genuine reason for buying the material. For those who have knives, maximum sentences double to four years in jail and unblocking a mobile phone now carries a sentence of up to five years in jail and an unlimited fine.Announcing the measures, the home secretary, John Reid, said: "The government's priority is to give police and communities the tools they need to tackle violent crime. These new powers are the latest step, an example of how the government is working to make us all safer, putting the interests of ordinary people first. The measures which come into force today build on the solid foundations laid by the government to tackle violent crime and disorder on our streets."Paul Cavadino, chief executive of crime reduction charity Nacro, said: "We welcome the new measures. The new powers fill gaps in the law which have hindered criminal justice agencies' efforts to combat crime and anti-social behaviour.""However, gun crime will not be reduced by the knee-jerk extension of mandatory five-year sentences for firearms offences. Gun crime must be tackled by tackling the sources of illegal firearms, by offering young people alternatives to a criminal lifestyle and by education about the realities of weapon-related crime."The legislation also brings fresh powers for police and trading standards officers enforcing new licensing regulations, with penalties of suspended licenses and fines of up to £10,000 for licensees caught selling alcohol to underage children three times in a three-month period.