Richard Cazaly, the prime suspect in the stabbing of Abigail Witchalls, would have faced criminal charges if he had not killed himself, prosecutors announced yesterday, as police said they were satisfied he had carried out the attack.Mrs Witchalls, 26, was left paralysed after being stabbed in the neck in front of her 21-month-old son, Joseph, in a country lane near her home in the village of Little Bookham, Surrey, on April 20.Five days later, Cazaly, 23, who lived close to the scene of the attack and worked at a nearby garden centre, drove to the Scottish highlands, where he apparently took an overdose of painkillers and died in hospital in Edinburgh on April 30.Surrey detectives, convinced that he stabbed Mrs Witchalls, passed a file on him to the Crown Prosecution Service on August 2.Yesterday, CPS lawyers said there was enough evidence to prosecute Cazaly had he lived. Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, who led the inquiry into the attack on Mrs Witchalls, said: "The investigation is concluded. All the evidence points to Richard Cazaly as the offender."The senior Surrey officer admitted that Cazaly's family and friends would find this hard to accept, as there was no prior evidence to suggest he was capable of such a crime.Cazaly was originally from Fleet, Hampshire, and had been a drifter and a heavy cannabis user since his late teens. He had become psychotic and violent as a result of long-term drug abuse and the alcohol he had drunk on the day of the attack, the officer said. The Witchalls family welcomed yesterday's announcements and extended their sympathy and prayers to the Cazaly family.Mrs Witchalls, a devout Catholic, was given the last rites in hospital after the attack, when doctors feared she would not survive. At first she was unable to speak but managed to communicate details of her ordeal by blinks and tiny facial movements in bedside interviews with police.Cazaly matched some features of the description she gave of her attacker, whom she had noticed driving a blue car moments before the attack. Cazaly had a blue Volvo 440.But there were other disparities. She said her attacker wore silver hoop earrings, while Cazaly had a large distinctive hole in one earlobe, and she did not pick him out in a photo identity parade. Police spoke to Cazaly twice in the days after the stabbing, during house-to-house inquiries and at a random road check. Suspicious neighbours also gave his name to officers but he was one of about 40 men police were interested in during the early stages of the investigation. Another man was arrested but freed without charge.Cazaly shot to the top of the suspect list after his death, when police found a bag of knives and several notes in his car, which included the line "I must have done it," although there was no direct reference to the stabbing.Surrey detectives flew to Australia to interview his ex-girlfriend, Vanessa McKenzie, who split up from him shortly before the attack and who bears a strong physical resemblance to Mrs Witchalls. But forensic tests on the knives found in Cazaly's car and items from the scene, including Joseph's buggy, failed to establish any direct DNA links.Police sniffer dogs, brought to Little Bookham on May 31 to track Mrs Witchalls' route, are thought to have helped establish a "pattern of scents" which placed Cazaly at the scene.Mrs Witchalls was three months pregnant when she was stabbed, and gave birth to a second son, Dominic Adrian, on November 11.Her arms and legs are still severely paralysed but she is now living with her family in accommodation adapted to her wheelchair use. She has received an interim £250,000 payment from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Board.