A lorry driver with violence convictions in the US has been found guilty of murdering his boss and attempting to burn three other employees to death.Russell Carter, 52, bound Kingsley Monk with cable ties and rope at gunpoint before killing him in Pontypool, south Wales, last October.He was also found guilty at Newport crown court of three counts of attempted murder at Driverline 247, a recruitment agency for commercial drivers. He will be sentenced next month.The jury was given a graphic account of how Carter strangled Monk, probably with his own tie.He also tied up Gethin Hill, Nathan Taylor and Robert Lewis as they arrived at work. All three were doused in fuel as Carter demanded £3,000 that he claimed he was owed by the company.As attempts were made to get the money by computerised bank transfer, Monk, 45, attacked Carter but was knocked unconscious.Carter told police he repeatedly kicked and hit Monk with a piece of pipe before strangling him. His other victims were left tied up in the office which he set ablaze. One of the men managed to escape and dialled 999. They were rescued by police.Despite wearing surgical gloves, Carter made no attempt to hide his identity. The prosecution claimed it was because he had no intention of leaving the men alive after the four-hour ordeal.The jury heard for the first time today that Carter, who has dual US-UK citizenship and had lived in the US from the age of five, had convictions for armed robbery in the US in 1979 and 1985and had been sentenced to 20 years in prison.He was convicted for first-degree aggravated robbery using a shotgun in Utah in 1979, relating to an attack on two men who had been sleeping in a car.Then in September 1985 Carter and a female accomplice held up a bank in Bakersfield, California, wielding a toy gun."The defendant planned to tie up bank staff and used torn-up bed sheets to gag members of staff," Hywell Hughes, prosecuting, said. Staff were tied up and more than $8,000 was stolen. His female accomplice injected two women staff with a potassium hydroxide solution before the pair left the bank.Carter was caught within hours and was jailed for 20 years. He was in violation of his parole in America during his time in the UK.