A teenager who denied planning a Columbine-inspired massacre at his school in the east Midlands has been detained under mental health legislation. Michael Piggin, 18, above, was ordered to be held in a secure hospital as he was sentenced for stockpiling explosives as part of the alleged plot in Loughborough, Leicestershire.Piggin, who has Asperger's syndrome, pleaded guilty to building a vast array of weaponry – including petrol bombs, pipe bombs and air rifles – but denied planning to use it in attacks on his former school, a mosque and a cinema in Loughborough.Two juries in separate trials have failed to reach a verdict on whether Piggin intended to carry out the attacks, which prosecutors accused the teenager of planning in a notebook in which he had scribbled "Operation: The New Columbine"..In sentencing at the Old Bailey on Friday, the recorder of London, Brian Barker QC, said it would not be appropriate to jail Piggin and instead ordered him to be held under the Mental Health Act, "which will provide you with appropriate treatment for as long as is deemed necessary". Josh HallidayThe judge said the potential danger to the public was uppermost in his mind. He added: "Cases of this type are fortunately rare but of great concern to the public and normally would attract long sentences. Given your personal condition, this is not a case of a determinate sentence. It is clear from reports that you need treatment."Police discovered Piggin's arsenal of weapons by chance in 2012, when he was arrested over a schoolboy skirmish and officers carried out a routine search of his bedroom. Behind the Liverpool FC curtains, they found nine partially assembled petrol bombs, firework powder, pyrotechnic fuse cord and parts of pipe bombs and improvised explosive devices. He had also stockpiled three 0.22 air rifles, an Olympic 0.22 blank-firing pistol and ammunition, a 0.22 air pistol, three ball-bearing guns, a black military belt with airgun pellets, a stab-proof vest, a gas mask and a crossbow.Detectives also found a notebook emblazoned with the face of Che Guevara and a Nazi swastika in which he had written about a plot he called "Operation: The New Columbine". It allegedly contained a "hit-list" that included his former school, a mosque, a cinema and other buildings among his supposed targets.  Piggin's Loughborough bedroom, emblazoned with a Nazi swastika and press articles about serial killers, was home to a 'startling' arsenal of weaponry. Photograph: GMPPiggin maintained that he never intended to carry out a Columbine-style operatio in his home town, saying that he stockpiled weapons because he thought it was cool and that he drew up a hit-list because it helped take his mind off school. The court heard how he was subjected to bullying at various schools and was socially isolated for many years, with students at two colleges painting a picture of "friction, difficulties, intransigent views and outright racism".Piggin was diagnosed with Asperger's after he was arrested but recent medical reports indicate that he also suffers from depressive symptoms and "mental disorders of a nature and degree to warrant ongoing treatment in a hospital setting", the judge said.In his sentencing remarks, Barker said Piggin believed he had recovered and that there was no reason why he should be held in a mental health hospital."This is not the view of the doctors, neither is it mine, given the detail in which we have examined your behaviour over the last two to three years," he said.