Britain's top police officer, Sir John Stevens, today takes on the legal establishment's two most senior figures in the controversy over whether burglars should be jailed.In an outspoken interview with the Guardian, Sir John, the Metropolitan police commissioner, says: "In a lot of cases, I know prison works," and speaks eloquently of his own experience of being burgled. Asked whether burglars should be locked up for first offences, he says: "In certain cases, absolutely." Sir John is unapologetic about reviving the "prison works" theme made famous by the former Tory home secretary, Michael Howard. The Met commissioner says bluntly that it does: "There comes a stage when society has had enough - we need respite from these people's activity. I'm sorry, they have to be put into prison. "We know they can't commit further burglaries, street crimes, murders, gun crime in prison and I'm afraid, if you look at the American experience, where they have millions of people locked away, they say prison works." Sir John's comments flatly contradict recent statements from Lord Irvine, the lord chancellor, and Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice. Earlier this month, Lord Irvine said that people should only be jailed as a last resort: "I don't accept that people are disturbed at first-time burglars or even second-time burglars, where there are no aggravated elements in the burglary, not going to prison. Prison is not good at preventing people from re-convicting." Lord Irvine was supporting controversial guidelines from Lord Woolf about the need for more community sentences for burglars. Lord Woolf later said he had been misrepresented, but did not retract his guidance. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has been highly critical of Lord Woolf, while Downing Street is understood to have slapped down Lord Irvine. But there remains popular doubt about the government's real views on prison, which Sir John's intervention will fuel. In his interview, he says that London has the lowest level of burglaries for 23 years and it is vital to keep locking people up. He says that he was burgled himself: "It was an obscene feeling. Someone had trashed our house, looked through my wife's personal things, my personal things, my children's. There's no way on God's earth that we're not going to take burglary as a high priority and arrest as many burglars as we can." According to an ICM poll for GMTV and the Daily Mirror today just over half (51%) of respondents want first-time burglars jailed if caught. On gun crime, the Met com missioner says the detection rate for drug-related gun murders has risen from 18% to 70%, thanks to the support of the black community in London. But he gives a coded warning that arming the police as a matter of routine remains on the agenda. While he does not wish to see it, "I'm equally not prepared to see officers go out and put themselves in very dangerous situations without being able to respond in the way that we know they need to". Sir John's report on collusion between the British security services and loyalist assassins in Northern Ireland, due out this spring, will be a political bombshell. After a 13-year inquiry, he says it goes to the "very heart of what takes place in terms of intelligence gathering" and suggests that it will result in criminal prosecutions. He has been faced with "an immense amount of difficulty and obstruction" including threats to his safety, and the burning down of the inquiry's Belfast headquarters.