The father of Katherine Horton, the 21-year-old student who was murdered while on holiday in Thailand, today called for her attacker or attackers to come forward.Ian Horton said he wished to return Katherine's body to her home to Cardiff with "dignity and privacy". A jet skier discovered Katherine's body, still wearing an evening dress, in the sea near Lamai beach on Monday. Today Mr Horton made an emotional visit to the beach, where he laid a wreath. "My words cannot express how I feel," he said. "Only a parent who has lost a child can know. All I wish is to return Katherine to her home with dignity and privacy." He pleaded to anyone with information about Katherine's death to "please help her father", added that they could save another life by coming forward. Ruth Adams, who was on holiday with Katherine when the attack happened on New Year's Day, stood with him as he made the tribute. "Katherine came to Thailand to dance on a beach, to ride an elephant, to have a vacation before her finals at university. She was full of confidence and felt immune to the dangers of this world as we have all felt when we were young adults," Mr Horton said."Tragically, her faith in her fellow man let her down and she has been taken from us forever." Four men are being hunted in connection with the murder, it was reported. The group, two of them riding motorbikes, were said to have arrived at Lamai beach on the evening of New Year's Day when she disappeared, according to the Daily Telegraph. Newspapers also reported that local and foreign men were DNA-tested yesterday as the hunt for the killers intensified. Four Britons are among those who have reportedly given statements to police. Katherine, a psychology student at Reading University, was beaten with a blunt object and probably raped before being dragged into the sea, where she died. She was last seen on the beach, talking to her family at home in Cardiff on her mobile phone. During the conversation her mother heard her scream and the line went dead. Thai police yesterday admitted they are struggling to make progress in the hunt for Katherine's killers. "We do not have any witnesses to the crime and the people we have questioned have not told us much," Lieutenant Colonel Teerawat Wamsiton said. "We are focusing on Thai suspects but nothing can be ruled out."A special investigation team has been set up, including officers from Bangkok.Police said they thought the murderer was still on the island and that "there was probably a rape. We don't want to disclose too much information about the possible suspects right now because it might endanger our chances of catching the culprit," a spokesman said.