Prison inspectors found such high levels of bullying, fights and assaults at Onley young offender institution that in other circumstances emergency action would have been taken to remove some of the inmates and put them in care.The chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, said in her official report published yesterday that Onley, near Rugby in Warwickshire, had unacceptable deficits in its education programme, alarmingly frequent use of "control and restraint" punishment techniques, and a lack of trust between staff and inmates. The institution holds up to 640 offenders up to the age of 21 who are "some of the most difficult and damaged young people in custody". Yet Ms Owers said that the regime for children on remand or awaiting sentencing, who were locked up for 20 hours a day, was so impoverished that she ranked it as "one of the worst that we have seen". The inspection team, which visited in July 2001, said it received many complaints from young prisoners "that they felt intimidated by staff, and in particular that they were being bullied and subjected to a range of informal and illegal punishments". The report said the inspectors were unable to substantiate the allegations during their short visit, but the complaints were voiced right across the prison. "We felt that Onley was a long way from providing a safe environment for all its young people; indeed for some vulnerable children we did not believe it would have met the requirements of the Children Act," said the chief inspector. The report said that, if the 1989 act applied to young offender institutions, an emergency protection order could be used to remove from Onley some of the children who were at risk of significant harm. The report also highlighted the lack of education at Onley - one of the priorities of the prison service - with only 107 education and training places for its 227 inmates under 18; even then, only 60% of these places were used. Education targets were also set too high. "Without adequate support, training, and resources, it will not be possible to meet the challenge of dealing effectively with large numbers of difficult young people who have failed, and been failed, many times in the past," said Ms Owers. The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, said that since the inspection Onley had been one of five institutions receiving a share of £5m a year. The Howard League for Penal Reform said that the report was "utterly damning".