Four police officers who were present when a black paratrooper choked to death in custody were guilty of the "most serious neglect of duty", the police watchdog said today.Christopher Alder choked to death on the floor of a Hull police station on April 1 1998 as officers joked and chatted around him.The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said the treatment of the 37-year-old amounted to "unwitting racism".However, Nick Hardwick, the IPCC chairman, stopped short of saying the officers were responsible for Mr Alder's death. "I do not believe, as has been alleged by some, that any of these officers assaulted Mr Alder," he said in his report."Nor can it be said with certainty, such are the contradictions in the medical evidence, that their neglect of Mr Alder, as he lay dying on the custody suite floor, caused his death."After the IPCC report was published, the chief constable of Humberside police, Tim Hollis, apologised to the Alder family "for our failure to treat Christopher with sufficient compassion and to the desired standard that night".Alder's sister, Janet, said she was not satisfied with the apology. "It's not enough for me and it's not enough for the public at large," she told Sky News. "For justice to be done, and for us to move on in a positive light to ensure that this is not going to happen again, there must be prosecutions". Five officers were cleared of Alder's manslaughter and misconduct in 2002, even though an inquest had concluded he was unlawfully killed.He had banged his head during a scuffle outside a hotel, and was then arrested for an alleged breach of the peace after being taken to Hull Royal Infirmary for treatment.He choked to death on his own blood and vomit as he lay on the floor of Queens Gardens police station without moving for 11 minutes.A Healthcare Commission report into Alder's treatment by medical staff was also published today. It identified a series of "mistakes", including failure to relay information about the paratrooper's care and treatment between ambulance and A&E staff and the police. In his 400-page report, Mr Hardwick said: "The most serious failings were by the four police officers who dealt with Mr Alder throughout his time in the custody suite. I believe they were guilty of the most serious neglect of duty."I believe the failure of the police officers concerned to assist Mr Alder effectively on the night he died were largely due to assumptions they made about him based on negative racial stereotypes." Although Mr Hardwick said the officers' neglect was not responsible for the death, he added: "All the experts agreed that, at the very least, the officers' neglect undoubtedly did deny him the chance of life."The four officers were Sergeant John Dunn, PC Matthew Barr, PC Neil Blakey and PC Nigel Dawson."In the case of Sergeant Dunn, the duty placed upon him as a custody officer was greater than that of his colleagues," the IPCC report said.A fifth officer, Acting Sergeant Mark Ellerington, was also involved, but to a lesser extent than the others, it added.Mr Hardwick said he was "disappointed" that the officers directly involved had refused to cooperate with the IPCC review.He also emphasised the inappropriate behaviour of officers caught on CCTV tapes on the night of Mr Alder's death. The footage shows the paratrooper dying with his trousers around his ankles. Monkey noises are heard being made at the beginning of the officers' shift and after Mr Alder's death. "I do not think these noises were directed specifically at Mr Alder," Mr Hardwick said. However, he added: "If the racist connotation of these noises was not obvious to the officers, they should have been."