It hadn't happened before but it slipped out twice on Thursday evening: Suzy Cooper talked about her best friend Claudia Lawrence in the past tense. Distraught, she quickly corrected herself. "Claudia is going to go mental because she hates being the centre of attention," she said.Six people are reported missing to the police on an average day in North Yorkshire. Claudia Lawrence was, at first, just another statistic: one of more than 200,000 people who disappear in Britain each year. Within days, however, the 35-year-old chef from York became the centre of national attention thanks to a police investigation involving more than 100 officers, widespread media coverage of her father's appeals for help, a Facebook campaign to find her, prayers by the archbishop of York and posters pinned to lamp-posts and shop doors for miles around her home.Ten days ago, when Claudia was last seen, there was nothing to hint at what was to unfold. A privately educated daughter of a solicitor, she had lived in Malton, a market town north of York, for most of her life, training as a chef and working in hotels and then university colleges in the city. A few years ago, she bought her own two-bedroom home in the villagey York suburb of Heworth. Popular, vivacious and sociable, she popped to the Nag's Head, the local pub a few doors down, and soon befriended Cooper and others.The friends would meet up a couple of times a week - Claudia would have a pint of cider - and talk about "girlie stuff" and their favourite guilty pleasures on TV: Hollyoaks and Mistresses ("I'm gutted because it's the last one this week and she's missed it," said Cooper). Claudia was a "placid and very level" woman who liked her cosy routines. Sometimes she would invite Cooper and another good friend, Jen King, round for a meal and a bottle of wine. When they went shopping, Claudia was a "Next girl" and always went to Boots for her "smellies" says King. In her spare bedroom, she had an old sunbed; Claudia loved getting a tan. In her spare time, she enjoyed riding; when her own much-loved horse died last year, it was older than she was.York was blitzed by snow in February and Claudia's Vauxhall Corsa broke down. Not a gym girl, she "hated" walking, according to her friends, but decided to keep in shape by going to work on foot or by bike. It was less than two miles: an easy stroll along a tree-lined avenue through a council estate to Goodricke College. She liked work "up to a point" said Cooper - although the hours were tough. Her job was going well, though: she had moved to a busier kitchen and was liked at work.Given a lift home on the afternoon of Wednesday 18 March, Claudia waved and shouted "hiya" to Linda Chapman, a childminder who knew her from the Nag's Head. Claudia arranged by text to meet Cooper in their local on Thursday evening: both women wanted to plan a holiday to Greece. Her mother, Joan, and father, Peter, were separated but both lived nearby (her older, married sister was over in Derbyshire) and Claudia remained close to both parents. Shortly after 8pm, Claudia talked on her mobile to Peter. She sounded her usual cheery self and arranged to meet him for a quiet drink on Friday, as they often did. At 8.13pm, she chatted on her mobile to her mother: they talked about Location, Location, Location, the programme they were watching on television.After that moment, Claudia Lawrence vanished from her family and friends' lives.Another text was sent to her phone after 9pm but no one knows if she saw it. If her family or friends had known she did not turn up for work at 6am on Thursday, they would have immediately raised the alarm. Claudia never missed a day at work. George Forman, a friend and the Nag's Head landlord, said she would only enjoy a night out in her local when she didn't have work the next day. "That's how conscientious she was," he says. Her employers, however, did not appear to report her absence.That evening, Cooper waited in vain for her friend in the Nag's Head. She called Claudia's phone but it was switched off. She wasn't unduly concerned; Cooper assumed she had fallen asleep and her phone battery had gone flat. She left her friend to what she thought was an early night.On the Friday, when there was still no answer from Claudia's phone, Cooper began to worry. She phoned Forman in the pub; he popped round to Claudia's house and called through the letterbox but there was no answer. Cooper then phoned Claudia's father because he had keys. He came over and, with Forman, entered her house. Everything was as if she had left it to go to work. "The slippers were there, neatly tucked away," said Forman. "The sofa was empty. Her bike was in the kitchen because it was a nice day and she was walking into work. There was no sign of any disturbance or any sign that she hadn't had a normal night the night before."At lunchtime, Mr Lawrence called the police. Even in a quiet, largely rural county, there were 2,391 missing person reports handled by North Yorkshire police in 2007-08. The first questions the police asked her friends and family reflected how every missing case is assessed for whether they are likely to have run away or could be the victims of crime: Had she disappeared before? Was she on medication? Was she depressed? Did she have boyfriend trouble? Did she have money problems? Had she vanished with her passport or credit cards? The answers were all "no".Within a day, between 30 and 40 officers were searching for Claudia. It has become a cliche of police work that the first 48 hours are crucial and, in Claudia's case, the police were not alerted until that window was almost closed. While just one in 7,400 missing people are victims of homicide, according to one 2003 study, and 99% of missing people cases are resolved within a year, crucially, however, around three-quarters of those who go missing are found within the first 48 hours.An experienced solicitor who has handled criminal cases and worked closely with the police in his professional life, Peter Lawrence shared his feelings of helplessness with close friends such as Martin and Hazel Dales, who have known the Lawrence family for 25 years. Martin Dales met Mr Lawrence through their church choir. "Missing. It falls into its own category doesn't it?" said Hazel Dales. "It's that awful feeling of helplessness and that's what everybody feels."Determined to combat this sense of helplessness with action, Mr Lawrence spoke at a press conference arranged by the police on Monday. It was not easy for someone described by Martin Dales as a typical "private Englishman". His voice trembled with worry as he made an emotional appeal for his daughter to get in touch. "These past few days have been a living nightmare for us, not knowing what has happened, and we are sick with worry," he said. On Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, Mr Lawrence handed out missing leaflets and posters in York, some of which he produced himself and encouraged 40 people from Malton Rotary Club, where he was once president, to help him. "I'm amazed at his fortitude in a situation of desperation," said Mr Dales. "This event has made him feel very fragile. He's not a man of many words so the ones that he does say are powerful. What he's feeling inside I wouldn't like to know. I know he's finding it extremely difficult."Joan Lawrence also spoke and touched upon a subject that tortured both parents: their fears Claudia that had been taken on her walk to work, after their attempts to persuade her to use a car failed. "I was worried about her and offered her the money for a taxi," said Mrs Lawrence. "But she wouldn't take it. She liked walking for the exercise." Similarly, her father had lent her his car on occasions when he was away. Dales said he saw these twinges of guilt - a common emotion among the anguish about a missing person - about the vehicles but both parents had, of course, tried to help. "She liked being independent," he said.While Mr Lawrence braved the media, believing it his best hope of raising awareness to find his daughter, Mrs Lawrence found the attention increasingly intrusive. Friends said press knocking on her door on Tuesday particularly upset her; by Wednesday the police had asked the media not to approach the parents. As Gerry McCann explained this month when he spoke to MPs in the House of Commons, he had felt pressured to use the media to push along the search for his missing daughter Madeleine, only to find he had unleashed "irresponsible" behaviour that later caused him and his wife great pain. Faced with a missing relative, families under great strain seldom have the wherewithal or experience to deal with the press, according to Geoff Newiss of the charity Missing People. "Sometimes the glare of publicity can be very helpful but then it can also be very difficult to manage personally," he said. "It can put real demands on a family and can also increase the emotional burden when someone goes missing."On Wednesday, a week after Claudia was last seen, friends and family noticed a significant shift in the police investigation. An officer who, unusually, knew Claudia from school, had fronted previous press conferences. By now, however, detective superintendent Ray Galloway was heading up the inquiry. He admitted that, in his "professional judgment", Claudia had "probably come to some harm". Rather than focus on her unlikely abduction by a stranger on her walk into work on Thursday morning, he highlighted the fact that her usually "prolific" texts had ceased shortly after 8pm on Wednesday. It was possible, he said, she had gone missing that evening.He also homed in on the statistical likelihood that she had willingly gone with someone she already knew; for a stranger to snatch an adult woman off the streets is, he said, "extremely rare". Inevitably, media attention turned to Claudia's love life. Her last long-term boyfriend, Daniel Whitehead, who lives in Newcastle and dated her for 18 months after they met in 2005, was interviewed by police and spoke publicly about how "lovely" and "funny" Claudia was. He also said when they last had contact in the autumn she had a new boyfriend. The papers wondered if Claudia had gone to meet a "secret" boyfriend. "It's just so unlikely," Mr Lawrence told the BBC's Missing Live programme on Friday. "I think one of her friends would have known."Her friends were protective: like anybody, she had her ups and downs, said Cooper, but she was happy with her single life. She was unassuming - "she's not a proud peacock that struts around the pub displaying herself" as King put it, but, as Cooper pointed out: "If she really wanted a boyfriend she could have easily had one." Police efforts were intensified by the end of the week as 100 officers were assisted by 65 civilians from mountain rescue teams, who methodically made their way across open ground around the university. Forensic officers combed through her house. Down the road, the doors of Holy Trinity church opened so local people could light candles and pray. Michael Woodmansey, the vicar, said there was a "sense of helplessness apparent everywhere" but still "a lot of shared hope as well". The archbishop of York, Dr John Sentamu, also led prayers and made personal contact with the Lawrences. Yesterday, police were investigating more than 100 calls from members of the public but still kept silent on any specific lines of inquiry or persons of interest.Living in limbo for 10 days, the anguish for the family and friends of Claudia Lawrence has already been more than enough to bear. A few families of the missing are still enduring this kind of pain, in a nightmarish world of unknowns, a year, or five years, later. "One day they wake up thinking all is lost. Another day they wake up and think they could still be alive," says Newiss. "When people have been missing for many years, it can still be an emotional rollercoaster. It doesn't settle down. Families still feel in limbo because they don't have closure."