A teenager was yesterday convicted of drowning an elderly clergyman in a bath and then dismembering and burying the body in an attempt to hide his crime.Christopher Hunnisett, 18, murdered Ronald Glazebrook, his landlord, and then cut him up using an axe and a saw, after the vicar had threatened him with eviction. A jury of six men and six women at Lewes crown court, East Sussex, reached a unanimous guilty verdict. Mr Justice Moses said he would sentence Hunnisett today along with his friend, Jason Groves, who pleaded guilty earlier this year to preventing lawful burial of the 81-year-old's body. Speaking outside court yesterday Christine Freeman, 46, Mr Glazebrook's daughter, described Hunnisett as "cold and calculating". She said: "People need to be protected from him. We are pleased to get justice but I feel sorry for everyone concerned because what he has done will wreck other people's lives, not least his own." Mr Glazebrook, a divorcee, first met Hunnisett at the local church, where the teenager had been a server. The pair shared love of the sea and the teenager started to help the vicar with jobs around the house and on his boat, the Sulis, as well as with the gardening and walking the dog. The pair got on so well Hunnisett moved into Mr Glazebrook's home, a flat in St Leonards, East Sussex, to get some peace and quiet to revise for GCSEs. The arrangement seemed to work well and continued after the exams. But slowly the relationship altered from one of friendship to animosity, and the teenager began a campaign of terror against his landlord which would end with the drowning of the frail vicar in his bath. In a letter to Hunnisett's mother that was never sent, the vicar said he wanted the teenager, then aged 17, out of his house. Dated April 26 last year, the day before he disappeared, the vicar's letter described how Hunnisett in one terrifying incident had sprayed him with deodorant, removed all the light bulbs, locked him in his bedroom, and ripped out the phone lines to prevent his dialling 999. "He tells me he believes force is the solution to 99% of life's problems," the vicar wrote. The following night neighbours heard a loud thud from the clergyman's bathroom. The next day Hunnisett confessed to two friends, Jason Groves and Nathan Cox, that he had killed the vicar. Groves, also then 17, was enlisted to help get rid of the body. Removing the vicar from the bath, they wrapped him in a sail taken from the loft and laid it across the back seat of the reverend's Toyota Carina. They had planned to drive straight to Newhaven, where the vicar kept his boat, and dump the body at sea. Because they had struggled to get the body into the car Hunnisett decided it would be easier if it were cut into pieces. The pair drove to Friston Woods, near Hastings, East Sussex, where Hunnisett chopped up the body with a saw and an axe while Groves stood guard. They wrapped the torso in the sail and put the head and limbs in a red sail bag. But the plan to dump the body at sea went wrong when they managed to beach the boat before leaving the harbour. After dragging the Sulis back to the quay they left the torso on board while they buried the head and limbs at a beauty spot in Summerfields, near Hastings. They went back to retrieve the torso, took it to a stream off the A259 near Eastbourne, and weighed it down with blocks of concrete until it sank. It was not until the following Sunday, when the vicar failed to turn up for a church service, that the alarm was raised. His family called Hunnisett, but he said he had not seen the vicar. It was not until the following Friday, a week after he had disappeared, that police searched the vicar's home. They found blood matching that of Mr Glazebrook on the car boot and also splashes of his blood in his boat. Groves and Hunnisett were arrested, but they claimed to know nothing about the disappearance. Cox, however, told the police everything, including how Hunnisett and Groves had shown him one of the limbs before they buried it. Police found the body parts and the other two were arrested again. Groves confessed. Hunnisett claimed the vicar's death had been an accident.