A cheating Polish factory worker killed his British girlfriend after hatching a murder plot with his jealous secret lover and her uncle, a court has heard.Rafal Nowak is accused of killing the business analyst Catherine Wells-Burr as she slept at the couple's new home in Chard, Somerset, last September.Nowak's former partner, Anna Lagwinowicz – with whom 31-year-old Nowak is said to have rekindled a romance – joined her uncle, Tadevsz Dmytryszyn, 38, in dumping Wells-Burr's body in her car at a nearby roadside and setting fire to it, Bristol crown court was told.The trio created a fake trail of text messages with a "mystery man", implying that 23-year-old Wells-Burr was having an affair with an unidentified man who was responsible for her death.But police quickly identified clues pointing to Nowak, the "bitter" and "jealous" Lagwinowicz and her doting uncle, Opening the trial on Tuesday, the prosecutor Richard Smith QC told the court that the recent Bath Spa University graduate had met Nowak at the Chard-based company Numatic International, known for Henry vacuum cleaners.They formed a relationship and Nowak – who arrived in England in 2008, leaving his wife and child behind in Poland – split with Lagwinowicz.Outlining the case, he said: "Catherine Wells-Burr had a caring and close family, who loved and supported her. She thought that, in the defendant Nowak, she had a caring partner to share the new house with, to share potentially that bright future with. How very sadly wrong she was about Nowak."Polish nationals Nowak, of Chard, and Lagwinowicz and Dmytryszyn, both of Taunton, deny murder.Smith told the jury how the trio had embarked on a course of "heartless, careful planning", murdering Wells-Burr in the early hours of Wednesday 12 September.By this time Nowak was back in a relationship with Lagwinowicz. She had been "simmering with dissatisfaction and discontent" following a court order in January that year preventing the pair from seeing each other after he had assaulted her. However, the pair continued to keep in contact, the prosecutor said."They were back together, behind Catherine's back," Smith said. "They planned the murder together with the input and help of Lagwinowicz's uncle. By killing Catherine in those early hours, they knew they would secure a life insurance policy as a result, the home for Nowak – Catherine would be removed from their lives."He described how Lagwinowicz was "bitterly spiteful" when she and Nowak split. "She never got over it," Smith said."She never got over the loss of her Polish boyfriend to his English girlfriend. She wanted him back."It seems she embarked on a path of jealousy, vindictiveness. She tried to unsettle the relationship with the new English girlfriend."Texts were sent, things were said – all designed, it seemed, to drive a wedge between Nowak and Catherine."It is that simmering discontent, a fatal attraction, that never disappeared. It is a theme of this case."The trial continues.