An innocent traveller who was detained by police at gunpoint in a case of mistaken identity has described how he "stepped off the train and into a really bad dream".Nzube Udezue, a 21-year-old recent graduate from Oxford University, was ordered to the ground, handcuffed and arrested by a team of armed police officers at Bournemouth station on Saturday, in front of dozens of fellow travellers.Writing on his blog, Udezue, known to friends by his rap name, Zuby, said officers told him that, as a black man wearing a black T-shirt with orange writing, he matched the description of a man involved in a suspected firearms incident in another town earlier in the day."When I woke up this Saturday morning, I could happily say that I'd managed to get through (almost) 22 years of my life without any real incident with the police. I could also say that I'd never had a gun pointed at me."Little did I know that by 6.10pm I'd be lying face down on the ground, handcuffed, with several submachine guns pointed at me and the entire county's specialist police firearms unit on me."The former computer science student, whose social networking page was filled with messages of support last night, said the ordeal had left him feeling "shocked, confused, scared and embarrassed all at the same time".A dramatic image of the moment he was ordered to the ground was released yesterday, prompting comparisons with the case of Jean Charles de Menezes, the Brazilian man shot dead by police in error after the failed July 21 bomb attacks. Witnesses had described how a team of 10 officers, some armed, blocked off the exits as the train approached, before arresting Udezue. The Independent Police Complaints Commission said yesterday that it deemed the actions of Dorset police "appropriate and proportionate to the circumstances". Udezue, who has lived much of his life in Saudi Arabia and is described by friends as a committed Christian, was apprehended after being wrongly identified by a British Transport Police officer. The firearms incident, which promoted Hampshire police to circulate a description of a suspect to other forces, took place at a shopping centre in Basingstoke. Udezue boarded his train in Southampton, 40 miles away. "The description was passed through Hampshire, Dorset and the British Transport Police," Udezue said. "And boom - a plain clothes officer sees me sitting on the train (happily listening to my iPod and unaware of my impending doom), [and] alerts HQ that 'the gunman is on the train' (the gunman??)"Udezue, a former public school pupil and up-and-coming hip-hop artist profiled in Oxford University's student newspaper, had spent Saturday promoting and selling his music in Southampton.He said he decided to return home to Bournemouth. "5.24pm, I hop onto the train back to Bournemouth, looking forward to a hardcore gym session. 6.09pm, the train pulls into Bournemouth station and all hell is about to break loose. The next 30 seconds was like a blur." He recalled officers shouting at him to get on the floor and place his hands behind his head. "It took me a couple of seconds to realise that it was me that all those guns were aimed at."