Locking up young offenders is increasing the risk of youth crime, according to a report to be published by the crime reduction charity Nacro this week. The news comes amid growing evidence that the youth justice system is on the point of crisis, The Observer can reveal. Nacro chief executive Helen Edwards will say in a speech on Tuesday that prison stops young people growing out of crime, with three-quarters of 18- to 24-year-olds going on to reoffend. She will warn Home Secretary David Blunkett that government proposals for tougher sentences for persistent offenders - most of whom are men in their teens and early twenties - will increase the prison population. In Britain more than 14,000 18- to 20-year-olds are jailed each year. Edwards will say: 'The effective use of prison means less use of prison. Because prison disrupts and retards the process of growing up.' Controversially, Edwards will urge Blunkett to return to policies developed by the Conservatives in the late 1980s. An action plan published in 1988 recommended diverting young adults from prison sentences. The policy was reversed by hardline Home Secretary Michael Howard in 1993. The Nacro report, Grow up and be responsible , will claim that Young Offenders Institutions have been an unmitigated failure and will call for root-and-branch reform of prisons for young people. It will also call for an extension of the age group considered as young offenders to 24, a move that has always been resisted by the Labour government. It argues that most young men give up crime after that age if they have not been damaged by the time they have spent in prison. Her comments will chime with the findings of the Chief Inspector of Prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham, who is due to publish his report on Feltham, the troubled west London Young Offenders Institution, at the end of the month. The inspection has led to a high-level row between Ramsbotham and the Home Office. The chief inspector has resisted calls to rewrite the preface, which has been ready for publications since the spring. It describes Feltham as 'ungovernable' and recommends the closure and privatisation of Feltham B, the wing for 18- to 20-year-old offenders. 'We are convinced the whole wing will be shut down,' said one source at Feltham. 'Quite what they will do with the 450 inmates it houses is another matter.' It is also understood that Martin Narey, Director General of the Prison Service, has ordered the transfer of the head of the Prison Officers Association at Feltham, Andy Darken, to another job in the Prison Service. 'I am furious at this,' said Darken, who is taking legal advice. 'I have been sidelined for embarrassing him by highlighting the flaws in the system.' Feltham's B Wing requires 148 officers for safe management, but sources close to the unit say only 70 officers are available, 52 having yet to be hired and the remainder off sick. Staff say threats by Narey to privatise the jail have resulted in a mass exodus of officers. Ramsbotham, who retires next month, has described the regime in some youth prisons as 'institutionalised child abuse'. He has said that a quarter of inmates in young offenders institutions should be released immediately.  The Observer has discovered that Home Office Ministers became so concerned about young offenders that they called a crisis meeting last week to discuss the issue. The Youth Justice Board, which has responsibility for offenders under 18, has put in a bid to take control of all prisoners under the age of 21, a move fiercely resisted by the Home Office. Home Office officials are known to be concerned about the record of the Youth Justice Board and its chair Lord Warner.