David Blunkett today tried to wrest the political momentum on crime back from the Conservatives with a keynote speech in his home constituency.The home secretary attempted to reassure the public that the chance of becoming a victim of crime is at its lowest for 20 years.The speech - Mr Blunkett's first of the new year - is a response to a massive rise in mobile crime theft, pushing statistics for violent crime unexpectedly high, and a repositioning of Conservative party policy under the new shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin.Mr Blunkett told residents in one of the most rundown areas of Sheffield: "All of us have responsibility for the society we live in. "I accept mine on behalf of the government, but nobody else should be passing the buck either. "Only by combined endeavour can we change the communities in which we live." Mr Blunkett said earlier today that Britain's police numbers would be at a record high by Easter this year. But government initiatives to boost police numbers had to be matched by a commitment from the community to help force crime levels down. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "In the end, it is a job for all of us. We must take our responsibility. People can't any longer say it is the job of someone else. That is what is happening right across public services at the moment." He is castigated the media for heightening fears over crime.Government action over the past four years had brought car crime and burglaries down to record low levels, said Mr Blunkett. "That should continue and we should build on that in relation to anti-social behaviour, street crime and robbery, which do genuinely and rightly worry people," he said. He recognised there was "disquiet" in police ranks over his reform proposals, which would see street wardens' taking over some minor duties from the police, but he was hopeful of reaching agreement. He said: "We have set out in the white paper on December 5 a major police reform agenda. "We have virtually - and I hope this will be ratified by the police themselves - reached agreement now on the most radical reform agenda for 40 years. "Yes, there is disquiet about it. But ... by Easter we will have the largest number of uniformed policemen and women in the history of this country. "We now need to redeploy them out of the stations and into the community, listening, learning and acting alongside other people. "If we can get that right in terms of building into it the regeneration of the communities with broken windows, graffiti and people who are unsafe even coming out of schools and we can target those who are making other people's lives a misery, then together we can do it." Mr Blunkett's speech comes as Scotland Yard is poised to transfer hundreds of traffic officers to a new squad to crack down on street muggers in London. The Metropolitan Police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, is expected to announce that more than 300 officers will be moved. Sir John told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "We are going to use traffic wardens in the centre of London to free up police officers to go back to the boroughs where we have taken them from to ensure police officers are doing the job we have trained them for, which is fighting crime."