A couple who died after their car mysteriously plunged into a river while they were having sex could have been murdered, their relatives claimed yesterday.The family of Anita Harold, 34, who died with her 30-year-old boyfriend Richard Lang after their Rover plunged into a river in East Yorkshire, spoke out after an inquest recorded an open verdict. After the hearing, Ms Harold's daughter Gemma Pugh told the Yorkshire Post: "I have believed from the start somebody else was involved in this. The police have done their best, but we have no answers. That whole area is flat, and there are signs they put up a fight to get out or even tried to open the door. "They may have gone there for a bit of fun and games, but I know in my heart something bad happened to them when they got there. I can't let this drop until I know the truth. Somebody has done this to my mum; we think somebody pushed them in." The inquest hearing was told by a police vehicle examiner that it was virtually impossible for the car to roll in accidentally. The car had been parked on a level lock head when it entered the water at Beverley Beck in November last year. PC John Rusted said officers had spent several days trying to replicate the car's final movements. "Every spot we tried, we couldn't get the cars we used to go into the water, without manual interference," he told the hearing. "The only way we could generate the inertia to carry the car into the water, without scraping the underside, was when we pushed it." Mr Rusted said it was extremely unlikely that any movement within the vehicle would generate the momentum to roll it into the water. When the car was found, it was in neutral and the doors were locked. The handbrake was off and the front windows were partially open. On Tuesday, Hull coroner Geoffrey Saul recorded an open verdict after hearing evidence into the deaths of the couple, from Beverley. The inquest heard that Mr Lang, a builder, had been frightened of someone in the months leading up to his death because a former girlfriend had been stealing from him to pay drug dealers. He had taken to sleeping with a baseball bat beside him and watching his back, but the problem was thought to have been resolved. One of his friends, Joanne Graham, told the inquest that shortly before the couple went missing, she was stopped in the street by two men in a four-wheel drive, who asked her if she knew where Mr Lang lived. She said they were "wearing leather jackets and looked like bouncers". The coroner heard evidence that the couple were heavy drinkers and users of the drug ecstasy. They had traces of alcohol and the drug in their bodies when they died. A postmortem examination showed that Mr Lang had drowned, while Ms Harold's heart had stopped instantly because of the extreme cold of the water and the drugs in her system. The couple had only been together for a few months but had found "the perfect partners" in one another. Ms Harold's life had previously been a rollercoaster that saw her spending time in mental hospitals, where she was treated for depression. Mr Lang had also been depressed after the breakdown of his marriage. But they had seemed happy and content together before their deaths. On the night they disappeared, they had been with friends at Nelly's pub in Beverley. Their bodies were discovered a week later when the submerged car was clipped by a passing boat. Family and friends told the hearing that the couple regularly took their car to remote places to have sex and they had joked about the practice. A spokeswoman for Humberside police said they had conducted a lengthy and detailed investigation into the incident. "We have looked into this in great depth, but could find no evidence of foul play." "However, with this verdict, we will leave the file open. Any new evidence which comes to light will be investigated fully."