The Metropolitan police was institutionally racist in its handling of the investigation into the death of the child abuse victim Victoria Climbié, a chief inspector said yesterday.Leroy Logan, chairman of the London Black Police Association, told a public inquiry into her death that senior officers blamed the death on a black woman police constable without examining the conduct of white colleagues who were no less culpable. In evidence to Lord Laming's inquiry, the association said: "Our member in the child protection team has been unfairly singled out for intrusive attention both within and outside the police service. "She has had to face the double jeopardy of institutional racism and institutional sexism like other black female officers. This may account for the lack of black women progressing up the ranks." Chief Inspector Logan said it was wrong to focus all the blame on PC Karen Jones, a member of the child protection team in Haringey, north London, that failed to intervene to save eight-year-old Victoria in the months before she died in February 2000. Marie Therese Kouao, the girl's great aunt, and Carl Manning, Kouao's lover, were jailed for life for murdering her. At the trial Ms Jones was accused of "blinding incompetence" for failing to visit the girl's home in August 1999 to check a nurse's suspicion of abuse for fear of catching the skin disease scabies. Mr Logan said the Met mounted an internal inquiry into Ms Jones and reviewed all her child protection cases. "No other officer has been treated in this way. The association welcomed the [public] inquiry so that biased internal Met ... reports on this matter can be viewed objectively." The association was "disappointed in the disproportionate way in which our member was treated, compared with another police officer from a neighbouring borough involved in the Victoria Climbié investigation." Mr Logan said a white colleague's reaction when told of Victoria's death was: "Thank God it's a black officer involved." He said the remark suggested that the involvement of a black officer let the police off the hook. The focus could be placed on the black officer and not the child protection systems. "But the Metropolitan police service is an institutionally racist organisation with ingrained practices that are beyond the individuals concerned," Mr Logan said. · The inquiry also heard from Terence Grange, chief constable of Dyfed-Powys police that the Home Office paid little attention to the policing of child protection cases.