Graffiti writing has reached epidemic proportions, spurred on by commercial concerns portraying it as "cool", says a report published today.The Keep Britain Tidy campaign says the "urban scrawl" makes people feel unsafe and adds to a "sense of squalor". The clean-up bill for councils in England alone is around £27m a year, its study found. The organisers of the anti-litter campaign believe that part of the blame lies with advertisers, pop stars and members of the art world who depict graffiti as part of a modern trend. The report attacks councils which try to contain the problem by providing "legitimate" areas where graffiti writing is encouraged. The sites create "yet another eyesore for communities", while there is no evidence they reduce graffiti elsewhere. Sue Nelson, assistant chief executive of Keep Britain Tidy, said: "There is an old motto which says 'evil thrives when good men do nothing'. "That is exactly what has happened with graffiti: we have allowed this crime to grow and blight our poorest places." Keep Britain Tidy found that 89% of English local authorities considered graffiti a problem, but more than half of them had no hotline for residents to report incidents of graffiti, and 53% lacked dedicated clean-up teams. Ms Nelson said: "It's impossible to turn on the TV these days without seeing an advert where graffiti is being used to make a product look 'edgy'. "Then there are pop stars such as Christina Aguilera who fill their videos with graf fiti images to convince you they're in touch with the streets." The environmental group Greenpeace is criticised in the report for using a "self-confessed graffiti vandal" called Banksy in a campaign to save the world's ancient forests. Urbis, the museum in Manchester set up to celebrate urban culture, was singled out for staging an exhibition on "street art". Scott Burnham, creative director of Urbis, speaking on Friday, said: "They are criticising an exhibition they couldn't have seen yet because it only opened this morning. "It is not celebrating graffiti. We have 10 of the best street artists from around the world who have been through formal training as artists but are working directly on the street. "I guarantee that after you come into this exhibition you will leave with an entirely different perspective on street art." The Keep Britain Tidy campaign, run by the charity Encams, has drafted a statement signed by 122 MPs, including the prime minister, Tony Blair. It says: "Graffiti is not art, it's crime. On behalf of my constituents, I will do all I can to rid our community of this problem."