A predatory paedophile walked free from court yesterday after admitting a string of sex attacks on children, including an 18-month-old baby.Michael Porter, 38, used his trusted position as a prominent Jehovah's Witness to prey on youngsters, many of them children of members of the church.A respected member of the church in Somerset, Porter regularly babysat for youngsters, took them on holiday and invited them for sleepovers at his home.He pleaded guilty to 24 counts of indecent assault and gross indecency over 15 years. But at Bristol crown court Judge Tom Crowther handed him a three-year community rehabilitation order after hearing he had undergone therapy.The sentence provoked a fierce reaction from Porter's sister, who said the "ludicrous" punishment was an insult to his victims.Tina Hughes, 40, said: "I'm absolutely disgusted. I'm very, very angry. I think the judge was absolutely pathetic. He just took my brother's side completely and believed that all he needed was a bit more therapy and now realised he had done wrong."He blamed his childhood for the attacks, which was a lie, but the judge ate it all up. I just broke down in tears when the judge said he wasn't going to jail. The whole courtroom went quiet. No one could believe it."I can't believe the judge thinks he is safe to be allowed out on the streets. He won't stop. There's no justice for the victims. No closure. He had no right to leave that courtroom."He has a lovely life. He has a religion standing by him. He has lost nothing. He's just not human. He's an evil monster. He can't have a soul."He was in a very high position. Children loved him and parents worshipped him. They thought he was God's son on earth. He was the last man they would ever suspect of doing something so horrific. He abused dozens of children and even a baby. But he's still free."Porter was a member of the Jehovah's Witnesses in Portishead and Clevedon. He left the family home in Clevedon and moved to Mill Hill in London in 2000 after his mother died. Porter, who was supported in court by his wife, Joanne, confessed after one of his victims threatened to go to the police.The church said yesterday it would support him. But it denied claims by Porter's sister that he would continue to come into contact with children through his religion and visit families.A spokesman said: "He will be carefully supervised."The Labour MP Dan Norris, a former child protection officer, said the decision would underline public perception that judges were "out of touch".He said: "It's deeply disturbing that a man that has committed serious offences against children has avoided prison. This judge's decision will reinforce the public view that child sex offenders are treated far too lightly and that our judges are out of touch with the concerns of ordinary people."The prosecution is believed to be considering an appeal against the sentence.A catalyst for campaigns to increase jail terms for paedophiles was the case of Craig Sweeney, who kidnapped and sexually assaulted a three-year-old girl. At his sentencing in June last year he was told he could apply for parole just five years into his life sentence. The then home secretary John Reid provoked controversy when he suggested the sentence given was too lenient.