The constitutional affairs secretary, Lord Falconer, yesterday risked angering senior judges when he rejected a plea from the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, to delay the plan for a new supreme court until extra cash had been given to the lower courts.Lord Falconer said that legislation setting up the new court must be passed even if a prestigious new location for the law lords had yet to be found. The legislation is to be introduced in the Lords on Wednesday, with equally contentious legislation finally removing hereditary peers from parliament due to be introduced in the Commons later this week. In an interview with the Guardian, Lord Falconer also challenged a claim by Lord Woolf that the new court might require £50m, suggesting that the "substantial part" of the funding for the new court's running costs must come from the fees of ordinary litigants in courts throughout Britain, and not from the Treasury. His remarks will anger the senior judiciary which is divided over the principle of a supreme court, and implacably opposes any suggestion that it should be financed by the courts themselves. "We most certainly do need to look right across the system to see whether or not the way you finance the supreme court is by part from fees," Lord Falconer said. "It doesn't seem to me an unfair system." Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, has said he doubts that a new supreme court could be established for less than £50m and wants the lower courts to be brought up to scratch first. But Lord Falconer is determined to press ahead. The constitutional reform bill will remove the UK's top court from the House of Lords and set it up as an independent supreme court, despite strong opposition from at least five of the 12 law lords, who want to stay in parliament.The legislative timetable makes it likely they will get their way, at least for a time. Though turned into supreme court justices, they will probably be squatting, unhoused, for some time in the Lords. Lord Falconer said he hoped to have identified a building "by the middle of the year" but establishment of the supreme court would go ahead regardless. His shopping list calls for a building in central London, not too near the royal courts of justice in the Strand, centre of the English court system. Middlesex Guildhall, near the houses of parliament and now used as a crown court, was in the right location, he said, and a "prestigious" building - but "do not read this as saying I favour Middlesex Guildhall over others". Lord Bingham, the senior law lord, has raised doubts that English Heritage would allow the tiered courtrooms at Middlesex Guildhall to be converted into the single-level arrangement the judges want. Lord Falconer said the problem might be surmountable. The minister also sought to head off a parliamentary revolt over his plans to remove hereditary peers, leaving a wholly appointed second chamber, by insisting he was completely committed to a further stage of reform. He said he thought an indirectly elected second chamber, partly based on regional votes cast at the general election, could "fly". But he warned that Lord Strathclyde, Tory leader of the Lords, would be flouting parliament's established conventions if he went ahead with his repeated threat to disrupt government business over the removal of hereditary peers. Lord Falconer insisted a majority existed in the Lords for his proposals. He acknowledged that plans to use the Parliament Act to force through a ban on hunting might exacerbate the mood of peers, but said a clear decision on the future of hunting was needed.