The problem with the police is that they are "bogged down in a legacy of outdated rules, regulations and redundant practices". No, this was not a Downing Street briefing on the prime minister's thoughts - though he endorses this view, as did his two predecessors. The quote is from Sir John Stevens, Metropolitan police commissioner, calling for a radical shake-up of recruitment.Fast-track entry into the police has been endlessly debated, but a more interesting idea is now being debated by policy-makers fitting together a 10-year crime plan: new incentives to keep the best beat officers on the beat. This is a familiar issue in health, education and social work - which have introduced incentives to keep nurses, teachers and social workers at the "coalface" rather than forcing climbs up management ladders to better pay - but still untried in the police. There are reams of documents on the importance of neighbourhood policing, under a host of different names: patch, community, neighbourhood and sector. They emphasise the advantages which policing achieves when close relationships are established with communities. It is not a new concept. It dates back to Napoleonic times, when the French police paid local concierges to help improve their community contacts. The Chinese courtyard and Japanese koban systems developed it further, but little attention has been paid to what has been happening in Europe. It began in Berlin in 1982 and quickly spread to Holland: the idea of not just giving more money to good beat officers to keep them in their locality, but also more influence. Other police operations - dawn raids, drug busts - require full consultation and sometimes consent of beat officers too. The idea was floated by the Sheehy police review in 1993 but was thrown out with its other more controversial proposals. It won't be easy to achieve. The best beat officers are socially adept, making them obvious promotion material. Moreover, police management is in a "bog standard" state. They arrive with the wrong skills: good at operational organisation (dawn raids, royal visits), but with few managerial skills on how to handle people or other agencies. These can't be picked up by osmosis. Some are counter-intuitive and have to be taught. This is where the new ideas fit together. Let's have Berlin bobbies, but genuine fast-tracking too. The current accelerated graduate scheme takes too long. Let's also try some direct entry middle management - but not, please, from the army. It was tried and failed. The police are not a militia. The nature of the job demands huge discretion devolved to the beat.