As home secretary, I gained a reputation for being "tough"; less concerned with liberty than with public protection. This is a misunderstanding of my position, and my commitment to freeing people from the fear and instability that leads to political alienation and the danger of a lurch to the right.On this, the 75th birthday of what became Liberty, we must reflect that by their nature, organisations like it define themselves by what they are against. Governments, by contrast, have to decide what they are for, and come up with answers rather than criticisms.To make sense of a world in which rapid change and globalisation create genuine insecurity, we need benchmarks by which we can judge our actions and their long-term impact.If, in the name of liberty, we allow individuals to act in a way that damages the wellbeing of the whole, it will inevitably mean the breakdown of mutuality, thereby changing the very nature of our society.We need principles upon which we can base actions that, in the name of protecting freedom and decency, may otherwise become oppressive, intolerant of difference and self-destructive.If surveillance infiltrates our homes and personal relationships, that is a gross breach of our human and civil rights. These rights are in reality often breached; not by government agencies with their panoply of safeguards and commissioners, but by freebooters – individuals and organisations with an interest in personal or business information. This private enterprise surveillance and intrusion, coupled with data theft, fraud and information insecurity, poses an economic threat to the burgeoning potential that could put us at the leading edge of internet commerce. As the recent controversy over the retention of Facebook material demonstrates, this is an area where the information commissioner's powers require strengthening.Three areas in particular strike me as urgent. Firstly, the use of powers outside those originally intended. It has almost been forgotten that the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 brought in proper restrictions and oversight over what had previously been a free-for-all. Years later, we have the absurdity of local officials trying to use the powers to tackle dog fouling, or waste management misuse.Secondly, data sharing. This is an area of major public concern even where the data held is simple – for example, what has previously been taken for granted on driving licences, or passports. Greater clarity on why, when and with whom data can be shared is urgently needed. Clause 152 of the coroners and justice bill needs to be examined thoroughly. It's not simply whether intentions are benign – undoubtedly they are – but whether powers are likely to be misused.There is a misconception that the database for biometric passports and ID cards might be misused. That's why I'm coming to the conclusion that we may have to consider simply making passports universal. If people wanted an easy-to-carry card, as with EU travel documents, they would be able to buy one voluntarily (with ID cards remaining compulsory for foreign nationals). Thirdly, data retention. The government is right to consult on how the rules might be applied to the very different area of the internet, as opposed to telephones. The world has changed and those who threaten us are often ahead of the game. We therefore have to change to meet that challenge. But what is the point in keeping data that simply cannot be used? There is too much traffic to collate effectively. In any case, experience teaches us that those who collect communication information already (such as, for example, the companies that itemise our phone bills) are best placed to retain it. I remain to be convinced that a centralised solution is either practical or desirable.What is self-evident is that those pontificating about "big brother Britain" are missing the point. If you cry wolf too often, you miss the significance when the wolf is at your door. Last week's meanderings by Stella Rimington and the report by the self-styled International Commission of Jurists are so dismissive of the genuine threat that new forms of terrorism pose as to be counter-productive to a meaningful debate. We are not a "surveillance state" – only those who have lived in a police state can appreciate just what that term means.We do have to be vigilant and vigorous in our debate; and we must challenge those who propose using ever more sophisticated means of monitoring in the name of protecting us from those who wish us harm. The strength of our democracy is that we are able to challenge those who presuppose their knowledge of the threats faced, as sufficient justification for protecting mutual interest at the expense of individual freedom. That is when we should assert ourselves, lest the mistakes of the past allow those in power to abuse their position.