The government appears to have backtracked from a proposal to impose instant fines for loutish behaviour, a key prong in its crime reduction strategy revealed at a summit at Downing Street today.Chief constables from Britain's major police forces attended the talks with prime minister Tony Blair and home secretary Jack Straw. Downing Street said the seminar would focus on street crime, robbery and disorder - offences which have seen increased incidence during the past 10 years. Sir John Evans, chairman of the Association of Chief Police Officers, expressed scepticism about Mr Blair's plan for on-the-spot fines: "There are many legal and practical difficulties. We don't have a tradition of collecting on-the-spot fines, we issue fixed penalties. "I think that the whole process of thinking that people who are raging drunk, or indeed those who are being disorderly or even violent, can be made quiescent to go to a cashpoint, will cause us some difficulties." He added that the scheme would increase the potential for false allegations to be made against police officers.Shadow home secretary Ann Widdecombe was derisive about the crime summit and in particular the proposal for on-the-spot fines. "These very police officers have themselves severe queries about it. Did [Mr Blair] bother to test that through?" Ken Livingstone, who today took over responsibility for overseeing the Metropolitan Police as London mayor, also voiced concern about Mr Blair's on-the-spot fine proposal. He said that the fines would "clearly" open the door to police corruption. Other items on the agenda today included new powers to close down pubs and clubs for public order offences, the use of parenting orders to compel mothers and fathers to control their children, and fixed penalties or spot fines for trouble-makers. Meanwhile, the government was expected to come under pressure to put money alongside the new law and order measures. Chairman of the Police Federation Fred Broughton said that the "chaotic scenes" seen throughout the UK on Friday and Saturday nights were set to spiral unless more investment was poured into the police. Paul Cavadino, policy director at the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders, argued that the government was misdirecting its efforts. "New York-style zero tolerance policing, increased use of stop and search and longer jail sentences sound tough but are not the most effective ways of addressing crime. Policing by community consent and measures to tackle youth boredom and disaffection would be far more effective," he said. "A determined strategy covering prevention, education and treatment for alcohol misusers, backed by resources, would do far more to cut alcohol-related crime than impractical ideas like marching drunken people to cashpoints," added Mr Cavadino.