The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday November 23 2006 In the article below, we misnamed the Kremlin spokesman. He is Dmitry Peskov, not Dmitry Petrov.Family and friends of the Russian dissident poisoned in London released a photo of him in his hospital bed last night as a graphic illustration of the effects of the deadly toxin thallium.Propped up on pillows, Alexander Litvinenko's grey hair has fallen out and his skin is pallid and waxy. In a green hospital smock, the 43-year-old former FSB top officer, who defected to Britain in 2000, is surrounded by medical apparatus, including a life support machine and two intravenous drips. Patches on his chest are for constant monitoring by doctors in the intensive care unit of University College hospital.Mr Litvinenko, whose wife Marina was at his bedside all day, was put in the unit amid fear he could suffer a catastrophic organ failure from the poisoning, now being investigated by Peter Clarke, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch.Oleg Gordievsky, the most senior KGB officer to defect to Britain, yesterday had no doubt who was responsible. "Only the KGB can do it," he said, referring to the Russian security service, the Federal Security Service or FSB, by its Soviet title. "They have been planning it for months ... It was obviously sanctioned [by the Kremlin]."Mr Litvinenko was an outspoken critic of President Vladimir Putin's Kremlin. He had accused the FSB of blowing up an apartment block in 1999 so they could blame Chechen separatists and justify a new war in Chechnya.The claim that Russia was responsible for the poisoning was dismissed in Moscow. Dmitry Peskov, a Kremlin spokesman, said: "There is no need to comment on statements that are pure nonsense." The Foreign Intelligence Service, another KGB successor, also denied any role. Mr Litvinenko was moved after a slight deterioration in his condition, according to the hospital.Jon Henry, clinical toxicologist at St Mary's hospital in London and a world expert on poisons, said the damage was done in the first 24 to 36 hours of ingestion. Professor Henry, who is overseeing Mr Litvinenko's treatment, said: "At the moment he's got liver damage and other problems - his white cell count is low. It is grim, but where there's life there's hope."Mr Litvinenko is an ally of Boris Berezovsky, the London based multi millionaire, another critic of Mr Putin. Mr Litvinenko is a former FSB lieutenant colonel, and fled to Britain after alleging he was ordered to kill the financier. Last night Mr Berezovsky was at his bedside.