Forensic experts, specialist search units and divers swarmed over an isolated farm in Kent last night as the hunt for the gang behind the UK's biggest cash robbery gathered pace. Officers scoured a £1.5m mock Tudor manor at Elderden Farm in Staplehurst, Kent, 20km from the depot where raiders got away with £53m last week.Police also found the white lorry they believe was used to drive the cash away and said they had arrested a woman - the fifth person now being questioned about the robbery at the Securitas depot in Tonbridge.Detectives suspect that the farm, owned by local businessman John Fowler, could be where the robbers initially took the depot manager Colin Dixon and his wife and son, whom they kidnapped in order to force him to cooperate.A police car blocked the entrance to the 400m private lane leading tothe farm and officers marked off the estate with police tape. Dozens of uniformed officers, some with dogs, and forensic experts spent most of Monday and yesterday searching the main house and outbuildings. Other officers conducted fingertip searches of surrounding fields. They also brought in divers with ropes and equipment to examine a well near the house. Two 4x4 vehicles - a dark green Land Rover Discovery and a dark blue Range Rover - and a Vauxhall Vectra were taken away.Local landowner Peter Lampard first noticed officers at the farm on Sunday night but the main buzz of activity started at 9.30am on Monday when a police helicopter and 14 police vans arrived."The cops arrived on Monday and have been swarming over the farm since then," said a witness, who did not want to be named. "They stayed overnight and there seemed to be a lot of forensic officers involved. There's been a police helicopter circling overhead and the officers are all wearing flak jackets."The Land Registry shows the premises on Chart Hill Road are owned by John Robert Fowler, who bought the main property - a mock Tudor manor called The Oast House, in October 1991, a number of nearby cottages, outbuildings and several acres of land. Mr Lampard thought the Fowlers had sold the outbuildings about 10 years ago but lived in the main house. The electoral roll lists the occupants as Mr Fowler, his wife Linda and Amy Fowler, believed to be their daughter. One of Mr Fowler's companies is thought to be Monarch Retail, which runs a 24-hour vehicle recovery service based on Tonbridge Road.Andrew Hutchinson, landlord of the Lord Raglan pub in Staplehurst, said Mr Fowler was a familiar face in the village but he had not seen him since last week.Kent police would not say if any of the Fowlers were being questioned or where they recovered the 7.7-tonne white Renault Midlum lorry, which the robbers loaded with cash during last Wednesday's early morning raid.Meanwhile, Securitas manager Paul Fullicks, described the ordeal of 14 nightshift workers at the depot who had beentied up by the robbers. He said the staff were suffering "varying degrees of shock" after their "brutal, horrific and traumatic" experience; Securitas had brought in trained counsellors to help them. He said staff also shared Mr Dixon's anger at the treatment inflicted on his wife Lynn, 45, and son, Craig, who was nine last Friday.Details emerged yesterday of Craig Dixon's bravery in freeing other hostages after the raiders left. One of the depot workers, Alun Thomas, said Craig managed to get a key from a female employee and unlock one of the cages. "Craig did it by making a hole with his bare hands or squeezing through an existing one," Mr Thomas told the Sun. "One of the girl hostages hadn't been searched properly and had a key to a padlock in her pocket. His dad told him to go over to her and get the key. He did what he was told without hestitation. He was one brave lad."As well as the woman arrested most recently, detectives continued to question four men seized in two armed operations in the past few days. Police refused to comment on those in custody or the seven others - two women and five men - arrested earlier and freed on bail. But one of the men questioned was Chris Bowles, 49, a European and British judo champion and registered coach who competed in the 1980 Moscow Olympics. Speaking to the Press Association at his home in Hildenborough, near Tonbridge, yesterday, Mr Bowles said: "I'm in a really difficult situation and I'm not prepared to comment at this stage other than the fact that I am helping police with their inquiries. As time goes by more will be revealed."Ten other locations searched by police included the home of one of Mr Bowles' martial arts colleagues, kickboxing expert Lea Rusha, 33, in Southborough.