A 16-year-old boy was chased through a park by a mob of youths armed with knives and baseball bats before being stabbed to death in Sydenham, east London. Nick Pearton was cradled in the arms of his mother, Kim, as he lay bleeding on the floor of a fast food shop where he had sought help.He died shortly after he arrived at hospital, becoming the 10th teenager to be murdered in London this year, and the seventh to have been fatally stabbed.The attack happened at 6.15pm on Wednesday night at Home Park recreation ground. Witnesses said he had cycled to the park to face members of a gang after a confrontation earlier in the week.He was seen being chased by up to 10 boys armed with knives, baseball bats and sticks. Bleeding heavily, he staggered across a busy road to a fast food shop to call for help. His mother ran to the shop after being altered by his younger brother.Seven youths have been arrested including a 14-year-old from Sydenham, a 16-year-old from Bromley, two 17-year-olds from Sydenham and one from Deptford, and a 21-year old from Forest Hill, police said.The boy's father, Vince, said the family were in shock. "There's nothing I can say, we can't take it in."Family friends believed he had been trying to help others caught up in a disagreement between rival groups in the area. A local youth said the murdered boy had cycled to the park to face members of a rival gang after a confrontation earlier in the week."There was a fight over something silly," he said. "Nick was lying on the floor of the chicken shop bleeding. His mum came out screaming: 'My baby boy, my son'. I didn't see him get stabbed, just on the floor."A Scotland Yard spokesman said detectives were keeping an open mind about the motivation for the attack.While the numbers of teenage killings are relatively low in London compared with 2008, when 29 teen murders prompted a series of police measures, fears of knife crime were reignited recently after the fatal stabbing of a 15-year-old boy in a suspected gang fight during rush hour at Victoria station.