The BBC radio presenter accused of forcing a man he met at a new year party to give him oral sex was yesterday cleared of rape. Nigel Wrench, 47, a presenter and reporter on Radio 5 Live and Radio 4's PM programme, thanked the Old Bailey jury after the verdict.Wrench had insisted that all sexual activity with the man was consensual, and that there was a mutual "spark" between them when they met at a party on December 31 2006. "I am no liar and I am no rapist," Wrench told the jury.He had denied spiking the alleged victim's drink with a sedative, saying that the 26-year-old had taken Temazepam voluntarily to get to sleep. Wrench was prescribed this drug for insomnia, the court heard. The bruises and bite marks sustained by the other man were just evidence of "boisterous horse play", said Wrench, insisting that he had asked for consent before "nipping" his accuser. "Things happen during love making."He said that before any sexual activity, he had told the man that he was HIV positive. This claim was denied by his accuser, who the court was told also had the condition. Wrench had admitted snorting cocaine with the man at a party in south London, then inviting him home and showing him his art collection and dilapidated Porsche.The pair drank Taittinger champagne from Waterford crystal flutes before starting to kiss. "I said to him 'let's go to bed'. He smiled and said yes. The last thing - that is the irony of the situation, isn't it? - I would have done is to harm him."The alleged victim, now 27 and a personal assistant, told the jury that he had fainted after taking a gulp of the champagne. He claimed he woke later that day to find himself being punched about the head and forced to perform oral sex on the older man. But Wrench said this act was initiated by his accuser. Wrench said he believed sex was at least "on the agenda" after the man agreed to go home with him. Sarah Forshaw, defending Wrench, said to the jurors that they might have found some of what they had heard as "thoroughly unpleasant" and "deeply unattractive" but urged them to put aside any feelings of "repugnance." Earlier in the trial, the judge had instructed the jury to find Wrench not guilty on charges of sexual assault and administering a substance with intent to engage in sexual activity. The judge, Michael Shorrock, said there was insufficient evidence to prove Wrench had carried on sexually touching the complainant after he had said "no" or that Temazepam could have had the immediate, dizzying and stultifying effect described by the alleged victim.Raymond Collins, assistant general secretary of Unite (T&G section) and one of Wrench's oldest friends, was called as a character witness. He said it was "totally inconceivable" that Wrench would hurt anyone else. Wrench made no comment as he left court.