The government's chief adviser on youth crime has called on politicians and the media to stop calling children 'yobs' and warned that Britain risks demonising a generation of young people.In an interview with The Observer , Professor Rod Morgan, chairman of the Youth Justice Board, said this country was throwing out contradictory messages about its attitude to children. He said that while, on the one hand, children represented the country's aspirations for the future, on the other, they were being condemned as thugs in hooded tops. 'We use the word "yob" without distinguishing between very young children - who haven't chosen their parents, their neighbourhoods or their circumstances and can't walk away from them - and young adults,' he said. 'I don't think the word "yob" should ever be used in relation to young children.' He urged politicians to stop announcing 'quick fix' policies rather than getting to grips with the crisis of youth custody, which has seen a 90 per cent increase in recent years. The word 'yob' is now traded fairly freely even in the formal confines of the House of Commons. Michael Howard referred during the debate following the state opening of parliament last week to the need to tackle 'yob culture' and school discipline, while last year Tony Blair referred from the dispatch box in the Commons to dispersal orders which allowed action to be taken 'against gangs of yobs'. Morgan's comments come after myriad announcements from the government aimed at showing the public that it is 'cracking down' on bad behaviour. The Education Secretary, Ruth Kelly, announced a task force last week to tackle classroom disruption. Last Sunday The Observer reported comments by the Home Office minister, Hazel Blears, that young offenders should have to wear a uniform while carrying out community service. 'We take anti-social behaviour very seriously and we are not complacent about it,' Morgan said. 'We also agree that it is absolutely unacceptable that children's learning in classrooms is being disrupted by the behaviour of a minority and that we have to do something about it. It's a question of how we do things about it, and doing things that are effective, as opposed to flying kites and using short-term fixes.' The Youth Justice Board is an independent body that advises ministers on young people in the criminal justice system. Morgan, the former chief inspector of probation and an internationally renowned expert on crime, is known to be angry that three-quarters of its £390 million budget is spent on providing custodial places rather than on community sentences or early intervention. His comments come amid a new wave of reports of attacks by 'feral teenagers'. Cancer sufferer Caroline Monk, the wife of TV personality Matthew Wright, was attacked in the street by a mob of youths aged from 12 to 15. Last week a 16-year-old schoolgirl, Becky Smith, went public with her injuries after being attacked in Blackley, near Manchester. Morgan said: 'What children and young people are really unhappy about are the overwhelmingly negative images of them in the media.' Youth crime and 'respect' will inevitably be raised in tomorrow's Home Affairs debate in the House of Commons. The Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, will face tough questioning on the government's legislative programme, which is dominated by Home Office bills.