The young west African boy whose severed torso was fished out of the river Thames two years ago had eaten a poisonous bean used in occult ceremonies, Scotland Yard said yesterday.The fresh evidence pointing to a ritual killing came as Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, said he may personally head the prosecution team in the case. Traces of the highly toxic calabar bean were discovered in the boy's lower intestine by botanical experts at Kew Gardens in west London. It is thought diluted extracts from the plant may have been used to subdue him before he was sacrificed. Detectives, who have named the boy Adam, believe he was aged between four and six and was alive when he arrived in London. He may have been fed the bean up to 24 hours before his death. His head and limbs have never been recovered. A spokesman for the Metropolitan police said: "Scientists from Kew Gardens have confirmed the presence of elements of a plant known as the calabar bean in Adam's stomach. "The bean is often known to be used for witchcraft purposes on the western coast of Africa. The bean can be fatal if consumed and is also known to cause paralysis in smaller doses." The calabar bean, which grows on a climbing vine found in southern Nigeria, is also known as the ordeal bean because those accused of crimes were fed its juice. If the stomach of the accused rejected the potion, they were held to be innocent; if they succumbed to the poison, it indicated they had been rightfully punished. Other substances found in Adam's stomach have yet to be identified. Some crushed bone, which was recovered, has been sent to experts in New York who dealt with bone identification after September 11. Clay pellets impregnated with gold and quartz were also found in the lower intestine. Adam is believed to have died between one and 10 days before he was discovered in the Thames near Tower Bridge in September 2001. Detectives suspect he was brought to Britain by child traffickers specifically for a witchcraft ceremony. Police officers have visited Nigeria where it is thought he was brought up. "We are now closer to charging people with this crime," a police spokesman said. "We are in discussion with the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) as to the best way forward in this case." A file is being prepared for the CPS and it is possible suspects will be extradited from more than one country. "The charges we are hoping to bring are murder and conspiracy to murder," the spokesman added. If Lord Goldsmith QC heads the prosecution team, he would do it in his professional capacity as a barrister and not as part of his department's remit. A statement from his office said: "The attorney general has expressed an interest in leading for the prosecution in this case, not just for Adam's sake but - if he was a victim of trafficking - to send a clear message to those who deceive, coerce or force vulnerable people to leave their homes for a life of exploitation and misery, or worse, that they will not escape justice." Commander Andy Baker of the Metropolitan police told the BBC: "It could be that the motive was purely domestic. But we do believe 99.9% it was of a ritual nature, it was very macabre, extremely violent."