Police hunting the killer of 11-year-old Rhys Jones today sealed off a section of woodland close to the murder scene after a tip-off.Detectives have not yet recovered the weapon used to gun down the schoolboy as he walked home from football practice last Wednesday.Merseyside police said the Dam Wood area between Croxteth Park estate and Croxteth in Liverpool was being searched based on information received from the public, but the appeal for information continued.A police spokeswoman said there were 46 police with eight dogs in the woodland but she would not say what they were searching for. "It's quite a big area and the search will take as long as it takes," she said.The search was stepped up as the schoolboy's best friend, Michael Edge, 11, spoke of his grief. He told Sky News: "He was my best mate. And I miss him. And I'll miss him for my whole life.Tonight, Liverpool football club will play the anthem of arch rivals Everton in a "unique" tribute to Rhys. The club will play the Z-cars theme tune, Johnny Todd, before a European match at Anfield in a gesture of solidarity. Rhys was a devoted Everton supporter.There were emotional scenes at Goodison Park, Everton's home ground, on Saturday as fans took part in a minute's applause in memory of the schoolboy, who was shot in the neck as he walked home from football practice in Croxteth Park.His parents yesterday appealed to their son's killer to surrender to police. Melanie Jones said whoever killed Rhys would never be able to live with it otherwise.Liverpool decided to stage the Anfield tribute after a suggestion by feature writer Tony Barrett in the Liverpool Echo newspaper met with huge support.Rhys's uncle, Neil Jones, said: "When I told Rhys's parents about the proposed tribute at Anfield, Melanie said 'Playing Johnny Todd at Anfield would be a unique event, a complete one-off, just like Rhys, and a fitting tribute to him as it was his favourite tune.'"Melanie is also pretty sure Rhys will have a little mischievous grin on his face at the thought of being the cause of it."The theme tune will be followed by Liverpool's own anthem, You'll Never Walk Alone, before the match against Toulouse kicks off. A minute's applause will also be held, and Liverpool's players will wear black armbands.Everton players yesterday laid a wreath and signed shirts and boots at the murder scene.Merseyside police yesterday gave their biggest hint yet that the murder was directly related to a Croxteth gang war. Officers revealed Rhys may have been caught in the crossfire in a feud across Liverpool's east side involving 72 thugs - 31 in the Croxteth Crew and 41 in the Strand Gang. Detectives said the ages of gang members ranged from 16 to 50.In her appeal to the killer's family, Mrs Jones said: "You will know if your son is not behaving normally, or maybe has told someone. I would say to you, do the right thing. Please come forward. I know it will be hard, but my son is dead and we need to bring this to an end."Mrs Jones said Rhys's brother Owen, 17, was devastated by his brother's death, adding that she blamed the killer's parents."What kind of people are they? What are the parents doing? They must know it's their kid. They must know what [he is] up to - or don't they care? ... I blame the parents most of all."Mr Jones said he and his wife had asked themselves how a boy, described by witnesses as being between 13 and 15, came to have a gun and to use it on their son."If you take away the gun, if you take away the hoodie, if you take away the bike, it's just a little boy - a kid. It's shocking to us that a young lad like that can be riding around with a gun."The couple said they now feel unsafe in their own home in Croxteth Park and have vowed to leave and start a new life elsewhere. They said it was frustrating that no one had yet been arrested, but Mr Jones said they would wait as long as necessary to see justice done."No matter how long it takes, it's got to be the right person. It's no good just having a knee-jerk reaction, pulling someone in and saying 'Yes, it's him. He's done it.' We want the right person."Detectives investigating Rhys's murder have released the remaining six teenagers they were holding.Ten had been arrested since the shooting: one male aged 14, two aged 15 and three aged 16, 18 and 19 were let out on police bail. Two males aged 15 and 19, and two females of 15 and 18 years, have been released without condition.