The government's concessions on 42-day pre-charge detention for terrorism suspects have left the legislation in breach of human rights law, the joint select committee on human rights will say today.Its warning, in a hastily written report, comes as 19 Labour backbench rebels met at Westminster yesterday and resolved to vote against the proposals next Wednesday, even if they caused the government short-term damage. The rebels refused to discuss how wide their support was, but denied the vote had crumbled. Frank Dobson, a leading rebel organiser, said the concessions tabled by the government on Tuesday after weeks of internal debate still allowed ministers to detain alleged terrorists for 42 days routinely, and questioned the value of the commitments that there had to be evidence of a threat of a grave terrorist emergency."The power to detain for up to 42 days is not confined to an emergency, it is there as an administrative convenience," Dobson said. He recalled that when he became an MP, the police had a power to detain suspects for only three days. "Defeat next week would be a temporary setback for the prime minister, but in the long term it will be of benefit to him." Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, said the extended powers would probably be needed "the next time we have a big terrorist plot", and said David Cameron, the Tory leader, would back the proposals if he were in government. She also said that Liberty, the civil rights group, had no reason left to complain about the proposals because there was no serious difference between its position and that of the government, except that Liberty wanted the power to detain suspects for more than 42 days to be subject to judicial review. The human rights committee also said that the additional safeguards set out by Smith did not include "any additional judicial safeguards for the individual at hearings to extend their detention. The lack of proper judicial safeguards at such hearings is one of the main reasons why extending the maximum period of pre-charge detention to 42 days without any additional judicial safeguard would be in breach of the right to liberty in article 5 of the European convention on human rights," it said. There was also no evidence provided by the home secretary which demonstrated that the terrorist threat was escalating, the committee said.It warns: "In our view a requirement that the secretary of state merely make a declaration to parliament that she is satisfied that there are exceptional circumstances giving rise to an exceptional operational need to use the power would not amount to much of a safeguard." The committee says this "can only be made meaningful if there is an opportunity for that assertion to be tested by independent scrutineers, whether in parliament or the courts". It also dismisses the offer to allow parliament to debate the issue within seven days of the home secretary taking a power to detain beyond 28 days, arguing the debate would be circumscribed by the risk of prejudicing future trials. Andrew Dismore, the chairman of the committee, said: "The proposed extension to 42 days would almost certainly not be lawful." He said Smith's announcement that the new powers would only be invoked during a "grave, exceptional" terror threat or attack was not tight enough. Smith, widely praised for her handling of the issue at a meeting of Labour MPs this week, dismissed a report suggesting she was furious with the prime minister for foisting his proposals on her.