The home secretary, David Blunkett, today announced wide-ranging plans to protect victims of domestic violence and ensure that people who beat their partners are brought to justice.Introducing the consultation paper, Safety and Justice, Mr Blunkett said: "One woman in four will experience domestic violence in their lifetime. "Every single minute of every day, a domestic violence assault is reported to the police. It can occur irrespective of background or circumstance, race or gender, but it is predominantly women who suffer. "The government is determined to do more to tackle this evil crime, which devastates families and ruins lives. Domestic violence is often a hidden crime which victims suffer in silence and isolation. "It has many causes, many forms. But it is important that the system is coherent and effective and able to help prevent such violence as well as tackling the underlying causes."Mr Blunkett told MPs that the government proposed to make common assault an arrestable offence. The move would mean that suspected perpetrators can be quickly removed from the scene of an attack.The use of restraining orders would be widened in cases where there was insufficient evidence for a criminal conviction, but would be sufficient to justify "safeguards being put in place", he said.The paper also proposes anonymity for victims and witnesses to make it easier to report cases.Specialist courts could be further developed, and there would be consultation on the creation of a register of civil orders to enable police to know, at the time of a domestic incident, whether the suspect had breached an order and could be arrested. Stressing that sentences must reflect the crimes committed, Mr Blunkett said that the law commission was being asked to look at defences offered in homicide cases. "The defence of provocation, for example, often relies on sexual jealousy as justification of murder. This is not acceptable," he said.The first 24-hour national helpline for victims was being set up, and ministers would examine ways of ensuring it was the perpetrator of violence, not the victim, who had to move out of the family home, Mr Blunkett said. All too often victims suffered silently from this "hidden" crime, he added.The proposals also include spending £19m to create extra places at shelters for victims of domestic violence. Mr Blunkett also said that he was consulting on a possible domestic violence offenders register, but warned that there were practical difficulties which could stand in its way.Research showed that one in five young men and one in ten young women believed that violence towards a partner could sometimes be acceptable. "I'm sure everyone in this House will agree that this is never the case," Mr Blunkett said. "The home should be a place of safety. Sadly, for those affected, it is a place of fear."The solicitor general, Harriet Harman, said: "For too long, women have had to put up with domestic violence, and men's excuses have been accepted. "Violence that takes place behind closed doors is no less serious than violence against a stranger in the street. From now on, domestic violence must be treated as the crime it is." For the Conservatives, Caroline Spelman welcomed the announcement for bringing a "taboo" subject into the open. She said it was "appalling" that there were more animal sanctuaries in the country than there were refuges for battered women.However, she warned that "the government needs to be careful not to introduce unenforceable legislation in an area where lives need to be saved".She added that the government's 24-hour national helpline scheme, which was announced last December, was still not in operation.The home office said that, from today, the consultation period will last for 12 weeks. A statement said: "The government wants to hear the public's views, along with those from the voluntary sector and the professional agencies who deal with victims and offenders."In particular, it would like to hear from those who are, or have been, victims to learn more about the practical impact of the proposals, and to find out whether more can and should be done."