An advanced form of DNA testing is being used for the first time in Britain by detectives hunting a serial rapist who has attacked 31 elderly women in south-east England over the last 12 years. Officers hope the technique, which traces ancestral blood lines, will narrow the search for the attacker, whose victims range in age from 68 to 93. Swabs from up to 200 officers will be sent to DNA Print Genomics in Florida. The company, which was born out of the human genome experiment, is a world leader in hair and eye colour predictions using DNA. Officers working on Operation Minstead have also turned to familial or mitochondrial testing, which has just 20 markers, to catch the rapist. This was used to track down Craig Harman, who was jailed last week for throwing a brick through a lorry driver's windscreen. Detectives located him through a relative who matched the DNA he had left on the brick. The technology was developed out of research used by detectives searching for the killer of Adam, the child from Africa whose torso was found in the Thames. Detective Chief Inspector Will O'Reilly said the rapist's origins were in the Caribbean, something which has reduced the range of suspects by 75%. "All we had before this was vague descriptions from frightened ladies who had seen him in the middle of the night," Mr O'Reilly said. The results of the tests revealed the man's DNA contained strands from America, Europe and sub-Saharan Africa, a combination found only in the Caribbean. Officers with Caribbean backgrounds are being asked to volunteer for tests to help determine which island the suspect might be from. The attacks first began in February 1992 in Forest Hill, south-east London, and continued in the Shirley area of Croydon, Warlingham in Surrey, and Orpington and Sidcup in south-east London. But there have been large gaps in the offending and detectives believe the rapist may have been abroad at these times. On most occasions the attacker, who is believed to be around 35, wore a balaclava and a nylon black catsuit or motorcycle leathers. He broke into the homes of elderly women in the early hours, often cutting electricity and telephone wires and removing lightbulbs before assaulting them. Over the last 12 years the man has raped four women and indecently assaulted 27, all of whom were too frightened to talk about their experiences. He is described by criminal profilers as a "gerontophile", someone drawn to older women for sexual gratification who often spends time in victims' homes. Detective Superintendent Simon Morgan, who is leading the case, said: "We believe this is because he enjoys the domesticity of being with elderly people. "He has to be stopped. He is reckless and dangerous. I have met all of the 31 victims, three of whom have gone to their graves not knowing who he was and why he picked them." His most violent attack was in August 1999 when the 88-year-old victim almost died as a result of her injuries. A reward of £20,000 has been offered for information leading to his capture.