They were the brains behind one of the most audacious plots to subvert the criminal justice system. From their prison cells, John Haase and Paul Bennett orchestrated the planting of 35 huge caches of firearms and drugs across the UK in a successful ruse to secure their early release from jail. Last week the pair were jailed for a total of 42 years for perverting the course of justice. By falsifying evidence on an industrial scale, heroin barons Haase, 59, and Bennett, 44, conned two royal pardons out of the highest powers in the land.The cast of characters they duped reads like a Who's Who of the justice system: a former Home Secretary and Conservative party leader, a senior High Court judge, operatives of MI5, high-ranking Customs investigators and detectives. 'From inside they were able to arrange the transport, finance, contacts and firearms over a long period of time and at great cost. It was incredible,' said Scotland Yard Detective Superintendent Graham McNulty. 'It corrupted the criminal justice system and Home Secretary because the facts were not known to them.' McNulty led Operation Ainstable, the two-year investigation that unearthed Haase and Bennett's elaborate scam. Yet the case's ramifications might be far from over. The verdicts at Southwark Crown Court last Wednesday could alter how organised crime is investigated in the future. A debate in Parliament this week is expected to focus on flaws exposed in the 'supergrass' system by the case, along with a number of potential miscarriages of justice. Both former Tory leader Michael Howard and his successor, David Cameron, may shudder with embarrassment. Haase and Bennett duped Howard, when he was Home Secretary under Prime Minister John Major, into slashing 17 years off their 18-year prison sentences after they were caught with a huge stash of high-purity heroin. Around that time Cameron was a special adviser to Howard on Home Office policy.One of Howard's flagship policies was 'prison works' and its pledge to lock up dealers with no prospect of early release. Yet the ingenuity of Haase and Bennett would convince the Home Secretary that the correct course of action was to allow two of Britain's most feared and prolific criminals back into society. The story behind last week's trial begins 16 years ago, when former armed robber Haase joined forces with the Turkish Connection, a pan-European drugs cartel, to smuggle heroin into the UK using 200kg packages, a size previously unseen in Britain. Despite advances from London gangsters, the Turkish Connection elected to work exclusively with Liverpudlian Haase who, in the words of senior member Suleyman Ergun, was a 'real-life Scarface'. 'Haase was fearless and armed to the teeth. Unlike other big gangsters he was hands-on, not afraid to go to Paris himself to pick up £1m worth of gear in person,' Ergun said.Haase's approach would prove so fruitful that the price of heroin in the UK during the early Nineties plunged overnight from £24,000 to £20,000 a kilo. Soon his supply lines fed most of Britain, but the sheer size of his operation meant Haase was vulnerable. In 1993 he and Bennett were arrested in connection with Class A drugs worth more than £13m.A Customs spokesman said their subsequent convictions were a 'turning point in the fight against the big players'. He expected Haase to be inside for 18 years, but Haase was not worried. During an earlier spell in prison he had met 'Mad' Frankie Fraser, who explained how London villains planted their own guns and then 'grassed', pretending they were someone else's. In return for such valued intelligence, the 'supergrass' was granted early release. Haase decided to pull the same stunt, but on an unprecedented scale. Mobile phones concealed within the pram of his baby girl were smuggled into prison by his wife Debbie. Haase ensured the handsets remained hidden by 'bottling them', concealing them in his anus.Despite being incarcerated in a high-security cell, between October 1993 and January 1995, Haase used a war chest of £1,150,000 to acquire a huge arsenal of high-calibre weapons and hired 'planters' to carry out his plan. It was logistically complex, but he was meticulous.Weaponry was ordered from two armourers. More than 150 illegal weapons and 1,500 rounds of ammunition, including bullets and grenades, AK-47s and fake Semtex were planted by Haase and Bennett in 35 UK locations. Once in place, Haase approached an informant handler - Customs officer Paul Cook - and offered information on where the weapons were stashed. The authorities listened. With hindsight, police last week admitted Haase's information was too good to be true. McNulty described how stashes of guns were left unattended in cars bought weeks earlier, with no attempt at haggling, or otherwise left in unlocked, deserted houses. In addition, details supplied by Haase were unusually precise. On one occasion he practically gave police a treasure map to find weaponry buried at a Merseyside squirrel sanctuary in Formby.'It was literally 10 yards west, five east, and so on,' said McNulty. At one stash in a Toxteth flat, police found four machine-guns, a Smith and Wesson revolver, a Sten gun, silencers and ammunition. Another, in a van outside a McDonald's restaurant, contained 80 new shotguns.Cunningly, Haase played on fears of an IRA attack following the 1993 Bishopsgate bomb at the height of the troubles. At one cache, police found details of a British army recruiting office as a potential target. In another, Haase persuaded his wife Debbie, 35, and her best friend, Sharon Knowles, 36, to create a fake IRA gun haul inside a car parked near the Holyhead-to-Dublin ferry terminal in Anglesey, north Wales. Irish newspapers and cigarette stubs from Dublin pubs were strewn alongside to promote the haul's paramilitary authenticity. Bin bags containing thousands of bullets and heavy machine-guns were found at a time that coincided with the delicate Northern Ireland peace talks. Yet Haase's carefully crafted duplicity would be undone by involving the person he most trusted. To prove the extent of the caches, Debbie had taken pictures of them using the family camera. When officers from Operation Ainstable began investigating the scam in 2005, they found 15 Polaroid pictures inside Debbie's home. Tests in Germany proved that photographs of the secret arms caches had been taken on the same camera. Whoever took the smiling portraits knew all about the locations of the weapons dumps long before they were found by the police. The Met began focusing its inquiries on the women. Another breakthrough would soon follow. Debbie's fingerprints were detected on the Holyhead bin liners containing large quantities of bullets. Furthermore, the ferry booking to Ireland was linked to Sharon. Debbie was last week jailed for four years and Sharon for five years. Unlike the stony features of Haase and Bennett, both were visibly traumatised at the sentence. Yet as officers continue to celebrate the outcome of the trial this weekend, many still wonder how the informant handler Cook failed to identify the con. Cook even went as far as sending a letter to the original trial judge praising Haase and Bennett. He wrote: 'It is a very rare occurrence when the authorities have such a vein of information on quality criminals. More so, when the information can be shown to be genuine and 100 per cent accurate.'To protect Haase and Bennett from any reprisals for their roles as supergrasses, Judge Lynch sentenced the pair in open court to 18 years each at their trial in 1996. But behind the scenes he wrote a letter to Howard recommending royal pardons. Now, though, the retired judge says that he 'wouldn't have had anything to do with it' if he had known the caches were bogus.In 1996 Howard granted Haase and Bennett the royal Prerogative of Mercy, a rare occurrence. MI6 officer Harry Ferguson, who had originally helped Customs nail Haase in a fraught surveillance operation, said: 'We were shocked and angry. All that hard work down the drain.' Yet instead of going into hiding in South America, as they had promised after their release, Haase returned to Liverpool believing he had become a government-sponsored untouchable. Far from avoiding crime, he expanded his empire to include gun-running, extortion, protection rackets, kidnapping, hijacking and contract violence.The frustrated Merseyside police launched an operation to bring him down for a second time. In 1999 Haase was jailed again for drug dealing and money-laundering. He attempted to call Howard as a witness in his second trial, prompting his barrister, Lord Carlile, now the government's independent reviewer of terrorism laws, to resign in protest. Haase received 13 years.In jail, he remained confident that he could go free again, this time by informing on how he had got out earlier. In 2004 he made a signed, taped affidavit to Walton MP Peter Kilfoyle that described how he planted the phoney guns and claimed that he had given a £400,000 bribe to Howard and £100,000 to Cook. It said: 'They [the police and Customs] can't be that thick, but they are, believe it or not. How can I be in prison and know information like that? Because from day one I was scheming.'In 2005 the affadavit was passed on to police and Operation Ainstable was launched. When it came to court, however, Haase denied paying the bribes. Scotland Yard also revealed last week that it could find no evidence of bribes being paid to Howard or Cook, who was also exonerated by an internal inquiry. Of greater concern to detectives, however, is that Haase's plot might not have been the last of its type. Convicted underworld armourer Tony Mitchell, who testified against Haase, said: 'It's still going on now. The last one I know of was in Christmas 2007. The police get a result. The villains get off. The public feels safe. Everybody is happy.'Kilfoyle: MP on trail of the truthRumours that John Haase had bribed former Tory Home Secretary Michael Howard for a royal pardon first emerged from Liverpool's criminal underworld in the mid-1990s.Liverpool MP Peter Kilfoyle set out to investigate the claims, finally meeting Haase face-to-face in high-security Whitemoor Prison in 2004. Haase did not disappoint, offering Kilfoyle potentially explosive revelations. The convicted criminal taped and signed an affidavit telling the MP how he and Paul Bennett had bribed Howard with £400,000 and a Customs handler with £100,00 to free them. Journalist Graham Johnson later infiltrated Haase's gang and collected taped statements that guns had been planted to fool the authorities and that the alleged bribes were paid. In 2005 Kilfoyle reported his concerns to Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Constabulary, Sir Keith Povey, who in turn contacted Scotland Yard. Later that year Operation Ainstable was launched, leading to last week's sentencing of Haase and Bennett. During the trial, Southwark Crown Court heard how Howard had telephoned Kilfoyle and asked him not to speak publicly about Haase and Bennett being freed early from jail. The then Home Secretary said that lives would be in danger if Kilfoyle went ahead with a television interview about the release. Kilfoyle was so surprised he called Jack Straw, then shadow home secretary. Police have found no evidence that bribes were ever paid by Haase and Bennett to Howard or Customs officials.