Tony Blair yesterday offered a hostage to political fortune when he fought off Conservative criticism of his record on street crime in London by predicting it will be "brought under control" by the end of September.The claim, which startled MPs more than it did the experts, emerged - so Mr Blair revealed - from yesterday morning's session of Cobra, Whitehall's national emergencies committee. It has been deployed to tackle the crisis, much of it driven by mobile phone theft among young people in major cities. Initiatives being launched alongside a shift in police strategy and resources are already producing results: the rise in street crime, 38% this time last year, was 1.3% in the capital in February-March, according to official figures. Overall it is down from 40% to 6%, making Mr Blair's pledge to have street crime levelling out by the autumn, when the figures up to June are to be published, a good bet. With the local elections barely a week away in big cities, including the capital, crime is an issue for all the parties. Jean-Marie Le Pen's unexpected success in the French presidential election after playing on voters' fears has further raised its salience. At Commons question time, Iain Duncan Smith complained: "It's not just that there is a rise in violent crime in London. There are now 192 muggings a day and that is 50 more muggings than this time last year - one for every initiative that your home secretary has introduced since he came to office." He again called for more constables on the beat and protested that no one had realised Cobra's involvement, though it had been announced by No 10 after a crime "summit" in March. Last night the Tory leader wrote to Mr Blair asking if "your government accepts that we have a major crisis with rising levels of street and violent crime and that the police are unable to deal with this on their own". Ministers do not accept that charge, though the Tories point out that Cobra's remit covers everything from terrorist attack to foot and mouth disease. It has recently been renamed the civil contingencies committee. No 10 initially seemed to be wrongfooted. Mr Blair's spokesman said all it meant was that "we are bringing together different agencies and departments in this government to bear on the problem" which, officials admitted, was rising at a time when overall crime has fallen sharply. Downing Street is on stronger ground in pointing to the efforts now being made, including an agreement between the Metropolitan police and its police authority, to cut the growth in street crime to zero by next March. Mr Blair reminded MPs of new bail restrictions on young offenders, fast-track courts and the deployment of community safety officers with the power to detain for up to 30 minutes.