On the twentieth day of the Soham trial at the Old Bailey, Ian Huntley walked from the glass-sided dock into the witness box, took the oath, and in a low, scarcely audible voice began to tell his version of the deaths of ten-year-old Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells.For two-and-a-half days he went over and over his story in all its grim and terrifying detail, while at the back of the court the parents of the girls sat and listened, as they have listened day after day and week after week. He was the only witness in his own defence. He is the only person who knows the full truth about what happened in 5 College Close on that wet summer evening in August. With him, after 16 months of waiting, we arrived at last at the heart of the case, at the threshold of its terrible mystery. For four weeks, the prosecution had presented its case against Ian Huntley and Maxine Carr. They meticulously slotted together details to give a painstaking picture of the events that led up to the girls' disappearance, and then away from it; the innocent before and the nightmarish after; the last known seconds of the girls' meandering progress through familiar streets, arms linked, and then the frantic, increasingly heart-rending search that came to an end when the naked and decomposing - and, as we now know, partially burned - bodies of the two friends were found lying together, limbs tangled, at the bottom of a deep and muddy ditch, where the nettles grew tall. But right at the start of the trial, in Richard Latham's opening speech, it was revealed that Huntley would concede that he let the girls into his home, that he was the only one present at their deaths, and that he had dumped their bodies. Nevertheless, though pleading guilty to perverting the course of justice, he was pleading not guilty to their murders. And on Tuesday 25 November, in the final few minutes of the day when Stephen Coward QC, Huntley's lawyer, was cross-examining the Home Office pathologist Dr Nathaniel Cary, came another dramatic revelation: Holly Wells died when Ian Huntley slipped and she fell into a bath, said Coward. Jessica died when Ian Huntley put his hand across her mouth to stop her from screaming. All of the rest of the evidence - the minute-by-minute reconstructions of the girls' movements and of Huntley's, the forensic examination of fibres (there were 154 transfers of fibres), pollen, tyre tracks, fingerprints, mud, blood - has circled around this black hole at the centre: what happened inside 5 College Close, between 18.31 and 18.46? And behind this question, of course, lurked another question: why did it happen? Why did Jessica and Holly - the dark-haired girl and the blonde, the 'tomboy' and the 'angel', the swimmer and the majorette - die that evening? In June of this year, after Maxine Carr had broken all contact with him, Ian Huntley tried to kill himself in prison, taking a near-fatal overdose that sent him into a coma. Afterwards, he claims that he started to recover the buried memories of that terrible evening, and he made a promise to his parents to come to the court to tell the truth so that the girls' parents would at last know what happened to their little daughters. His story - which he was led through on Monday by his lawyer - is that he was outside his house cleaning Sadie, his dog, when the girls came down the road; that he took Holly and Jessica into his house because Holly had a nosebleed; took them upstairs into the bathroom where Holly sat on the edge of the full bath and he gave her tissues to staunch it; took Holly into his bedroom, to sit on the bed while Jessica used the toilet, took Holly back into the bathroom where she could finish cleaning up her nosebleed; accidentally slipped beside Holly and the full bath, and heard a splash; froze in panic; placed his hand over Jessica's mouth because she was screaming, 'You pushed her'. He says that he never meant either death to happen ('One died as a result of my inability to act and the other died as a direct result of my actions', was how he put it on the following day) and that afterwards, when he had pulled Holly from the bath and checked her pulse, which was still, leant his cheek to Jessica's mouth and felt for breath that wasn't there, he vomited in the hallway, and then sat huddled in the corner, in a kind of psychological freeze. Of course, his story doesn't end there. He took Jessica's mobile out of her pocket; he carried their bodies down the stairs and, after checking no one was around, bundled them into the cramped boot of his car, bending their legs to fit them in; he collected petrol and bin bags (to protect his feet and thus conceal evidence); he drove to Lakenheath and found a lonely track; he got out where the vegetation grew thickly and he rolled the two girls down into the ditch; he climbed into the ditch and cut off their clothing - their red football shirts and their tracksuit trousers, their knickers, Holly's black bra which she and her mother had bought the day before - and then he poured petrol over their bodies and threw on a match. The flames flared and he climbed back into car, and drove away. And the story doesn't end there either, of course. It leaves that lonely track and rejoins the route we are all familiar with by now: the 11 days of careful concealment, of repeated interviews given to police and journalists in which he spoke about how the girls came to the door of his house ('giggly', 'happy') and then walked away again, 11 days of lying and misdirection and even of approaching Holly's father ('Kev' as he even called him in court) to express sympathy - until, in the early hours of 17 August, he was arrested and plunged into a silence that lasted until September this year, when he finally told his legal team that the girls had died in his house; that he had been with them when they died; that he had disposed of their bodies. Stories get picked apart under cross-examination. Single words are scrutinised; phrases deconstructed. Tiny inconsistencies are gazed at until they magnify. Narrative is broken up into separate pieces: the threshold, the bathroom, the bedroom, the bodies. Ian Huntley was actually inside the house, suggested Richard Latham QC, when the girls came down the road; Maxine Carr's statement had placed him there, with the television on, and the dog not dirty after all. So it wasn't by chance that he met the girls at the door; he was 'watching'. 'No', said Huntley. He was 'annoyed' after a phone call with Maxine Carr, in which she'd told him she was going out 'again' with her mother that evening in Grimsby ('Do you like to control people?' asked Latham. 'She was out of your control. Did that irritate you?') and just minutes later, when he saw Jessica and Holly, 'It was just too tempting, wasn't it... two girls of ten?' 'If you mean what I think you mean, no,' said Huntley. 'You lured them into the house, didn't you?' 'I did not.' The possibility of a sexual motive behind the deaths of Holly and Jessica had not been raised until last week, but it then dominated many of the exchanges - first between Huntley and the prosecution and again later, when Maxine Carr took the stand. Huntley admits to taking Holly into the bedroom (he agrees this was 'inappropriate'). He says she sat upon the bed, and a single drop of blood fell on the sheets, for which she apologised. Later Maxine Carr would insist that on her return from Grimsby the entire duvet and its cover were cleaned and wet in the washing machine, although Ian Huntley (a 'slob' who slouched on the couch, never washed up, never used the vacuum cleaner) didn't even know how to use the machine. All the time, Huntley was forced back to the actual deaths. First Holly: 'And you watched her drown.' 'I just froze.' 'You watched her drown.' 'I wasn't watching.' 'Holly drowned in that bath because you wanted her dead.' 'I did not want her dead.' 'The only way that child would have drowned in the bath is if you were holding her under the water.' 'I was not holding her...' And of Jessica, whose smothering he was made to demonstrate by placing his hand over his own mouth: 'Something prevented her from turning her head. Once again, please - what were you doing with your other hand?' 'I don't know.' 'What must you have been doing with your other hand? 'Probably restraining her somehow.' 'This was a fit, active ten-year-old who... would have been doing what?' 'Struggling.' 'Fighting for her very life.' 'Yes.' 'If you had given that girl the slightest chance, she would have lived.' 'Yes.' 'You didn't give her the slightest chance, did you?' 'No.' He was also forced to describe how it felt to deal with the bodies of the girls; the horror of the questions drove him into silence. 'Which did you pick up first?... What did it feel like, this girl's body, when you did that?' 'Limp.' 'Difficult to carry, no?' 'Yes.' 'Because a dead body is floppy?' 'Yes.' 'Her body was wet, wasn't it?' 'Yes.' 'How did it feel as you carried this dead body down the stairs, Mr Huntley?' No answer. 'How did it feel?' No answer again. 'How did it feel when you carried Jessica's body down the stairs? That you had just killed?' Another long pause. 'Well?' 'Not good,' said Huntley. And at one point during this day of insistent probing, Huntley lost his temper: when Latham asked him to explain his actions after Holly fell into the bath, he raised his voice: 'In these circumstances, you can be very rational. In those circumstances, it is not so rational.' Then he snapped, 'Believe me, I know.' 'You can get quite angry, can't you Mr Huntley,' said the prosecution lawyer in reply. 'Yes.' 'You just lost your temper with me, didn't you?' Maxine Carr stepped into the witness box (for what her lawyer called 'the final stage') after Huntley left it. He had called her 'Maxine'; she called him 'Mr Huntley', 'Ian Huntley', 'that man' and, once, sobbing and gesturing, 'that thing'. ('I'm not going to be blamed for what that thing in the box has done to me, or those children.') Maxine Carr was in Grimsby when Jessica and Holly died. Although when she was in Holloway, women leaned from their cells to shout 'Myra Hindley Mark Two' at her, she is not charged with murder, but with perverting the course of justice and - although she admits to systematically and repeatedly lying to provide her former boyfriend with an alibi - she is pleading not guilty because she insists that she 'knew' Huntley had not killed the girls. 'Those girls walked away from my house,' she said, over and over. She says she lied because she loved him and because it never crossed her mind to suspect him of anything so terrifying and 'disgusting'. And, under cross-examination, she cried out that she lied because she was his victim as well: 'I was pushed into a corner...' 'I had no choice...' 'You have no idea what kind of relationship I had with that man...' 'I've a mind of my own now that I've had 16 months away from him...' The case really is in its final stages now. This week, the jury will hear the closing speeches, and will retire to consider whether Ian Huntley is guilty of the murder of the two little girls whose shining, eager faces have haunted this trial, and this whole dark and heartbreaking tale.