A driving test examiner has been jailed for life after being found guilty of murdering his wife by deliberately driving off a motorway at more than 80mph. Ian Walters, of Swindon, Wiltshire, was charged with murder after CCTV footage showed his pick-up truck moving from the M1’s middle lane to the hard shoulder, moments before it crashed. The vehicle, a Mitsubishi L200, was said to have “imploded” after it swerved off the motorway onto the embankment near Markfield, in Leicestershire, and struck a tree. Walters had claimed that he remembered nothing of the 130-mile journey leading up to the crash last year. But text messages sent by his wife, Tracy, proved the 51-year-old was “driving and volatile” as the couple returned home from a “make-or-break” week away at a cottage in North Yorkshire.Tracy Walters died in hospital two days after the 4x4 vehicle veered off the southbound carriageway on 21 March last year. Ian Walters, 51, who is also a church treasurer, had denied murdering his wife during the six-week trial at Leicester crown court. The jury had been told he had been questioned over claims of domestic abuse a week before the murder. Jurors deliberated for four-and-a-half hours before unanimously convicting Walters, who stared impassively at the jury foreman as the verdict was returned.Walters, a former bank worker, told jurors he could think of “no reasonable reason” for the crash and could remember nothing for more than two hours beforehand. But a police inquiry established that Walters and his wife, who married in Cyprus in 2012, had sought counselling after a string of rows caused by his unreasonable sexual demands. Walters was jailed for life by Judge Nicholas Dean QC, who ordered him to serve at least 17 years before becoming eligible to apply for parole. Condemning Walters as a “narcissistic bully” who had behaved like a spoiled child, the judge told him: “Since you have not told us what happened before you drove off the M1, it is only what can be pieced together from Tracy’s texts that tell us what happened. “Whilst your actions were not premeditated, your bullying, both physical and psychological, during the morning of 21 March, is an aggravating feature in this case.”Witnesses at the trial likened the crash, which sent items of luggage flying into the air, to a small explosion. The first witness in the trial, motorist Robin Goss, said the driver of the pick-up appeared to have made a “conscious, deliberate” decision to steer towards the hard shoulder. Goss, a 39-year-old training consultant from Buckinghamshire, told jurors he was up to 150m behind the L200, doing around 70mph in the inside lane.“All of a sudden I saw this car just swerve violently across to the left,” he told the court. “It completely disappeared and I remember looking into the hard shoulder. Then I saw what looked like a little explosion.” 