The Lord Chief Justice yesterday urged judges and magistrates to cut short-term jail sentences by as much as half and to ensure they are only sending people to prison "if it is really necessary". Sending criminals into an already overcrowded prison system should always be a last resort, Lord Woolf reminded his colleagues at a Youth Justice Board conference in London. If courts are imposing short-term sentences, they should "pause" first and think about whether half the time would be just as effective. "It is a very simple message: Don't send people to prison unless it is really necessary". "If you are going to sentence for 12 months, would six months be sufficient and achieve exactly the same benefits for the public, at lower cost to the Treasury and our prison system?" he said. Lord Woolf said he believed measures needed to be taken to address the difficult problem of a rising prison popula tion and to restore public confidence in the justice system, problems already examined in the Halliday report - a Home Office report on sentencing favouring a "more lenient" criminal justice strategy. The latest figure of 67,465 inmates represents an increase of over 400 since the end of August, he said, adding that the prison population had increased by more than 50% in the past decade. Lord Woolf also noted that 10 years ago, when he was conducting an inquiry into riots at Strange ways prison, Manchester, it was thought that overcrowding had been a trigger for the trouble. "The average cost of keeping a prisoner in custody is about £27,500. The cost of housing the volume of prisoners we now have has caused a prison building and maintenance program costing around £2.7bn over 10 years," he said. Lord Woolf did, however, emphasise that for serious offenders and serious persistent offenders there was "no alternative but for substantial pun ishment". But he added it was essential to try and avoid a situation in which an offender appeared before a court again and again. Among the choices to be considered should be "restorative justice" in which the offender acknowledged the wrong done to the victim and tried to take the appropriate steps to remedy the situation. Lord Woolf also expressed his belief that the offender should make reparation in an "appropriate way" to the community.