Fundamental flaws in the system designed to protect children were exposed yesterday by the disclosure that Ian Huntley slipped through a series of checks which should have revealed that he was suspected of nine sex crimes, many involving under-age girls.As Huntley began two life sentences for the murder of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, questions were being asked about how a system which is supposed to prevent dangerous men getting anywhere near positions of responsibility with children failed at every stage. Two police forces and a social services department were facing accusations that their blunders let the former school caretaker gain a position which he used to lure the 10-year-olds into his house on August 4 last year. Within minutes of the verdicts being returned at the Old Bailey, the home secretary, David Blunkett, had announced an inquiry into the failings which let Huntley get a job at Soham village college in Cambridgeshire. Last night, Humberside police were embroiled in an embarrassing row with the official data protection watchdog over its chief constable's claims that data protection laws had required them to "weed out" details of accusations against Huntley which did not lead to convictions. David Smith, assistant information commissioner, immediately dismissed the claim. "Their explanation appears to be nonsense from what we know of the information they were keeping," he told the Guardian. "The information that they were keeping was clearly relevant to protecting the public from crime and there's noth ing in the Data Protection Act or in any guidance we've issued that required them to delete information of such obvious value." He added: "I don't know of any other police force operating in this way." The performance of Cambridgeshire police, which blundered over the background checks, and social workers at North East Lincolnshire council, who did not flag up concerns about Huntley's behaviour, were also facing heavy criticism. Huntley, 29, was found guilty of murdering Holly and Jessica after luring them into his house. His motive is believed to have been sexual. He was given two life sentences. Had he been convicted today, he could have been the first man to be automatically given a whole life term under the new Criminal Justice Act. As it is, his tariff will be set at a later date by a high court judge. Huntley's former fiancee, Maxine Carr, 26, was found guilty of conspiring to pervert the course of justice by giving Huntley a false alibi. She was cleared of more serious charges of assisting an offender. She was jailed for 3 years but because she has been in prison on remand for 16 months could be freed within two months. She may be given a new identity to protect her against attacks. The deaths of the 10-year-old friends shocked the nation. Huntley's disturbing past and the series of blunders will add to the feeling of dismay. When he got the job of school caretaker Huntley was vetted. But when they came to check him on the police national computer Cambridgeshire police only searched under the name he was then using, his mother's maiden name of Nixon, though he told them he was known as Huntley. If this check had been done properly it would have been discovered that Huntley committed a burglary in 1995. This might have stopped him getting the job. Cambridgeshire police admit they were at fault. They then asked the Humberside force if it knew anything of Huntley. It failed to find that he had been accused of, or linked to, four rapes in the late nineties. Before that he had been suspected of having four sexual relationships with under-age girls, one only 13. He had also been accused of an indecent assault on a 12-year-old girl, whom he allegedly threatened to kill. Humberside conceded there were "systems failings and elements of human error". But it claimed it "weeded" the information off its systems because of data protection laws and called for "urgent national guidance" on the Data Protection Act. Humberside's chief constable, David Westwood, said: "We face here the contradictory nature of two public policies. First there is the Data Protection Act which requires the removal of information relating to individuals. Second is the retaining of information to protect vulnerable people. There is no national guidance on this." He added: "I'm sorry the force had weaknesses in its system. I'm sorry there were individual failings." Mr Westwood said his force had interpreted the act to mean that information of past alleged crimes could not be held for the purposes of employment vetting. He accepted that other forces may interpret data protection laws differently. Launching an inquiry, Mr Blunkett said there were "real concerns" about the way the two police forces searched for and handled intelligence on Huntley's past. Mr Blunkett said the inquiry, chaired by former Whitehall permanent secretary Michael Bichard, would be speedy. Holly's father, Kevin, said the vetting failures had affected the families "very negatively". The girls' headteacher, Howard Gilbert, said: "When I learned of his background I was angry ... I felt physically sick. "The police checks are set up to stop somebody like Huntley getting near a school." Children's charities expressed anger at the failings. Dr Carole Easton, chief executive of the charity ChildLine said: "It beggars belief that so many people and organisations were aware of the multiple and serious allegations that had been made against Huntley over the years - and yet he still managed to gain employment in a school."· Humberside police kept no record of the request for information about Huntley from the Cambridgeshire force, who were vetting him for the school caretakers job · Humberside police failed to record that Huntley was using two names when its officers interviewed him over an alleged rape in 1999· Humberside got rid of files relating to a string of alleged sexual assaults by Huntley. It claims it did so to comply with the data protection act· Cambridgeshire police failed to search the police national computer under Huntley's real name when vetting him· North East Lincolnshire social services failed to link five cases of sexual assault by Huntley on underage girls. The council says connections were not made because they were handled by different people who had no reason to cross-refer them