The police are ill equipped to thwart criminals armed with electro-shock weapons, which analysts admit is a "growing problem", a leaked intelligence report shows.The report says that more criminals, particularly drug dealers, are carrying illegal stun guns, which are easily bought on the internet. The police analysts suggest that "as with many other aspects of popular culture", Britain may be going down the same road as the United States, where the use of electro-shock guns by criminals is proving a "massive" headache. The extent of police vulnerabilities is outlined in a "restricted" report by the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS), which gathers information to counter serious and organised crime. The report, obtained by the Guardian, highlights the emerging threat of these weapons, the most prominent of which is the Taser. The hand-held Taser fires a pair of darts on wires which deliver an extremely painful 50,000-volt shock that temporarily paralyses and knocks the dazed victim to the ground. The manufacturers say that although at least 20 people on which it has been used in the US have died, none of the deaths can be directly linked to the weapons, as there were other causes. The NCIS report says: "The UK police have no tactics for dealing with an offender armed with a stun or Taser weapon, and no procedures for entering a premises or situation in which there is prior knowledge that these weapons are available to offenders." NCIS says that body armour may not be enough to protect a police officer against stun guns. It draws on the results of trials conducted by Australian police, which found that officers wearing one type of armour suffered electric shocks from a Taser dart. "In the light of [these results], it is questionable that these precautions would be sufficient, and care must be taken to ensure that the correct body armour is worn and that adequate coverage of vulnerable areas such as the neck is maintained." The report, written in May and circulated to police forces, says: "Numerous stun weapons are being recovered from scenes of crimes, found on suspects, and seized during searches carried out for other offences. There are also many reports of this type of weapon being used despite no weapon being recovered." NCIS is worried that criminals are "far more willing to carry and use" stun guns than a firearm, because they would receive a far lighter sentence than if caught with a genuine gun. But the analysts admit that they have no real idea how many stun and Taser guns are held by criminals. It says: "Ease of access to the weapons is a definite problem, as orders can be placed online and packages delivered directly to the door with little or no risk to the consumer. The weapons are inexpensive and still provide an effective threat or act as an acceptable fashion accessory." Even though the weapons are illegal, anyone can place orders for them on websites operated in the US and elsewhere for around £300, and receive them within days. The police are preparing to arm themselves with Tasers as an alternative to firearms. Five forces are taking part in a year-long trial with the weapons. They declined to comment on the report.