Two teenagers were found murdered in a wooded lane on Sunday after an anonymous phone call to police saying there were teenagers lying injured. The dead boys were named yesterday as Steven Bayliss, 16, and Twood Nadauld, 14, both of Finchampstead, Berkshire.Postmortem examinations showed that Steven was killed by an incision to the throat, while Twood died from knife wounds. Two 18-year-old men were arrested by Thames Valley police shortly after the bodies were found side by side in the lane in Wokingham, Berkshire, on Sunday night.One was last night released without charge. The other was still being questioned by detectives. Local people described how boys had been playing in the woodland when two of them were assaulted. Detectives said they believed the victims knew their assailants. The boys were found on a path known as Bluebell Lane two miles from their homes on an affluent estate.Yesterday, forensic science officers conducted a fingertip search along the 400-metre-long Bluebell Lane. The officer in charge, Chief Inspector Lindsey Finch, said: "Incidents of this nature are extremely rare, even more so in Wokingham ... I cannot stress strongly enough what a shock these incidents have been." She confirmed police received a 999 call at 8.15pm on Sunday. She said both boys were pronounced dead at the scene.At the Bayliss family's detached house, friends and relatives gathered to comfort Steven's parents, Janet and David, along with police family liaison officers. The same happened at the nearby home of Twood, described by friends as Thai.Earlier in the day, both families visited where the bodies were found. Later, groups of tearful classmates arrived carrying flowers, cards and letters, plcing them by a tree beside a police cordon. Cards said: "Twood and Steven, RIP" and "Boys, you didn't deserve this."Holding and hugging each other, the teenagers said they wanted to "chip in" money and buy a bench in memory of their dead friends. One boy took two cigarettes and placed them inside a clear plastic envelope with a note written on A4 paper. It said: "To two of the greatest mates in the world. Wot up G-Man, today has been some day. Woke up realising we would never go out or see each other. That sucks ... I will always remember the first time I met the two of you. We were down the estate at a party. We were so drunk."Both boys had been pupils at Emmbrook school, although Steven had recently left.