After the successful conviction of Baby P's stepfather based on the evidence of a four-year-old girl, the NSPCC has this weekend called for more children to be trusted as witnesses against abusers.On Friday the man - already convicted over the 2007 killing of his stepson - was found guilty of raping the girl when she was just two.The child became the youngest witness ever to appear at the Old Bailey, but the Crown Prosecution Service was this weekend facing criticism for allowing her to be cross-examined by barristers on videolink. Wes Cuell, NSPCC's director of children's services, said the circumstances were far from ideal, but that the CPS and police should take confidence from the case. "It's so often in sex abuse there is no forensic evidence, so it becomes the adult's word against the child's," he said. "But if that child is properly supported they can make a strong witness. We would like to see a higher level of confidence in child witnesses." In 2007, 1,339 cases of sexual abuse of under-fives were reported to police, but most never reach court. A postcode lottery means unacceptable differences in what support services a child gets, said Cuell. "The defence don't hold back and it is easy to get children upset or confused over what is right and wrong," he added. "We see no reason why the courts shouldn't appoint someone to work with a child, to establish trust, and then for them to ask the questions on behalf of both defence and prosecution - word for word."A CPS spokeswoman said they had consulted extensively all agencies working with the girl. "Age is not the determining factor," she said. "You may have an eight-year-old who couldn't have done what this girl could. The criteria are the witness's well-being, level of understanding and reliability of their evidence. It is hard, but if you don't allow children to be believed and trusted, you're not going to get convictions, and that's a green light for people to abuse them," she said.The Observer has learnt that hundreds of at-risk children are still awaiting a legal guardian after a sharp rise in numbers being removed from their homes in the wake of the Baby P case. The fate of the boy - who can now be identified by his first name, Peter - killed by his stepfather, mother and the family lodger, shocked the country when it was revealed in court last November that he had been seen 78 times by child protection agencies.Family courts union Napo reports an increase of almost 40% in care orders during the first three months of this year compared with the same period in 2008. In Greater London the rise is 70%, with 202 children awaiting a guardian, compared with eight a year ago. At the time of the Baby P case applications in London were running at 60 a month. Now the figure is 100 a month. "The delay means staff cannot fulfil their statutory duties to children and risks undermining public confidence," said Harry Fletcher, Napo's assistant general secretary. "No additional funds are available to take on more staff to assist with the backlog. Napo estimates the number of unallocated cases nationwide will be at least 600."