Rolf Harris is guilty on 12 counts, seven of them related to his repeatedly molesting a friend of his daughter, from when she was 13 until she was 19. The charge that he groped a girl of seven or eight is upheld. He is not that lovable, trustworthy figure his inane jingles insisted upon. That whole picture – of a boyish, guileless, eternally young, unthreatening creature – will have to be remade. The cultural backdrop is corrupted. How much of a loss will this be, you might think, being unable to hear Two Little Boys played innocently again?But consider the fight his fans put up, in defence of his reputation – he was voted one of Australia's 100 most trusted people even while fighting these abuse charges. As the evidence was coming in, people couldn't make sense of this betrayal. And I'm amazed to find myself amazed by the incongruity of that notion – Rolf Harris, sexual predator.As director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer did peerless, unprecedented work on how sexual assault and victimhood are perceived, and how the cases are treated in court. Twenty years ago, victims weren't heeded at all. Gradually, the criminal justice system started to support victims, but with that support came, Starmer told me just before he left his post, "a number of assumptions about what real victims do. A real victim goes straight to the police; a real victim will give the police a coherent and consistent account in chronological order; a real victim would never go back to the perpetrator; a real victim wouldn't dress in a particular way, or drink or take drugs. Over time, those tests or assumptions have, I think, ended up ringfencing some of the most vulnerable victims from criminal justice protection."It is impossible to overstate the impact Starmer had on this terrain. Without his insistence that a crime is still a crime, irrespective of when it occurred, I wonder if the police would even have launched the Yewtree investigation. It was against a backdrop of a different Crown Prosecution Service, not some nebulous atmospheric change in the culture, that Harris was prosecuted.Yet if there are assumptions about victims, there are preconceptions, too, about what a perpetrator should look like, how he should behave, what face he should present to the world. Harris makes an unlikely suspect because he was always so childish himself.In 1985 he produced his song about child abuse, intended to arm children with a ready answer, should anyone try to touch them inappropriately. This has been used to illustrate his manipulative, Savile-esque, hiding-in-plain-sight strategy, which of course it does. But at the time, it was mainly noticeable for how immature it was. "My body's nobody's body but mine," it ran. "You run your own body, let me run mine." I was 12 then; we used to sing it as a joke, the underlying comedy being its radical unintelligence. The conceptual scope of the argument seemed to be at about the level of a three-year-old, and yet what toddler could tell an adult to leave them alone to run their own body?In terms of the agency you'd need to enact his stupid song, you'd have to be at least eight. But the certainty he describes earlier in the song – "When I am touched then I know how I feel/ My feelings are mine and my feelings are real" – you probably wouldn't have until you were an adolescent. Put simply, it seemed to be a song from a man who didn't really understand sex at all, let alone physical autonomy and how to present that to a child, a man who hitched himself to an anti-paedophilia campaign for some other purpose altogether, to get in with the in crowd, or for attention. In fact, he had been abusing his daughter's friend for years.His naivety was carefully honed from the beginning, with the cheerful, inexplicably restrained kangaroo – and even more lovingly protected. I interviewed him a decade ago, and he described in huge detail the circumstances that led to the replacement of each of his lifetime's poodles (in a nutshell, every time one died, he bought a new one). It wasn't like talking to an adult at all. It was like talking to a child who had been forced to attend a cocktail party.This was just pantomime; a person who uses other people instrumentally, who exploits vulnerability, who gropes a seven-year-old then makes up a ditty about how to avoid people who want to grope you, who lies without compunction, who clings on to his own daughter for protection against the justice sought by her friend, this person is not a naif. His whole schtick was a smokescreen for a darker personality, and it turned out to be surprisingly profitable in its own right.But knowing what we know now, there is no feeling of a mystery finally unpacked; there is no relief, as there was with Savile that, finally, this manifestly creepy man has been unmasked. There was no sixth sense, screaming "wrong 'un". He was cheerful, avuncular, daft, extrovert. The qualities one would expect from a predator – borrowed, reasonably if metaphorically, from nature – are the opposite of Rolf Harris: stealth, cunning, detectable malice, demonstrable self-interest, unmastered appetite.The urge to preconceive is partly self-soothing; it would be nice if people likely to do harm could be striped yellow and black like a wasp, and just as good if we could bore into their eyes and see their character there. But there is an element, too, that we want criminals and victims to all come in prescribed guises so we can judge the rights and wrongs without having to listen. Perhaps that will be the legacy of Yewtree: the insistence that, to know, you really do have to listen.Twitter: @zoesqwilliams