A seven-year-old girl was shot in the head on her doorstep by her estranged father before he turned the gun on himself, an inquest has heard.Mary Shipstone, also known as Maryam Alromisse, was gunned down as she stood next to her mother, clutching a new violin, after she returned home from school on 11 September last year, Hastings coroner’s court was told.She was taken from the house in Northiam, East Sussex, to King’s College hospital in south London, but later died of her injuries. Her father, Yasser Alromisse, 46, was hiding in the back of a silver Toyota parked on the driveway when he fired the shots.The car windows were tinted and he had created a blind from bin bags to shield himself, the hearing was told. His body was later found in a pool of blood in the car, where he had shot himself in the head.Alan Craze, the East Sussex coroner, concluded that Mary had been unlawfully killed, and ruled her father’s death was suicide. The shooting took place at Spring Hill, a safe house where Mary had lived with her mother, Lyndsey Shipstone, for the past year. She did not want be traced by Alromisse after the collapse of their marriage, which she said had been abusive. The court heard how Alromisse had hired private detective Paul Parton, purporting to be a friend of his ex-wife, in May 2014 to try and establish the location of Shipstone, to whom he was still legally married.Parton was unable to locate her and later withdrew his services, concerned Alromisse’s motive was to take away the child. The coroner said it was not clear how Alromisse eventually found the address, but described the murder as a “thoroughly despicable act of violence”.He added: “It was not in any way spontaneous. It was pre-meditated over a long period of time.” Describing the day of the shooting, Shipstone said it had been ordinary, but that Mary was very happy and excited about her birthday in seven days’ time.She had been driven by a neighbour to collect Mary from school where she had had her first violin lesson. They parked up at their neighbour’s and walked back towards their house.  Shipstone told the court: “I was putting my key in the door, and I spoke to Mary, saying she’d like what I had done to her room, and that’s the last thing I said to her.” Mary was stood slightly behind her when she heard a loud noise. She said: “There was a terrific sound behind me like someone had burst a balloon. I turned around and the first thing I saw was Mary on the ground – her legs were crumpled behind her.” She said she quickly realised that her ex-partner had shot Mary, saying she could “see his face” in the back seat of the Toyota parked on the nearby drive. She told the inquest: “He did not show any emotion.” Shipstone carried Mary to a neighbour’s home, where they tried to revive her while waiting for emergency services to arrive. Asked why Alromisse would have wanted to kill Mary, Shipstone replied: “I don’t think I will ever really know that. It was such an extreme thing to do. I can only guess that he wanted to kill himself and for some reason he thought that she should not live without him.”She added: “He had the opportunity to shoot me as well, but he chose not to do it, and I was the one he supposedly hated the most. It’s an act of revenge, really. It’s got to be. If he really loved her, he would never have inflicted that on her.”  Shipstone told the court: “He’s left me bereft of a daughter”.The coroner described it as a “very sad and tragic case”. Speaking to Shipstone after reaching his conclusion, he said: “You will, I hope, be relieved that the whole process of the coroner’s inquest is over with.“You have got through it and I hope that the process will be deemed useful to you. But the main thing is you can put a full stop at the end of this chapter and get on with your life.”