Major retailers have been accused of bullying suspected shoplifters into paying hundreds of pounds in civil fines despite the fact that, in many cases, the alleged incident is strongly disputed or unproven, and that these charges have no apparent basis in law.After receiving thousands of complaints from affected shoppers, Citizens Advice this week took the unusual step of issuing a statement attacking the big stores for their increased use of what it calls the "unfair practice of threatened 'civil recovery'".The consumer group says people accused of shoplifting are increasingly receiving letters demanding large sums of money in "compensation", and being threatened with court action if they don't pay up. The demands for damages, typically for £150, are being sent in cases where criminal charges are rarely brought, and in many when the police have not even been called.Letters are often sent weeks after the incident, when the person thought the matter had been resolved. They take no account of the fact that the recipient denies the allegation, or that the matter was a result of genuine error while using a self-service checkout.Asda, one of the biggest users of civil recovery "fines", recently barred one disabled woman from its Peterborourgh store and then sent her a bill for £150 damages (see below). Its security staff claimed she had tried to steal goods worth £39 – she says the matter was a genuine mistake. She says she felt bullied into accepting the store "ban", and, at the time, was not told she would be pursued for civil damages.Citizens Advice estimates that more than 600,000 people have received such "civil recovery" demands since 2000, and that its bureaux have dealt with around 10,000 claims since 2007.It has analysed more than 300 cases in depth. One in four cases reported to the CAB involve teenagers, most under 17. It reports cases where demands have been made against the elderly, single mothers, carers and people with mental and physical disabilities.It says retailers typically issue these demands through civil recovery agents. The biggest of these is Nottingham-based Retail Loss Prevention (RLP). Although eight out of 10 CAB-reported cases involve demands issued by RLP, the civil recovery agent has told the CAB that it has never successfully litigated a fully-contested county court claim over an unpaid demand.Citizens Advice has received formal legal advice that there is no obvious legal basis for the demands. It says 80% of civil claims of this nature reported to bureaux were issued on behalf of just eight major retailers – Boots (19%), T.K.Maxx (17%), Asda (15%), Tesco (8%), Debenhams (7%), Wilkinson (5%), B&Q (5%) and Superdrug (4%).Citizens Advice chief executive, Gillian Guy, says: "We do not condone crime of any kind, or level, and do not underestimate the cost of retail crime, but in many of the CAB-reported cases, the alleged theft is strongly denied."The retailers' threat of civil recovery has deeply unfair consequences, and we are surprised that household names are prepared to risk their reputation in this way. We believe that if retailers, dissatisfied with the level of governmental action against retail crime, are to take matters into their own hands, they must use means that are legitimate and transparently fair. Our key concern with this practice is its reliance on intimidation, shame and ignorance of the law for its effectiveness. Many of the recipients of civil recovery threats are teenagers and many others have serious mental health problems, or are especially vulnerable."Claims by retailers that civil recovery helps to counter the cost of retail crime just don't add up – the total amount 'recovered' by the agents for their retailer clients each year is, we estimate, less than 0.4% of the total that crime costs the retail sector each year. Retailers should work with the Home Office, the police and other organisations to identify a range of legitimate and transparently fair alternatives to civil recovery which target crime committed by persistent offenders and criminal gangs," she says.Tom Ironside, director of business and regulation at the British Retail Consortium, says retail crime costs £1.1bn a year, which is reflected in shop prices. "Civil recovery is not about 'fines' – it is simply retailers attempting to protect their honest customers and the viability of their businesses by recovering the costs imposed on them by thieves. At a time when police resources are being cut, it's vital retailers are able to take this action. The BRC has developed a list of 'overarching principles' with its members, designed to underpin clear policies and procedures which ensure that civil recovery is operated proportionately and fairly."Jackie Lambert, managing director of Retail Loss Prevention, says: "The CAB clearly provides a valuable service to people experiencing legal, monetary and other problems, but they seem to have got hold of the wrong end of the stick on this occasion. Civil recovery not only acts as an effective deterrent to shoplifting crime, it recovers the retailer's costs and losses directly from those responsible, which is fairer for everyone."The CAB is essentially offering to pay for criminals' legal fees, despite the fact that, in many cases, the police have been involved and issued cautions/reprimands which require an admission of guilt to a criminal offence."Banned from AsdaLaika Jumabhoy, 24, was banned from her local Asda last month after she was stopped by security staff when she accidentally left without paying for a bag of goods.The Nottingham University graduate, who was born with cerebral palsy (spastic diplegia) and finds its difficult to walk long distances, says she put some items in a bag on the hook of her trolley to make it easier to push, and prevent the items getting damaged. In a state of confusion at the till, she forgot to pay. "In retrospect, it was silly of me ... I can see, now, how it could be construed that I was shoplifting but the mistake occurred out of genuine error and naivety on my part," she says.Jumabhoy, who spent much of her spare time at university doing charitable works, was made to sign a "notice of exclusion" and was banned from the store. "My picture was taken and I was told I could write to the manager to appeal, and that no further action would be taken. Staff refused to listen to my explanation."Concerned that she would not be able to use the only supermarket that was easily accessible using her mobility scooter – she has been an Asda customer for five years – she sent off a letter of appeal.However, rather than an explanation or apology, a few days later she received a letter from a company called Drydens headed: "Notice of Intended Civil Recovery" on behalf of Asda Stores demanding £150 damages to be paid in full within seven days "to avoid court"."I was shocked and then devastated. I was not informed at the time that I had to pay these charges. The letter, from Asda's solicitor, states that their client 'has no legal obligation to inform you that civil recovery action will be taken at the time of the offence'. My attempts to explain myself were dismissed, and my appeal has not yet been answered."I've had to pay the money although I feel it is unfair, discrimi–natory and a form of harassment – I feel that Asda made no attempt to understand my disability, and I find it hard to believe this is legal," she says.When we asked Asda for an explanation it prompted a quick about-turn. A spokeswoman says a mistake had been made by staff."We would like to apologise to Ms Jumabhoy. Staff should have taken into account her special situation, and this didn't happen, and for this we are sorry. Our systems are designed to take action against caught shoplifters – where there are no extenuating circumstance. We will now repay the £150, and, of course she will be very welcome in our stores again."