Slowly, the mood is changing in Praia da Luz. A disgruntled Portuguese cafe owner asks my colleague: 'Why don't you just go home?' And soon, if nothing happens, this man will leave, along with the rest of the British media. By then, the poster face of Madeleine McCann may be fading and peeling from shop doorways. This is the moment her parents dread.The McCanns are a family in need. They do not require the state support that this definition normally implies. Their lifeline is the publicity they see as vital if they are to see their missing daughter again. This neediness sits strangely with the widespread cry that Gerry and Kate McCann are the victims of those exploiting the grief of strangers. On the contrary, the McCanns long to have their sorrow ransacked and their solitude violated. Exposure, they think, is the last best hope they have.The story of Madeleine McCann has no parallel. Her image is already part of the mental mural of modern Britain, along with Damilola Taylor skipping between bollards and James Bulger walking from a shopping mall, holding a big boy's hand. But, in the two weeks since Madeleine disappeared from her bed, the clamour has reflected something new.David Beckham and other footballers plead for her release. MPs and cricketers wear yellow ribbons, text messages exhort grievers to light candles and 25 million people visited her mother's website in one day. As Somalia and Darfur starve, the fund for Madeleine attracts more givers than a tsunami appeal. Some think this outpouring mawkish and disproportionate; others see it as the proof of goodness.Either way, it is not spontaneous. In the Algarve, the family and their advisers are running the slickest of PR operations. Each walk, church visit or jog on the beach is a photo-opportunity. Commentators may linger on their grief, but the McCanns allow themselves no such luxury. Their daughter's beauty and their faith, middle-class status, perfect family image and their heedless twins are their product range in a marketing campaign fuelled by the hard-headedness of desperation.This fusion of emotion and calculation has made some people uneasy. The media, increasingly, are being accused of an orgy of excess. It is true that the demonisation of the two uncharged men at the centre of the investigation has been repugnant, but critics mostly seem less worried by witch-hunts than by the supposed prurience of those whipping up a mob frenzy.That, though, is not what is happening. People have, in the main, been quietly sympathetic. They might send a cheque or talk about Madeleine but, outside her home village in Leicestershire, any show of emotion is subdued. I have not seen anyone wearing a yellow ribbon in my part of north London. Barring the celebrity-averse Gordon Brown, said to have shed a tear as he held the hand of Madeleine's aunt, there has been little conspicuous emotion among the corporate donors, the famous sympathisers and the millions responding to the McCann family's 'please help' emails.This story, one of the most powerful narratives of this century, is not another parable of the emotional incontinence of the British masses. Most of the participants would never have stooped to buy carnations for Diana or shackle teddy bears to railings. It is not about voracious media or velvety compassion or the emotional striptease of the therapy age.It does, though, have the ugly elements that have marked myths of the missing since the underworld Daimones lured the young and beautiful to their beds. They have been replaced by the paedophiles and assorted predators whose shadow haunts parents. British children might be the safest in the world, and the most overprotected, but they are perceived as targets of social kleptomania. In an age obsessed by stolen childhood, it is unsurprising that a stolen child has become the story overshadowing the end of a political era.There are some old reasons why this one narrative has bubbled through a crust of other loss and sorrow. From the worship of Dionysius to the Mexican wave, mass events have either rallied or repulsed humanity, depending on your taste. In a society routinely branded as atomised, participation is now tailored to Big Brotherdom. To some, this saga has all the tackiness of reality television. Fed up of Wife Swap? Tune into Child Snatch, updated round the clock. Send money or a text. Be a part of someone else's drama and the first live audience in the national pilot show for interactive grief. Welcome to Celebrity Sorrow ClubI don't believe, though, that ordinary people are so cynical. They know, from their own families, that almost no child reaches adulthood without some brush with death and they simply hope that this one may be spared. Shared hope and fear and experience are the most visceral social bonds, as ancient and deep-rooted as love.They are the sinews of a narrative that has united the candle-lighters, the texters and the givers in a story whose fallout has certainly not been all good. There is, somewhere in the mix, a whiff of emotional coercion equating yellow ribbon refuseniks with stoniness of heart. There has been more than a whiff of blame and exploitation, too, and not only by the chancers setting up fake websites. One pro-life organisation dedicated to highlighting 'the evils of abortion and contraception' has given over its entire online news coverage to Madeleine.But those who shudder at media excess are really objecting to the way hope has been harnessed. Their complaints are often a polite, and rather hypocritical, device for not criticising the McCann family, whose plight is supposedly being exploited by a vulgar nation leeching off their quiet dignity. Nothing could be further from the truth.This is not another plague of the grief virus to which Britain is spasmodically prone or a story of hysteria. It is the first hybrid of news management and the extremity of personal sorrow. The Madeleine message is part of an orchestrated campaign of clamour, drama and purpose: anything to defer the awful reality of silence.The fund, the celebrity endorsement and the self-exposure are one family's attempt to create, in their missing daughter's name, a search machine and a legend that will endure long after the circus finally leaves town.The McCanns have used every available stratagem in the post-privacy, celebrity-driven, commercialised world of 24/7 news. They are selling a modern fairytale, dark and beguiling, and we are buying, believing that a child's life may still hang on this transaction. The hunt for Madeleine McCann is pitched at the crossroads between the Brothers Grimm and Facebook and anchored in the arcane truth that parents will fight by any means available to secure a child's survival. Good luck to them.mary.riddell@observer.co.uk