Two members of N-Dubz are to assist police as witnesses, after the Mobo-winners' DJ was arrested on suspicion of rape.Dappy and Fazer, two-thirds of the rap-pop group, were seen with Junior Edwards, aka DJ Maze, on the evening of the alleged attack, but are not suspected of involvement.N-Dubz – Dappy, Fazer and third member Tulisa – performed last Friday night at Naughty Reunion, an event held at Skegness's Butlins holiday camp. Following their performance, members attended an after-party. Edwards was arrested by Lincolnshire police on Sunday, after a complaint of rape was made. Edwards was interviewed and released on bail but is due to return on 15 February. The 22-year-old Islington resident is not an official member of N-Dubz, but a frequent and popular collaborator.Early yesterday, a spokeswoman for the police said they had not yet been able to speak to "three ... men from the Camden area of London" who were being "sought as potential witnesses".In a later statement, N-Dubz' manager, Jonathan Shalit, said: "The three members of N-Dubz were 100% not involved." Shalit went on to make clear that N-Dubz planned to cooperate. "The police have asked people at the after-show party, including N-Dubz, to voluntarily give witness statements in the next few days, which they of course will willingly do," he said."N-Dubz are very responsible to their young fans and have naturally told Junior Edwards that he is to keep well away until the charges are dropped ... The police have confirmed that no one [besides Edwards] is being treated as suspects. Any suggestion otherwise is totally misleading in its inference."Shailt went on to say that it couldn't be assumed that the allegations were true: "Some of the pitfalls of being in a successful music act is that groupies often come back to where their icons are staying and then smelling potential opportunities to make a name for themselves and money – make false allegations."Dappy and Fazer, whose real names are Dino Contostavlos and Richard Rawson, have been performing with N-Dubz since the group was founded in 2000. They have enjoyed four top 20 singles and won this year's Mobo awards for best album and best UK artist.