The three victims of the "Crossbow Cannibal" all came from good working-class families in Yorkshire. But their hopeless addiction to heroin, alcohol or crack cocaine led them to sell their bodies in the red light district on the edge of Bradford city centre and made them vulnerable to violence at the hands of punters.Amid criticism, the West Yorkshire police force was keen, from an early stage, to defend its investigation, saying it had no reason to link the disappearances of the three women.Susan Rushworth, a 43-year-old mother of three and a grandmother, was last seen walking between Manningham Lane and Lister Park in Bradford on 22 June 2009.On 26 April this year, CCTV cameras captured the last known grainy sighting of the Crossbow Cannibal's second victim, Shelley Armitage, 31, strolling up and down Sunbridge Road. The final victim was Suzanne Blamires, 36, who was captured on CCTV being attacked by Griffiths in May.In the 1990s, the street workers in Bradford were moved on by Asian elders from their traditional home of Lumb Lane, immortalised in the ITV drama Band of Gold, to the semi-industrial main road.Rushworth's marriage had imploded as a result of domestic violence and she became addicted to heroin. Her 21-year-old daughter began working the streets at 18 due to her crack cocaine and heroin addictions. She said her mother had been horrified at first, but they eventually worked together, looking for punters.Rushworth, who had epilepsy, also left a nine-year-old son and three young grandchildren. Although she was a sex worker, she was not thought to be working at the time of her death. She was being treated for her addiction, but had tried to contact her drug dealer on the afternoon of her disappearance. It is thought she lapsed after becoming depressed following an epileptic fit.Last Christmas, her two children, James and Kirsty, made an appeal through a local newspaper to find her. "Somebody knows what has happened to our mum," they said at the time. "We miss her so much."They said she had become involved in drugs six or seven years earlier, after meeting the wrong man. "Without them [the drugs] she was just a normal person and a lovely, caring mother."Nicky Blamires, Suzanne's mother, said her bright and articulate daughter had taken the wrong path after attending college and training to be a nurse."She did not have the life she was meant to have," she said. "What has happened to her will haunt me to the day I die." Often known by her street name, Amber, Suzanne Blamires disappeared after being involved in an argument with a man close to her housing association flat in Allerton.Her friends said she was feisty, spirited and a lovely woman. She lived with her boyfriend, who apparently encouraged her to work on the street. In 2001, magistrates fined her after she inadvertently propositioned a plainclothes police officer.Shelley Armitage, a mother of two children, went missing after leaving her flat three hours earlier with a friend and had eaten on the City Road before going "on the beat".She lived in Allerton, three streets from Blamires, who was a friend. Her boyfriend reported her missing.Armitage had problems with alcohol and drugs and had worked previously in Huddersfield. She was described as a good egg, genuinely pleasant, friendly and kind-hearted.Police began searching storage areas and bins close to where she was last seen. Her disappearance was particularly unusual as she had recently bought a puppy, which she adored, and she hated to be parted from her pet. A friend of Armitage's told how she worked the streets for money from the age of 15.Some residents claimed police were slow to respond to missing person reports. After Rushworth's disappearance, there was a major trawl of parks, railway lines and cemeteries. Public appeals were mounted and leaflets distributed by police speaking of their concerns.But Zoe Harford, who lives in Allerton, said it took officers three days to take a statement. She said she felt it would have been different had the missing woman not been a street worker.Sharon Norman, 36, a street worker since the age of 17, said violence was an almost daily occurance. She said she had been raped and had frequently had knives held to her throat. "I admit I've robbed some of them and they've come back looking for me, but a lot of them are seriously disturbed," she said.One of Blamires' close friends said the police must take some responsibility for her death. A landlady, she permits the street workers to use her toilets, as she is not allowed to serve them drinks."Their family was the envy of the street," she said of her friend Suzanne. "They went on safari in Africa when everybody else was going on holiday to Blackpool." By the time she reached adulthood, though, Suzanne Blamire's life had unravelled. "She was on heroin in her early 20s. We never see police around here until this. They drive past in vans or send PCSOs [police community support officers] who don't even have the power of arrest."She is also furious about the representation of street workers in the media. "These women don't deserve to die. They're all somebody's daughter, yet they're described as prostitutes and it makes it so sleazy."