Kathleen Ginty, 15, thought she was going to die after being assaulted by another girl. During a two-and-a-half hour ordeal her hair was singed and her head was smashed against the pavement.She was stamped on with such force that trainer-shaped bruises marked her body. She was also forced to strip and made to move from one part of a south Manchester suburb to another while her attacker assaulted her.Kathleen's injuries were such that her mother did not recognise her. Greater Manchester police said Kathleen was "beaten and humiliated to a sickening degree".The teenager's assault is one of several violent incidents reported in the last seven days: two men were stabbed to death and a schoolgirl was raped.The Manchester force says violent crime is falling, citing Operation Hawk, set up in April 2002, as one of its success stories by reducing street crime by 14% between April 2003 and March 2004.But other police statistics for the area tell a different story. Between June 2005 and May 2006, there was a 16% increase in violent crime, with 2,852 more victims than in the previous 12-month period. Greater Manchester police refused to discuss this surge.However, somebody who was prepared to talk about violent crime was David Prest, a 43-year-old civil servant who was attacked in September 2005.The offender, a 20-year-old with a history of affray and assault, had been drinking for 13 hours before reaching Mr Prest's doorstep.The victim, who has since moved to another part of greater Manchester for fear of reprisals, said: "My wife and I were friendly with his girlfriend - she had a son the same age as ours. I once sent her a text message with my wife's number. Her boyfriend thought we were having an affair."Mr Prest was woken by the sound of the offender vandalising his car. "He started abusing me, broke into the house and came out with a three-foot lamp. He swung it at me, it hit my arm and the impact made me stagger back. I got him in a headlock and he stuck his finger in my eye."The cut on my arm was a 7cm gash, requiring 14 internal and 14 external stitches. But it became infected and I nearly died, spending four weeks in hospital. It affected my son, who every time he sees an ambulance thinks it's coming for Daddy," Mr Prest said."It affected our unborn child, who stopped growing during the trial, and weighed around five pounds when she was born. My wife and I argued constantly. I couldn't sleep properly for ages. I would feel weepy, without knowing why."But most of all I was angry. I won't stand for any nonsense now. If I find myself in that situation again I would be more likely to make a pre-emptive move. I will not be intimidated."