The brothers of a BBC employee who was stabbed to death in an unprovoked attack spoke of their grief as they today appealed for help to catch his killer. Tom Brown, who would have celebrated his 28th birthday yesterday, died after a "vicious attack" just 200 yards from his door in Southgate, north London, during the early hours of Saturday morning. Detectives today said that such a "dangerous and motiveless" attack was extremely rare. They have ruled out robbery as a motive because Brown's cash, bank cards and mobile phone were still on him. Officers have appealed for the person who called an ambulance to come forward, and believe the man - who waited for paramedics to arrive - could offer crucial clues about the killing. He is described as black, of large build and driving an "executive style" car.At a press conference in Barking, East London today, Brown's brother Adam, a 42-year-old producer for Sky TV, said: "It's difficult to describe in a few words the life of someone you believed would always be with you." Paying tribute to his brother, he said: "Tom was a son, brother and, most importantly, a friend. His philosophy was simple - do the right thing and always put others first. "He never allowed himself to succumb to envy, ambition and greed. There aren't many people like Tom in the world, and the world will be a much poorer place without him." He added that his brother had been attacked in a "vicious assault in a place where anyone should be able to walk at any time". Another brother, Paul Brown, a 40-year-old cameraman, said: "Our family will never be the same, but please make sure no other father, mother, sister, brother will suffer in the way we are suffering." He said his brother, who worked in the BBC's archives department, was hoping to become a cameraman and had been planning to buy a new house. Brown knew the area in which he was attacked "inside out" because the family had grown up there, Paul Brown said. "It's a nice, pleasant part of London where you don't expect this to happen," he added. Detective Chief Inspector Keith Garnish, the senior investigating officer in the case, said: "These types of attacks are very rare - that is why it is so worrying. There is no motive for the attack." Brown's body was found on Southgate High Street, where he had been attacked. He had been out celebrating his birthday with friends at two local pubs and at a house in Mayfair Terrace before he made the 20 minute journey home. Up to 40 officers have carried out house to house enquiries in the area.Mr Brown was wearing glasses, a blue zip-up top and black trainers at the time of his death. His parents, Neil Brown and Elizabeth Harris, who are divorced, were too upset to attend today's press conference. Anyone with any information should contact police on 020 8345 3715.