Prison governors last night urged that offenders convicted of crimes that carry a sentence of six months or less should no longer be jailed, as a surge in the prison population pushed it to a high of 70,578.Home Office ministers will announce plans today for an emergency building programme of an extra 2,000 prison places in an attempt to avert the crisis. Prisoners are already being bussed hundreds of miles around the country to find them a spare prison cell. The expanded home detention curfew scheme under which hundreds more less serious offenders will be released early under electronic tag was brought in on Monday. But penal reformers last night warned that no government could ever simply "build its way out of an overcrowding crisis". The call from the prison governors to scrap prison sentences of six months or less, and to remove from magistrates the power to jail offenders, is contained in a new "manifesto for effective correctional policy" published yesterday by the Prison Governors Association. The prisons minister, Beverley Hughes, welcomed the manifesto and hinted that the government would adopt the proposal. She said that more appropriate use of custody would be a theme of the government's forthcoming white paper on sentencing. "We need to prevent the overloading of the system to the point where it becomes impossible to manage the necessary educational, training and employment work which will avoid those leaving prison reoffending," she said. Mike Newall, governor of Durham prison and PGA chairman, said the governors wanted to keep short-sentence offenders out of prison, not to deal with overcrowding but because there was little they could do to tackle their offending while they were inside for such a short period of time. "All we can do in a matter of weeks is assess people. Those who are neglected by society we can clean them up and start them on another path but that could be done better in the community." Magistrates claimed, he said, that they only used prison as a last resort. But in that case, use of short sentences was an admission of failure that community penalties were not working effectively. The governors want to see a maximum 91 day limit on the time unconvicted inmates spend on remand awaiting trial. They also advocate new measures taken to curb overcrowding, and suggest the home secretary's personal permission should be needed before a prison can exceed its agreed operational capacity. "At over 70,000 the prison population outstrips spaces, and overcrowding approaches unmanageable levels. We cannot deliver effective regimes for such large numbers. "Overcrowding causes complete disruption to prison regimes and prevents the improvement of the offenders as a person." Last night a leading penal reformer, Lady Stern, backed the governors' manifesto saying they knew the useful work they could do with their inmates if they were not lurching from overcrowding crisis to overcrowding crisis. "Nowhere in the world has a government successfully built its way out of an overcrowding crisis," she said.