A 16-year-old has been jailed for at least 12 years for murdering another teenager by stabbing him in the chest as he travelled on a crowded bus in north London. Shawn Green denied a charge of murder but admitted knifing Derek Boateng after boarding a crowded single-decker bus outside Highbury Grove school in Islington, on 23 April.After a jury returned a guilty verdict at the Old Bailey, Judge Peter Thornton QC jailed Green for a minimum of 12 years and lifted reporting restrictions to allow his name to be published by the media for the first time.Tom Kark QC, prosecuting, said there appeared to have been some previous dispute between the boys. "Whatever had gone on before, we say this was a senseless act of violence, " he said. "It resulted in the tragic and untimely death of a young boy. The sad fact is that both the defendant and the victim, Derek Boateng, were carrying knives and both produced them. But the prosecution suggest that it's clear who was the aggressor in this incident, and that was the defendant."Kark said CCTV footage from cameras on board the bus had captured much of the incident, although some of it was obscured by other passengers. The attack unfolded moments after the defendant boarded outside his school just after 3pm..The victim, from Hackney, had previously attended Highbury Grove but was no longer a pupil there, the court heard.Kark said there appeared to be "immediate hostility" from Green after he boarded the bus and saw Derek sitting towards the back. He told jurors Green moved aggressively past other passengers towards the teenager and asked "something of the nature of: 'Do you remember me?' "Kark said Green then produced what was described by witnesses as a 6-8in kitchen knife from his clothes and was seen to push it towards Derek two or three times. "There was panic, there was shouting and screaming on the bus as the passengers realised what was happening," he said.The barrister said Derek was "very much hemmed in" where he was sitting, but witnesses related how he tried to move back towards the window in an attempt to get away from his attacker.Green, from Romford in Essex, admitted stabbing Derek but claimed that he had been acting in self-defence. The victim was taken to London hospital in Whitechapel by air ambulance but died the following day, his 16th birthday.The knife used to stab him was never recovered but his own weapon was found in his jacket, the court heard.Detective Chief Inspector Chris Jones, of Scotland Yard's homicide and major crime command, said: "The incident has wrecked another teenager's life and Derek's 16-year-old attacker will now spend many years behind bars."