Detectives hunting a firebomber thought to be behind a series of attacks against Asian-owned businesses which have left one shopworker dead have arrested a 33-year-old man. The suspect is being questioned after he was held at an address in Stockwell, south London, on Monday.Petrol bombs were hurled into three small shops in three successive weeks. Khizar Hayat, 40, was trapped and killed in the latest attack, on the Pricecutter convenience store in Clapham Road, Kennington, last Thursday. Another man who also worked in the shop is still in a critical condition in hospital.Detectives linked the daylight bombing - metres from a police building - to two other daylight attacks in which improvised petrol bombs were thrown through the doors of small south London stores run by shopkeepers originally from Pakistan and Sri Lanka.Witnesses of one attack said the man announced: "Here's a petrol bomb for you" when he opened the shop door.Arul Sivan, 31, from Carshalton, south London, told yesterday how he helped five customers escape the News at Nine shop, where he works, in Tulse Hill after a petrol bomb was thrown into the premises at 1.30pm on April 14. "I was tidying up newspapers at the front of the store when I heard a loud bang and within 30 seconds there was black smoke everywhere and a wall of flames shooting up to the ceiling," he said."There were five customers at the back of the store and one of them was on fire. I ran through the flames, then looked down and saw that my trainers, trousers and shirt had all caught fire." It took 15 minutes to bring the fire under control. One person was treated for burns.Mr Sivan said he found a two-litre plastic bottle stuffed with newspaper and still half-full of petrol near the remains of the counter. Police are examining this and a similar device found after the second attack, on an off-licence in South Norwood at 7.25am on April 20. Those inside escaped unhurt."I felt pretty shaken up afterwards. No one expects to have a petrol bomb thrown into their shop and I realised I could have died," added Mr Sivan, who did not see the bomber."I have no idea why anyone would do this," he said. "We've never had any trouble from customers before. He must be a lunatic."None of the shops were aware of any business-related disputes or potential motive, leading detectives to conclude that the attacks were spurred by a racist hatred for Asian shopkeepers or Asians in general.Police said a number of witnesses had agreed on the good likeness of a distinctive efit of a thick-set black man which was drawn up from information provided by a senior detective sergeant who witnessed the third attack from a window of the police building in Kennington. The officer chased the man but he escaped down a side street.