One in 200 householders in England and Wales will face a violent intruder this year, criminal psychologists warned yesterday as they published research detailing three main types of burglar.David Canter, director of the centre of investigative psychology at Liverpool University, said the vast majority of burglaries are carried out by people who would rather flee than confront the householder. These criminals are defined as "chancers" - unarmed, unskilled opportunists who will generally only turn violent if they are provoked - or "creepers", highly skilled burglars who will go to great lengths to avoid confrontation. But, launching a report commissioned by Chubb Insurance, Professor Canter warned that a growing number of burglars fall into a third, more dangerous category, dubbed "confronters". They do not care if a house is occupied and are willing to use violence against the householder. "As people get more home security, more offenders are thinking the only way they can get access to valuables is to confront the householder," he said. "Any suggestion that burglars are not being caught is liable to make them take more risks." As a result, Prof Canter said, the best chance for a householder to escape unharmed is to be cooperative and non-confrontational. "Have-a-go-heroes" and those who act like victims risk inviting violence. The overall number of burglaries continues to drop -down by 2% in the latest quarterly British crime survey, while the London figure fell by 8% last year compared with 2002, according to the Metropolitan police. But the Chubb study, which draws together a range of official statistics, shows that aggravated or violent burglary has risen by 79% since 1991, with violence used in 10% of break-ins. Fifty-one percent of burglaries take place when someone is at home, and 25% of occupants are aware that the burglar is in the house, so there is potential for confrontation in one in four cases. Super-rich celebrities are obvious targets. Last August, thieves handcuffed Cilla Black's 22-year-old son, Jack, and held a knife to his throat before making off with with £1m-worth of jewellery. The Chelsea player Juan Sebastian Veron and his girlfriend woke up to find a machete-wielding robber in their bedroom. But many others are also at risk, from reasonably wealthy professionals to those on easily accessible inner city council estates, and 18% of homes are burgled more than once. Prof Canter, who co-wrote the report with Donna Youngs, debunks the myth of the cool, calm, calculating Hollywood-style villain. "Real burglars are not like we see in the movies," he said. "Many are highly excitable and not in full control of their emotions. Sometimes they might be high on drugs or desperate for their next fix. "Respond to what they seem to want, but be no more active than you need to be. Tell them what you're doing and why." However, being totally submissive is not the answer. Prof Canter said householders should adopt a state of "active passivity" - comply with the burglar, but note as many details about them as possible to help the police catch them. Pleading with the intruder, not to hit or rape you, for instance, could place you in greater danger by putting the idea into their heads. But he especially warns against "having a go", saying this will usually made violence more likely. "I run workshops with bank and building society employees and I ask them why they might feel the need to adopt a heroic role. Some people feel angry or insulted that they can't protect themselves, colleagues or family against a burglar. The question you really need to ask yourself is, do you want to be a dead hero for your loved ones?" John Simms, of Chubb Insurance, said: "We would rather pay out £200,000 for stolen jewellery than £100,000 life insurance." The British Crime Survey 2002-2003 found that half the UK population fear burglary, and 40% are concerned about being attacked in their homes."The government is well aware that fear of crime is something that needs to be addressed," said Prof Canter. "Giving people a better understanding of the conditions in which crime occurs and what they can do about it is one way to help."