Police have shot dead a man who led them in a chase through Bristol streets after he and an accomplice fired at unarmed officers.Hampshire police have been called in to investigate the Thursday night shooting of the unidentified man. The shooting has also been referred to the police complaints authority. The man was shot near a railway embankment on James Street in the St Werburghs area of Bristol at about 11:30pm and died later in hospital of his injuries. Avon and Somerset police refused yesterday to confirm that one, or more, of their officers had shot the man but a police source said the man appeared to have been shot and his accomplice had got away. Fergus Lynch, who was managing the Victoria pub about 200 yards from where the incident occurred, said he had been told by officers the man was shot by police. Mr Lynch said several shots were fired after police cordoned off an area the man was fleeing to. "Four of the customers here were sitting outside having a drink, they just heard the police calling to the guys to drop their guns - 'Armed police, drop your weapons!'," Mr Lynch said. "Then there were a number of shots fired and then maybe a couple of minutes after that there was a single shot." He said the incident had begun at the St Pauls area of Bristol. "Two guys held a gun up at an unarmed policeman down there," Mr Lynch said. "I'm not sure whether they shot at him. "They broke through a police cordon somehow - [the police] caught up with them at an embankment and yelled at them to throw down their weapons; they obviously didn't and started shooting." The man's accomplice had got away even though police had a helicopter over the area at the time of the gun battle. Avon and Somerset police released a statement yesterday saying that armed police had been called in after reports shots had been fired at unarmed police officers. "What we have said is that there were reports that there was some shots fired at unarmed police officers, our officers called in some armed police and then there were some shots fired of which we were involved," a spokeswoman said. Police said they found a suspected firearm at the scene. They would not confirm officially that another man was being chased by police. An ambulance had taken the man who was shot to Bristol Royal infirmary where he died from his wounds. Avon and Somerset's assistant chief constable, Andy Drane, said police involved in the incident were to receive counselling. "Our firearms officers are highly trained, dedicated, professionals who protect both the public and their colleagues in the most extreme and demanding circumstances," he said. "While this is extremely serious and very distressing for all those involved, we will be reassuring the community that instances of this kind are fortunately extremely rare."