A former SAS soldier who killed his terminally ill son walked free from court today after he was cleared of his murder. Andrew Wragg, who had denied murder, was cleared by a jury at Lewes crown court, but convicted of manslaughter, which he had earlier admitted on the grounds of diminished responsibility. The 38-year-old, whose lawyers had claimed had been suffering from an "abnormality of mind" when he suffocated his 10-year-old son Jacob, was sentenced to two years in prison suspended for two years.The jury rejected the prosecution's case that it was murder and had been a "selfish killing", brought about by Wragg's inability to cope with the boy's condition.Speaking after the jury cleared Wragg of murder, trial Judge Mrs Justice Anne Rafferty told him that the case "seems to me [to be] exceptional". She went on: "That being so, I consider that there is nothing to be gained by taking from you your liberty." The judge said that the sentence sent out the "resounding message that this was not a mercy killing but a deed done by a man suffering from diminished responsibility". Wragg, who has worked as a private security guard in Iraq, had admitted suffocating Jacob at the family home in Worthing, West Sussex, on July 24 last year.On his arrest on the night of the killing, Wragg told police: "Please don't judge me before you know the true facts. It was a mercy killing. My son wanted me to do it because he had a terminal illness. He's at peace now. I loved him so much." Jacob had been suffering from Hunter syndrome, a rare degenerative disease, and was not expected to live beyond his mid-teens. Only around three boys a year are diagnosed with the disease, which leaves its victims deaf, dumb, incontinent and eventually in a vegetative state before death. At the time of Jacob's killing, the boy's mother, Mary Wragg, was out with the couple's other son. Ms Wragg, who is now divorced, returned home to find her former husband cuddling Jacob's body. During the 10-day trial, Philip Katz QC, prosecuting, consistently rejected the defendant's account that he had carried out a merciful killing to end his son's suffering, telling the court that this was "no defence to murder". Wragg said he had "seen in Jacob's eyes" that the boy wanted him to end his life and his legal team had argued this was evidence that the defendant had been suffering an abnormality of mind. But Mr Katz suggested Wragg knew exactly what he was doing when he knelt over Jacob as he slept and suffocated him - and that his plans for the future showed he was thinking rationally. The court heard how Wragg was planning to return to Iraq for another period as an £80,000-a-year security guard, had booked himself a holiday and socialised with friends. However, Wragg claimed that the pressure of looking after Jacob, his failing marriage and the experiences he had endured in Iraq led him to a state of mind in which he believed his son had "come to the end of the road". The trial heard that Wragg had been drinking before the killing. In his opening speech, Mr Katz told the jury: "We say this defendant had to distance himself from Jacob and that this was a selfish killing done in drink. It was Mr Wragg's own perceived way out of a situation he found too difficult to cope with." Mr Katz said that Mr Wragg may have understandably been feeling "disappointment, sadness, loss, fear and anger" but he was "not suffering an abnormality of mind as to substantially impair his mental responsibility for his actions". But the jury, which retired on Friday, cleared Wragg of murder shortly after reconvening deliberations this morning. The case highlights the controversial questions surrounding mercy killings and euthanasia, which have increasingly coming before the courts. There is growing support for the right to end a life to spare "needless" suffering. However the Voluntary Euthanasia Society said the group would never support cases such as Wragg's. Mark Slattery, a spokesman for the society, which is backing the Assisted Dying for the Terminally Ill Bill, said: "This case just demonstrates what an incredibly complex issue mercy killing really is. Our society is about the law in respect to competent adults, and the fundamental right to take your own life. "This is not the case for children, and so it is far more difficult. Our campaign is not about children, and I do not see a time when it would ever be because they are not competent adults in the eyes of the law."