A man suspected of stealing an Bristol pensioner's identity and using it while committing a multi-million dollar fraud is a British citizen, US authorities confirmed last night.Derek Lloyd Sykes, 72, who also used the names Derek Bond and Robert James Grant, confirmed his real name and nationality during a hearing in Las Vegas. The FBI believe he was born in York. His arrest came after the real Derek Bond, a charity worker and rotarian, spent three weeks languishing in a South African jail because the FBI had "the wrong man". Mr Bond's wine tasting holiday was interrupted by South African police acting on instructions from Interpol, which relayed a request from the FBI to detain him in the belief he was one of their most wanted criminals. Sykes is alleged to have stolen Mr Bond's identity, including his passport number, and used it to cover his tracks for as long as 14 years without the former civil engineer having any inkling. The 72-year-old pensioner first sensed trouble when he was detained for seven hours in Cape Town airport at the start of his holiday on January 27. The FBI ignored the South African alert so he was released, only to be picked up the following week in KwaZulu-Natal after a belated response from the bureau. Despite having agents in Pretoria and digital images of Sykes, the FBI did not check they had the right man, not even when the Foreign Office voiced doubts. Mr Bond's family broke the story to the media earlier this week. The publicity appears to have prompted an anonymous tip which led to the FBI arresting Sykes at an apartment east of the Las Vegas gambling strip where he had been living under the name Robert James Grant for about three-and-a-half years. As Derek Bond, Sykes was indicted in December 1999 in Houston, Texas, on 22 charges of wire fraud, money laundering and interstate transportation of stolen property. He denies the charges. Federal magistrate Robert Johnston yesterday ordered him held in custody pending transfer to Houston, where he faces trial for his alleged involvement in the fraud. Two men have been jailed as part of the investigation into the telemarketing scheme, which cost hundreds of vulnerable people more than £3m of their savings in the mid-1990s. An FBI spokesman said agents in Houston were investigating whether Sykes had stolen Mr Bond's identity. The immigration and naturalisation service is also investigating whether he overstayed his visa in the US. The British embassy in Washington confirmed that they had been informed of the arrest and were arranging consular access. In South Africa, the real Mr Bond was recuperating from his ordeal with his wife Audrey. The couple, who are considering legal action against the FBI, are expected to fly back to Britain today.