Three men were today convicted of murdering the son of a subpostmaster who was shot as they tried to rob his parents' store.Craig Hodson-Walker, 29, was shot through the heart on 9 January in the post office and village store in Fairfield, near Bromsgrove, Worcestershire. His attackers were armed with a 9mm automatic handgun and a sledgehammer.Anselm Ribera fired the gun three times inside the store, with one of the shots also hitting Hodson-Walker's father, Kenneth, in the shin. The prosecution told Birmingham crown court that although Ribera, 34, was the gunman, it had in effect been a team weapon.He and Christopher Morrissey, 32, of Birmingham, and his 33-year-old brother Declan Morrissey, of Shirley, Solihull, had denied murder and attempted murder. But they were convicted of both charges after the jurors deliberated for two days. Another defendant, Adrian Snape, 25, of Small Heath, Birmingham, was cleared of both charges.After he was cleared of murder, Snape, who had already pleaded guilty to attempted robbery after admitting he had been the getaway driver, leapt up in the dock and shouted repeatedly: "I told you. I fucking told you, didn't I?"He was then removed by security staff while the jurors, some of whom appeared to be visibly upset by his outburst, were told to leave the court.The other three men were also convicted of possessing a firearm with intent to endanger life and attempted robbery. All four men will be sentenced on Friday.The court was told that seven years ago, Ribera was convicted of a robbery at a post office in Kings Norton, in Birmingham. A concrete block had been thrown through a security screen and two balaclava-clad men made off with £4,000.Christopher Morrissey had also previously been convicted of three counts of robbery in Gateshead in the late 1990s. Two of the raids involved post offices and the third was a cash in transit raid on a security van. During one of the post office raids, a concrete block was used to smash security glass before a raider stood on the counter and pointed a sawn-off shotgun at the postmaster.Timothy Raggatt, QC, prosecuting, said it had been a planned attack by men who were armed when they went to rob the Fairfield store. "They went with a loaded gun, everyone on the team knew it and they were prepared to use it," he said."All that Craig Hodson-Walker had done in terms of what led to his death was attempt to defend his parents, who were both in the store at the time, from a group of men who had chosen to attack it." The planned and ruthlessly determined robbery had ultimately failed as the robbers left empty handed but took the life of a young man "in a thoroughly needless but obviously and wholly deliberate fashion".The shop had £20,000 in a safe. But the safe was on a time lock and would not have opened until 9am – 40 minutes after the robbers struck.• This article was amended on Thursday 17 December 2009. Due to an editing error, we mislocated the site of the post office robbery for which Anselm Ribera was previously convicted. This has been corrected.