The abolition of another civil right was signalled yesterday: an end to a defendant's right to silence. Sweeping changes have been proposed by the Northern Ireland Secretary and, in a parallel statement, the Home Secretary announced he would be following suit once his working party reports early next year.Douglas Hurd has not tried to hide his criticism of the present procedure. Indeed, he began the debate in a speech to the Police Foundation last year when he asked: 'Is it really in the interests of justice that experienced criminals should be able to refuse to answer all police questions secure in the knowledge that a jury will never hear of it?' Neither Secretary of State, in London or Belfast, is suggesting that suspects must reply to questions in police stations and the courts. What's at issue is the right of the prosecution to bring to the attention of a jury the fact that a defendant refused to answer questions when arrested by the police. Until now, the Home Secretary would not have swept the right completely away. He only wanted it lifted in cases where a defendant refused to answer police questions but later produced a defence which could have been mentioned on arrest. It is still unclear whether he will go as far as the new Northern Ireland order.The issue raises fierce emotions. It divides the lawyers, with many senior judges supporting abolition but the criminal Bar fervently opposed. It would help if the debate could now be framed in dispassionate terms.There are strong arguments for keeping the right to silence. They were set out by the Royal Commission on Criminal Procedure, which concluded in 1981 that it should be retained. It is wrong to assume that only a guilty person chooses to be silent. There are several reasons why an innocent suspect might remain silent - confusion, the need to protect someone else, or even a sense of outrage at the accusation. Extremely small numbers, in fact, remain silent: one survey found only four per cent. But the right is important because it prevents undue pressure being applied by the police to suspects.The arguments against, however, are too easily dismissed. Historically, the right was established for a court procedure entirely different from the criminal justice system that has since developed. It emerged at a time when defendants were not permitted to give evidence in their own defence. Since then, not only have defendants been given the right to state their case but three important developments have followed within the last decade. A new police code has established clear rules on a suspect's right of access to a solicitor. The penalty for breaching the new rules are strict. The Court of Appeal quashed a conviction for robbery last December because of a breach of the code. The second new protection is the duty solicitor scheme, now two years old, which provides that every suspect in a police station has the right to free legal advice.The third new development is perhaps the most important: the automatic tape-recording of police interrogations. This is expected to be nationwide by 1991. It will provide an important additional protection for defendants. They will no longer be able to be 'verballed' (invented replies by the police) and any unfair pressure by the police will be immediately exposed. But the new technology also challenges the right to silence. It is going to be difficult to remove the questions from a tape which a defendant has refused to answer. The best compromise might be the tape-recorder.