Knowledge about the wider picture of trafficking can be accumulated only over time and gleaned from a detailed and dedicated approach to the cases of individual victims. This requires improved systems for protection and assistance, which is the only way that frightened and vulnerable trafficked people are enabled to come forward. So the comparison made in today's report between the existence of trafficking victims and that of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq was overblown and inappropriate.At the Helen Bamber Foundation we provide psychological care and treatment to survivors of torture, genocide and those who have suffered gross human rights violations including those who have been trafficked for sexual exploitation, domestic servitude and forced labour. But the referral of these women, men and children to us for clinical services or documentation of injuries relies upon whether individuals come into contact with a small number of specialised professionals who have the expertise to identify and assist them. As almost all of our trafficked clients have claimed asylum, we do not have much information concerning cases that do not come through that system.Through our work we find those who have been trafficked are often realistically afraid of being penalised as "immigration offenders"; they feel stigmatised by their history of exploitation, sexual or otherwise; do not realise that they have any legal rights to protection; or fear reprisals against themselves or their families by the traffickers. They face difficulties in talking about their experiences due to a profound fear that they will not be believed. This is compounded by complex psychological trauma.With improved access to appropriately specialised legal advice and mainstream medical services, there is greater potential to identify and therefore assist victims of trafficking. The trafficked people we work with may not have been identified for years, either while being exploited or after their escape from the control of traffickers; and we find that the long-term influence of traffickers over individual lives is often underestimated. In our experience, even victims who have serious, documented injuries sustained from trafficking and exploitation may have their cases denied by the UK authorities.There is no room for complacency on this issue, or dismissal because the problem is not considered to be on a significant scale – it involves servitude, and therefore the devastation of human lives. Any debate about the wider picture of trafficking can be helpful, but only if it leads to a reasoned approach and further investigation of the problem, rather than shutting down vital public interest and resources. We believe that collation and analysis of information by an independent national rapporteur on trafficking would be the best way forward.