A tense, six-hour standoff between armed police and Raoul Moat, Britain's most wanted man, ended early this morning when the fugitive shot himself.At 1.15am a single gunshot was heard at the scene of the standoff and officers were reported to have surrounded Moat and jumped on him. In a statement, the police said "no shots were fired by police officers" and it "appears the suspect shot himself".An ambulance reportedly sped from the scene, taking the former nightclub bouncer, 37, to a Newcastle hospital. He was pronounced dead at 2.20am.Having evaded capture for almost a week, Moat had been surrounded by police snipers in the Northumberland village of Rothbury while he pointed a shotgun at his own neck.He was wanted over the shooting of his ex-girlfriend Samantha Stobbart and the fatal shooting of her partner, Chris Brown, last Saturday, followed by the shooting of PC David Rathband on Sunday.Just after 7pm yesterday Moat made a break from his hiding place near Cragside, about 300 metres from Rothbury. Witnesses described him walking along the bank of the River Coquet when two police officers approached him.Within moments Moat was said to have gone down flat on his stomach and put a sawn-off shotgun to his neck, his finger apparently on the trigger. In seconds he was surrounded by 10 marksmen.Trained police negotiators tried to talk with Moat, who was in a highly agitated state and shouting at officers who ordered him to lie on the ground.Marksmen trained their guns and Tasers on him, while snipers lay on the banks of the river behind an armoured police vehicle. An RAF Tornado plane with infra-red equipment roared overhead.As daylight faded, police sent in food and water to try to help develop a rapport. It was reported that Moat's friend Tony Laidler had arrived to try to assist with negotiations.As torrential rain poured on the scene, the deadlock was broken at 1.15am when a single shot was heard, followed by the sound of shouting.Peter Abiston was watching Moat throughout: "There are about 20 armed officers lying down pointing weapons at him. He looks very calm. It looks as though the police clearly have it under control."Chris Robertson said he thought he had seen Moat holding a gun to his neck. "There was a man down by the river with what appeared to be a sawn-off shotgun pointing to his own neck. He was about 150 yards away. I wasn't sure it was Moat. Then the police came and pointed their rifles at him."The temporary chief constable of Northumbria police, Sue Sim, said: "While the incident has been brought to a close we must be mindful of the impact it has had on many lives. Our thoughts are with the family and friends of those affected."I'd like to thank the public, particularly the community of Rothbury, for their continued help throughout the inquiry. This has been a difficult time for them and their support has been invaluable."The force also confirmed that the incident had been referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) because officers had had contact with Moat prior to his death.The IPCC commissioner, Nicholas Long, said: "Early indications show that gunshots were not fired by police officers and this will of course form part of the IPCC independent investigation. It is also understood that a police officer did discharge a Taser and our investigation will also look at this."Sim later confirmed that a stun gun had been fired, "however, this did not prevent [Moat's] death".The independent police watchdog is already investigating whether Northumbria police took adequate action after they received a warning from Durham prison, following Moat's release on 1 July, that he might intend to cause serious harm to Stobbart.Moat had remained at large for almost a week, allegedly aided by friends and associates. Six people have been arrested in connection with the investigation so far and two have already appeared before magistrates charged with conspiracy to commit murder and possession of a firearm.Hundreds of officers were involved in the search, with 14 additional forces brought in, including 40 officers from the Metropolitan police's C019 sniper unit and 20 armoured police cars shipped in from Northern Ireland.Throughout the inquiry, Northumbria police remained convinced Moat was in the area, despite cynicism as the search went on. Local sources believe Moat may have been sleeping rough in a storm drain that runs beneath the town.In a surreal development, the former England and Newcastle footballer Paul Gascoigne turned up at the police cordon in an intoxicated state last night, claiming to be a friend of Moat and offering to give the fugitive assistance.Moat's uncle, a former paratrooper, said that he also called police and offered to help negotiations.Charles Alexander, 72, who served in the Paras for 18 years, said he was "the nearest thing [Moat] had to a father".Mr Alexander, who now expects to have to identify his nephew's body, said: "I just can't believe it has come to this. I was praying he would hand himself in."What he has done is terrible, but he didn't deserve death. I just wish that police had let me go to him."I rang the police at 11 o'clock to ask them to take me to him as I knew I could make a difference. They brought one of his friends in but he was upset about family – it was family he needed."Mr Alexander added: "What is most upsetting is that now we'll never know why it happened and what made him crack."The main approach to the town remains cut off today as police continue forensic work on the banks of the Coquet.Apart from the site of the shooting, most police attention today was focussed on the large storm drain, or culvert, which threads under the centre of Rothbury, helping relieve the River Coquet after heavy rain. There is speculation that Moat may have used the storm drains to evade capture.Shops and pubs in the village remain unusually quiet for a summer weekend with just a scattering of people in the High Street, overseen by dozens of police. The big difference is that none are armed, and the siege atmosphere of the last week has gone."It's just great to be able to bring the children down here to the town centre," said lawyer Helen Woodford, who moved to Rothbury two years ago with her husband Martin "for the peace and quiet". "Since then things have never stopped happening. Snow, floods and now, to cap everything, this."Martin Woodford, also a lawyer, expressed relief at the end of the siege.He said: "It's a relief, although sad that they didn't succeed in avoiding a death. We've found the police very good and helpful, though there are clearly questions to be asked about the investigation. But it's always easy to be critical with hindsight. Let's wait and see what the independent inquiry turns up."Volunteers opened Rothbury United Reform church for the day, offering a steady flow of local people a cup of tea and the chance to share experiences and feelings about the week. One volunteer, William Flett, said: "We've come through because this is a very solid community."He added: "The police were stunning. These were young people who had been told that they were being targeted, but they were endlessly cheerful as well as efficient. I think 99.9% of people in Rothbury will tell you that."