The NHS should offer heroin to drug addicts and open "consumption rooms" where users can go to inject under medical supervision in order to cut crime and keep public spaces free from dirty needles, the head of Britain's biggest nursing union said today.Dr Peter Carter, general secretary of the Royal College of Nursing (RCN), said providing heroin on the NHS would cut crime rates and help wean addicts off the drug.Speaking in a personal capacity after a debate on the issue at the RCN's annual conference in Bournemouth, he said: "I do believe in heroin prescribing. The fact is, heroin is very addictive. People who are addicted so often resort to crime, to steal to buy the heroin."He said he was aware of the controversy over how chronic drug users should be treated, but said: "It might take a few years but I think people will understand. If you are going to get people off heroin then in the initial stages we have to have proper heroin prescribing services."The statement provoked an immediate reaction from academics and from within the nursing profession, with many saying that this was a "slippery slope" which could see the state subsidising other addictive drugs such as cocaine.However there is emerging research that this strategy can work. Pilot studies run by academics at King's College's national addiction centre suggest that allowing users to inject heroin under medical supervision could cut local crime rates by two-thirds in six months.Of 127 users involved in the pilots, three-quarters "substantially reduced" their use of street drugs, while their spending on drugs fell from £300 to £50 a week. The number of crimes they committed fell from 1,731 in three months to 547 in six months.Users were offered a range of support, including psychological therapy, and typically attended the clinic up to twice daily, seven days a week. The cost was about £15,000 per patient per year, compared with prison costs of £44,000 a year, researchers behind the pilots said.Dr Carter said: "Critics say you are encouraging drug addiction, but the reality is that these people are addicts and they are going to do it anyway. I think there should be research into drug consumption rooms – they have them in Sydney and Amsterdam."Despite being derided as state-funded "shooting galleries", he said in these two cities users had stopped injecting in places such as school playgrounds and the stairwells of housing complexes.Debating the issue at the RCN conference, several nurses agreed with the approach. Claire Topham Brown, from Cambridgeshire, said providing heroin on the NHS could cut the transmission of viruses such as HIV and hepatitis and provide a "stepping stone" to get people off heroin and on to the heroin substitute methadone.However Gail Brooks, from the RCN's UK safety representatives committee, opposed the idea: "Where would this stop? Cannabis, cocaine, crack cocaine … other substances? If you do this for heroin, do you have to do this for every other drug out there?"Some academics were highly critical of the approach, saying that it would enter the realm of "social problem prescribing". Neil McKechnie, professor of drug misuse research at Glasgow University, said: "Prescribing heroin on the basis of reducing crime is risky territory. It should be on the basis of clinical need … in this case an individual prescribed a medicine to reduce crime. It is an ethically questionable proposal."We should be focused on getting users off drugs, not giving them access to additional drugs. Certainly over the last 10 years of the Labour government we have emphasised harm reduction over abstinence."In the runup to the election the major parties have all stressed the importance of alternative treatments for long-term drug addicts.Other experts said money should be spent on therapy instead. David Green, director of the Civitas thinktank, said: "Money should be spent on therapy approaches, rather than keeping users on drugs."One idea being piloted at the moment is using so-called 'opioid antagonists' – drugs which make people sick if they take heroin. There is a pilot currently underway in Harrogate, North Yorkshire, and it takes five days or so for users to get off heroin."