The Scotland Yard commissioner Sir Ian Blair yesterday vehemently denied "hanging out to dry" three white Metropolitan Police officers for the sake of political correctness.The three men claimed they were made scapegoats when a female Asian officer complained about their allegedly racist behaviour at a training day. But yesterday, Sir Ian told an employment tribunal in Stratford, east London, that the men had been guilty of deliberately offensive behaviour and that the Met's handling of the case was justified. Detective Constable Thomas Hassell, 60; acting Detective Chief Inspector Paul Whatmore, 39; and Detective Sergeant Colin Lockwood, 55, are suing the Met for racial and sexual discrimination. The men faced a disciplinary board in June 2001 after a colleague, Detective Sergeant Shabnam Chaudhari complained about their behaviour at a cultural awareness training day in October 1999. Mr Hassell, who retired last year, compared Islamic headwear to "tea cosies", mispronounced Shi'ites as "shitties" and said he felt sorry for Muslims because they could not eat, drink alcohol or have sex during the daylight hours of Ramadan. He immediately apologised for the mispronunciation and said the other remarks were in the context of a presentation on cultural differences and not meant to cause offence. The other two senior officers were criticised for not intervening. The men claim they were victims of political correctness in the wake of the 1999 MacPherson report into the death of black teenager Stephen Lawrence which accused the Met of institutional racism. Sir Ian, who became deputy commissioner in charge of diversity and discipline in February 2000, insisted yesterday that the three men were treated like any other officer would have been in the circumstances, regardless of race or background. He claimed the matter was a "critical incident", despite admitting that he had never read a report by one of his senior staff, which downplayed events at the training day, and the fact that all three were exonerated by the Met's most senior Asian officer, assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur. Sir Ian told the tribunal: "On what I know, [these remarks were] not an isolated, one-off statement . It was a series of gratuitous comments made in the presence of a member of staff of a racial and religious background who would have been deeply offended." The initial inquiry played down the incident and said the three men should be spoken to informally. But when they refused to accept they had done anything wrong, the matter proceeded to a full-blown, misconduct hearing in June 2001. Although the board upheld Detective Sergeant Chaudhari's complaint, it said the three officers should not be punished further. When the then deputy commissioner was informed of the board's decision he demanded to know if it could be challenged. "Where racist comments are made that deliberately and ignored by supervisors, I would expect consequences to follow. At the time, I thought it extraordinary that the board, having found the officers guilty, recommended no further action," said Sir Ian yesterday. The men then appealed to Mr Ghaffur, who, in February 2002, cleared them of any wrongdoing, saying the matter should never have got so far. Yesterday, Ruth Downing, representing the three men, accused Sir Ian of meddling in the case because he wanted to prove the Met's anti-racist credentials after they were castigated for mishandling the Lawrence inquiry. "You made clear the only satisfactory outcome would be one which branded these three men racists," she said.