Two men and a 17-year-old youth continued to be questioned today over the death of two teenagers who are believed to have taken the legal drug mephedrone, as more details about their fatal night out emerged.Humberside police said they believed the drug had contributed to the deaths of Louis Wainwright, 18, and Nicholas Smith, 19, who had been out drinking together in Scunthorpe until the early hours of Monday.A 26-year-old man, a 20-year-old man and a 17-year-old youth have been arrested and remain in custody.Smith was a promising chef at the £100-a-head Winteringham Fields restaurant in North Lincolnshire. Wainwright was an apprentice welder who once worked as a pot-washer at the restaurant.The night out began at a village pub close to the restaurant as Smith and a group of his colleagues celebrated a successful Mother's Day dinner service. Four of the group then went on to Scunthorpe's Love nightclub.Colin McGurran, Smith's boss at Winteringham Fields, told the Guardian that Smith was offered mephedrone and went outside to see the person who had it. He went missing shortly after that.Wainwright stayed with the group and made it home, waking up in his own bed at 9am, feeling ill. When his mother went to check on him at noon, he was dead, according to McGurran. Smith was not a drug user, McGurran said, and was a dedicated chef who would routinely finish work at 1am and be back in the kitchen at 8am."Nick got separated from a bunch of them when someone offered him something," he said. "He popped outside to meet the fella. The others were oblivious and were looking for Nick, but couldn't find him. He wasn't there so they assumed he had gone home."Police found his body at a flat in Scunthorpe after his mother, Elaine, had raised the alarm that he was missing."It has been devastating," said McGurran. "We go on holiday together as a team and live together at the staff house. Service yesterday was very hard indeed. It seems he has taken this once and paid the price."Smith's father, retired firefighter Tony, told the Sun: "We don't know much about what happened but we think he's been taking this drug on a night out."I don't want him to be labelled a druggie, because he wasn't. He was just on a night out with friends, a normal, caring, hard-working lad."