The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, yesterday made an unprecedented apology to the parents of the murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence for failing to bring his killers to justice.Sir Paul's message of contrition was delivered by assistant commissioner Ian Johnston at the public inquiry into Stephen's racist murder in 1993. Mr Johnston was about to give his evidence when he stood up in the witness box, said he would like to make a statement, and asked if Neville Lawrence was in the building.A minute later Mr Lawrence was brought into the inquiry chamber and Mr Johnston said: "Mr Lawrence, I wanted to say to you that I am truly sorry that we let you down."On behalf of myself and the commissioner, who specifically asked me to associate himself with these words, and the whole of the Metropolitan police, I offer my sincere and deep apologies to you."Outside the inquiry - at the Elephant and Castle shopping centre in south London - Mr Lawrence said in a prepared response: "Whilst we accept the commissioner's apology, we do not forget that Stephen's killers are still free." He added quietly:"We would like now to have the commissioner here himself to answer questions and he himself to apologise. I think we should have had this three years ago."Giving evidence, Mr Johnston was asked about a serving detective whose name has been mentioned in connection with the family's unproven allegations that police corruption was responsible for initially protecting the five murder suspects. He said: "I am appalled that this individual is still working for the Metropolitan police."Sir Paul's apology, on the 45th day of the inquiry, spoke of the tragedy of losing a son. It went on: "It has been a tragedy for the Metropolitan police who have lost the confidence of a significant section of the community for the way we have handled the case."I can understand and explain some of what went wrong. A great deal has changed and yet will change. We have tried over the last four years since the first investigation to show imagination and determination to prosecute Stephen's killers."I am very, very sorry and very, very sad that we have let you down. Looking back now I can see we could have and should have done better. I deeply regret that we have not put his killers away."Of the five youths charged with the murder, two never came to trial and three were acquitted at a private prosecution in 1996.Mr Lawrence's statement, read out by Suresh Grover, the co-ordinator of the family support group, said: "It has taken five years of trauma, heartache and suffering for our family to reach this stage of our struggle. The commissioner now accepts that the first investigation was flawed and incompetent."What will happen to those officers? Will they be disciplined? Will those now retired lose their pensions? Maybe we need another public inquiry into police corruption for the commissioner to then accept that these boys were protected in some way."Mr Johnston also made a personal apology for originally supporting the - now discredited - conclusions of an internal Met review which found that the investigation had been carried out satisfactorily."It has now been shown that I was wrong," he said. "I hope the reasons will be understood and I hope that eventually you will forgive me for that as well, Mr Lawrence." Mr Johnston twice expressed dismay that a detective was still in the force. The inquiry has been told that Detective Sergeant David Coles was three times seen by Customs and Excise undercover officers meeting Clifford Norris, the father of one of the suspects in 1988. He was seen with a calculator, exchanging packages.Norris Senior, who was wanted for drugs smuggling and suspected of being involved in one murder and an attempted murder, had a reputation for intimidating witnesses and jury nobbling. He is now serving eight years for cannabis importation and possession of guns.Mr Johnston defended Sir Paul's criticism of the forceful way officers were being questioned. To laughter from the public gallery, he said some had been reduced to tears. The chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, Mike Bennett, spoke of the "tremendous humiliation" which his members had suffered at the hands of the inquiry. His members had not been given the opportunity to fight back, he told BBC Radio 4's World At One.