The mother of a teenager who became the unintended victim of a gang shooting said last night that her son had been killed in a "cold blooded and reckless act".In a statement issued by the police, Elfrida Kiffin described Ryan Bravo as "decent, hard-working young man", and called on witnesses to come forward to help detectives. "This is an extremely difficult time for all of us that knew and loved Ryan and I would ask that we are given the time and space to grieve in private," she said.His death brings to 22 the number of teenagers to die violently in the capital this year. The 18-year-old was shot in the back by a gang wearing bike helmets shortly after he entered the Costcutter shop in Camberwell Road, in south London, at around 9.40pm on Wednesday.Police said he was an innocent bystander who was shot by mistake after the gang on mopeds pursued two other men who had barged in front of him to get into the shop. The gang then fired through the Costcutter doorway before riding off. "It was obviously a targeted shooting, but the young man who was shot was not the target," said Detective Inspector Tim Carter of Operation Trident, the specialist team that deals with gun crime and which is handling the investigation. Bravo was with a cousin and two brothers, one of whom tried desperately to keep him alive before the ambulance crew arrived. A London Ambulance spokesman said "extensive efforts" had been made to resucitate Bravo, but he was pronounced dead at the scene around 45 minutes later. A 19-year-old man, who has not been named, was arrested in Brixton on Wednesday and is being held at a south London police station. DI Carter said: "As they were going in through the door, two other black males barged past them. At the same time three scooters were travelling along the pavement towards Camberwell Green and a number of shots were fired. The victim was fatally shot in the back as he was going into the store. "We are looking into the possibility that the two men who attempted to barge past were the intended targets. We don't know who they are and we're appealing for them to come forward."Police said the men who pushed into the shop had been running in the same direction as the scooters. They said that those responsible might have been prowling the area looking for their target earlier in the day.One witness who had been buying cigarettes in the shop said he heard up to four shots in less than 10 seconds.He said: "I didn't think anything bad was going to happen because I thought they were joking and laughing. They didn't look scared or angry or anything. But then I heard shots, three or four. I've never seen anyone get shot before."Speaking at the family home yesterday, Bravo's girlfriend, who did not want to be named, said that he was a "really great guy", and had being studying business at a local college. He was completely innocent and not a member of any gang, she said. A family friend, also at the house, said: "He had so much to look forward to. His whole life was ahead of him. It's just really, really sad."A neighbour added: "I didn't ever know him to get into any trouble. My son and him were always talking and laughing together. As my son would say, he was a gentleman - he didn't have any 'street name' or anything like that."He was just a normal guy. I've got two sons and I'm just so worried."Forensic teams were yesterday studying bullet holes in a telephone box outside the shop. Although several bullets and cases had been recovered, police said they could not confirm how many shots had been fired and were waiting for a ballistics report.A Scotland Yard spokesman tonight said last night that the shooting was not linked to an incident at 4.30pm in which a man was shot in the leg in nearby Kennington."There were a number of people in Costcutter at the time, some of whom we have identified. I would appeal to anybody who was there or saw the mopeds coming along the pavement to contact police. "We do not believe there was any reason why they would want to shoot him," he said. "He is just a young lad who went into a shop with his brothers and cousin and has been hit by a bullet."