Laurence is a retired headteacher; Karen, in her 20s, is jobless; David is a grandfather and works for a charity; Tim, 29, is employed in IT. They are diverse in interests, outlook and background, but what links them is that they have volunteered to have regular contact with people whom many of us shun, fear and despise: high-risk sex offenders. They are, as one tabloid crudely put it, "paedo-pals".But what kind of person takes responsibility, unpaid and with few thanks, for men and women who may revolt and repel? How do Laurence, Karen, David and Tim rationalise giving so much time and effort to abusers rather than the abused?The organisation to which these four belong is Circles of Support and Accountability, based on a Canadian project that is now 10 years old. In 2002, the Home Office set up three pilot schemes in the UK, adapting the Canadian model. The pilots now number 105 trained volunteers, including housewives, a farmer, engineers and a former ballet teacher. Today, one of those pilots, the Thames Valley and Hampshire project, established by the charity Quaker Peace and Social Witness, receives a major award from the Howard League for Penal Reform for its efforts. So far, Thames Valley Circles has achieved an extraordinary degree of success. The project has helped 25 convicted paedophiles at high risk of causing serious harm. None has committed a new sexual offence. Without Circles, the risk of offending in this group, within a short time of leaving prison, is assessed at 60% by the Home Office.Chris Wilson, a probation officer, has been project manager from the outset, heading a team of five. "We can't afford to lock up every sex offender for life and we don't have the resources to rely on police and probation to provide 24-hour surveillance," he points out. "Some offenders will never respond to support in the community but for others, Circles is effective."But it is also unpopular in some quarters. "Kill the Paedophiles," reads one of the posters carried by children in demonstrations on the Paulsgrove Estate in Portsmouth, soon after Circles was established. The News of the World "named and shamed" paedophiles as part of its campaign to have American legislation, "Megan's Law", introduced here as "Sarah's Law", in memory of eight-year-old Sarah Payne, murdered by a convicted paedophile. Megan's Law allows individuals to check a local register to see if a convicted offender lives in the neighbourhood.The hatred that many feel for sex offenders was demonstrated by the killing of convicted paedophile Arnold Hartley in 2003, and the recent outrage over the sentencing of another, Craig Sweeney. And yet the Circles volunteers are convinced that what they are doing is worthwhile. Working in groups of three or four, they will meet an offender formally each week for a year - and informally for an indeterminate time. In the worst cases, or when imprisonment disrupts the process, offenders may go through a number of circles. Supported by a professional coordinator, the volunteers encourage the offender to jettison delusions and self-justifications and become accountable for his or her behaviour. All information, meanwhile, is shared with professionals including police, probation and other services.David became a volunteer four years ago, partly because of his faith as a Quaker and partly because of his belief in "restorative justice". Restorative justice means that the community accepts a responsibility for the reintegration of offenders - on moral grounds and to prevent further victims, some of whom could themselves become paedophiles. "If I can stop anybody harming a child, then that's of value to me," David says.David's "circle" includes a professional hypnotherapist and a person working with the homeless. "As volunteers, you make friends with people you would never otherwise have met," David says. "That's one of the rewards." The circle's "core member" - the offender, in other words - is Sam, 23. Sexually abused by older girls from the age of five, as a teenager he was sentenced to five years for sexual assault. He now works in a supermarket, has a girlfriend, and is developing a social life - activities that the circle encourages but also views as opportunities to re-offend.David sees himself as both supporter and watchdog. "I'm committed to Sam's wellbeing," he says, "but if he did anything to cause me concern, I'd have no compunction in taking action."One core member came to us saying that he could manipulate anybody . We turned it round and told him, 'You're only in a position to manipulate us if we let you. That's not your power - it's ours.' The relationship between the volunteers and how they gel is critical."As well as the formal meetings, volunteers also meet core members informally, going to the cinema or for a coffee, to demonstrate how "normal" adult relationships are conducted. Offenders are often isolated, rejected by family and friends, socially inadequate and suffering from low self-esteem. Research says that a paedophile living in this kind of dehumanised social exile is much more likely to offend again.That is a message confirmed by Harry - divorced, with two daughters, and a convicted paedophile. "I sometimes wonder what life would have been like had I not been accepted into Circles," he says. "Pretty bleak! Without Circles I would seldom leave the flat and would be prey once more to depression and paranoia. But I have been able to discuss and relate stuff about my past life, my feelings towards children and many other things that until now I have kept to myself. I really feel I have made more progress in understanding myself and my offending than I did throughout all the years in prison or on the sex offender treatment programmes, essential though they were."John is in his 50s, and one of David's core members. Abused as a child, he went on to abuse his sister and then his daughters until the eldest was 21. He served several years in prison. "John was the first sex offender I had knowingly met and I liked him," David says. "He was outgoing and pleasant, but in the first few meetings he went through his story and I remember thinking, 'How could you do this to a child?'"Since then, I've come to see core members not as sex offenders and 'monsters' but as people - electricians, plumbers, Man U supporters, whatever - who have also committed sexual offences. There is a difference: one view denies someone's humanity, the other affirms it. John discovered that however badly he acted, however much he tried to shock us volunteers, we didn't walk away. He has changed out of all recognition."Three years on, John is studying for a degree in creative writing. He sees his circle informally - and he is moving into tricky waters. "He is in a relationship with a woman who has a daughter and grandchildren," David explains. "She knows about his past and the circle has insisted that he discloses it to all her family. It's difficult but that's what he's now doing."How can he be sure that John is not practising the paedophile's art of deception? "I can't," David replies, "but volunteers talk to each other. One may pick up what the others don't and we can always talk to the coordinators.""What we're looking for in volunteers are people who can separate the person from the behaviour," Chris Wilson says. "Individuals who can empathise but not sympathise. We constantly reinforce the message, 'Think the unthinkable, imagine the unimaginable.' Even as the risk escalates, volunteers may go into denial, because of their disbelief that the core member could do that after so much effort has been invested. But they can and do. So we manage circles carefully and offer booster training . Along the way, we have achieved major little miracles."How would David cope if a core member did something dreadful, in spite of his vigilance? "I wouldn't carry the guilt," he says. "It's his choice. All I can do is help him not make that choice and take action if he causes concern."How does he justify the support given to core members rather than victims ? "I've worked in children's services enough to know some who have been abused never recover, while a core member can rebuild his life. I would put a lot more money into support circles adapted for survivors, too. But what I also believe is that Circles is about prevention - no more victims."In four years, three core members have been recalled to prison on licence because of a circle's concern about likely recidivism. One of them was grooming girls in internet chat rooms. Another four offenders have been "called to account" by the Circle for behaviour causing concern, such as "inappropriate" sexual activities with a fellow hostel member. In these cases, monitoring was increased."If a core member is recalled to prison, volunteers can feel they've failed," says project coordinator Rebekah Saunders. "But we point out that, from a public protection point of view, what they've done is clearly a success."Karen became a volunteer nine months ago because she thought it might complement the psychology degree she begins in the autumn. "You're asked to sign up for a year," she says, "but you soon discover that you're in it for life. Circles has that effect." The core member of Karen's circle is Peter, a serial offender, in his 60s and with a low IQ. His story illustrates how volunteers' vigilance can never flag.Peter was electronically tagged and placed in a probation hostel on his release because of the likelihood that he would reoffend and possibly murder a child. He was in denial about his offences. After a year in his first circle, his personal hygiene, confidence and appearance had improved. He had a job as a cleaner and he had moved to sheltered accommodation. He spent Christmas Day with one of his circle. He reported that it was the best he had ever had.The second and third year taught Circles a lesson. Among other issues, Peter had coerced a man into buying a car on his behalf. He had previously used a car to abduct a child. Volunteers also learned that Peter had invited young girls to his flat, contravening the terms of his release. Nothing had yet occurred but Peter was given a community sentence and returned to a supervised hostel. Karen is one of Peter's second circle. She goes to the pub to watch him in his darts team. "It's brilliant - not children!" she says. "He often hides his limited understanding," she adds. For instance, he was told not to go within 50 metres of a school as part of his sex offender order but when asked, he didn't really know what 50 metres meant. We had to show him. And keep showing him, because he doesn't retain much."He's a likable chap so you have to constantly remind yourself why he's in the circle. People say to me that they've never talked to an offender, but they probably have. They've just haven't realised." Would she tell a friend with children if a core member moved in next door? "That's an interesting dilemma," she answers. "It would depend on how the core member is behaving and who the friend is . The bottom line is: no more victims."In 2004/5, there were 28,994 registered sex offenders, an 18% increase over the previous year. Many offenders will be on the register for life. They are assessed, monitored and managed under "multi-agency public protection arrangements" (Mappas), involving agencies including police, probation and the prison service as well as housing, health and social services. Each offender's risk of re-offending is assessed using psychometric evaluation, some polygraph testing and a range of assessment tools that endeavour to gauge critical issues such as distorted attitudes towards sex; self-discipline and relationship skills.Three levels of risk exist. Level one is the lowest and involves supervision by a single agency such as probation; three is the highest. Level-three offenders - the "critical few", 1,478 in number - pose the highest risk of causing serious harm. Circles draw their core members from levels two and three.Laurence, 65, is a retired headteacher. He is in his fifth circle. "Most offenders can't believe we're in the circle because we want to be, not because it's our job," he says. Among Laurence's core members is Harry, who served six years of an eight-year sentence for assaulting the nine-year-old friend of his youngest daughter. For the first nine months of the circle, he denied his culpability and saw his actions with the girl, now 15, as "love", imagining they would be reunited when she became an adult."We didn't seem to be getting very far because Harry said little about his feelings," Laurence says. "Then he revealed that he had kept a diary. He said he was worried, it would corrupt me. I assured him that it wasn't my poison. The diary was gruesome. It revealed a paedophile who had virtually ignored his own daughters. I told him they must be feeling awful. I told him to take down the photographs of the victim that he had on his wall, and that his behaviour was ridiculous." Harry eventually took down the photographs. He and his daughters and circle members subsequently met for a meal at which the younger daughter began to cry. "I'm so happy," she said. "We've got our dad back."In managing sex offenders, of course, there is no guaranteed happy ending - least of all for the victims of their abuse. Like many volunteers, Laurence is careful whom he tells about his work with Circles. "The initial reaction is always, 'Oh my God, how could you?' Ten minutes later, almost 100% say it's a fantastic idea. They soon grasp that an 'us and them' attitude just doesn't protect victims."Tim, the IT man, says he joined Circles partly from a selfish motivation. "It looks good on my CV if I develop my knowledge of 'soft skills' - how to motivate, how to develop non-judgmental questioning. But at the same time, the idea that we should castrate all sex offenders clashes with my personal morality. It doesn't seem a very practical solution to the issue."He is now in his second circle. "It wouldn't surprise me if a core member does eventually commit a serious crime - and it might be murder," he says candidly. "We can't stop all sex offending. What circles are about is significantly reducing the risk. That has to matter."Wilson has now helped to establish circles in several areas of the UK, including Manchester, Somerset, York and Norfolk. The Thames Valley project costs £250,000 a year. The saving in suffering to potential victims, of course, is incalculable. The project has been evaluated twice using Home Office measures and judged a success.The Thames Valley project has 14 high-risk sex offenders waiting for a circle - but funding is uncertain beyond next year. Supporters say more resources and more volunteers are desperately required so that Circles can become an effective part of every community, anchoring sex offenders securely above ground, monitored and stripped of camouflage. Sarah's Law, they argue, will only drive paedophiles further into the dark, multiplying the number of victims. "Circles do provide a community response," David points out. "They apply the positive values of compassion, tolerance, kindness and self-discipline. For the health of the whole community that has to work better than vengeance, intolerance and hate".· Some names have been changed.