The MI5 bugging device at Parviz Khan's Birmingham home recorded attempts to indoctrinate Khan's five-year-old son in the ethos of al-Qaida inspired violence.In one passage co-defendant Hamid Elasmar asks the boy: "How do you cut their neck?" Khan then prompts the youngster, saying: "How do you cut them with a knife? Show me." Then Khan is heard saying: "Like this. Good." Khan was also recorded asking his son: "Who do you love?" "I love sheikh Osama Bin Laden," the child replies. Khan asks his son if he loves anyone else. The boy names extreme Muslim cleric Abu Hamza and Islamic militant sheikh Abdullah Rehman. Then Khan asks the youngster: "Who do you kill?" The child replies: "America kill." Asked who else, the boy responds "Bush I kill" and "Blair kill". Prompted by his father, the five-year-old says he also wants to kill "kuffar" (a derogatory term for a non-Muslim), "Hindu", and "sharabi" (drunks). Khan was also recorded discussing his desire that his three-year-old daughter should eventually marry a terrorist. "Inshallah [God willing], she'll marry into them and give birth to them," he told Zahoor Iqbal, a long-time friend. The trial jury was told that Khan then called his daughter towards him and asked her: "What will you cook for the men in the mountains?"The bug also captured discussions about the motives behind the soldier kidnapping plot, and the terror he hoped it would cause.Khan said: "We give the judgment ... well then cut it off like you cut a pig, man. Then you put it on a stick. Then we throw the body, burn it, send the video to the chacha [a reference to terrorist leaders in Pakistan]. "This is what they call you will terrorise them, they will go crazy. They will start searching ... London, Birmingham, Newcastle, where are these people?"Then all these other people who slowly joining the British army, these Pakistani, these Afghan, these Gambia. They gonna say, no, man, I don't want that. "Look like, chop him up, man! We don't to join this army. At least we can stop them from doing the haram [forbidden]."