A pocket of north London a few miles from Wembley stadium is a no go area for seven young men as a result of David Blunkett's crackdown on antisocial behaviour.But nine months after five-year exclusion orders were issued against the teenagers, who go by the name of the Press Road gang, the policy is being questioned in the high court and residents say the Asbos have done nothing to improve the quality of their lives. In 12 months, residents in a street off Neasden Lane reported more than 200 incidents of robbery, burglary, criminal damage and vehicle crime allegedly carried out by the group. After demanding action from Brent council, antisocial behaviour orders were issued excluding the young men for five years from Neasden Lane and Blackbird Hill. The teenagers were also named and shamed in more than 3,000 leaflets distributed locally. The scale of the action was unprecedented in the London area and hailed as a success when police said crime had fallen by 25%. But three of the youths, aged 15, 16 and 18, claim their rights to privacy have been infringed by the leaflets containing their names and pictures being sent to homes, doctors surgeries and businesses. Claiming compensation, they say they have been refused jobs, victimised and ostracised. Residents say that although one group of teenagers has been excluded the vacuum has been filled by more groups of youths whom the police seem powerless to stop. Some even claim the issuing of Asbos has encouraged others to be more disruptive. "The teenagers around here brag about having Asbos, it is a badge of honour," said Mohammed Soliman, who was recently hit in the face with a brick by teenagers outside his home. "When you ring up to report antisocial behaviour all you hear from the police is: 'Don't you know we have issued Asbos?' They use it as propaganda, it shows they have done something, but we don't see officers round here, it is a no go area for them." Mr Soliman was one of many to say his life was being ruined by teenagers. "I am terrified to go out, I am a prisoner in my own home and the police, they suggested that I should move." Across Neasden Lane residents in Pitt House said they felt reassured when they received the leaflets from Brent council last year asking for them to ring the police if they believed the teenagers were breaching the Asbos. But they say little has changed. A disabled woman who was too afraid of repercussions to be named said: "Nothing has changed and now we've got these kids claiming their human rights have been infringed in the courts. It's just ridiculous." In documents sent to the high court one of the teenagers said he was spat on by a resident who told him: "That's what you do to old people." Another said he had to leave his doctor's surgery when he arrived in the waiting room to find his face staring out at him from a leaflet on the wall. The father of one of the boys told a local newspaper: "This has ruined my whole family's life. My son is threatened on the street by vigilantes. These kids have just been branded as responsible for every bit of trouble round here."