Harold Shipman, the family doctor accused of murdering 15 patients, claimed yesterday that he had suspected one of his alleged victims, an 81-year-old woman, was abusing drugs. On his first day in the witness box, Dr Shipman denied killing Kathleen Grundy by administering morphine and forging her will. Asked by Nicola Davies QC, for the defence, if he had murdered Mrs Grundy, Dr Shipman replied: "No, I didn't," in a clear, strong voice.Dressed in a brown suit, striped tie and black shoes, the doctor who denies murdering the women with lethal doses of morphine almost unobtrusively made his way to the witness box on the 26th day of the trial after having listened to 100 hours of evidence against him. He chose to affirm rather than take an oath on the Bible. Dr Shipman, 53, of Mottram, near Hyde, appeared to be nervous at first and tripped over his words, which did not seem to come as fast as he might wish. "I must apologise," he told the judge. "I slur my speech sometimes with the tablets I'm on." With his wife Primrose and son David in court to support him, he grew calmer and smiled at times - such as when he said Mondays were always busy because of weekends in which "patients had had time to think about their illnesses".  Blood sample The GP told Preston crown court that he had been suspicious that Mrs Grundy was taking an opiate. In her medical notes, which were read to the court, he had noted that her pupils seemed full and he had queried drug abuse on several occasions. "I didn't talk to anybody else about it like a colleague or consultant," he said. "I was just being suspicious. I thought she was abusing a drug - it had to be something like an opiate, codeine, pethidine or perhaps morphine." He said that in the month before Mrs Grundy's death in June 1998, she had seemed unwell. He had taken a blood sample on the morning of her death, which needed to be examined within six hours. He had left it on a shelf in his surgery in Market Street, Hyde. When he returned to the surgery later, he realised that the sample was too old to be useful, so he disposed of the blood. In the month before her death, he said Mrs Grundy had visited his surgery and asked if he could witness her signature on a document. "I jokingly said if it was a will and she was going to leave me some money, then I couldn't do it. There was a moment's pause and I realised it was something like that," he told the jury. He had presumed Mrs Grundy was leaving money to the practice fund and as he did not want to get entangled legally, he asked two patients to witness the signature on the document. Two weeks before her death, Dr Shipman said Mrs Grundy did not look well. "She was very much quieter," he said. "She looked old. Other witnesses have said she looked more like a 60-year-old, but then she looked older and not well." On the morning of her death, he had arranged to take a blood sample from her at her home in Gee Cross on his way to surgery. "She looked older than I had ever seen her," he said. "Her face was more crinkled than she normally was. She appeared slow in movements and just by going up two steps she went up each step in turn. There was nothing obviously wrong, it was just the impression that she was old." Dr Shipman was at a meeting later the same day when he received a pager message from his surgery telling him that Mrs Grundy had died. He went to her home and found her fully dressed and half reclining on a settee. After discovering no heart beat, he said he listened to her chest with a stethoscope. Then he phoned the coroner's office to ask if he was able to state old age on her death certificate. He said he would associate old age as a cause of death for someone whose health had deteriorated over a long period of time. "For Mrs Grundy until a month before she died I would have said that was not an acceptable diagnosis, but in the month before she died she looked not well and less active," he told the court.  Fingerprint  He denied forging Mrs Grundy's will and said that on two or three occasions she had borrowed a typewriter from the surgery. Until the forged document was shown to him in police interviews, he had no knowledge whatsoever of it. Asked by Miss Davies if he had typed the document, he replied: "No I did not." Asked to explain how his fingerprint was on the will, he said he had pushed it away when Mrs Grundy visited his surgery and asked him to witness the signature. Dr Shipman told the court that after working all day at the surgery he would be on call four out of five nights a week between 6pm and 10pm. He would also be on call on three out of four weekends at his practice in Market Street, Hyde. When he moved there in August 1992, there were 2,300 patients registered with him, but the number increased to 3,200. Shipman said he had performed minor operations at the surgery every Friday. "Warts, ingrowing toenails - nothing glamorous," he said. He would handwrite letters of referral, rather than use the surgery's computer. "I never quite got word processing right," he said. "I am one of the few doctors in the area who still handwrites letters." He said there were a number of occasions when he would make handwritten notes. "Someone might have come in having been beaten up at the weekend," he said. "I would measure the bruises and scrapes and carefully annotate this on paper records. At that time there was no way of putting it on the computer. "There was also highly confidential material, such as if a wife was on the pill and her husband had a vasectomy. The computer screen faced the patients and they saw the entries being made on the screen." The case continues.