The street corner has been carefully chosen: Bea is easily visible to men driving up from every direction, there is space for them to park close to where she stands and the street lights allow her to see their faces as clearly as possible.'It's important to see if they are going to pull a knife and whether there are any passengers who might jump out and grab you,' she said. 'It's also helpful to be able to see right inside the car. I've had men with scarves, ties, Clingfilm and plastic sheeting bundled up in the backseat and obviously those are the ones you need to handle with the most care.' Bea spent three nights last week on this street corner, waiting in the bitter cold for kerb crawlers to ask her for sex. Walking up and down the pavement to keep herself warm, the petite 46-year-old blonde in her short, black skirt looked like any other prostitute on the streets of Britain. Yet Bea could not be more different: she has been a policewoman for 26 years and, for two years, has been a decoy prostitute for the Met's newest, and most successful, undercover operation. Nearly three quarters of Britain's 30,000 prostitutes have been raped, sexually assaulted or seriously beaten in the past year, according to recent research of 110 street workers in 18 towns and cities around the country. Alongside the threat to the prostitutes themselves is the danger a red-light area creates for the local population. 'When I stand out there, I'm prepared to be approached by men, but their requests still surprise and scare me,' said Bea. 'Some of the things they ask for are so revoltingly seedy that I don't even know what they mean. It's not hard to imagine how offensive and frightening it can be if you're just a member of the public. 'This is about ordinary women getting accosted when they're on their way home with their shopping bags, and girls being stopped when they're coming home from school,' she said. 'It's about housing estates littered with condoms and needles, and being woken up by girls having screaming rows at five o'clock in the morning over patches of turf.' The police have long wanted increased powers to target kerb crawlers, widely regarded as the most dangerous of punters. Last August, they were finally awarded the power to arrest offenders. 'You can't imagine the difference it makes; for the first time, we have a chance of making a difference,' said Chris Bradford, superintendent at the Met's clubs and vice unit. 'Now local boroughs can call us in when their residents report a problem and, in a few short months, this has become one of our most successful operations.' There are six women like Bea working in six areas across London. In the past year alone, they have arrested more than 430 kerb crawlers - six of whom were found through DNA evidence to be guilty of serious sexual offences, including rape. Before the law was changed, there were fewer than 600 convictions each year across the whole country. The operation has been one of the Met's most tightly guarded secrets. But last week The Observer was allowed to accompany the police on an operation in east London. It was already dark and cold on Thurs day when the team began its final preparations for the night ahead. In the observation car, the second decoy, Susan, made a final check that her microphone was working, while outside the three safety officers were already in place, unobtrusively wandering in and out of the shadows. Dotted around the surrounding housing estates, four unmarked arrest cars and one marked police car waited with their engines ticking over. Back at the police station, a team put the last touches to the dedicated custody unit, ready to charge the men and issue them with their bail conditions. At nine o'clock exactly, Susan zipped up her black puffa jacket and stepped out of the observation car. Muttering observations about passing cars and the scene around her into a hidden microphone, she crossed the junction and stopped. 'Can you hear me clearly?' she whispered into the mic. In the observation car, Sergeant Russell Wade, head of the Met's street offences and juvenile protection unit, flashed his headlights in answer and she began walking up and down, like any woman waiting for a taxi or her boyfriend. In less than three minutes, two cars U-turned to have a closer look and a red Ford Transit van pulled in to the opposite kerb to sit with its engine idling, the driver carefully watching as Susan kicked her heels against the cold. Her voice came back on line again: she is concerned that the safety officers are too close and are putting off the punters. 'It's a fine line between caring for the girls and scaring the kerbies away,' muttered Wade. 'It would only take a second for someone to whip out a knife or worse.' He paused, then radioed the officers to 'give her some rope'. The men slunk back further into the shadows and almost immediately, the van pulled out, parking just in front of our observation car. We crouched down out of sight, but the smartly dressed young man in the driving seat is oblivious to anyone except Susan, who is leaning down towards the passenger seat window 'What do you want?' she asked. 'I saw you standing there and thought you were familiar,' he replied. 'Yeah. So what do you want?' she asked again. He wanted 'business', but won't be drawn on specifics. The men are used to prostitutes openly offering a tempting array of options and are disconcerted by a woman who demands they openly state their preference. After a couple of minutes, Susan gave up and walked away. 'Of course, every magistrate knows what "business" means when it's offered to a woman on her own in the early hours of the morning, but we need the best evidence to make absolutely sure there's no slip-up in the court,' said Bradford. It is of no importance: there are more than enough men already circling Susan: she had barely returned to her post when a smart red Audi U-turned to stop just feet away. The driver, an elderly man, is happy to be specific: he wants French - that is, oral sex - without a condom. Ensuring that his predilection has been clearly captured on tape, Susan declined his offer and walked swiftly away, silently but instantly flanked by two safety officers. 'Operation complete,' Wade whispered into his radio. The Observer quickly transferred into the marked police car idling in a nearby sidestreet and we began to follow the Audi. As we closed in, followed by the unmarked arrest car, the police car turned on its flashing blue light and the punter pulled over to the side of the road to let us pass. Instead, we drew up parallel, signalling him to stop. He did so, suddenly noticing the unmarked car in his rearview mirror with a start of shock. 'You can see the cogs working in their head as they realise what's happening,' said Bruce Martin, a police constable and trainer for the Met's vice team, as he slung on his jacket and opened the car door. 'Some try to deny it, some men attack us, some weep and some beg us to let them go because of their families or social position. After a while, though, most decide that they want to get it over with as soon as possible.' Martin strolled up to the Audi: 'Could you come out here, please, sir?' he asked. 'I have a plainclothes colleague who would like to have a chat with you.' The driver - 70 years old, balding and wearing a chunky, home-knitted jumper which he tugged nervously - got out of his car wearing an expression of deliberate bafflement. Quickly hemmed in by five plain-clothed officers, his rights are read out to him.  'You have just solicited a woman who was an undercover police officer,' said the arresting officer. 'Your conversation was recorded and you are being arrested for kerb crawling' The driver exploded.. 'I've been set up,' he shouted. Anticipating trouble, the officers move in closer, pinning his arms and slipping on a pair of handcuffs. 'It's pathetic,' he spat. 'This is a massive waste of police resources when there are terrorists all over London. I can't believe you're wasting your time doing this.' The police begin to explain that they are taking him to the police station. 'Will you bring me back to my car afterwards?' he interrupted. 'No, sir,' they reply evenly. Back at the police station, the driver, now officially a prisoner, has his personal history and employment details taken - fines are imposed on an index-linked scale - and a policeman is dispatched to ensure the address he has given is correct. He is fingerprinted, photographed and a DNA swab is taken. Details of the arrest are noted on his criminal record and, finally, bail is given after the prisoners has signed his agreement to attend a court hearing in seven days' time. There is no average profile for kerb crawlers: in the few months that the operation has been up and running, the decoys have been approached by young men in clapped-out Minis, 80-year-old men in Mercedes, government figures and local luminaries. There are saloon cars with child seats in the front; cars with groups of men in the back; and women with their boyfriends. Pizza delivery boys and black cab drivers frequently approach the decoys ,but there are unusual offers, too: the driver of a number 57 bus pulled over to ask Susan for oral sex on his way back to the depot last month. 'I don't know what he was going to pay me with,' she said. 'He only had his cash tin.' Although it is efficient, the kerb- crawling operation is a controversial one, with experts such as Dr Belinda Brookes-Gordon, Britain's leading expert in prostitution-related research, who has advised the NHS and the Government, numbered among its harshest critics. 'This law makes prostitutes more likely to be attacked,' she said. 'It means that punters will spend less time in known red-light districts, forcing prostitutes to move out into unfamiliar areas where they will have less chance to assess how dangerous the men could be. It's an expensive and labour-intensive operation that does more harm than good.' The police officers admit, too, that the long-term effect operation is questionable: 'This is a drop in the ocean,' admitted Bradford. 'It makes a difference for a short while, then incidents begin to creep back up. 'This scheme might not be perfect, but at least now kerb crawlers might think twice before going out,' he said. 'After all, every day, somewhere in London, this operation is going on and the punters will never know where until it's too late.' amelia.hill@observer.co.uk