Mephedrone, a "legal high" linked to the deaths of four people in the last month, could be allowed under controlled conditions rather than banned, a former senior drug adviser said today.Professor David Nutt, who was sacked as chairman of the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) by the home secretary, Alan Johnson, last year, said that permitting the use of mephedrone by adults under close supervision would be safer than driving it underground."I wouldn't be against exploring the possibility of some sort of regulated use where people, maybe in clubs, could have access to small amounts, safe amounts under guidance," he said. "It would probably be safer than what we're doing at present."Nutt wrote in the Guardian last week that the drug should not be banned until its effects have been proven. "To make it illegal without proper evidence of harm would be wrong and might have unwanted consequences, such as a switch to more dangerous drugs or alcohol," he wrote.He recommended that a new Class D category should be introduced for drugs whose effects are as yet unknown, so their sales can be limited and controlled. "This is a holding category where drugs can be put before they are well understood," he added. Nutt was sacked from the advisory council last year after claiming that alcohol was more harmful than ecstasy.Bill Main, whose stepdaughter Joslyne Marie Cockburn, 18, was said to have taken the drug hours before she was found dead on Sunday morning, criticised Nutt's comments. "It isn't a very well thought out idea from someone who is supposed to be highly educated," he said.Mephedrone, the effects of which have been compared to ecstasy, comes in powder, tablet, crystal or liquid form and is marketed as plant food or bath salts, often via the internet. The drug – known as drone, bubble or meow meow – has also been blamed for paranoia, heart palpitations, insomnia and memory problems.Other deaths have also been linked to the drug. Louis Wainwright, 18, and Nicholas Smith, 19, from Scunthorpe, were found dead earlier this month after allegedly taking the drug. Lois Waters, 24, was found dead at a friend's house in Norton, North Yorkshire, on Monday after taking mephedrone alongside other substances .The ACMD wrote to Johnson last month warning that while the potential harms of legal highs were still unknown, they "could have serious public health implications".Professor Les Iversen, the ACMD's interim chairman, said it was taking urgent action about mephedrone because of concern about its spread. The ACMD is expected to advise Johnson to make mephedrone illegal on Monday under the Misuse of Drugs Act.Some drug experts claim that even if that happens, other substances which are chemically similar but different enough to remain legal would emerge. Five other synthetic psychoactive cathinone derivatives similar to mephedrone are already widely available.One drug and alcohol charity distanced itself from Nutt's suggestion. Simon Antrobus, chief executive of Addaction, said: "No one can be sure of the effects of these particular substances on any individual. Even less is known about how they interact with alcohol and other drugs. We need to wait for the report from the ACMD."• This article was amended on 1 April 2010. In the original, an editing change resulted in the first paragraph erroneously stating that David Nutt said that mephedrone "should" be allowed under controlled conditions. This, and the related sub-heading, have been corrected. A quote misattributed to David Nutt - saying criminal gangs would be "rubbing their hands" at the prospect of the drug being outlawed - has been deleted.