A documentary play opening tonight attempts to recreate in 2 hours the public inquiry into the murderous career of Harold Shipman.The play, which uses only transcripts of the long-running and under-reported hearings, will be staged at Manchester's Library theatre, next door to the the city's council chamber where the inquiry opened on June 20 2001. Its findings have been published in four reports totalling almost 1,400 pages, with two more reports to come. The first report concluded that Shipman killed 200 patients, as well as the 15 he denied killing when in court on murder charges in 1999. The evidence has been edited by Dennis Woolf, who wrote TV versions of the Birmingham Six appeal, the Spycatcher and McLibel trials, and the BSE inquiry. He also led efforts to have the Shipman hearings broadcast. He hopes his stage version will lead to a deeper understanding of those caught up in the tragedy. "Shipman was such a good con man that he did not arouse any suspicions in anybody". In a programme note, Woolf says he wanted to provide an "accessible overview" for those without the time or stamina to follow the proceedings in detail. "There is one other powerful reason. With many of the marathon inquiries that I've attended, I've been struck by the way in which the press interest falters in direct relation to the length of the hearing ... "Interest in the Shipman inquiry dwindled as the months and years passed, even though the later evidence was often as startling as the early days when the relatives of Shipman's victims were being questioned." Woolf includes evidence from Shipman's wife, Primrose, which was widely covered in the media. But at rehearsals on a set replicating the council chamber, the cast rehearsed a moment that appears not to have been reported in national newspapers. Actor Kate Layden spoke evidence given last October on the 191st day of the inquiry by Alison Massey, practice manager at Shipman's one-man surgery in Hyde, Greater Manchester. "I have been very, very angry," she told the inquiry chairman, Dame Janet Smith. "I am very angry at being used: at having, not so much the wool pulled over my eyes, but to feel used and abused; and I'm very angry with the people that let him practise ... "I don't trust people any more. I hate doctors. I think they could all be strung up for me, and I wouldn't have any problems with that." Chris Honer, director of Beyond Belief, said the play presents the evidence exactly as given. "This is not finely-honed dialogue. This is how people speak in everyday life. It has been a really interesting journey for the actors, who have had to get under the skin of these people and discover what they were feeling and how they were trying to express themselves." After working on the transcripts, Woolf has no clearer idea of what turned Shipman into a serial killer. "I think it must go back to his mother's death [when Shipman was 17], after which he went running, crying, through the night. But I think people will go on trying to reach a conclusion for years to come."