The 'old boys club' of the senior judiciary will be the target this week of a government bid to increase the numbers of women and working-class people breaking into the legal profession.With senior judges and the Government arguing over constitutional reform, the move threatens fresh controversy within the profession. But Harriet Harman, the Solicitor General, will argue it is time Britain's courts better reflected society, with more women and ethnic minority lawyers - and, in time, more black and female faces sitting as judges. She will launch a 'fast track' programme allowing clerical workers in the Crown Prosecution Service - many of whom are women returning to work after having children, or who come from backgrounds where they were not encouraged to go to university - to qualify as lawyers. It is hoped they will progress through the ranks, solving the problem that most of those appointed as judges are white men simply because most senior lawyers - from whose ranks they are chosen - are white men. A senior government source said: 'We are very concerned to sort out what is going on further down the legal profession, and the pool of talent that is going to feed through to the top level. 'You are limited as to how much progress you can make on diversity in the judiciary, because that pool remains stubbornly un-diverse.' Last week's chaotic reshuffle saw the promise of a new independent commission to choose future judges, rather than leaving the appointment to the Lord Chancellor. But the last Lord Chancellor, Lord Irvine, is understood to have expressed private fears that the shake-up would lead to a crude 'quota' system. Harman will argue that the scheme does not amount to 'positive discrimination', rather it merely offers a chance to those who have not had it. From then on, it will be up to them to prove their merit. The CPS will pay for up to 300 clerical and administrative staff with proven ability to sit their law exams, giving them time off for study. The scheme is backed by the Bar Council and the Law Society. The English judiciary is 90 per cent male, 90 per cent from Oxford or Cambridge, and 87 per cent from public schools.