To the parents of Max Palmer, the 10-year-old boy who drowned on a school outing to the Lake District, the prison sentence imposed on the teacher responsible was far less than he deserved. After Paul Ellis was sent down on Tuesday, Max's father commented that the teacher "has received 12 months in prison - we have received a life sentence". What kind of retribution could ever seem adequate to parents who have lost a child in such harrowing, inexcusably reckless circumstances?By coincidence, Dr Feda Mulhem was sentenced to jail for the manslaughter of 18-year-old Wayne Jowett on the same day. Having already spent 11 months on remand, he did not go to prison. Again, the bereaved parents were outraged by, what seemed to them, judicial leniency. "The sentence of eight months for the killing of my son is absolutely ridiculous," said Mr Jowett. And again, his reaction is understandable. What sentence could be appropriate? Wayne was finally recovering from leukaemia, his hair beginning to grow back, at the time that Dr Mulhem instructed a junior doctor to inject him in the spine with a cancer drug, vincristine, which is fatal if administered spinally.It will be no consolation to the parents but, in both cases, the severity of the sentences has surprised many of the guilty men's peers. Ellis, whose imprisonment led one policeman to describe his as a "landmark case", is thought to be the first teacher whose breach of the health and safety regulations has led to an immediate term in jail, as well as to professional devastation. Passing judgment, Mr Justice Morland said he had been considering a three-year sentence, but had chosen the lesser one in view of Ellis's remorse, his attempts to save the little boy, and his ruined career. Although Ellis's own union, NASUWT refuses to comment on his case, John Dunford, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association, says he still considers the shorter sentence "utterly bizarre". Prison, he says, is "a place for embezzlers and career criminals", not for a teacher guilty of a fatal error of judgment. Although it is hard to think of any responsible leader behaving with such grotesque carelessness as Ellis, Dunford thinks his jail sentence could still result, in future, in teachers refusing to take the risk of escorting children on adventure trips. Is this its intended effect? Although not unprecedented, Dr Mulhem's sentence is also rare enough to have caused consternation among some doctors who now fear that if they were to make some catastrophic error of judgment when administering cancer - or other drugs - that they too would face not only the ultimate professional penalty (of being struck off) but a prison sentence for involuntary manslaughter. Dr Hugh Stewart of the Medical Defence Union, which defended Dr Mulhem, will not comment on the individual case, but says, "You'd have to ask what are the benefits of a custodial sentence." Pour encourager les autres? Maybe if they risk eight months in prison for getting it wrong, doctors won't be so accident-prone? Stewart points out that, "Medical deaths are often the result of systems error, but it's the individual doctor who is made responsible." A sentence for Dr Mulhem, however well deserved it might appear, may do little to protect the public from similar accidents in future. Arguably, since there have been 13 cases of incorrect spinal injections in 15 years, with most victims dying, Wayne Jowett's case was as much the fault of the NHS, which failed to implement adequate safety measures when they were last recommended (in 2000, by the chief medical officer himself), as it was of Dr Mulhem. Ensuring that there are no more such deaths - or individual acts of manslaughter - requires not the imprisonment of a doctor, but the introduction of incompatible connectors for intravenous syringes and spinal catheters. Similarly, if teachers, parents and children are to find a way of continuing the British outward-bound tradition in a way everyone finds adequately risk-free, the lesson we learn from Max Palmer's death should perhaps be that every trip must be led by someone especially trained in such activities, not that the jails await enthusiastic, unreliable volunteers such as Ellis. Still, even if the imprisonment of individuals such as Ellis and Dr Mulhem serves no useful purpose, either personally or professionally, that is not necessarily the point, is it? Lord Woolf, notoriously, thinks it does not serve any useful purpose in the case of many criminals either, but that does not stop us locking them up. If a young burglar - or, for that matter, Lord Archer - must endure a pointless period of incarceration during which he learns nothing then so, it might be argued, should any fatally negligent doctor or teacher. The only problem, if our capacity for punishment is to be extended in this direction, may be in knowing where to stop. From now on, the accidental medical killing of middle-aged and older patients, as well as of the tragically young, should, in fairness, lead to a similarly extreme form of retribution. Doctors guilty of wrong diagnoses, of botched deliveries, of failed operations, of mistakenly releasing suicidal or homicidal mental patients to the community, could also be criminalised if no explanation - other than a version of Dr Mulhem's "I am a human being" - is forthcoming for their oversights. Perhaps inadequate social workers should also take note. And the managers who ration operations. And speed-bump installers. Ambulance drivers. Airline baggage inspectors. You never know: in future, to send young British soldiers to their deaths on a false pretext may also become a mistake for which "I believed I was right at the time" will no longer constitute a convincing excuse. Much depends on whether these two, still unusual, cases are indicative of some sort of indiscriminate judicial hardening towards white-collar offenders which means that an inadequate teacher ends up being treated with same suspicion as an unscrupulous railway-maintenance operative. Is the imprisonment of the wretched Ellis and of Dr Mulhem along with thieves and drug dealers, fraudsters and rapists, murderers and sex offenders, the kind of thing we should expect, when Blunkett-style justice coincides with what Sir Liam Donaldson, the chief medical officer, has called "a climate of blame, acrimony and confrontation"? Or is it just an aberration? On this occasion, one rather hopes so.Harry shows promise down underTypical. No sooner has Prince Harry embarked on his gap, than he is ridiculed for looking silly, for wasting Australian police-time, and, most of all, for taking two years out, rather than the conventional one. In fact, given that the rest of his life will be what most non-royals would call a gap, Harry should be encouraged as he attempts to squeeze the whole of a non-princely existence into two years on a sheep farm. Admittedly, the outback would not be everyone's first choice for a grand tour, nor is the company of ruminants likely to offer a very dramatic contrast to the conversation of his father's courtiers, but already, in learning how to simultaneously pet a small animal, wear a hat and make himself agreeable to commoners, Harry has exceeded many of our expectations, achieving more in one day "down under", than Princess Margaret, the queen's late sibling, managed to do in a lifetime. Moreover, unlike most idle gap-takers, the prince plans to learn the arts of herding, branding and fencing. If he does, his accomplishments will so far exceed anything seen in member of the royal family since Henry VIII, that there is surely a case for asking whether the crown should not skip one heir (as is occasionally suggested), on the queen's death, but two, going directly to this promising young jackaroo.