Only one in 13 women reporting a rape will see their assailant convicted, according to figures today from the first British study to look at the investigation and prosecution of rape from start to finish.The report, produced jointly by the inspectorates for the police and the crown prosecution services, finds failures throughout the system and calls for a package of measures to bring more rapists to justice. Among key recommendations are more sensitive treatment of rape complainants to increase their confidence in the system and specialist teams of prosecutors to handle rape cases. The report found that 7.35% of cases reported to police ended up with a conviction. The findings confirm Home Office statistics showing that the rate of conviction for rape has fallen from 33% of reported cases in 1977 to 7.5% in 1999. The study of 10 police forces and CPS areas found that only 28.3% of cases reported to police resulted in criminal proceedings or caution, and only 42.2% of the cases referred to the CPS reached court. Where cases reached court the conviction rate - including guilty pleas - was 60.8%, but seven out of 10 defendants who pleaded not guilty were acquitted. In a quarter of cases the complainant withdrew the allegation. The report highlights a catalogue of serious failings in the way victims are treated at every step of the criminal justice system. "It's not perfect at any stage of the process. It all needs tightening up and sharpening," said the inspector of constabulary, David Blakey, who called for "a major cultural shift". Key findings include: · the sensitive treatment of victims is key to the prospects of securing a conviction; · better training and guidance are needed for police, forensic medical examiners and prosecutors; · all allegations of rape should be reviewed by prosecutors with specialist training in the handling of sexual offences; · major review decisions by CPS lawyers, such as dropping a case or reducing a charge, should be discussed with another specialist lawyer; · to make sure cases are pre sented in the best possible way, there should be early meetings between prosecuting counsel and the CPS team, and the same counsel should deal with the case throughout; · prosecuting counsel should be more robust to ensure victims are not forced to endure inappropriate questioning in court. Stephen Wooler, chief inspector at the CPS inspectorate, said: "What we see is the potential for a lot of improvement across the whole process. Taken collectively, these recommendations have the potential to make the pro portion of successful outcomes significantly higher." He said the figures were "quite disturbing in relation to what is such an awful crime, there being few crimes which have such a lasting effect on their victims". A crucial element in improving the success rate was making sure victims were well supported from the beginning "so they have the courage to go through what they perceive as a substantial ordeal", he said. "Probably the biggest single factor is ensuring victims have confidence in the system at all stages. A high number of com plaints are subsequently withdrawn by the victim, particularly where the victim is known to the assailant." Factors thought to contribute to the fall in conviction rates include the decreasing proportion of stranger rapes and the increase in cases where defendant and complainant know each other. These cases often raise difficult issues of consent. Another factor is the rise in cases involving drugs or alcohol. The report says: "In themselves, the numbers appear shocking. The steps we have outlined will, we hope, have a cumulative effect upon improving the quality of the evidence and presentation in court. The impact of this should be to reduce the attrition rate at each stage." A spokeswoman for the Rape Crisis Federation said: "Many of these points about treatment of victims and the failures of the criminal justice system are what we have been saying for years. "We particularly welcome the recommendation for specialist lawyers, which led to a 75% conviction rate when introduced in New York."