Police raided a flat in Leeds this morning in connection with the investigation into the July 7 bombings in London three years ago.The Metropolitan police have confirmed that officers from the anti-terror unit began searching a one-bedroom flat in Shepherd's Lane, Harehills, Leeds, at 7am.Sources said the raid, in an area around two miles from Leeds city centre, followed a tip-off from a member of the public.Forensic experts are looking through the property for any evidence that links it to the suicide bombers Mohammed Siddique Khan, Shehzad Tanweer, Hasib Hussain and Jermaine Lindsay.While detectives do not believe any of the bombers ever lived at the flat, they are looking for evidence to suggest the property was used as a base, or possibly to prepare bombs. One neighbour said police knocked on doors in the street showing photographs to residents, one of which he recognised as Siddique Khan. The resident, who gave his name only as Mohammed, said the officers arrived at 7am and showed him a number of photos of men, asking if any of them had lived in the area. He said police went into the house opposite carrying bags and cameras. "I could tell from what they were carrying in that this was more than just a TV licensing raid," he said. "It was a shock to see the police this morning. I've not heard of any trouble in this area. I go to the local mosque. I would hear about things like this." Police said the person who currently lives at the flat, and is thought to have been moved to a hotel, is not linked in any way to the inquiry.John McDowall, a Met detective assistant commissioner, made a further appeal for information, saying the force continued to search for anyone who knew of the bombers' plans."While it is more than three years since the attacks, this remains a painstaking investigation, and as we have previously said we are determined to identify anyone else who knew what was being planned."As a result of our inquiries we are carrying out an extensive search of the flat to determine whether there are any links to the people responsible for the 7/7 attacks."I would urge anyone who has suspicions about activity in the flat, either in the months leading up to the 7/7 attacks or afterwards, to contact police.''There were 52 people killed when four bombs exploded on three tube trains and a bus on July 7 2005. Bombs were detonated on tube trains between Kings Cross and Russell Square, and near Edgware Road and Aldgate. A bus was blown up at Tavistock Square.No one has been convicted over the attacks, but three men from Beeston, Leeds, who are accused of helping to plan the bombings face retrial early next year.The trial of Waheed Ali, Sadeer Saleem and Mohammed Shakil was abandoned in August after the jury failed to reach a verdict. They are accused of carrying out a "hostile" reconnaissance mission in London seven months before the attacks but claim the visits were part of a tourist trip.