Two years ago, the health secretary Alan Milburn publicly converted from centralism to localism. Yesterday, in a second ministerial Damascene conversion, the home secretary David Blunkett followed suit. Like Mr Milburn, Mr Blunkett made no apologies for the government's earlier centralist approach ("it was absolutely critical for the government to drive change in key areas from the centre in 1997"), but now was the time to decentralise. It was time for police leaders to be more "visible" in their communities, and for more power to be devolved to local basic command units. He signalled that his changes, part of a third term civic renewal campaign, would be wider than the police. His speech to Community Service Volunteers in London coincided with a Fabian pamphlet from public health minister Hazel Blears pursuing similar themes.Even both opposition parties welcomed Mr Blunkett's police proposals. It is time the police became closer to communities - and listened more attentively to their concerns. Devolved budgets to basic command units (BCUs) would be a bigger step than the community policing that was pioneered in Devon and Cornwall more than two decades ago. Mr Blunkett is right to want to give communities more information about their local crime patterns, particularly as in most districts people are unaware there have been dramatic reductions. And police accountability could be improved. But even here questions need to be raised. BCUs are not small. In London they cover an entire borough with populations of up to 300,000. Communitarians would want more localism than this. Then there is the challenge which will face the BCUs. They will face two masters: the local community and Whitehall. The community is as much concerned with low level incivilities (noise, graffiti, youth gangs) as with Whitehall's commitment to cut robberies, burglary and car crime. These conflicting priorities can be resolved through two-tier policing - community wardens for incivilities, police for more serious crime - but this needs to be spelled out. There are more serious reservations. Mr Blunkett is keen to give the crown prosecution service a higher profile. He spoke with admiration of US-style district attorneys. That is the last model which should be embraced. The police are there to protect the public; the prosecution needs to be defended from populist pressures. Of course they should be required to explain to victims and their families when they decide not to pursue a prosecution - an obligation which they have recently taken up. But they should not be turned into tub-thumping, go-out-and-get-'em, district attorneys. They are there to stop mob rule not encourage it. There are more fundamental reservations. Mr Blunkett is concerned by the public's ignorance of current public service governance. But this is not what is causing the erosion of confidence in the police. Falling clear-up rates and the way the police treat people have far more influence. Moreover, there is no evidence that changing the governance would improve performance. Undeterred, the home secretary talks of introducing directly elected or partially elected police authorities - just as Mr Milburn is introducing new local bodies for foundation hospitals. No minister talks of giving local councils more powers. If ministers are serious about revitalising civic society, they need to restore local democracy, not bypass it. Local councils need more powers, but they should also be shaped in such a way as to make them closer to the people.