Charles Clarke is facing a difficult decision this Easter. How should the home secretary respond to the succession of nasty murders committed by offenders under supervision by the probation service in the community? In three successive weeks last month, Mr Clarke had to apologise to relatives of three separate murders. Two of the victims - John Monckton, a London banker, and Robert Symons, a London teacher - were killed by violent offenders released on licence but under supervision. In Mr Monckton's case his assailant had been released despite a risk assessment suggesting there was a 91% chance he would carry out a further violent attack. In the third murder case, a gang of six men, four of whom were serving community punishment orders, killed one girl and raped, shot and tortured a second, who miraculously survived.In 2004, when the Monckton and Symons murders took place, the London probation service was racked with problems including acute staff shortages. The service was failing to provide courts with pre-sentence reports or supervise prisoners properly on release. The chief inspector of prisons sent in an emergency management team and his successor, who investigated the Monckton case, uncovered "a collective failure" of supervision in a system with "built in fundamental discontinuities". Mr Clarke described the failures as "a dagger at the heart of the criminal justice system". Conservative MPs have demanded an end to early releases. Whitehall whispers have even suggested that ministers are exploring how the new indeterminate sentence introduced by a 2003 Act could be extended retrospectively to violent offenders convicted earlier.Keeping violent offenders locked up sounds simple and effective but would not stop violent crime: only 20% of violent crime is committed by previous offenders. Mr Clarke should take heed of the lessons of a predecessor, Roy Jenkins, who admitted in his second term in the office that he had been wrong in the first to shut down a pre-release employment scheme in a public panic over the actions of one inmate. The probation service supervises 250,000 offenders a year. About 15,000 of them are highly dangerous, but their re-offending rate is a half of one per cent. The recidivism rate of the general prison population is 66%.The probation service has not been in good shape, as the criticisms of the quality of its work by successive chief inspectors demonstrate. But the entire service should not be condemned for its poor parts. Nor has it been helped by threats from Downing Street's mad marketeers. The service was sensibly restructured four years ago from 54 to 42 area boards to achieve coterminosity with police, courts and crown prosecution boundaries. But just as this was bedding in, Downing Street decided it was time to open the service to competition too. Just how this would have improved integration ministers never explained. Even the judiciary rose up in opposition to private companies providing sentencing reports and running prisons. The plans, thankfully, have been postponed but not without a huge loss of morale within the service.Early release is not a New Labour invention. It has been there for years based on the sound principle that with proper supervision, there is a much better chance of rehabilitation. The major weakness of the current system was identified by Rod Morgan, former chief inspector of probation, four years ago. Officers are swamped by low-level offenders, who do not need supervision, but leave officers with little time to deal with serious offenders. He showed how over a decade courts had switched to community sentences reducing the use of fines from 45% of all offences to 28%. This is absurd when record number of offenders are in full-time work. Mr Morgan has provided the recipe: restore fines. Mr Clarke should seize it.