Three staff members of a Northern Territory roadhouse today told a court that Peter Falconio and his then girlfriend visited the cafe, 80 miles north of Alice Springs, on the afternoon of his alleged murder.They were among nine witnesses to give evidence at the beginning of the second week of the trial of Bradley Murdoch, 47, of Broome, Western Australia, who denies murdering Mr Falconio on July 14 2001 and the false imprisonment and assault of his girlfriend, Joanne Lees.The prosecution allege Mr Murdoch flagged down the orange camper van in which Mr Falconio, 28, of Huddersfield, and Ms Lees, then 27, of Brighton, were travelling on an isolated stretch of the Stuart Highway north of Alice Springs.Last week, Ms Lees told the court she was threatened with a gun to her head and tied up with her hands behind her back but managed to escape and hide in the bush. Mr Falconio was never seen again and no body has been found.Gregory Dick, the owner of the Aileron roadhouse, said he saw the couple when he came in for a break and a cup of tea at around 4pm on the day of Mr Falconio's alleged murder.He said the couple ordered two toasted sandwiches and soft drinks and were looking through a series of brochures and postcards, discussing places to visit."I came in, rolled a couple of joints, I mean cigarettes ... I had a couple of smokes. They were there, talking, going through paperwork," he said.Asked by the senior crown prosecutor, Anthony Elliott, to describe the couple, Mr Dick said: "I know she looked pretty all right, dark hair, very slim." He said the man had an Italian or Greek accent."She was very neat, tidy, fairly long hair. I would say she was, as we'd call them, a Pom."Asked for more detail, Mr Dick said: "I didn't perv on her that hard."The court also heard the manager of the roadhouse, Michael Oatley, was "90% sure" Mr Falconio and Ms Lees had eaten there that afternoon. A former worker, Anne Mary Floyd, also said she had seen the couple there.The court heard from Jasper "Jimbajimba" Haines, who was driving along the Stuart Highway with his family on the night of the incident when he saw a big white vehicle and an orange camper van.He told the court the vehicle, which he thought was a Toyota Land Cruiser, had "a greenish canopy on the back". He said he knew the area well, as he regularly went hunting there.Later, Sergeant Ian Mark Kesby, of Alice Springs police, said he saw "quite a large blood stain", covered with dirt, on the west side of the Stuart Highway when he visited the scene. Police found the orange camper van parked in the bush 100 metres to the north. They conducted a "minor search" at the time.Sgt Kesby said he spoke to Ms Lees at the Barrow Creek pub. He said: "She appeared to me as though she was in shock. She was very quiet, her demeanour was very quiet. She was shivering from time to time."He said she was wearing a T-shirt and long shorts and told him her attacker's vehicle was a white four wheel drive.He said he thought she was describing a Toyota Land Cruiser but when he showed her one parked nearby she said there were some differences with the vehicle into which she claimed Mr Murdoch forced her.Peter Falconio learned he owed tax to the Australian authorities hours before the alleged attack, another witness told the court.Maureen Laracy, an accountant for Deloittes in Alice Springs, whom Mr Falconio saw that morning, told the Northern Territory supreme court, in Darwin, that she had informed him he owed the tax office money.She said Mr Falconio had entered Australia on a work visa but had been paying tax as a resident and the tax he had paid so far was insufficient.Describing their 15-minute meeting at 10am on that day, she said: "I calculated the tax payable on income he earned and advised him that he had a bill that he owed the tax office. I asked him if he wanted to continue and have the tax return completed and he declined."She said his was a common reaction. "When they find they owe money, they just want to get on a plane to get home," she said.Ms Lees, wearing a navy blue suit with a white blouse, listened in the public gallery, at the back of the court, throughout the day, along with Mr Falconio's parents, Joan and Luciano, and his brothers Nick and Paul, all of Huddersfield. The trial was adjourned until tomorrow.