The prime minister, Tony Blair, has unveiled a package of rehabilitation schemes designed to turn the 100,000 most persistent offenders away from a career in crime, as part of a new 10-year strategy to cut crime.Prisoners will be offered better drug treatment, education and skills training, and help with jobs and housing on release. But those who continue to offend will face harsher penalties with judges being able to take greater account of previous convictions when passing sentences, warned Mr Blair. A third of the £700m programme will be spent on rehabilitation and 2,500 more prison places will also be created. Prisoners will face tougher supervision on release under the plan, which will be announced by the home secretary, Jack Straw, in the Commons this afternoon. Speaking at the Peel Community Centre in London's King's Cross, Mr Blair said the plan offered prisoners a "new deal" to escape a life of crime. But Mr Blair, the first serving prime minister to visit a jail, said they must seize the opportunity or face the harsh consequences. "Every prisoner leaving custody who needs follow up support or supervision should get it - whatever the length of their sentence," said Mr Blair. "For those who reject this helping hand the message will be equally clear. "Rigorously enforced punishments which get progressively tougher the more times an offender returns to court. With prison as an option for those who breach community sentences or offend on bail." Mr Blair said the proposals would end the "revolving door" system of justice, which sees the same hard-core of offenders repeatedly return before the courts. Ministers believe that 100,000 offenders are responsible for half the country's crime. Around 90,000 people are released from British jails each year, of whom 46,000 have served sentences of less than 12 months. About 60% of those who serve shorter sentences are reconvicted within two years. "We have to stop the revolving door which then keeps sending them back to crime," said Mr BlairThe government believes the Criminal Justice Act 1991 prevents judges from taking sufficient account of criminals' re-offending when sentencing them, leading to a string of short and ineffective spells in jail. The prime minister's comments came after a leaked memo to Mr Straw suggested today's proposals could highlight previous failings on crime, a key battle ground in the coming election. Opposition leader William Hague said the government's plans were just another "eye-catching initiative", which would have little impact on crime. "Last year 'TB' owned up to being 'perceived as soft' on crime and asked that he be 'personally associated' with 'eye-catching initiatives'," said Mr Hague. "Only yesterday, Jack Straw's special adviser said that their new crime plan 'doesn't look very impressive'. So when Tony Blair and Jack Straw offer their 10-year strategy for crime today, they hope the public will fail to take their previous record into account."The home office minister, Paul Boateng, said all offenders would be subjected to intensive supervision following release from jail. "The evidence shows prisoners are less likely to reoffend if you do make sure that they are supervised when they leave prison. All prison sentences ought to carry with them an element of supervision and control when they come to an end," he said. However, the shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, claimed the strategy would lead to a further 32,000 prisoners being released early each year. Her comments came after the leak of a memo suggesting the government is planning to link intensive supervision after release with a "custody-plus" scheme to cut all sentences of a year or less to just three months. "This latest leak is a smoking gun on Labour's failure to deliver on law and order. Labour are soft on crime and they know it," said Miss Widdecombe.Home Office figures showed 11,500 criminals were given sentences of between six and 12 months each year, making them eligible for early release under "custody-plus", if it were introduced, she said. This would add to the 15,000 released early each year under the home curfew scheme and the 5,400 whom Home Office minister Charles Clarke has estimated will receive shorter sentences because of planned restrictions on jury trial, Miss Widdecombe added. Other initiatives expected to announced by the home secretary include a "superbobby" bonus for senior police who chose to stay on the beat rather than be promoted to desk jobs. Latest Home Office figures show overall crime dropped by a negligible 0.2% in the 12 months to September 2000, but headline-grabbing violent crime rose by 8%.