Any parent of teenagers knows it: if you go on holiday and leave the kids at home, you're asking for trouble. But a Liverpool couple appear to have forgotten the rule, and paid the price. They returned to find their house trashed and more than £80,000 of jewellery missing.Gatecrashers had turned up at the end of a three-day party in the suburb of Tuebrook organised by the couple's 16-year-old son while they were holidaying in France. The gatecrashers threatened partygoers with a knife, ripped out two heavy electronically coded safes and stole 500 pieces of jewellery.The gems had been collected over 30 years by the teenager's mother, a 50-year-old secondary school teacher who doesn't want to be identified. They included antique earrings, necklaces and pendants.The boy's older brother telephoned his parents in France to break the bad news to them. They cut short their break and returned home.The mother said: "Everything meant something personal to me."There were presents from friends and family, anniversary gifts from my husband as well as a lot of individual, hand-made pieces - some of which had been made specifically for me and were very unusual."I'm extremely glad that my son wasn't hurt, but I feel devastated at what's happened. I just can't comprehend it."Police said a gang of about 10 gatecrashers raided the house in Marlborough Road at 11pm on August 2. They threatened people with a knife, before locking them in a room and stealing the safes.Detective Constable Justin Harrison, of Merseyside police, said: "This was a terrible experience for the young man and has been a difficult time for the family as a whole. As well as the burglary, they caused a lot of damage to the house and put a lot of fear into the 16-year-old."It's every kid's nightmare - the parents go away and put you in charge and something like this happens."It's possible that the offenders didn't even know what was in the safes. Being so distinctive, a lot of the jewellery will not be sold on easily." Detectives believe the robbers must have escaped in a car because the safes were so heavy. Det Con Harrison urged anyone from an established jewellery outlet to contact police if they are offered any of the distinctive pieces for sale.The Metropolitan police's specialist antiques and art recovery unit has been notified.According to a report by the Zurich insurance company last year, damage caused by teenage parties costs British families £134m a year.The report also found that more than half of teenage parties ended with damage to houses or gardens.One in 10 youngsters who held a party did not tell their parents beforehand, according to a survey of 500 parents.A spokeswoman for Merseyside police said two local teenagers had been arrested in connection with the incident.