Is it better to steal from a large chainstore than from a small independent shop? This is one of the questions raised in a new report on property crime compiled by David Lammy, Labour MP for Tottenham. Lammy suggests that judgments about the seriousness of shoplifting should take into account the theft’s impact on its victim. His report argues that, “the impact of a £200 theft to a large retailer is much smaller than it would be to an independent retailer.”Lammy’s report emphasises the severity of property crime, highlighting research by the Policy Exchange thinktank which found that half of burglary victims do not hear back from police after reporting the crime.But Lammy’s political opponents have been quick to take an uncompromising moral stance on shoplifting. Chris Grayling, the justice secretary, states that “all forms of stealing are wrong”, adding that Lammy’s recommendation about the impact of shoplifting “sends all the wrong sorts of messages”. Boris Johnson, meanwhile, told LBC radio that shoplifting “is a crime wherever it is committed”.As so often happens, these reactions take the debate in the wrong direction. Lammy has not denied that stealing is wrong, nor that shoplifting is always a crime – on the contrary, he argues that it has been virtually “decriminalised”, and needs to be taken more seriously.Our justice system, like our personal moral intuitions, combines a commitment to the absolute wrongness of certain actions – theft, murder, and rape, for example – with the recognition that different contexts make some such actions worse than others. The more absolute judgment focuses on the action itself, while the secondary judgment about a crime’s severity takes motivations and consequences into account.Shoplifting on the increase as overall crime figures fall And in fact, the law concerning shoplifting already distinguishes between more and less serious offences on consequential grounds. These judgments are currently based on the value of the items stolen. The Antisocial Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act deems “low-value shoplifting” a summary offence, and defines “low-value” as £200 or under. The Home Office’s guidelines for police dealing with shoplifting explain that the £200 threshold “captures the vast majority of the cases currently heard in the magistrates’ courts, as well as 80% of the much smaller number of cases (1,185 in 2011) that go to the crown court”. These guidelines advise police to take into account the views of business owners or store managers, “for example by giving them the opportunity to make a victim personal statement to explain the impact of any shop theft”.The debate provoked by Lammy’s report is interesting because it raises issues about both moral value and monetary value. In one sense, monetary value seems much easier to fix and to calculate: it’s not a question for philosophers to worry about, because market forces determine prices for us. Moral values, on the other hand, can be debated endlessly. However, whereas moral values may be treated as absolute – for example, by claiming that stealing is always wrong – monetary values are always relative to overall resources. It is surely true that it is more appropriate to describe £200 as a “low value” for a larger supermarket than for a little corner shop.Moral absolutism is certainly compatible with an acknowledgement that monetary value depends on circumstance. Jesus, for example, reinforced the 10 commandments, which unconditionally prohibit murder, adultery, theft and so on. But one day, when he was teaching in the temple, Jesus watched a poor widow put two small coins in the donation box, while rich people made much larger offerings. “This poor widow has put in more than all of them,” says Jesus, “because she, out of her poverty, has put in all she had to live on.”David Lammy, whose constituency was at the centre of the riots and looting of August 2011, is right to raise questions about wealth and poverty in relation to property crime. He points out that “the social costs of shoplifting are regressive – they hit poorest communities hardest”. If anything, it’s a shame that Lammy played down these issues when defending his report on LBC. Instead, he simply urged us to “think about the impact” of shoplifting, adding that “the impact on a major store can be just as severe”.