Britain's criminal justice system is failing victims of crime because of confusion between government departments and official bodies supposed to ensure the courts run smoothly.A damning Audit Commission report will reveal that courts are too willing to send people to prison for short sentences and that rehabilitation schemes are under-funded and poorly run. It will also say that there are wide discrepancies in the amount of time it takes the police, Crown Prosecution Service and the court authorities to bring offenders to trial. In some areas of the country it takes up to 200 days from the crime being committed to the person actually being dealt with. It was also reported last night that the report will say that just one in 15 crimes committed in Britain results in a conviction. Just over 325,000 convictions were secured last year, despite police recording 5.2 million offences. The report will again put pressure on the Government to bring forward a radical overhaul of the criminal justice system expected in a White Paper next month. It launched the first stage of a review, the inquiry by Lord Justice Auld, more than three years ago, leading to criticism that modernisation was being undermined by bureaucracy and slow decision-making. The Prime Minister has put crime at the centre of Labour's second term of office. Officials in Number 10 admit that increasing levels of street crime in the first six months of the year have been politically damaging. The Audit Commission report will recommend that the Home Office and the Lord Chancellor's Department headed by Derry Irvine should work more closely together to deal with offenders more quickly. The Government will welcome the report, saying that it reveals the need for 'root and branch' reform of the system. Ministers will put pressure on the courts to streamline their procedures and put victims and witnesses at the centre of the system. The Audit Commission report will say that too often victims and witnesses are left feeling ill-informed and badly treated by courts which waste time calling people for hearings that never take place and allowing offenders to change pleas at the last minute. 'The criminal justice system is actually not a system at all,' said one official who has read the report. 'The mixture of Government departments and criminal justice agencies are not working properly together.' A National Audit Office inquiry revealed that half of all court hearings that are delayed or abandoned are due to poor liaison between the courts and other criminal justice agencies such as the CPS or the Probation Service. In March it was also revealed that magistrates wrote off £74 million of fines last year because offenders could not be tracked down. More than a third of all fines, costs and compensation awards made by the courts in 2000-1 went unpaid. 'There seems to be little mechanism for people to be able to swap best practice and learn from other regions,' one Home Office official said.