This has been a grim year for urban youth. In London alone, 17 teenagers were killed in the first half of the year, having been shot or stabbed. A report into gang culture by the Department for Communities is launched today, at a time when our inner cities are starting to resemble the notorious American ghettoes of gangster-rap folklore.The latest killings - the vast majority of victims being black - have triggered a flurry of headlines and hand-wringing, but they were going on long before the media cottoned on.I work at a charity for young people who have committed minor offences, or are at risk of doing so, in Lambeth, south London, and we know of three other violent young deaths which failed to register on the national radar. At the 409 Project, we are ideally placed to reach those parts which the police and others cannot. Take Darren, 14, a member of a notorious local gang. Gangs like his, he explains, have different categories of member, made up of "olders" (aged 20-plus), "youngers" (aged 16 to 19) and "tinies" (under-16). Each gang is, in effect, a large extended family.Darren - a "tiny" - is presently excluded from school, having been involved in a stabbing on his school's premises. The reasons cited by Darren for involvement with gangs are family related, but not in the commonly used sense of family breakdown. Darren has cousins and uncles who are all involved with the gang he is a member of, so through them he became involved too. In his eyes, gangs serve a function - "when things happen, people will be there to back you". He says inner-city youngsters do not turn to, say, the police for protection, as they have no confidence that the boys in blue will come to their rescue.In marked contrast, however, he trusts in our organisation; he feels at home with us. Another of our youngsters, 16-year-old Lloyd, who is no longer in a gang, maps out the "battleground" that people like him navigate every day. He describes how CCTV cameras have been installed in his school in an effort to curb the number of incidents there, and explains how the most trivial argument can spill out of the classroom.On one recent occasion six boys from his school went round to a classmate's home to "rush" (ie beat) him for disrespecting one of them. This is not unusual. Inner city youngsters are not affluent, but "respect" and "pride" are two things which they have in abundance - when either is threatened, it can lead to incendiary situations and, ultimately, the use of guns and knives.Today's government report comes in the wake of a wave of teenage murders involving guns and knives. While the predominant media response suggests shock, for those of us at the coalface these killings are unsurprising. A Mori poll last year found that 29% of pupils in London schools admitted to carrying a knife. But the young people coming through the doors of our project say that 90-95% of their classmates have taken a knife to school in the past year.And the familiarity some demonstrate with guns is frightening. Darren told us what a Mac-10 was (a sub-machine gun), how many rounds per second it can spray (more than 12), and its street price (£800), without pausing.And what have our politicians to say about what is happening? Towards the end of his premiership, Tony Blair claimed these problems were not being caused by poverty, but by a distinctive black gang culture. The reaction from some of the young people at our charity was damning. Darren was contemptuous: "Put Tony Blair in a flat in Brixton and see how long he lasts - he wouldn't last one day in the hood."Today's report repeats the familiar calls for more positive black role models, but the truth is that, more often than not, money - or specifically the lack of it - is the root cause of much of this violence. According to Sharon, 16, the former girlfriend of one of those who was killed recently, money leads to a cycle of robbery and then revenge, as those who do not have the latest consumables rob those who do but who are equally hard up. Lloyd says it is easier to rob your neighbours than people living in more prosperous areas, as the rich are more likely to go to the police and the police more likely to act. When robbing one of your own kind, officers are less interested.What emerges is a vicious circle of violence and fear, where deprived young people feel exposed and vulnerable, left behind by a rampantly consumerist society they can ill-afford to buy into. There is a dearth of things for them to do, their time-poor parents (who struggle to make ends meet) are at a loss to know what to do with them, and knives and guns are easy to get hold of.It is left to the 409 Project and other similar organisations to deal with many of the consequences and pick up the pieces, and yet we suffer from a chronic shortage of funding - a shortage that can only be addressed by long-term government investment. But, above all, we need to create a society which does not leave our young people behind as the few become richer and more prosperous. On this measure, we have a long way to go.· All names have been changed.· Chuka Umunna is a trustee of the 409 Project charity and editor of the online political magazine TMP: info@tmponline.org