Peter TobinEarlier this week Tobin was convicted of the murder of Vicky Hamilton, having been linked to her death by a purse belonging to the schoolgirl that was found to be carrying the DNA of Tobin's three-year-old son. Police then searched Tobin's house, discovering a knife in his loft with DNA remains belonging to Hamilton, and ultimately, in the back garden of a house in Kent where Tobin had once lived, her dismembered body with traces of Tobin's DNA, and wrapped in plastic that bore his fingerprints. Tobin already had a conviction for raping a 14-year old girl and at the time of the re-investigation into Vicky Hamilton's murder, had just been convicted of murdering Polish student Angelika Kluk.Mohammed Sannoh and Abdi Noor In June, Mohammed Sannoh and Abdi Noor were convicted of murdering 15-year old Michael Dosumnu, firing four bullets from a submachine gun as he slept, after evidence including a DNA match linked them to the crime. DNA found on the casing of one of the bullets fired to the gun was a partial match to Noor, who shot Dosumnu after mistaking him for his older brother. The two were also linked by firearms residue found on their clothes.Maninder Pal and Singh Kohli Last month, Maninder Pal Singh Kohli was convicted of the rape and murder of 17-year-old Hannah Foster. He abducted her as she walked home after a night out in Southampton. Kohli was linked to the crime after DNA matching the student was found in his van. Samples taken from Kohli's wife and children after he had fled the country to India also provided a match to DNA found on Foster.Mark DixieIn February, chef Mark Dixie was found guilty of murdering aspiring model Sally Anne Bowman as a result of a DNA match. Dixie, who had 16 previous convictions in the UK, five of them for sex offences, did not have his DNA in the database until he was arrested on suspicion of an assault in a brawl after a World Cup match, nine months after the murder. Police were reportedly puzzled as he wept when his DNA was taken - until it emerged days later that it matched DNA found on Bowman's body.