The old cliche of a farmer seeing rustlers off his land with a threatening wave of his shotgun is clearly defunct: these days it's more likely to be a llama baring its teeth. A survey of farm crime showing a 6% rise in thefts in 2011 also revealed a number of less orthodox ways in which farmers are seeking to stop robberies.Placing quad bikes beyond pens housing a Friesian bull, erecting scarecrows within farm buildings to fool intruders and using geese as noisy "watchdogs" are among the low-tech crime-fighting devices employed by farmers identified in the  annual study of rural crime by NFU Mutual.So why llamas? There are a few funny YouTube clips of these South American camelids chasing annoying people but any farmer expecting his new llama to maul thieves is likely to be sadly disappointed, according to Liz Butler of the British Llama Society. "We do sell a number of llamas as 'guard llamas' and they do protect livestock, not from human beings but from predators such as dogs and foxes," says Butler, who does not know of any cases where a llama has attacked a human.Llamas may be used primarily against dogs and foxes – Tim Crowfoot, chair of the British Llama Society, has watched a llama chase and kill a fox – but Tim Price of NFU Mutual says they are also a useful deterrent against animal rustling "because they make quite a lot of noise and stamp and spit".Farmers need all the help they can get because rustling is on the rise. Tractor theft fell last year but the cost of livestock rustling increased by 170% in 2011 according to the survey. Professional thieves have stolen everything from 1,500 lambs in Lincolnshire to 145 pigs in Norfolk.Police suspect that stolen animals swiftly enter the food chain, either through unofficial abattoirs or forged documentation, because the livestock is never seen again. "It's very difficult to get convictions where the evidence has been eaten," says Price.If llamas aren't quite the anti-theft device they are cracked up to be, what is? Parking old tractors in front of newer equipment is another low-tech tactic, but farmers are also using CCTV and motion detectors. The best crime prevention, according to Price, is community. Because the countryside is fragmented, with many residents not knowing their farmers, recreating old networks through formal and informal farm and neighbourhood watch schemes is the surest way to stop the rustlers.