A black man who slipped into a coma and died after being restrained by eight police officers was unlawfully killed, an inquest jury ruled today.Roger Sylvester, 30, died seven days after being arrested while naked and banging on doors outside his home in Tottenham, north London, in January 1999. The coroner's court jury took two hours to reach a unanimous verdict of unlawful killing. It found that Mr Sylvester died from brain damage and cardiac arrest, triggered and exacerbated by breathing problems that occurred during the restraint, and also cannabis-induced delirium. The decision was greeted with cheers from friends and relatives who have packed the court in St Pancras, north London, on every day of the month-long inquest. It also prompted calls from campaigners for a change in police restraint tactics and for the prosecution of the officers involved in the Sylvester case. Mr Sylvester, an Islington council worker, stopped breathing at the emergency psychiatric unit at St Anne's hospital, Haringey, when six police officers held him down on the floor for about 20 minutes, St Pancras coroner's court heard. He fell into a coma and died later at the Whittington hospital, north London. The court had heard that dangerous and unreasonable force was used and Mr Sylvester was handcuffed and sometimes restrained on his stomach - which increases the risk of suffocation. The officers denied the allegation and claimed Mr Sylvester had been kept on his side in line with police restraint guidelines. But delivering today's verdict, the jury foreman said: "The deceased collapsed while awaiting medical assessment. The deceased was lawfully detained except as set out below when more force was used than was reasonably necessary causing a significant contribution to the adverse consequences of restraint. "One - held in restraint position too long. Two - lack of medical attention. Three - no attempt was made to alter his position of restraint. Roger Sylvester was killed unlawfully." The inquest took place following a four-year campaign by Mr Sylvester's family to find out the truth about his death. His relatives wanted the officers to face criminal charges, but in November 2000 the crown prosecution service (CPS) decided that there was insufficient evidence to prosecute. In May 2001 the high court blocked the Sylvesters' attempt to gain a judicial review of the CPS decision. Lord Justice Woolf said their challenge should await the outcome of the inquest. After today's verdict, the Sylvesters said they were considering their position on whether to bring a civil prosecution, and hoped the CPS would review its decision not to bring charges against any of the eight officers involved in the arrest. Mr Sylvester's mother Sheila, 68, a retired nurse, said: "All they did was demonise Roger. I'm very pleased at how it went today. I thank God and thank the campaign. It is been four years and nine months of hard work. We have had a lot to put up with and I have a lot to think about now."Deborah Coles, co-director of campaign group Inquest which supported the Sylvesters throughout their legal battle, said: "The jury have decided that police officers used dangerous, excessive and unlawful force restraining Roger Sylvester, a vulnerable and mentally ill young man, in the prone or three-quarters prone position for some 15-20 minutes until he stopped breathing. We now expect them to be prosecuted for manslaughter. "The same thing could happen tomorrow on the streets of London because the Metropolitan police have failed to learn the lessons from previous deaths and incorporate good practice from other agencies. Unless there are clear sanctions against police who breach their own guidance, the message will be sent that they can act with impunity." She called on police leaders to issue clear guidance and instructions about the maximum time limits for restraining any person in the prone position.Pathologists who gave evidence to the inquiry were unable to agree on the cause of death. Professor Peter Vanezis said the restraint rather than a sudden abnormal heart rhythm was the main factor.Dr Ian Hill said the cause of death could not be "satisfactorily" ascertained. Home Office pathologist Dr Nathaniel Carey said the respiratory muscles that cause people to breathe could have got tired. Another doctor pointed towards cannabis-induced delirium as a possible cause. A statement issued outside the court on behalf of the eight police officers said: "The precise mechanism causing the cardiac arrest is a matter of debate between the experts. There is, however, no evidence or suggestion of asphyxia. The eight officers continue to express their sympathy to the family of Mr Sylvester for their loss. "Their treatment of Mr Sylvester was motivated only by a desire to secure immediate medical intervention. "This decision is likely to be the subject of further judicial proceedings." All the officers are back at work and no disciplinary action has been taken against them. Commander Phillip Hagon of the Metropolitan police service (MPS) said today: "We understand that the Sylvester family are deeply distressed at the loss of their son and our sympathies are with them at this very difficult time. "We wish to reassure the family that the MPS has taken Mr Sylvester's death extremely seriously. We have endeavoured to listen to the family's concerns as well as the concerns of the wider community. "This has been an extremely difficult time for everyone involved in the case and we are naturally disappointed with this outcome. We understand that this verdict may result in further enquiries and we will make every effort to assist with those enquires. "Since this incident the Metropolitan police service has worked vigorously to raise awareness of deaths in custody across the capital. Although the number of deaths in custody in London has not risen over the past few years, we refuse to be complacent and continue to work closely with our partner agencies and medical experts to examine ways of reducing that number." Mr Hagon said that CCTV had now been installed in the custody areas of a number of key police stations, and cameras will be installed in all new and refurbished custody suites. "We also have a pilot scheme in operation which has placed CCTV in a number of police cells," he said.