One of the Metropolitan police's most senior ethnic minority officers has been arrested in connection with allegations that he fiddled his expenses for a £688 flight to Los Angeles.Superintendent Ali Dizaei was suspended in January over a host of allegations, including assault and corruption. His supporters had been pressing for the Met to "put up or shut up", and either charge Mr Dizaei or end the investigation they claim has cost £3m and involved wire taps and extensive surveillance. Mr Dizaei was arrested on Friday and questioned by detectives. His solicitor says the officer was held for 15 hours and denies the allegation. The Guardian understands that police are investigating a plane ticket to Los Angeles which was paid for by the Met branch of the Black Police Association for Mr Dizaei to attend a conference. He claimed £688 for it, according to documentation seen by the Guardian. A woman was also arrested and questioned. She is believed to be the travel agent who sold the ticket and a friend of the officer, one of the Met's biggest internal critics. Mr Dizaei was bailed by police to reappear at a later late. Lawyers for Mr Dizaei were told five other allegations had been dropped. These include that he had relations with prostitutes, interfered in a civil dispute, used his position as a police officer to obtain a discount on a £2,000 Cartier watch, and visited the Iranian, Liberian and Ethiopian embassies without permission.  Ravi Chand, chairman of the National Black Police Association, said a complaint would be lodged with the Metropolitan police authority against se nior officers running the investigation. Mr Chand said : "The sleaze allegations were leaked to discredit Mr Dizaei in the community whilst the visits to foreign embassies were used to put doubts in the public's minds about issues of national security to justify the overreaction to this case. "We condemn this racist spin which puts a serious doubt on the integrity of this investigation." The fall out for Scotland Yard if the Dizaei investigation goes wrong could be immense. A Scotland Yard spokesman said the force was surprised by the NBPA's statement and insisted other criminal allegations were still being pursued: "The investigation into Ali Dizaei continues and does not relate to only one criminal allegation as the NBPA claim. "Since his suspension on the January 18, Superintendent Dizaei has been served with a number of regulation nine notices outlining a number of disciplinary and criminal allegations for which he is being investigated. "Although five minor matters will no longer be pursued, the most serious allegations continue to be investigated. "Since this inquiry became overt, 669 statements have been taken and there are still a significant number of matters to investigate Superintendent Dizaei about."