The release of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi on compassionate grounds by the Scottish justice secretary brings what I called in an earlier posting a happy ending to this affair. Libya secures his release, Kenny MacAskill (assuming the medical advice is as dire as we are told) has the credit of an honourable decision in the face of colossal pressure, the American politicians can claim that they did their damnedest, and the British government wasn't involved – the mystery cat Gordon Macavity Brown wasn't there. So why does it all leave such a bad taste? I suggest four reasons.First, the search for the truth. The abandonment of the appeal means that those who were hoping to get nearer the truth are frustrated. I have a reservation here. I think the appeal might well have produced some embarrassing information about the way the case against Megrahi was handled, but I do not believe that either an appeal or a public inquiry is likely to throw light on the big question: did the Libyans do it, and if not who did?Second, the deal. I am almost sure that there was a deal, and perhaps a dirty one. Megrahi agreed quite early on that he would abandon the appeal if the Libyan authorities wanted him to do so; it was of course a precondition for returning him to Libya under the Prisoner Transfer Agreement. They refused to play the card until they could be reasonably sure that they would get his release. The British and Scottish authorities wanted the appeal abandoned. If, as I suspect, the deal was "abandon the appeal and he can have humanitarian release", it was pretty suspect.Third, it's all about oil, or arms sales. I don't accept this, but it is true that Libya is cash rich, a significant oil and gas producer and a significant market for arms among other things. If, for example, when the Prisoner Transfer Agreement negotiations were in difficulties, the Libyans obstructed BP's operations, I imagine the British reaction will have been "you can't link these two issues – they are quite separate". To which the Libyans would reply, probably in actions rather than words for reasons of politeness, "yes we can".Fourth and last, I found the representations made by the American politicians hard to take. My mind went back to the case of Rudolf Hess, the only close associate of Hitler who got less than a capital sentence at Nuremberg. Hess was steeped in the evil of Nazism, but he was such a pathetic specimen that he was not easily seen as a monster. He served his life sentence in Spandau prison under the four-power regime of the Americans, the British, the French and the Soviets. As he passed into his 80s and 90s Spandau became a symbol not of international justice but of bureaucratic inhumanity. As early as 1974, President Nixon and the western allies wanted to free him on humanitarian grounds, but the Soviets refused. Not unreasonably, this was presented as a contrast between the compassion of the west and the vindictiveness of a system scarcely less evil than the Nazis.The Hess/Megrahi comparison points to an ugly coarsening of the moral fibre that made America, for all its faults, a worthy leader of the free world.