Police are urgently seeking two men who they believe photographed a rape on their mobile telephones.Sussex detectives warned they may release CCTV footage of the men, taken minutes before the attack at a pub in Brighton, unless they come forward as witnesses.According to what one witness told police, the men used their camera-phones to record the attack on a 27-year-old woman in the men's toilets of the Toad In The Picture House pub on Saturday night.Detective inspector Peter Laverick of Sussex police said the woman was assaulted in a cubicle by two men who may have spiked her drink with a date-rape drug. He said the woman, who was out celebrating a birthday, was seen to follow the two men into the toilets. At the time, she was unsteady on her feet but was able to walk, he said. Eight minutes later, staff found her collapsed on the toilet floor."It is a very strong possibility that she was drugged. She collapsed in a very short space of time after entering the toilets, and this was totally out of character for her," Mr Laverick said."There was CCTV in the premises, but not in the toilets. We are studying footage of a vital piece of evidence, and I am considering publishing photographs of these witnesses to help trace them," he added."They may not have known what they were witnessing but I am telling them now they were witnessing a very serious sexual assault. That is what they were looking at, and I want them to come forward because they will have crucial evidence for us."Today, police also appealed for three women who helped the victim after the attack to come forward."This is a very serious assault and the people who did this are very callous. After what happened they abandoned the woman and left her to be found by staff, who called police and an ambulance. I consider these men to be a danger to women," Mr Laverick said.Shortly after the initial appeal was made, two men approached the police to say they were in the toilet at the time of the attack, a Sussex police spokeswoman said. It was not yet clear whether they were the same men believed to have photographed the crime on their mobile phones, but they would be interviewed later today, she said.It is not thought that the victim knew her attackers, adding to the theory that she had been drugged, the spokeswoman said. The woman has told police that she can remember nothing of the attack.Clive Smith, a spokesman for the pub's owners, Eldridge Pope, said the company was "deeply shocked". "We are offering our full cooperation to the police. Our first concern is the well-being of the young lady. We hope she quickly recovers from this terrible ordeal," she said.