I am writing this surrounded by boxes and as I type I can hear the removal men lugging my wardrobe down the stairs. Tonight is our last night in the first home my boyfriend and I bought together, the place to which we brought our daughter back from hospital. All that is left in her room is her bed, her pyjamas and her toy bunny. I feel sad, which is strange because, in my darkest moments, I wondered if we would ever be able to sell this house. And at times, I wondered how we would ever be happy – knowing what had happened here.Picture the scene. It is a lovely spring morning in April 2010 and you and your boyfriend have just had an offer accepted on a house. It is in a brilliant area and you are both excited about buying a place together. The house needs work. It is curiously laid out and has been pulled around over the years. Plus, the previous owner is selling because their relationship broke up, and one of your friends has screwed up her eyes and made a whistling intake of breath when you told her this news. “Ooh,” she said. “Bad ju-ju, when a couple’s broken up.”You have already been on a property website and discovered you will be the fifth people to buy it in 10 years. That seems like a pretty fast turnover. You are uneasy and you don’t know why. What do you do next?Well, I typed the address of our new house into Google. Once I had scrolled past the endless property website search results, words began to catch my eye. An exhibition at a local museum. An extract from a book. A blog. The same address. Our new address. Even now, I can still recall the feeling. You don’t ever want the place you live in to be described as “one of the most notorious houses in north London”.On 29 October 1902, a woman named Annie Walters took lodgings in one room of our house. Walters, who upon her arrest, was found by detectives to be “feeble”, is now thought to have had a mental age of about 10. She worked for a woman named Amelia Sach (the real villain of this story), who ran what she called a nursing home, Claymore House, in Finchley. Young women (mostly maidservants, certainly young women without means) who got pregnant could go and have their babies there, for a fee. Baby farming, as the practice was known, was not uncommon then. Claymore House wasn’t cheap – costing from £25 to £50 (£3,000 to £5,300 in today’s money). This is one of the many sad things about the case: sometimes there would be a desperate scramble to raise such large sums to ensure these unwanted babies were treated well. The mothers (often no more than girls) were assured by Sach that their babies would be placed with wealthy families and given the best start in life. The money was surely worth it.  Amelia Sach promised unmarried, pregnant girls and women that a good home would be found for their babies – in reality, they were killedBut far from being looked after, the babies were murdered, poisoned with chlorodyne (a patent medicine containing laudanum), their bodies disposed of on rubbish tips or thrown into the River Thames. It is believed this was usually done by Walters, who moved addresses frequently to avoid difficult questions. It is thought that many babies were murdered, though the number is not known. There are houses all over London – all over the country – with similarly tragic histories. You might be reading this in one right now. The difference is, we knew about it. Most people don’t.Two babies were brought back to our house by Walters. The suspicions of the landlord (a policeman) and his family were aroused because Walters was acting strangely, asking fellow lodgers to buy her chlorodyne and carbolic acid, both of which were unusual items to purchase.A day after the second baby was brought home, the first infant having vanished, Walters was followed from the house by police, who had been alerted to her peculiar behaviour, by her landlord, PC Seal, and was arrested with a dead child in her arms. There are two upsetting details in the report in the Times. The baby’s “hands were tightly clenched” and Walters was upset and agitated. “I never murdered the dear,” she said, several times.Justice was swift – Walters implicated Sach, who initially tried to deny all knowledge of her accomplice. They were tried at the Old Bailey in January 1903, and hanged the following month. It was the last double female hanging in Britain and one of the most notorious cases of the early 20th century.I discovered all this before we completed on the sale. The day we moved in was really strange. To everyone who had expressed joy that Chris and I were buying a place together, I would pretend I was as happy about it as they were for us. But I didn’t want to be there. If it had just been up to me, I would have pulled out.Things started to go wrong straight away. We had mice, and they wouldn’t go away. No matter what we did, time after time, they came back. The house was freezing cold, and things didn’t work. It had been redone so many times that we weren’t sure what any room should be used for – bathroom or bedroom? We realised that it would cost far more than we had thought to put the place right. During the day, I was there by myself trying to work, and I couldn’t. I hated being at home. Then, just before Christmas, I had a miscarriage. It was at 10 weeks, so it wasn’t as bad as it could have been, but it was very painful and very sad. Strangely, though, for something so awful, it began to turn things around. I had been convinced that we would never be able to have children, so to know I could get pregnant was a start. And everyone was so kind and loving, and Christmas that year was really fun – I realised how lucky we were in almost every way.  Annie Walters, who murdered two babies in Harriet Evans’ house.We relaxed for the first time, and I became pregnant again almost immediately. In the months that followed, I was obsessive about ridding the house of mice and blocked up every hole. We had shelves built and put our books out. We had people over, spent evenings laughing around the kitchen table, barbecues in the garden in the dark because we were always too disorganised to cook while it was still light; we had friends staying all the time, my little nephews sitting on the sofa together.Then Cora was born, and everything became brilliant and still is, every single day. We became a family here. I have stayed up through the night with her and this house has kept me company. I would sit on the sofa feeding her, waiting for Chris to come back from work, feeling completely content and too tired to think about anything else. There is a crazy Jacuzzi on the top floor, installed by one of the house’s many owners, and Cora’s favourite thing is the flashing lights and jets (mine, too, if I’m honest). Chris makes pancakes every Saturday. We feed the ducks by the canal. We walk Cora to nursery. We see our friends. We are happy. We have had testing times – another miscarriage, redundancy and other difficulties of various kinds – but the basic truth is that we are all happy.What made us happy was being together, the two of us, in our own place, then as a family. And I suppose you have to pick one way or another of living your life: you can be someone who believes you must surrender to things, that the house must be haunted after what happened (with no evidence that it was, mind you), or you can be someone who says it was a terrible, tragic thing to have happened, but we live in the present day and there is nothing you can do about it.Just as no one said anything to us, nor did I say anything about the case to the nice man who has bought our house. I have no idea whether, like me, he has found out about the house’s history, but the Islington property market makes pragmatists of us all. One of the estate agents who came to value the house laughed when I wondered aloud whether the history of the house would affect potential buyers. “I wouldn’t worry about that,” he said. “Joe Orton [the playwright] was stabbed to death in a house round the corner.”Is there less bad karma in a house where two tiny babies were put to sleep than one where a man was bludgeoned to death by his lover? It is an impossible question to answer. But over the years I came to realise something: our house is not a house of horrors, as one blog refers to it.The case of Sach and Walters attracted nationwide attention. It became clear from other arrests and trials that this practice was not an isolated incident. The case highlighted the plight of poor, ill-educated, unmarried women who become pregnant. It threw a spotlight on the hypocrisies of the Victorian and Edwardian eras. By moving to our house and lodging with a police officer, Walters unwittingly sealed her own fate, as well as saving many other children’s lives. Following her trial, attitudes began to change, so some good came out of it. She came here and I believe this house, far from being the place where bad things happened, is instead the place where the evil perpetrated by these women was exposed and thus stopped.Perhaps that is what drew me to this unloved house in the first place. I hope it feels loved now. I am intrigued by the idea that happiness can be a memorial of terrible deeds. I think about those babies often and have said my own private prayers for them. Everyone knows there are houses with secret histories: violence, abuse, illness, or even failed marriages. That is a lot of houses with sadness in them.Living here, I realised that you can’t make a home by buying scented candles, installing recessed lighting and marble bathrooms and corner sofas, by making over the past. A home is made with gratitude for what we have and – most of all – love. That is what worked for us here in the end, and it is why, although I didn’t think I would ever feel like this, I am sad to be saying goodbye.Harriet Evans’ novel A Place for Us is published in paperback on 15 January