The attorney general is to review the sentences imposed on two young brothers who subjected a pair of boys to an attack involving "prolonged sadistic violence" and sexual humiliation in Edlington, South Yorkshire.Lady Scotland has called for the papers on the case after complaints that the five-year minimum tariff imposed on the brothers, aged 10 and 11 at the time of the attack, was unduly lenient.If she agrees, the case would be referred to the court of appeal.Mr Justice Keith sentenced the boys last week to indeterminate sentences for public protection. The minimum they will serve is five years and they can only be released if the authorities believe they pose no threat to society.The sentences were criticised by some child welfare campaigners, who said they would appeal to the attorney general's office for them to be increased.Sheffield crown court had heard the brothers, who have not been named, carried out the attacks "for no other reason than that you got a real kick out of hurting and humiliating them".The victims, aged nine and 11, were stripped, strangled, stamped on, hit with bricks, made to eat nettles and forced to sexually abuse each other during the 90-minute ordeal in a secluded spot near Doncaster in April.A spokeswoman for the attorney general's office confirmed a complaint had been received from a member of the public. Scotland was required to examine such cases if asked to. "It isn't that she has proactively gone and decided that this case needs looking at. We have called for the papers from the Crown Prosecution Service. The attorney general or the solicitor general will ­consider it after our lawyers have looked at it."In this particular case, what they would be looking at is the tariff because obviously the sentence is indeterminate. So they will be looking at the minimum."The bar the attorney general has to apply is whether it is so low as to be ­considered not reasonable. She would have to examine sentencing in similar crimes, the circumstances of the case and what the judge took into consideration."Only if she thought it was so low as to be unduly lenient would she then refer it to the court of appeal."Child campaigners have called for the minimum sentences to be doubled. Speaking at the weekend, Michele Elliott, founder of the charity Kidscape, said: "I think for them and their families, victims need to have a clear 10 years."Phoenix Survivors, which campaigns for justice for victims of childhood sexual abuse, also complained about the tariff.The court heard the brothers had been placed with foster parents in Edlington less than three weeks before the attacks. They had grown up in Doncaster with a violent, chaotic family life described by one defence barrister as "toxic".