Rory Blackhall kissed his mum goodbye when she dropped him off near his school last Thursday morning. As she turned her car to head for work, Michelle Blackhall glimpsed her youngest boy heading through the underpass towards Meldrum primary, as he did every school day. But he never arrived, and sometime afterwards the quiet 11-year-old walked into the sights of a killer.Yesterday, police in Livingston said Rory had been asphyxiated and his fully clothed body left in woodland not far from his school under an old, upturned tent. His schoolbag, with its camouflage pencil case, packed lunch and schoolbooks, has not been found. Officers are checking reports that strangers had been seen in recent weeks in the area where Rory was found, but have appealed to parents not to imprison their children out of fear.As Livingston absorbed the news that everyone had dreaded and anxious parents clustered at school gates, calls were growing for schools to be obliged to call a parent or guardian when a child does not turn up. It was not until Rory's grandfather arrived at school to collect him on Thursday afternoon that the family realised he had never made it to class.The detectives leading the hunt for Rory's killer said they now needed the public's help to fill in the 76 hours between his being dropped off and the time on Sunday when his body was found, hidden under the collapsed and abandoned tent off the town's Nellburn Path. There had been no sightings of him since his mother had watched him walk away.At first, it had appeared that Rory might have run off. The "lovable and affectionate boy" had been through a tough year following his parent's break-up, the death of his grandmother and his closest friend moving away. He was unhappy at returning to school after the summer.Police said yesterday, however, that there had been nothing in Rory's demeanour to suggest he had not planned to go to school on Thursday. They were unable to say whether he had been abducted before his murder, or how long he had been dead before he was found. They said he had been asphyxiated by an item which they have yet to identify.Speaking at a press conference at Lothian and Borders police divisional headquarters in the town, Detective Superintendent Bert Swanson, who is leading the inquiry, said officers had a major investigation on their hands. "It's undoubtedly going to be a complex and a major investigation and, indeed, one of the largest the force has dealt with."He paid tribute to Rory's parents. "Our thoughts are clearly now with Rory's parents who, can I say, have been extremely courageous. They have been so helpful, and great credit to them for the way they've handled things to date."StrangersDetective Inspector Tom Martin, an officer who worked on the murder of the Midlothian teenager Jodi Jones, said Rory's body had been covered with an old green tent bearing the logo Outbound Sierra. He was fully clothed and there was no obvious sign of other injury or sexual assault, although further examinations were being made.Mr Martin asked local residents to check their bins and gardens for Rory's blue Puma backpack. He also appealed for anyone who might have seen strangers in the area to come forward. As they searched for Rory, police had been told by neighbours in the Deans area, near where the body was found, of a number of sightings of unknown men in recent weeks.Chief Inspector Jim Thomson said police would increase patrols in the town, with officers near and sometimes in local schools. But he urged families not to panic. "It's understandable that you may be frightened but you shouldn't imprison your children because of what might happen. Your children need to learn to protect themselves by remembering certain things."The chief inspector said all youngsters should let their parents know where they are at all times, go straight to and from school, and always have their mobile phones topped up with credit.In an emotional statement, the acting headteacher of Rory's school, Brenda Gregor, said everyone was devastated by his death. "Rory Blackhall was a lovely boy, very popular with staff and pupils," she said. "The staff are working hard to keep things as normal as possible for the children so that they feel secure. This is not easy for us but I know I can rely on the professionalism of the staff."Ms Gregor declined, however, to answer questions about the school's policy on contacting parents when a child is absent. West Lothian council said the normal procedure was to wait for information from parents, only contacting them if a few days had passed.Police have also defended the time it took to launch the murder inquiry, saying the postmortem could only be carried out after a full investigation. Rory's body lay at the scene for more than 24 hours as specialist officers searched the area.Yesterday residents spoke of their horror at what had happened. "It's so terrible," said Susan Taylor, 54. "Somebody has targeted a vulnerable young boy. There are no words to describe it."