Awesome scenes in the Commons on Tuesday. MPs declared themselves dazed and horrified. Committee chairman Bernard Jenkin cried that he was "shocked". Liberal democrat Greg Mulholland was "amazed and appalled". Even the Home Office minister Damian Green was said to be furious, burbling that "thick red lines" had been crossed.The cause of the mayhem was a couple of police officers telling an otherwise somnolent public administration committee that only fools believed crime figures. Everyone knew they were fixed to meet ministerial targets. In the argot of the beat, the figures were "cuffed, skewed, nodded and stitched".As Westminster was rocked to its foundations, police spokesmen began to spin. Derbyshire's chief constable suggested that any manipulation was "inadvertent". The Gwent chief confessed to a "perverse incentive" to mendacity. The Association of Chief Police Officers agreed that crime figures "simply cannot be relied upon", but did so as if discussing a random weather forecast.When I used to report on London crime, the day of the annual stats was a festival of fun. The Home Office loved to confuse us with two quite separate sets of figures. The official British Crime Survey (BCS) purported to measure the adult public's "experience" of crime. It had the virtues of offering a reliable trend line over time, and of having nothing to do with the police.The other figure was of "police recorded crime". Everyone knew it was politicians' dross. But because it included such spectacular but uncommon offences as homicide, rape and knife crime, some statistic could always be made to "soar" for the sake of a headline. MPs loved it.I recall praise being showered on Stoke Newington for having the "best rape record" in the capital. Women reporting rape to the local police were simply being told to go home and have a bath. Likewise any shift in insurance company rules would send car crime soaring or plunging. Drug busts could be relied on to improve "clear-up" rates because everyone was guilty.A police witness remarked to the committee that crimes could be made to "disappear in a puff of smoke". Some 80% of domestic rapes might be registered as crime or "no crime" according to taste. I remember when a keen copper staged a raid on some public lavatories in Slough, we all shrieked that "Thames Valley sex crime soars". Even homicides varied with how assiduously the police chased missing persons.A constant deluge of new offences from Whitehall means crimes can be reclassified at will. Snatches can become thefts or muggings; break-ins become burglary or criminal damage. Crimes can be grouped or separated. The definition of vandalism never seems still. It all depends if the lords and masters want crime to rise or fall, to boost a budget or to claim credit for spending more.The one constant appears to be that police recorded crime varies with police numbers. Rising numbers in the 1990s and early 2000s saw recorded crime rising, even when the BCS registered a fall. When the Met took over London's parks from the sleepy parks police after 2005, "recorded park crime" doubled in five years. When in recent years the police have retreated from police stations to cars, recorded crime has fallen.MPs have no excuse for being shocked. Police statistics have been a conspiracy against truth for decades and they know it. Already in the early 1990s the Home Office warned that "police statistics are an unreliable guide to the extent of crime". The documentary maker, Roger Graef, recorded in his book Talking Blues that police were shifting crimes between categories.When in 2001 I suggested to the home secretary, David Blunkett, that his useless figures merely fuelled fear of crime, he agreed. "Higher police numbers can mean a rise in reported crime," he wrote in the Times. Yet he lacked the courage of his convictions, concluding that "of course we will continue to publish recorded crime figures".Statistics may be "damned lies", but they enjoy spurious objectivity and national politicians find them irresistible. The only crime figures that should count are those of the BCS. The Home Office and the Office for National Statistics have spent years trying to marry them to the police figures. Charles Clarke, as home secretary, even made a brief bid to create a "serious crime index" that might be less susceptible to police practices.In reality crime is as impossible to measure as truthfulness. It is an amalgam of what parliament ordains and how the public behaves. The overwhelming mass of offences are minor and occur on the borderline of antisocial behaviour. They result from broken relationships, drunkenness, drug abuse, juvenile delinquency, poverty and minor fraud. What is recorded is a fragment of what occurs.The police figures could easily be slashed. We need only reduce police numbers, decriminalise illicit drugs, tell insurers to do their own theft checks, lower the age of consent, and reinvent the concept of an accident. None of these things will happen, nor would they affect the true incidence of crime. But the figures would plummet.No one really knows if Britons nowadays are treating each other "better or worse". No one knows how many people are behaving beyond the norms of decent society. Our sense of personal and collective vulnerability is shifting. We react differently to those who frighten or hurt us. We expect ever more protection from harm.All we can know for sure is that police crime figures have nothing to do with the case. They spread confusion and fear, and should be banned. They are politicians' toys for boys. MPs who are shocked by their falsity are hypocritical.