A high-earning management consultant, who advised the NHS and lived a luxury lifestyle, has been jailed for fraudulently claiming thousands of pounds in state benefits.  Zahid Ali, 47, a high earner who fraudulently claimed state benefits. Photograph: Sutton council/PADespite making more than £300 an hour, owning expensive cars and properties in Dubai, and living in a £1m house in Surrey, Zahid Ali claimed a total of about £15,000 in housing benefit, council tax benefit and jobseeker's allowance.The 47-year-old, a father of three, failed to declare earnings of £212,000 between 2004 and 2008, which he made through his management consultancy company, Coulsdon.While keeping secret what he was paid for advising GPs about how to make more money from their surgeries, he drew benefits from Sutton council, Reigate & Banstead borough council, and the Department for Work and Pensions.Croydon crown court heard he claimed housing benefit for two properties, in Lind Road, Sutton, and in Church Lane, Hooley, Coulsdon, both owned by his wife.The couple had built the gated mansion in Cousldon, and were living in a seven-bedroom, gated property, in Kingswood, Surrey, owned by Ali's parents-in-law. Ali owned a Mercedes, a Jeep and two properties in the United Arab Emirates.He was jailed for nine months after pleading guilty to seven counts of benefit fraud.Passing sentence on Friday, the judge, Heather Baucher, said: "Benefit payments are for vulnerable people, not to support people who are deeply greedy, manipulative and cunning. I doubt this would have come to light unless you were caught red-handed. The investigations were both detailed and properly maintained throughout. Your housing benefit claim was false from the outset, where you deliberately provided false tenancy agreements, false letters from an alleged landlord, which involved careful, thoughtful, planning."She ordered Ali to pay costs of £3,000 to the prosecution, saying that he was "obviously a man of substantial means".Ali was caught while working as a practice manager for Nork clinic, in Banstead, Surrey, after an investigation by Sutton council's trading standards officers and the Department for Work and Pensions.It emerged that he had also worked elsewhere, including for Brent primary care trust, in north-west London, and for a healthcare group called AT Medics.The court heard he earned £325 an hour through his consultancy firm. He had taken half days as leave from work to sign on, and had pretended to have been in hospital for a while to explain not claiming his jobseeker's allowance while he was, instead, working in Leicester.John Drage, a councillor and executive member for finance and efficiency at Sutton council, said: "It is shocking that a man with a decent job, who is able to enjoy luxuries like flashy cars and foreign holiday homes, would try to take money from those that really need it. I hope this sentence serves as a harsh warning. We will not tolerate people stealing from the taxpayers' purse, we will root out benefit cheats and bring them to justice."Ali has repaid in full the amount he fraudulently claimed.