A member of the band So Solid Crew was today jailed for life at the Old Bailey for shooting a love rival dead in a revenge attack. Carl Morgan, 24, killed Colin Scarlett, also 24, outside his south London home on November 6 last year. The prosecution said the "wild west" shooting followed a trivial row that had escalated into a deadly confrontation over "disrespect". Today, Judge Brian Barker said Morgan should serve a minimum of 30 years before he could be considered for parole. The jury was unable to agree a verdict on his co-defendant, Dwayne Vincent, another So Solid Crew member, who is known as Megaman. He now faces a retrial next year.During the trial, the prosecution said Morgan had fired three bullets at Mr Scarlett after Mr Vincent told his friend to "burst him". Mr Vincent, 26, of Barons Court, west London, denies murder, and told the trial he had not urged Morgan to shoot Mr Scarlett. "To say I would encourage a friend to shoot someone is ridiculous," he told the jury.The court heard that Morgan had been beaten up by Mr Scarlett - who was the new boyfriend of his former girlfriend, Elisha McFarlane - before the shooting. Ms McFarlane is the mother of Morgan's two children. Seeking revenge for the beating, Morgan confronted Mr Scarlett on his home territory in Wandsworth. Judge Barker today said Morgan had left the scene as quickly as possible after the shooting. "You expected eyewitnesses would be cowed into silence, and that ploy very nearly succeeded," he added. Sentencing Morgan, Judge Barker said: "Gun use is the scourge of our streets and causes misery and distress. The message must be all one way - that it will not be tolerated." Morgan, of Battersea, south London, was convicted of the murder last week, but sentencing was adjourned until today. He is a producer and member of So Solid Crew, a south London collective of around 20 people that includes DJs, MCs, singers and producers. Morgan had appeared in two of the band's videos, including that for its 2001 hit 21 Seconds.During the trial, some of So Solid Crew's music was played at the Old Bailey, and the prosecution said it revealed a predilection for guns and violence. Prosecution lawyers said this had, in the case of the defendants, become mirrored in the real world. During the trial, Mr Vincent said Megaman was a "character" he had created, adding that he had worked with anti-gun charities. He added that some of the songs' gun-related content did not necessarily reflect his own experiences.Mr Vincent's retrial is scheduled to start on March 20 next year.