On a summer's night in August, Amelie Delagrange was making her way home after a night out drinking with friends. A little tipsy, she had missed her usual bus stop and was walking towards Twickenham Green in south-west London.The student, from Amiens, France, had been in London for four months and had discussed with her friends whether Twickenham was a safe area before setting off alone - they agreed it was.She was not to know that on that night, August 19 2004, a predatory killer was cruising the streets in his white Ford Courier van. That man, a jury concluded yesterday, was Levi Bellfield, 39, a former nightclub doorman and wheel clamper from West Drayton. Bellfield, also known as Lee, was found guilty of killing two women and leaving a third with serious injuries. He murdered gap year student Marsha McDonnell, 19, by battering her over the head as she walked from a bus stop, leaving her face down in a pool of blood yards from her home. She died of her injuries two days later. He killed Delagrange in the same way. Kate Sheedy, 18, a convent school head girl, survived his attack, but only just. He ran her over in April 2004, leaving her for dead.The Old Bailey heard how he used to drive around west London late at night, following buses to stalk vulnerable young women. A friend told how he kept weapons, including hammers and knuckledusters, in the back of his van.What the jury did not know was that Bellfield, described as an "animal" by friends because of his depraved attitude to women, developed an obsession with young, slim, blond women which turned into hatred. In evidence ruled inadmissible by the judge, a former girlfriend told how Bellfield admitted he harboured a hatred of blondes and would hang around alleys, "wanting to hurt women, stab them or rape them". She found magazines in which the faces of the blond models had been slashed, she said. Bellfield's cellmate, Paul Jarvis, said that he "treated women like dogs".The former bouncer, a man police described as "clever, cunning and arrogant", took care not to leave clues. His trademark attacks, three blows to the back of the head, were vicious, quick and left no forensic science evidence. In each attack, with the exception of that on Delagrange, he had his mobile phone switched off, so that his whereabouts could not be traced. Vehicles which could be linked to his crimes - something which was to prove a vital part in bringing him to justice - were sold quickly, or otherwise disposed of. Some of them have never been traced.Three months into the Delagrange investigation, Operation Yeaddiss, police identified a white Ford van parked at the green at the time of the attack from CCTV footage. But further inquiries led nowhere - the numberplate could not be identified and there were 26,000 such vehicles registered in the UK. None registered locally matched. As the search went on, officers sifted through 129 messages to the incident room from people claiming they knew someone who could be the killer. One caller named Bellfield, adding that he was a wheelclamper with a white van. A detective remembered that a van owner in Isleworth had said he had sold it to a wheelclamper and had his mobile number. When the number was typed into a police computer, Bellfield's name came up as someone who had reported a neighbour as a suspected terrorist to the terrorist hotline. His van was discovered to have the same distinctive features - missing hubcap, missing left-hand front lamp, mark on the roof where an orange beacon had been removed - as that on the CCTV. The police knew they had their man and arrested Bellfield on November 22 2004.Born in Isleworth, south-west London, on 17 May 1968, Bellfield has never strayed far from his birthplace. He has 11 children by five different mothers and thought of himself as a "ladies' man". He fitted blacked-out windows and neon lighting to his Toyota Previa and toured the streets of west London trying to attract women and sleep with them. His former friend and employee Ricky Brouillard said Bellfield often had sex with women in his van and kept a quilt in the back. Emma Mills, a former girlfriend and mother of three of his children, who was an important witness for the prosecution, said he would "always be out" and would leave the house suddenly to spend nights trying to woo women. He believed his boyish face and his bragging about how much money he earned would win them over. But although he liked to play the charmer, he a had low regard for women. He saw them as sexual objects and, according to the prosecution, could turn violent when rejected. Police believe he initially propositioned Delagrange and, when rebuffed, killed her in a fit of rage. Separate CCTV images showing his white Ford Courier van and Delagrange on foot show them both slowing down as they approach the green, appearing to fit with this theory.Giving evidence, he tried to charm the jury, while pouring scorn on those who gave evidence against him. Marsha's uncle, Shane McDonnell, described his "cowardly charade of innocence" in court, while Amelie's mother, Dominique, from Amiens, France, said she was repulsed by how the defence could "do almost whatever they wished to defend the indefensible".Right up to the day before his arrest, he was on the lookout for women to degrade. Under police surveillance, he approached and made lewd comments to two schoolgirls, aged 14 and 16, at a bus stop. This was not heard by the jury.In court, Bellfield admitted a range of previous offences, from stealing vehicles to assaulting a police officer and told the jury in his high-pitched voice: "I'm no angel but I'm not a killer." He admitted using different aliases - he had 42 - including Lee Johnson and David Bennett, but claimed they were for "tax reasons" and because of the nature of his business - people whose cars were clamped could seek revenge.When police were certain they had enough evidence against him for Delagrange's murder, they began to look at similar attacks in the past.Through intelligence records, officers discovered that he drove a white people carrier with blacked-out windows - the same type of car that Sheedy described as having run her over in 2004. Sheedy said she had a "sixth sense" that made her cross the road. It was the prosecution's case that this move - crossing the road to avoid his car - thwarted his intentions towards her. Bellfield then drove at her at speed, knocking her flat, before driving over her twice. His assault lasted less than a minute, but left her with internal injuries so severe she was in hospital for three weeks. CCTV footage of a white van following her bus that night showed a petrol stain on the bodywork, the same stain his vehicle was found with. This footage was missed in the original investigation in May 2004 into the attack - an error which resulted in two officers being given written warnings and two being given verbal warnings after an Independent Police Complaints Commmission investigation.Having found a positive link between Bellfield and the attack on Sheedy, officers then looked into the unsolved murder of McDonnell, in February 2003.No one witnessed that attack, just as no one was to see Bellfield murder Delagrange. But from CCTV footage from that night, detectives saw that a silver Vauxhall Corsa had been behaving oddly near the 111 bus from which McDonnell had been preparing to get off. When she alighted, CCTV records a Vauxhall Corsa stopping and waiting. The behaviour of the car driver was "identical" to that of the people carrier driver that was to run over Sheedy after she got off a bus. Bellfield had a silver Corsa registered to him and his clamping company.After the attack on McDonnell, he sold a silver Corsa for £1,500 - £4,500 less than he paid for it.