An ordinary Thursday, a month ago. Every second between midnight and midnight a woman called the police for protection from her partner. Those women were being bashed, stabbed, cut, kicked, slapped or "just" terrorised and intimidated. Very few of their assailants were arrested.This was September 28 in Britain. It was a snapshot of everyday violence published today by Professor Betsy Stanko, director of the Violence Research Project, based on reports to all police services, Victim Support, Women's Aid and Refuge, and Relate. Relate's evidence is a stiff challenge to the notion that domestic violence is the sport of the rough and unrespectable: nearly a fifth of clients on September 28 mentioned domestic violence. So, it happens in middle-class middle England. Multiply September 28 by evey day and you come up with more than half a million incidents - 80% of these calls were by women being attacked by their men. But the problem with the response to this mayhem is that these incidents are treated as just that, incidents. Just like the 3m-plus incidents of violence last year recorded in the British Crime Survey.Which no doubt enourages the prime minister and the home secretary to promise to get tough on brawling "louts" and "yobs", as if they were talking about a species other than themselves and a landscape that might as well be another planet. Despite a promise to invest more in preventing domestic violence, the shelters and self-help systems built by the women's movement are resource-starved. Despite their accumulated wisdom - reinforced by two decades of research showing that these incidents belong to a context and a relationship at the centre of which is the drama of gendered dominion and defeat - the Home Office is determined to dissemble the evidence. The government says it will get tough, but it avoids saying anything sensible about the problem - the perpetrator. If we don't know what violence is for then we won't know how dangerous it is and how to prevent it. It is only misogyny that determines this government's resistance to what is obvious. The government is wrong to think, as it does, that domestic violence is about women's experience of harm and humiliation and that doing something means being nicer to women. The lesson is that like communities menaced by posses of lads or young men being attacked in public places by other young men are just like women - they have all had to put up with passive and pessimistic policing and a Home Office determined to make masculinity-as-mastery the problem with no name. The Home Office should treat domestic violence not as the exception but as the paradigm. That would focus minds on the inescapable correlation between gender and violence - whoever the victims are, the perpetrators are overwhelmingly men. And it would address the inertia and indifference which meets not only domestic violence, but all violence, whether the victims are women, or other men. Violence is like the means to make war; it is a resource. It is not about losing control - men's usual excuse - it is about taking control. Violence is about conquest. And as the Australian academic Robert Connell insists, violence, like crime and war, is a context for making masculinity. Violence happens because someone wants to hurt someone else - because of their gender, their generation or their race. "Domestic violence has been dismissed as relatively trivial," says Stanko. "We have thought of it as a short-circuit of someone's individual mind. But when you look at domestic violence you see that it is more about gender than it is about individuals, it is a social problem with deep rooted meanings." A project involving domestic violence researchers and the police in West Yorkshire revealed an unpredictable response. Most calls weren't recorded by the police. But once they began to respond to domestic violence like other repeat offending, to treat it as a targeted hotspot, things started to change.  By providing the victims with a range of services - from something as simple as a letter from the police to the perpetrator and the victim, to sanctioned vigilance among chosen neighbours, to police drive-by's and attendance, which shifted the burden of responding from the victim to the statutory services - the repeated offending reduced. By being active and persistant they created change. The government says it will get tough on violence, but it won't say anything sensible about the problem - the perpetrator. Domestic violence tells us who does it and why. It is only misogyny that determines this government's resistance to what is obvious.beejaysway@dial.pipex.com