Britain's most senior police officer, Chris Fox, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, sparked a row last week by claiming that criminals were increasingly using the cover of asylum to travel around the world.Fox declared: 'Mass migration has brought with it a whole new type of crime, from the Nigerian fraudster and the eastern European who deals in drugs and prostitution to the Jamaican concentration on drug dealing.' Yet police officers in the front line of the battle against organised crime paint a different picture: the most common criminal in the nation's underworld is still a white male. 'British Caucasians remain the most prominent of all organised crime groups operating within the UK,' said a spokesman for the National Criminal Intelligence Service. But there is an ethnic dimension to British crime that cannot be denied. Many ethnic groups have carved out niches in the 'industry' of crime, operating in different 'sectors' along lines of family, language and race. The list is long. It includes the traditional crime families associated with the Italian Mafia and the Chinese Triads and even in the Japanese Yakuza. There are newcomers, too, such as Albanian sex industry gangs and the vicious Jamaican Yardies, who deal mainly in hard drugs such as crack and heroin. Some, such as the Albanian gangs in control of Soho's vice industry and the Turkish and Pakistani drug barons, keep largely within their own communities. But, like any legitimate business, most are happy to work with anyone so long as the profits keep flowing. Some crimes, such as importing heroin or cocaine, rely on long international supply routes that mean some level of co-operation is a necessity. 'Most of them are willing to work on their own or with groups of any ethnicity, depending on the nature of the co-operation needed for the commodity in question,' said the NCIS spokesman. Yet the role that asylum seekers play in this murky world is believed by many experts to be negligible. Fox's comments sparked angry responses from refugee groups and some politicians. He was accused of demonising asylum seekers at a time of political sensitivity around the issue in the wake of electoral gains by the far-right British National Party. Crime experts say that complex and secretive networks already exist to smuggle criminals in and out of Britain, meaning that there is no need to claim asylum as a method of gaining entry to the country. When it comes to serious and organised crime, nearly all criminals avoid contact with the state as much as possible. Claiming asylum would only bring unnecessary attention to the operations of the gangs.Experts also say that very few criminal charges brought against Yardies, Albanian gangs or other ethnic groups involve asylum seekers. The one exception is the Chinese community, but there it is the asylum seekers who are the victims of crimes, not the perpetrators. Gangs, known as 'Snakeheads', transport asylum seekers from China into Britain and then often exploit them by holding them in a condition of virtual slave labour.