Jack Straw calls his official penal policy "making prisons work", and after a decade in which an almost obsessive concern with security has dominated most aspects of jail life, the past two years have at last started to see real improvements in Britain's prisons. Significant money has started to flow from the treasury to fund the biggest ever literacy and numeracy drive for inmates; more than 50 prisons now run drug treatment courses; and new programmes introduced to tackle the criminal behaviour of inmates claim to have cut the reconviction rate by one-third. The director-general of the prison service, Martin Narey, has also presided over the first real attempt to root out corruption and brutality. According to the latest count, some 99 prison officers are currently suspended pending investigations. Racism is finally on the agenda. Perhaps even more importantly, after the stormy battles between Michael Howard and his prisons chief, Derek Lewis, the service has been enjoying a period of stability, first under Richard Tilt and now under Narey. As ever, there is no shortage of critics of the system. Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, concedes that Straw's watch has seen an improvement but is still disappointed. "There are too many people in the system for a start. And nobody knows what it's for. It's not achieving public safety, or crime reduction. What the prison service is doing at the moment is making crime worse, creating more victims and costing the taxpayer an awful lot of money." Douglas Hurd, the former Conservative home secretary, also thinks things have improved since Lord Woolf's agenda-setting inquiry into prisons a decade ago. Slopping out has virtually disappeared and conditions inside new prisons, whether private or state-run, are better, but overcrowding and the survival of a retrograde culture dominated by the Prison Officers' Association still blight many regimes. For Hurd, the chairman of the Prison Reform Trust, part of the problem lies in the fact that the political culture fails to take a real interest in prisons. No serving prime minister, Tony Blair included, has ever visited a prison, and Hurd believes that if inmates were given the vote then MPs would be forced to take a more active interest in their local prisons. The prison population today stands at 62,784, slightly down on a year ago. It is still the second highest in Europe, but Straw has capped it with the introduction of his home-detention curfew scheme. Last week some 1,633 prisoners were serving the last weeks of their sentences at home with an electronic tag. Despite Ann Widdecombe's attacks on the scheme, it has so far proved effective, with 96% successfully completing their sentences. If anything it is too cautious, and thousands more minor offenders could be let out with a tag without putting the public at risk. But this progress has come at a price. The expansion in literacy and numeracy classes has been bought at the expense of a wider educational programme. "Art and sculpture classes don't help people into jobs," Narey has said. And overcrowding - 36 jails have more than 100 inmates "doubled up" in single cells - is still a barrier to any serious progress. The Woolf report clearly identified overcrowding as a cause of unrest. Then, more than 9,000 prisoners were sharing single cells. Now, according to official figures, there is sufficient accommodation for all but 500 prisoners. Hurd believes that, while the pressure is not as great as when he was home secretary, it is still a corrosive problem. "There are a number of prisons, like Preston, which are more than 50% overcrowded, and there are lots of others where there is room, so the total figure does not convey the real pressures. The chances of getting education are less because the demands on the staff just to run the place take priority over everything else." The state of young offenders' institutions, particularly Feltham, is still a scandal, so much so that Lord Woolf declared that he could not recommend sending the two Bulger killers to one. The rapid rise in the number of women prisoners, and the continuing high rate of suicides, continue to pose their own problems. The obsession with security, triggered by the mid-1990s breakouts from Whitemoor and Parkhurst, has ensured that there have been no more category A escapes. But one recent casualty of this policy was Blantyre House, which had been the most successful resettlement prison in the system. MPs severely criticised the midnight raid on the jail as a completely unjustified "self-inflicted wound". The battle over the introduction of private prisons is over. The judgment passed by Sir David Ramsbotham, the chief inspector of prisons, is that the nine private jails have, by and large, delivered a higher standard of treatment for prisoners than the public sector. Even so, the pendulum is beginning to swing back to state-run jails. Now the threat of privatisation is being used to drive up standards in "failing" prisons, such as Brixton, but the private prison companies are not keen to get involved. What state are our prisons in? The verdict at present would seem to be: not good, but getting better. The biggest problem, says Hurd, is that no one in either major party is willing to argue for alternatives to custody that would clear the prisons of thousands of inmates. He faults Jack Straw, in particular, for failing to do enough to explain that other punishments are possible: "He is afraid of being accused of being soft. It needs a clear explanation of why we need to go down this path. This should be a job for the home secretary, and it should not be left to Lord Woolf, who is doing it now."