Four men were convicted yesterday of being part of a robbery gang that stole £500,000 in an 18-month crime spree targeting security vans. It ended when the mastermind and an accomplice were shot dead by police. Terence Wallace, Adrian Johnson, Leroy Wilkinson and Victor Iniodu, all from south London, are facing lengthy jail terms for their involvement in the gang, which carried out raids in Oxford, Swindon, Bristol, Bath, Cambridgeshire, Hampshire, Reading, Ipswich and Gloucestershire between April 2006 and September last year. Their run of successful raids ended abruptly when flying squad officers worked out where the gang would strike next and lay in wait.When Mark Nunes, the ringleader, held a pistol to the head of a security guard near the HSBC in the village of Chandlers Ford, Hampshire, his "luck ran out", the trial heard, and he was shot dead by a police marksman. Fellow robber Andrew Markland suffered the same fate when he tried to pick up the weapon and a second officer shot him twice.Yesterday the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said there was no evidence the marksmen had committed any criminal offences or misconduct, but investigators had found "issues" around the implementation of the operation. Getaway driver Wallace, 26, Johnson, 28, Wilkinson, 29, and Iniodu, 34, were found guilty of conspiracy to rob after a jury at Kingston crown court deliberated for more than 15 hours. They had denied the charges. The court heard that a series of reconnaissance trips were carried out before each raid, to choose locations next to alleyways for fast getaways and to pinpoint areas where vehicles could be switched. Often two or three stolen cars with false number plates were used and one would be dumped 100 yards down the road to throw police off the scent. They targeted Group 4 Security vans as guards were transferring money to high street outlets, selecting only vehicles on low-security routes because they knew they were not equipped with cash boxes that belch out coloured smoke or dye. Guns were used in some of the raids and guards were punched, kicked and knocked to the ground. In May 2006 the gang escaped with £165,000, their biggest single sum, after pistol-whipping a guard outside a Lloyds TSB in Bristol. Detectives used cell-site analysis - where a position is traced to a mobile phone - to place conspirators at the scenes in the weeks before the robberies. By last summer they had Nunes, who had previously served eight and a half years for armed robbery, and his accomplices under surveillance and were waiting for them in Chandlers Ford, near Southampton, on the morning of September 13.Surveillance footage seen by the jury showed the security van pulling up next to the bank and a guard getting out. As Nunes, 35, runs towards him a police officer says: "Robbery, robbery, strike, strike, strike. He has a gun to his head." A shot is heard as Nunes slumps to the floor. Markland, 36, then runs into view and attempts to pick up the weapon dropped by Nunes. He too is shot and falls to the ground. Detective Inspector Terry Wilson, of the Metropolitan police's flying squad, said the deaths of the two men remained "deeply regrettable". Inquests into their deaths are to open shortly. Johnson was also convicted of a separate robbery last November, but was acquitted of possessing a gas canister. Sentencing on all the men will take place at a later date.