It was some years ago that David Blunkett, while he was still home secretary, said that he wanted to put "victims at the heart of the criminal justice system". I opposed that sentiment then and remain even more convinced that it is a recipe for disaster today, especially after hearing interviews conducted with Frances Lawrence, the widow of the headteacher Philip Lawrence, who was stabbed to death in 1995. Lawrence's killer, Learco Chindamo, will now be allowed to stay in this country when his prison sentence comes to an end, rather than being deported to Italy.Mrs Lawrence has dismissed the condolences offered by Nigel Leskin, Chindamo's solicitor, which makes me feel that no matter what one says, she will - as ever a plausible advocate for her own agenda - remain resistant to reasoned debate. However, it is vitally important that we do not engage with her emotionally, but stick resolutely to the principles that lie behind the decision taken yesterday by the immigration and appeals tribunal to allow Chindamo to stay.Of course, Mrs Lawrence - in an interview that I heard this morning on Today on Radio 4 - seemed to want it both ways. In other words, while she said that she "understood" why the immigration judges, basing their judgment on the Human Rights Act, had decided to allow Chindamo to remain in this country - he spoke no Italian, had no connection to Italy, was not a danger to others, had reformed - she also was "devastated, demoralised ... depressed. I feel I can't fight any more. I feel I can't survive this."There are those "feelings" again, trumping any legal principle, and moving her argument from reason to emotion.And, of course, it is not just Mrs Lawrence - who, more than most, has been able to use emotion to make her case, and who has, by and large, been given an open goal by the media to do so - but the whole idea that "victims", through "victim impact statements" and the like, should be prioritised above the law.For the record, I do not want victims to be at the heart of the criminal justice system because I would rather have justice at the heart of the criminal justice system. And when justice is the fulcrum around which our criminal justice system rotates, everyone benefits: victims, perpetrators, the community, and the taxpayer.Try as she might, Mrs Lawrence has failed to persuade me that the decision to allow Chindamo to stay in this country has failed to "encompass the rights of [her] family to lead a safe, secure and happy life", given what Chindamo has undergone in jail and how he has - according to numerous reports - reformed in prison.And let's also be honest with each other - did we really expect Mrs Lawrence to have changed her view of Chindamo? If he served 20 years - even 30 years - would she necessarily have grown to forgive him for the awful crime that he committed, and been prepared to have allowed him to stay in this country? Would we really have expected her to think that it was all right for him to have remained in England if he had, for example, found God in jail, converted to Christianity, led seminars with young offenders about the dangers of gangs and so forth?No, I doubt it too, for the hurt of losing a loved one goes deeper than that, which is why we need both to recognise and to stand above that hurt and make a decision based on reason, not on emotion. That's why Chindamo should stay; although I doubt Mrs Lawrence would ever agree.