Those who have read the memoirs of [Joseph] Grimaldi will remember that in 1803 a brother of that famous clown disappeared in a most mysterious manner. One November evening in that year it seems Grimaldi, then playing at Drury Lane, had been called by the prompter, and was passing from the greenroom to the stage, when a messenger informed him that two gentlemen were waiting at the stage door to see him. As soon as he could get away, he hurried downstairs, and, inquiring who wanted him, was introduced to two strangers, who were patiently awaiting his arrival. They were young men of gentlemanly appearance, and upon hearing the words, “Here’s Mr. Grimaldi; who wants him?” one of them turned round and warmly accosted him.He looked about his own age, and had evidently been accustomed to a much warmer climate than that of England. He wore the fashionable evening dress of the day - that is to say, a blue bodycoat with gilt buttons, a white waistcoat, and tight pantaloons, and carried in his hand a small gold-headed cane. In this person Grimaldi recognised his brother - his only brother - who had gone to sea years before, and had not been heard of since.“Come upstairs,” said Grimaldi, as soon as the first surprise was over. The brothers were hurrying away, when the friend, whose presence they had quite forgotten in their emotion, said, “Then I’ll wish you good night.” “Good night! Good night!” said the other, shaking his hand. “I’ll see you in the morning.” “Yes,” replied his friend, “at ten, mind.”In the course of conversation the brother told Grimaldi that he had a large sum of money with him, had arrived in London only a few hours previously, and was extremely anxious to see his mother. “If you wait until I have dressed, I will take you to her,” said Grimaldi; and he went to his room, leaving his brother on the stage. Soon afterwards Thomas Grimaldi left the theatre by the stage door, and, after paying a visit to a friend at a house in the neighbourhood, went away in the direction of Duke-street. He was not seen or heard of again.No stone was left unturned in the endeavour to clear up the mystery. Grimaldi set on foot every inquiry which his mind could suggest or the kindness of his friends prompted them to advise. A powerful nobleman, who at the time used to frequent Drury Lane Theatre, had a series of inquiries made by the Admiralty. The newspapers were searched to ascertain what ships had arrived in the river or upon the coast that day - whence they came, what crews they carried, what passengers they had. The police officers were paid to search all London through, and endeavour to gain some information, if it were only of the lost man’s death. Everything was tried by the family, and by many very powerful friends, to trace the object of their regret and labour. But it was all in vain. The sailor was seen no more.Various surmises were afloat at the time regarding the real nature of this mysterious transaction. One suggested that a pressgang, to whom the person of the brother was known, might possibly have pounced upon him in some by-street and have carried him off; in which case, as he had previously assumed a false name, the fact of his friends receiving no intelligence of him was easily accounted for. A police officer thought that the unfortunate subject of their doubts had been lured into some low, infamous den by persons who had either previously known or suspected that he had a large sum of money in his possession, and that he was plundered and murdered.Grimaldi had been too much moved by the return to sufficiently recollect the appearance of the man who accompanied his brother to the stage door. Recollecting the intimate terms upon which the two appeared to be and the appointment which was made between them for the following morning “at ten precisely,” there is little reason to doubt that if the sailor had disappeared without the knowledge of his companion, the latter would have applied to Grimaldi to know where his brother was. Coupling the fact of his never doing so and never being seen or heard of again, the family, says his biographer, “arrived at the conclusion - if it should ever prove an unjust one it will be forgiven - that this man was cognisant of, if not chiefly instrumental in bringing about, the untimely fate of the murdered man, for such they always supposed him.”This conjecture, it would seem, was not correct. Recently a brief paragraph in an American paper recorded the death at Knoxville, Tennessee, of “an old English sailor, Thomas Grimaldi, at the remarkable age of 106 years.” The name of Grimaldi being very uncommon, and the brother having been entered at the age of eight on board an East Indiaman, from which he swam to a man of war lying near by, never again to be seen except on the November night in 1803, it occurred to the New York World that in the person of the old sailor a solution of the mystery described by Dickens might be found.This is an edited extract, click to read on