Tony Blair today promised a "personal crusade" to cut crime by 15% in four years and end "the 1960s social-liberal consensus on law and order".Launching the government's five-year crime fighting plan the prime minister described how the importance of cutting low-level crime was instilled in him through his experience in Hackney in the 1980s. While he acknowledged the achievements made in the 60s in the social revolutions of feminism, gay rights and race equality, Mr Blair criticised "some who took freedom without responsibility". Unveiling the proposals in more detail to MPs this afternoon - after sharing the platform with the prime minister this morning - the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced a surprise measure to create "e-borders", with surveillance of people both entering and leaving the country.Although detail was scarce, the measure would apparently work in conjunction with biometric ID cards in 2008, with photographs taken of passengers and scanned against known images of terrorist and criminal suspects.Under questioning, Mr Blunkett agreed with the Conservatives that it would be the effective reintroduction of embarkment controls - abandoned 10 years ago.In other more widely trailed measures, the home secretary pledged to free up 12,000 extra police officers for frontline duty by enforcing a 3% efficiency drive.A new £50m neighbourhood policing fund will pay for an additional 20,000 "Community Support Officers" (CSOs) in the autumn - 5,000 more than announced in the spending review last week, making a total of 25,000 by 2008. The creation of CSOs is staunchly opposed by the rank and file Police Federation.By 2008 there will be a new nationwide non-emergency call number giving the public access to the police. Crime-plagued communities could be able to trigger snap inspections of their local police force by gathering petitions, Mr Blunkett said. Explaining how he will make police more responsive to local needs, he said: "We are talking about snap inspections that would have to be made where there is widespread disaffection. "We are thinking of issues like the levelling of a petition where people could trigger these particular measures."  As expected, the use of electronic tagging will double so that 18,000 people are tagged at any one time, including advanced new satellite tagging which can pinpoint the exact position of paedophiles and other offenders. He also announced plans for extending fixed penalty notices to cover a range of offences like under-age drinking. Opposition reaction The plans were ridiculed by the Tories, who said people were "fed up with units, initiatives and targets", while the Lib Dems called for the £3bn proposed cost of ID cards to be spent on "more police and better equipment for them".James Plaice, standing in for the shadow home secretary, David Davis, warned that "a minor penalty charge could become a badge of honour for some young oik".The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, took issue with the prime minister's denigration of the social achievements of the 1960s, saying "The 80s has more to do with it than the 60s."This morning Mr Blair talked in more broad-brush terms, saying that "for the first time in my political lifetime the police, the public and the politicians are on the same side". Describing householders' fear of opening the door to him as a Labour canvasser in the early 1980s in east London, he said focusing on crime was not "clever politics - just instinct". It was time to "recapture crime and law and order from rightwing politics", he told an audience of community leaders in Somers Town, a deprived London ward near King's Cross. And he described the criminal justice system as "the public service most unfit for purpose" when his government took over in 1997. His three-part plan would comprise a "strong, organised, uniform presence on the street", a "targeting of the offender rather than the offence" to see drug users treated through rehabilitation, and encouraging forces to use new powers such as the anti-social behaviour orders.Indeed, Mr Blair claimed to have first coined the term "anti-social behaviour" in a 1988 article in the Times. The prime minister claimed that although his government was the first since the war to preside over a drop in crime - "that's the statistics, it's not what people feel". He promised to deliver a society built around "rules, order and proper behaviour". "They know there is such a thing as society. They want a society of respect. They want a society of responsibility. They want a community where the decent law-abiding majority are in charge; where those that play by the rules do well and those that don't get punished."  Mr Blair said: "I got used to the society of fear in the 1980s canvassing on the Holly Street estate in Hackney - now thankfully greatly improved - when people were too scared to open the door and the letterboxes had burn marks round them where lighted rags had been shoved through them. "Later still as an MP, I realised to my shock that this wasn't confined to inner city London. In the shire county of Durham, it was the same. I wrote a piece about it in the Times in April 1988, the first time I remember using the phrase 'anti-social behaviour'.