Consumers giving money to those hit by the Haiti earthquake have been urged to be vigilant, after it emerged criminals were attempting to take advantage of the public's generosity by setting up fraudulent appeals. The Charity Commission said it was aware of a number of online scams to get hold of charitable donations.One email passed to Cash by the technology company Symantec, which produces anti-virus software, purports to be from the British Red Cross and asks recipients to make a donation using a Western Union transfer. The email says: "Please give what you can today to help thousands of people there in desperate need of humanitarian assistance." It suggests people donate at least £250. It carries the correct postal address for the charity, but contains spelling mistakes and the name of the sender and the bank account details have nothing to do with the Red Cross appeal."Cyber-scammers are quick to prey on people's emotions with bogus emails and phoney websites devised to steal what should have been charitable donations," says Abigail Lovell, a spokeswoman for Symantec. "Any money sent using the instructions in this email would not help anyone in Haiti but would end up in the pockets of a cyber criminal."The anti-scam website 419eater.com posted another email which also appears to try to exploit the disaster in Haiti. It claims to be from an organisation in London called Help the World, but the charity is not registered with the Charity Commission and the address listed is that of a pub. Again, it asks for money via a Western Union transfer – something genuine charities don't tend to do.The commission urges consumers to visit charitycommisssion.gov.uk to check if a charity is registered in the UK. If they have concerns about emails from charities they have heard of, they should contact them directly to make a donation and not follow a link in an email. Anyone who believes they have been targeted by fraudsters should contact the police and the commission, on 0845 300 0218.A spokeswoman for the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) said the best way to ensure donations reach the main charities involved with the aid effort is to give to its appeal. The DEC is an umbrella organisation for 13 agencies including Oxfam, Save the Children and Christian Aid. Donations can be made via dec.org.uk or on 0370 60 60 900.