How can you spot a secret cabinet dominatrix? Why, by her semantics of course. This is why Theresa May's penchant for leatherette trousers, red patent heels, and violent shoulder padding has been a red herring when it comes to revealing her S&M tendencies. As a former domme myself, I have always suspected her poor sartorial choices were strategic signifiers designed to detract from May's punitive policy leanings. And now, the announcement of her "menu" of punishments for victims to choose from seems to have outed her once and for all.Welcome to Mistress May's alternative justice system, where community contrapasso – you know, where the punishment fits the crime, just like in Dante's Inferno – is the strategy, and the forced binary of victim versus perpetrator the end game. Mistress May is all about handing power back to the victims. Think of her as the Maid Marian of social misdemeanour. She wants victims of injustice to feel as good as she does when she realises she doesn't understand deportation deadlines, but still manages to get rid of scary Muslim clerics anyway.So here are a few examples of the kinds of "community remedy" we can probably expect under the new alternative justice system.Graffiti: enforced scrubbingMistress May doesn't like graffiti. Not how it covers arbitrary municipal buildings, not how good the paint smells compared with the scent of wee-sprinkled outer edifices, and not how it looks positively tasteful compared to some of her more garish jacket choices. Top of the punishment menu will be enforced scrubbing, whereby the victim is encouraged to blindfold the perpetrator before "gifting" them only da toothbrush and no soap as they clean up their community and their consciences.Noise pollution: sensory deprivationUrban oiks with poor choice in grime can look forward to being identified as the chief culprits here, especially if they like to try and disguise themselves as third runways. Recommended punishment will consist of enforced "white noise" sensory deprivation and aural re-education. Mistress May is big on aural re-education – remember her decision to walk off stage to Primal Scream – sorry, the Dandy Warhols – at last year's Tory party conference? And if it's not them on loop, it may well be the sound of Mistress May's victims reading out her new bill of rights – which will probably also be a load of white noise, considering only she has any idea what these "rights" are.Burglary: middle England's tickle tortureSo we know this is currently Cameron's mandate, but it's surely only a matter of time before Mistress May takes up the training of victims in tying, cropping and tickle torturing techniques. I mean, what better punishment than having to come body-to-body with the indignant middle-Englanders you were trying to rob? Over and over again.