Campaigners have hit out at an increase in the number of women being imprisoned, saying that tougher sentences are failing to cut reoffending and that vulnerable women are being "shoe-horned" into a system designed for men. A report out today from the Fawcett Society shows that the number of women given prison sentences has increased threefold over the past decade - but reoffending rates have also soared. The latest figures show there are currently about 4,500 women in UK prisons, up from approximately 1,500 in 1993. Over the same period, the proportion of female prisoners reoffending within two years rose from 38% to 55% and now matches the rate for adult males. Women make up 6% of the total prison population. The most common offences are theft and handling stolen goods, and most receive sentences of less than a year. The report says that the prison system is designed around containing potentially violent male offenders. This focus proves a drain on resources meaning that the problems of vulnerable women, many of whom are victims of abuse, are not always addressed. And because there are fewer women's prisons, women tend to be imprisoned further from their families than men, despite the fact that many have young children and that family contact is a key tool in reducing reoffending. The Fawcett report expresses concerns following the government's announcement that, from next year, women's prisons will go back to being managed geographically alongside men's, saying the move with lead to women's needs being further marginalised.Julie Mellor, chairwoman of the Equal Opportunities Commission, said: "[The findings] provide compelling evidence that Britain's criminal justice system is failing vulnerable women. If the public sector had a duty to promote sex equality, all public services would have to take into account the different needs of the women and men who use them, giving women offenders a better chance of rebuilding their lives." Half of women inmates have been victims of domestic abuse, compared with a quarter of women in the general population. And while Home Office figures show that two thirds of women in prison are addicted to drugs or have a history of alcoholism, the report says that there is little treatment available for those on short sentences. Labour MP Vera Baird, who chairs the Fawcett Society's commission on women and the criminal justice system, said reoffending rates would not be cut unless underlying causes of women's crime were addressed: "The majority of women in prison have mental health problems, drug and alcohol problems and have been abused," she said. "These are all factors related to offending which the criminal justice system needs to address if we are to tackle the growing number of women who reoffend after leaving prison." The report questions whether custodial sentences are the best way of dealing with non-violent offenders and suggest that, for many offenders, community service may be more appropriate. A spokeswomen for the Home Office said: "It is for the courts to decide in individual cases whether a prison sentence is appropriate or not. Custodial sentences should be given for dangerous, violent or sexual offenders and those who persistently offend."The Home Office is researching the reasons why women offend. Its spokeswomen added: "A primary focus will be on improving community-based interventions that are better tailored to the needs of women and on encouraging greater use of such interventions to ensure that custody is only used for women offenders who really need to be there."