Police officers knew they were covertly bugging conversations between a terror suspect and his MP, but were not breaking any rules when they did so, an official report said yesterday.An inquiry into allegations that Scotland Yard bugged discussions in prison between Sadiq Khan and his constituent Babar Ahmad found that five officers knew one person they were recording was an MP. But senior officers never realised, despite authorising the operation.The report, by the chief surveillance commissioner, Sir Christopher Rose, was ordered by the government just over a fortnight ago after the allegations surfaced in the media.Ahmad was held in Woodhill prison, near Milton Keynes, after the US requested his extradition for alleged terrorist offences. The original police decision in August 2004 to bug his non-legal visits was approved by Sir Christopher's own office, the report reveals.It found conversations between the two were monitored twice by Scotland Yard after Khan had been elected as MP for Tooting in south London, from where Ahmad's family come. The two men are also childhood friends.Officers recorded conversations on May 21 2005 and then in June 2006. Khan applied to see Ahmad not as an MP, but as a friend, the report says.The report says the recording was not covered by the Wilson doctrine, which forbids the security services bugging MPs. Rose reaches this conclusion by deciding that only bugging requiring the approval of the home secretary is covered by the doctrine, while the recording in Khan's case only needed to be authorised by a senior police officer.The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, announced a further review of the law and guidelines covering bugging and said a ban should be placed on bugging discussions between MPs and their constituents.Khan, now a government whip in the justice ministry, has been guarded in expressing his anger. But the Rose report reveals the MP's fury. In a written statement to the inquiry he said he would be "surprised" if the authorisation process by senior officers "did not reveal his occupation" and also said he believed his visits were "covered by legal privilege and/or the Wilson doctrine". The report reproduces Khan's view that "it beggars belief that [the police and prison authorities] did not know who I was".Rose did not speak to the former police officer at the centre of the allegations, Mark Kearney, saying it would not have furthered his inquiries.He found that two detective constables who applied for the bugging authorisations and three junior officers who carried out the surveillance "knew that Mr Khan was a member of parliament but ... had no reason to regard this as significant".In this case, the bugging of Ahmad was approved by Assistant Commissioner Andy Hayman, who resigned in December 2007 as Scotland Yard's head of counter-terrorism.Rose finds that on May 11 2005, Hayman approved the bugging of 18 approved visitors to Ahmad, including Sadiq Khan. He reviewed the authorisation later with the operation designed to gather any names of terrorists Ahmad might know.Rose says Hayman and the others who authorised the bugging were unaware that the Khan listed as an approved visitor to Ahmad was an MP until December 2007, when the media started making inquiries.Khan had a long history of battling with Scotland Yard. A former human rights lawyer, he represented police officers who had sued Scotland Yard after being targeted by its anti-corruption command when it was headed by Hayman. Khan says that during both bugged meetings, he and Ahmad discussed a civil case for assault the terror suspect was bringing against the Met. Rose does not say what happened to the recordings.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "The Rose report leaves fundamental questions unanswered. First, the review was set up precisely to test allegations made by a whistleblower currently standing trial. But it failed to interview him, leaving unresolved two conflicting accounts of events."Second, the report found 'no useful purpose' in explaining the series of police authorisations. But that would have shed light on the otherwise inexplicable situation whereby junior officers knew Sadiq Khan was an MP, but their senior officers authorising the bugging did not."In a statement, Khan said: "I am very pleased that the home secretary and Sir Christopher's report have reiterated that constituents must be allowed confidentiality with their MP. This applies even when he or she is in prison."