The controversial French company responsible for the discredited asylum voucher scheme is in line to win lucrative government contracts to build and run two private prisons for women. Prison campaigners reacted angrily to the news that Sodexho, which loses the voucher contract next year, stands to make millions from new prisons at Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, and Ashford, Middlesex. The prisons will be run by UK Detention Services, a subsidiary of the French multinational. It has no experience of working with women prisoners. The Prison Reform Trust said the contracts went against the Government's strategy for women prisoners published in September. In it, Home Secretary David Blunkett said: 'We need alternatives to custodial sentences, not least because many families are torn apart, to the detriment of society as a whole, when the mother is sent to prison.' There are 4,025 women prisoners, up nearly 1,000 since January - a rise thought largely to be connected to the drugs trade. The increase has already forced the Home Office to convert Downview prison in Surrey into a female prison, with the male inmates moved to other prisons. The Prison Service has confirmed that it is at full capacity and can take no more women prisoners. The new jails, which could earn Sodexho more than £500 million in taxpayers' money, will provide cells for 800 women, increasing capacity by 20 per cent. Prison Reform Trust director Juliet Lyon said: 'Building a further 800 prison places for women looks like an admission of defeat. The fact is that the majority of women in prison do not represent a risk to the general public. The last thing we need is two more large private prisons miles from women's homes and miles from the support they need to help them to turn their lives around.' Sodexho, which began as a catering company, was forced to drop its private prison operation in the United States after a student campaign led to a national boycott of university canteens run by the company. Marty Leary, of the American hotel and catering workers' union, said: 'There is no doubt that the campaign against Sodexho's private prisons across the world has already affected its other business in the United States.' The company ran into controversy in the UK when The Observer revealed its plans to pay asylum-seekers 34p an hour for cooking, cleaning and doing odd jobs at a Sodexho detention centre near Heathrow. It dropped the plans after MPs condemned them. Concerns have also been raised about Sodexho's record in Australia, where a women's prison it owned was returned to the public sector. Inspectors found flaws in prison security and the management of 'at risk' prisoners, health care and the control of hard drugs. The rates of suicides and prisoner assaults on staff and other inmates were high. Despite warnings about Sodexho's record, the Prison Service has announced that its UK subsidiary is the preferred bidder for Ashford, which will house 450 prisoners from April 2003. The contract is worth £213m. The contract for Peterborough, which will house 480 men and 360 women on a split site, is to be decided between UKDS and Premier Custodial Group, owned by the equally controversial American company Wackenhut. The value of the contract is yet to be confirmed. UKDS runs Forest Bank prison in Oldham, but was forced to hand back Blakenhurst in Worcestershire to the public sector in August after losing out to a bid from the Prison Service. UKDS spokesman Nicholas Hopkins said: 'Our track record speaks for itself. We were amazed when Blakenhurst was taken away from us. We are obviously delighted at the news and look forward to when these prisons are up and running.' He confirmed that UKDS had no experience of working with women prisoners. The majority of women are in prison for non-violent offences and come largely from backgrounds of severe social exclusion. Nearly half are dependent on drugs. A quarter were in care as children and a fifth have spent time in a mental hospital.