The police errorsOperation Seale, the hunt for the killer of Damilola Taylor, began on 28 November 2000. Up to 120 police officers followed 5,600 leads and took 1,800 statements. By the time the court case ended last week, with all four defendants acquitted of the murder, it had cost taxpayers more than £10 million.The crime was the first high-profile murder of a black child since the inquiry report on the murder of Stephen Lawrence was published. All eyes were on the Metropolitan Police to see how well they would do. There was also intense political pressure, with Tony Blair attending Damilola's memorial service and other politicians visiting the murder scene. Detective Superintendent Trevor Shepherd, heading the investigation, admitted in his logbook that, despite strong reservations about the viability of the case, to abandon the prosecution would have severely damaged the Met's reputation. The police say the final decision to go ahead rested with the Crown Prosecution Service. However, the investigation has come under criticism for blunders by police and prosecutors which many believe prevented the killers from being caught and convicted. The 'lying' witnessA girl of 12, codenamed 'Bromley', rang the police in December 2000 to say she knew who killed Damilola. She named three of the four boys who later stood trial. At first she said she was not at the murder scene and had not seen the killing. She changed her story soon after it was pointed out that she was more likely to receive the £50,000 reward if she was an eye witness. At the trial, the girl eventually admitted fabricating parts of her story. The judge ruled her entire testimony should be ignored. Both police and prosecution have been criticised for using her at all when it was clear there were many holes in her accounts. The cell confessionWhile on remand for other alleged offences at Feltham Young Offenders Institution, three of the boys accused of the murder allegedly confessed to other inmates. This was discovered only when detectives distributed a circular there, asking whether anyone knew the suspects and whether they had said anything about the murder. In all, 32 inmates came forward, of whom 11 gave evidence in court. The defence claimed most had been induced to come forward in the hope of having their sentences reduced, and the jury chose not to believe their evidence. Again, police have been criticised for mishandling what could have proved crucial evidence. The telephone evidenceRecords of telephone calls show that two mobile phones belonging to the brothers who were accused of the murder were used five times between 4.47pm and 4.52pm on the day of Damilola's death. The calls place the boys near a children's home in Bermondsey, where they were seen later that evening. It is generally accepted that Damilola was attacked between 4.40pm and 4.45pm. This gave the brothers no more than seven minutes to get there from Peckham. The court heard the shortest route was 1.75 miles, and the judge told the jury the boys would have had to run a 'four-minute mile' to cover the distance in the time. It was a key issue at the trial. What the jury didn't see, however, was a map of an alternative route - via Burgess Park - which police measure at 1.3 miles. A detective jogged the route, and police say he made it to Bermondsey in time. Both the police and the CPS have been strongly criticised for failing to address this point.