A teenage actor stabbed to death outside a bar at the weekend was a modest, fun "teddy bear" who had only just finished filming the biggest role of his burgeoning career, his friends and family said yesterday.On Tuesday Robert Knox, 18, completed his part in the forthcoming Harry Potter film, and was signed up for the next instalment. By Saturday morning he was dead, killed in a fight outside a bar in Sidcup, south-east London, after apparently trying to protect his younger brother.He became the 14th teenager to be murdered in London this year.Three of his friends were hurt in the disturbance, along with a 21-year-old who was arrested on suspicion of murder.Robert's father, Colin Knox, cried as he laid flowers with a note by the Metro bar in Sidcup yesterday. "You may have been taken from me but they can't take away the memories," he wrote. "You are my son, my buddy and always will be. I love you so much."Later, Knox and his wife, Sally, paid tribute to their son, and said they hoped that his death would help bring more attention to the problem of knife crime. Reading from a statement, Knox said: "It's impossible to convey the sadness and loss that we all feel, but we now realise Rob touched many people's lives. Rob was a happy, outgoing and a fun person to be with, he was the social hub of his large circle of friends."Rob always put everyone before himself, he was always the first person to stand up against wrong. He achieved so much in his short life."With knives there are no winners and only losers. If you are a person who carries a knife, think about the consequences before you carry the knife. "One of Robert's uncles, John Knox, claimed the alleged attacker had been to the bar earlier in the evening before returning to cause trouble. "I spoke to the owner of the Metro bar, who said he threw him out twice," he said. "It doesn't seem real; we keep expecting to see Rob walk through the door. We can't get our heads around the fact that we'll never see him again. He was loved by everyone and always stood up and protected people."He was polite, a big old lump, but a playful, lovely boy. I can't understand these people who stroll around with knives. Ironically, the next day you get the government tsar on knife crime saying 'We have to treat these thugs nicely,' but we should be locking them up for four or five years."On Saturday Sir Aynsley Green, the children's commissioner for England, warned that new measures designed to tackle knife crime could "create antagonism" with young people. Robert's younger brother Jamie, 16, also left a tribute yesterday. It said: "To my big bro. As much as I used to piss you off and call you names, ask for lifts everywhere, I loved you so much and I know you didn't know it. I looked up to you so much ... I thought you were invincible."According to eyewitnesses, Robert was killed while trying to protect Jamie from a group of men who threatened the younger boy outside the bar.Scotland Yard said they did not believe the incident to be gang-related.Other keepsakes left at the scene included a football shirt from Robert's favourite team Charlton Athletic, and a jersey from Sidcup rugby club. One of Robert's former teammates at the rugby club was Jimmy Mizen, 16, who was stabbed to death at a bakery in nearby Lee, south-east London a fortnight ago. Several tribute groups were set up at the weekend on the internet. One Facebook site had attracted 1,675 members yesterday, with both friends and strangers leaving messages of support and remembrance.Robert had recently won the biggest part of his acting career, playing Ravenclaw student Marcus Belby in the forthcoming film Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, which is due to be released in November. Robert's best friend Nicky Jones, 19, who was stabbed through the hand by one of the knives allegedly used in the fight on Friday, said Robert had only finished filming his part last Tuesday. He said: "Rob loved acting and loved being part of Harry Potter. We used to go to the karaoke nights at the bar and we'd take the mick out of him by announcing 'Good luck in Harry Potter, Rob' and he used to hide. He didn't like it when we went on about his acting. "He was so good to everyone about it. He took loads of us up the location where they were shooting it, just to show them what it's like," he added. He said that about six cast members of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince had visited the scene of the killing to pay their respects on Saturday night. They had been due to work with him again: according one of Robert's uncles, the teenager was already signed up for the next instalment, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.Brian Knox, 54, said: "Rob was a keen sportsman and budding actor. He was in the Harry Potter film and signed a deal to be in the next one as well. He had his whole life ahead of him."Robert's grandmother Margaret Knox, 79, said: "He was my grandson and I adored him. He was like a big teddy bear. He always defended those getting a rough deal and befriended them. It was because he was so loving it cost him his life. "Now he's gone I am fearful for Jamie, his younger brother. They were like twins, so close. I want every parent who has a teenager to take note of what they are carrying, search them, just try at least try to put an end to this violence."