A political protester who decapitated a £150,000 marble statue of Lady Thatcher was yesterday warned he faces a prison sentence, after a judge ruled his actions could not be legally excused.Paul Kelleher, 37, an events organiser, from Isleworth, west London, had tried to argue he had taken a cricket bat to the sculpture of the former prime minister to protect his two-year-old son Alfie from the ills of a political system he believed she represented. But Judge Norman-Bathurst said this was no excuse for committing criminal damage, and directed the jury to find him guilty. Delaying sentencing for pre-sentence reports, he added: "I am making no promises as to how I am going to deal with you. Prison obviously has to be an option." Clad in a red woolly jumper, the father, who was allowed bail until sentencing on February 19, smiled in resignation, and replied: "Fair enough, sir." Kelleher, who defended himself, faces up to 10 years in prison, the maximum sentence for criminal damage to property worth £5,000 or over. In May 2000, a 25-year-old Cambridge student was jailed for 30 days for spraying paint on a statue of Winston Churchill during the May Day demonstrations, but there are few precedents. "A sentence of imprisonment is certainly on the cards because this was clearly pre-meditated," said Malcolm Fowler, a criminal law expert and member of the Law Society's law reform board. "The judge has a dilemma, because the fact the offender is the very reverse of contrite means he has less latitude. He could theoretically just fine him, but the realistic options are very much narrowed down." Southwark crown court in south-east London heard that Kelleher - appearing in a retrial after a previous jury remained divided over his arguments - committed what he described as an "act of satirical humour" and a "misguided publicity stunt" at London's Guildhall Gallery, after learning from the Guardian that the eight-tonne statue, commissioned for the members' lobby of the House of Lords, would be lent there. On July 3 last year, five days after conducting a "recce", he smuggled a cricket bat down his trousers, and, when the coast was clear, ran at the statue and struck its head. The bat "pinged off", so he reached for a stanchion, aimed one blow at her nose, and was successful. When police arrived to arrest him, he told them: "I think it looks better like that." Defending himself for the second time, Kelleher insisted he had a "lawful excuse" for his actions since he believed his young son was in "immediate need of protection" from "this stupid world" and the political system represented by Lady Thatcher. But the judge stressed that, under the narrow confines of the law, he had to prove either that it was his property, or a right or interest of his, that was in need of protection; and then that the damage inflicted was reasonable. "To say that he did this to prevent globalisation, to try and stop this country cosying up to America, to draw attention to the dangers facing the world and to protect his son, does not, I'm afraid, in law, amount to a lawful excuse," the judge added. After the hearing, Kelleher, who had quoted Tony Blair's gloomy new year speech in a defence that referred to ricin and the threat of terrorism, said: "I feel no fairness has taken place. I have always recognised prison was an option, but I was defending my little boy."