The public will be given a greater role in supervising paedophiles after Home Office reports showed the police and probation services are struggling to cope with the sheer number of violent sex offenders released into the community.In an attempt to ease public concern about paedophiles, Ministers are set to legislate to force the authorities to allow two members of the public to sit on the 'paedophile panels' that monitor the activities of violent and sex offenders. Annual reports from the 42 new panels across the country show for the first time the scale of the problem of monitoring the thousands of offenders judged a risk to the public. In London alone 4,540 offenders are being monitored in prison by the panels ready for their release, with 880 already freed into the community on licence. In the West Midlands the figure for both categories is 3,414 and in West Yorkshire 2,046. A year after the Multi-Agency Public Protection Panels were set up, the National Probation Service has found that the national figure of potentially dangerous offenders has hit 47,000. Probation officers believe as many as 2,500 fall into the very high risk category, know as the 'critical few.' A voluntary role for the public in monitoring was first suggested in response to the murder of Sarah Payne, 7, but the Home Office now believes this would be resisted by professionals such as psychiatrists and social workers unless it was made law. In an equally controversial move, the Home Office intends to establish 'Circles of Friendship' in which volunteers can become 'buddies' to a convicted paedophile released into the community. Such a scheme already operates successfully in Canada. Trials have begun in Hampshire and the Thames Valley with the help of the Quakers. Under the schemes, a circle of four or five volunteers agrees to befriend a paedophile and monitor his activities 24-hours a day. The panels were designed to head off demands for a 'Sarah's Law', which would give local communities the right to know the names of convicted paedophiles living in their area. Sara Payne, the mother of the murdered child, has already indicated her intention to serve on a public protection panel. The panels have been largely judged a success, but the reports demonstrate the intense difficulty in keeping tabs on dangerous offenders without 24-hour surveillance. In one case a serial abuser of children was caught outside a newsagent's, copying down the telephone numbers of mothers advertising for babysitters, and returned to prison within 48 hours. Another was found trying to befriend the child of a pub landlord. Police in London said that a single 24-hour surveillance operation can cost £16,000, and each borough can only afford two or three such operations at a time. Harry Fletcher, of the probation union Napo, said: 'Now we know the horrific scale of the problem it is clear these panels are absolutely necessary. But they will have to be far better resourced if we are to fully address this problem.' The Government moves come as a survey revealed that one child in five has been a victim of unwanted sexual advances outside their home. Pupils aged nine to 16 at 26 schools across north-west England were questioned in the first attempt of its kind to gauge the scale of the problem. Twenty-two per cent of them reported incidents ranging from relatively minor sexual abuse to abductions. Girls were twice as likely to be targeted as boys. Bernard Gallagher, author of the Huddersfield University study, said: 'The perpetrators contacted children in swimming baths, in parks, out in the street. Sometimes they were in cars or even on motorbikes, and attempted to abuse or abduct children.' The Tories are planning to launch a major paper next month on combating paedophile attacks. Shadow Cabinet Ministers are looking at measures, including forcing registered sex offenders to check in with police more frequently, extending tagging and tougher sentencing. They may back the Government's plan to create a new offence of 'grooming' children as potential victims, using the internet. Iain Duncan Smith is, however, expected to stop short of fully backing the Sarah's Law campaign. 'He has never been absolutely certain about it because there are a number of other ways to deal with this,' said a spokesman.