I sat down to work this morning to the sound of gunfire. Starting at 10am sharp, and continuing more or less steadily for the next four hours the staccato report of rifle shots drifted up the hill, past the trees, over the pond and in through the window.We consider ourselves, by grace of the United States postal service and the property tax bills we get from the town of Guilford, to be summer residents of the state of Vermont. But if you walk out the barn, down the path shown on maps as Old Slave Road - reputedly a branch line on the underground railroad - you find yourself in Leyden, Massachusetts, in less time than it takes to whistle the first verse of My Country 'Tis of Thee (the name we give here to the tune better known elsewhere as God Save the Queen). The Leyden Rifle Range was, I gathered, open for business.A Massachusetts man, the late Congressman Tip O'Neill, is credited with the observation that "all politics is local". So in reading what follows please bear in mind that, at least on this occasion, I mean no disrespect to the founding fathers who in their wisdom made the right "to keep and bear arms", a putative bulwark against tyranny.I don't own a gun, and haven't fired a real one since mandatory attendance at the Reserve Officers Training Corps back in high school. But my late brother owned several, and had an NRA sticker on the back of his pickup, right next to the Grateful Dead sticker. No, my interest here is strictly local politics.The Leyden Range - a line of bunkers in an open field, off a dirt road, traversed by streams and surrounded by woods - has been in business "promoting the shooting sports" for 70 years. Sometimes, on a particularly bucolic Sunday, the silence would be shattered with a few bursts. Most of us just took that as the price of rural life, like black flies in the spring, or the way the powerlines go down after an ice storm.But the long causal chain we now label 9/11 was felt everywhere, including on the Leyden Range, which after decades of disuse suddenly found itself awash with paying customers.Did I mention that all the kitchens around here are adorned with radios in perpetual readiness in case Vermont Yankee, the local nuclear plant, decides to go critical? Nobody ever said how much Entergy, the corporation that runs Vermont Yankee, or Wackenhut, the private company in charge of plant security, paid for their sessions at the Leyden Range; just as nobody said who paid to improve the county access road, or build the new shelters which allowed shooting to go on even when it rained.All that anybody knew was that the shooting, which in the past took place maybe one or two days a week, was suddenly a daily - and nightly - feature.It may seem churlish to begrudge the forces of Wackenhut their devotion to better marksmanship. Whatever it cost, it was certainly cheaper than having adequate supervision of US ports and all the other, still unfunded, recommendations of the 9-11 Commission. But it seemed that in their patriotic haste, the Rifle Club neglected even to apply for the proper permits. So when, this past winter, they finally did try to legalise, retrospectively, the buildings already erected and the change-in-use already effected, my neighbours were ready.There were abundant ironies in the spectacle of the massed forces of hippies, communards, and other 60s survivors, wielding the tools of local democracy to bring the gun clubbers to heel. At one Leyden Planning Board meeting, I found myself seated behind Sam Lovejoy, an organic farmer who back in 1974 single-handedly sparked the anti-nuclear movement in the US, when he toppled a tower belonging to Northeast Utilities (Entergy's predecessor) just up the road in Montague. Britons concerned by Tony Blair's recent conversion to nuclear power could do worse than get hold of a copy of Lovejoy's Nuclear War, a filmed account of Lovejoy's successful self-defence on the charge of destruction of property.My aim here, though, is not to rake over ancient history, or Blair's energy policy. Modern nuclear plants may be as safe as houses. No, I really just wanted to ask a question. After a year of hearings, the local zoning and planning boards both ruled the gun club had acted illegally. The club vowed to appeal, but in the meantime has been ordered to sharply reduce shooting times and visitor numbers.Have those rulings had any effect? Not so you'd notice. What I want to know is: what you have to do to get some law and order around here?