A drunken 22-year-old man managed to sneak aboard a plane at Birmingham airport by climbing through a baggage carousel and telling cleaners he was the co-pilot.Lee Jezard pleaded guilty on Wednesday to boarding the empty Lufthansa plane on 17 July, breaching airport security and stealing £36.45 worth of foodstuffs from the airport's Caffè Nero coffee shop.Birmingham magistrates fined Jezard – who lost his job as a hotel manager after the incident – £95 for each of the three offences. He was also ordered to pay full compensation to the coffee shop, together with £185 costs and a £20 victim surcharge.David Devine, prosecuting, said that despite reports Jezard was at the airport after missing a flight to Ibiza, a study of all plane manifests revealed that he was never booked on any flight. He described the actions of Jezard, from Redditch, Worcestershire, as a "drunken escapade".In mitigation, Jezard's solicitor Tariq Khan said his client "really had very little idea how he arrived at the airport" after going on a drinking binge with friends in Birmingham city centre.Khan added that in a further "bizarre" act, Jezard was seen on CCTV behind a coffee shop counter at the deserted airport "charging his mobile and checking it".Jezard was discovered on board a Lufthansa Embraer 195 by cleaning staff, and initially told them he was the co-pilot, said Devine. "When they asked him for ID, he had none, and then told them, 'I work for the navy'. He then said: 'I'm breaking into places to see if people can catch me – I go to prisons and other places.'"When airport police arrested him, Jezard said: "I was trying to show how easy it was to get on that plane – and I did it. I told the cleaners I was the co-pilot."He struggled to recall everything that had happened, telling police he "wanted a walk around and thought it would be a good idea".Security cameras showed Jezard crawling through the opening of a baggage carousel, getting on to the airport's apron, and then getting on board the plane. Khan said his client "really had very little idea how it was he arrived at the airport, but the guess is it was by train".Police had already spoken to a "wandering" and "clearly intoxicated" Jezard, after spotting him in other parts of the airport in the hours before the security breach, said Khan. It was the same police officer who later "frog-marched him off the aeroplane" following his discovery on board.Khan said although it was a relatively low-level security breach, the incident had implications beyond Jezard's drunken activities. "I am sure airport staff and management will have been having a close look at events, and security will have been tightened up, because of the implications this could have been a more serious breach than it was in this case," he said.Jezard's crimes had left him "ostracised" by his own family, who were "not impressed" by his night-time escapades, said Khan. "He had a very good job as a manager in a hotel and has lost that job and is now without employment."