The mother of the murdered landscape architect Joanna Yeates today described how quiet life was without her daughter and that she was waiting for her to return.Speaking at her home in Ampfield, Hampshire, Theresa Yeates, 58, said: "She just had this joy and vibrancy, even though she didn't live here. I am sat in the kitchen just wanting her to come through the door. It is just so quiet here without her."Police have not ruled out the possibility that more than one person was involved in the 25-year-old's murder in Bristol or that her killing was sexually motivated.Detectives also say that Yeates's landlord, Chris Jefferies, remains a suspect.Officers yesterday revealed they had received more than 1,300 pieces of information, which had generated more than 900 lines of inquiry. The investigation team has categorised 239 of these as "high priority". Police said they had so far viewed more than 100 hours of CCTV footage and were sifting through 293 tonnes of domestic rubbish seized in the area around Yeates's flat in Clifton, Bristol.Chief Inspector Phil Jones, leading the investigation, said the inquiry was complex and could be time-consuming. Speaking at the headquarters of Avon and Somerset police's major crime investigation unit, he said officers were exploring every possible hypothesis."We are carrying out detailed forensic analysis of her flat and outcomes from this can take a considerable amount of time."Jones said he was "satisfied" that Yeates got back to her flat on 17 December. "But I am not going to speculate whether she let someone into the flat, whether someone was already there or whether someone broke into the flat."Yeates's body was found on Christmas morning on a roadside verge three miles from her flat, but Jones could not say where or when she was killed or when the body was left where it was discovered. Snowfall on 18 December had "considerable impact" on this line of inquiry, he said.Jones said: "I assure you we are determined to bring Jo's killers to justice." Asked about his use of "killers" rather than "killer", Jones said the plural emphasised that he was keeping an open mind.He said that there was no evidence Yeates had been sexually assaulted but he had not ruled out that there had been a "sexual motive". Jones said Yeates's landlord, Jefferies, was on police bail and was therefore still a suspect.