Anne Darwin wept in court yesterday as she was accused of "lying, lying and lying" by a prosecution barrister.The 56-year-old former doctor's receptionist was accused of hypocrisy in lying to her sons and the authorities over her husband John's faked death in a canoe accident in 2002. She denies nine money laundering and six deception charges."What you are truly about is pushing everything to the wire," Andrew Robertson, prosecuting, told Teesside crown court. "When that is proven to be a lie you change tack and when that is proven to be a lie you change tack again with more lies. This is the last wire, Mrs Darwin."You are prepared to fight this case as it is your last hope of getting away with it, isn't it? It is nothing to do with the truth." Darwin, in the witness box with her head bowed, shook her head in response.Speaking about the £250,000 insurance scam in which her sons thought their father was dead, Robertson said: "'All I wanted to do was to keep the family together'. What sort of hypocrisy is that? You had torn these boys to shreds, hadn't you?"Darwin said: "The money wasn't important to me. Neither was the house. I had never wanted to live in the house in the first place." This was, as the prosecutor later pointed out, even though she described their home at The Cliff, Seaton Carew, as "our dream home" in a police press release about her husband's disappearance. She told the court she had wanted to go bankrupt.Robertson asked her the real reason why John Darwin came back from Panama after five-and-a-half years last December. "To pay back the money and be reunited with Mark and Anthony," she replied.Why had she written "Don't leave me," in an email to her husband, shortly before he flew from Panama to the UK, asked the barrister. It was "just a phrase" and there had been no matrimonial tiff, she said. She was accused of playing the role of grieving widow with "unnecessary enthusiasm". "I don't know what you mean," she muttered.Robertson said: "To make everything look good you went and threw roses in the sea on the anniversary of his death and kept a red rose from the bunch next to your bed." She said the flowers were thrown to sea "to comfort Mark and Anthony".Earlier, she was asked about the effect the deception had on her sons. "You knew you were going to hurt your sons in the most acute way imaginable." She replied: "Yes, I know that and I wasn't looking forward to it." When asked how she could fling her arms around her son Mark and weep uncontrollably, she replied: "I was feeling their pain." "Pain, you their mother could have brought to an end like that," Robertson said, snapping his fingers. "I couldn't lay our problems on their shoulders. It was only supposed to last for two to three months it was not supposed to go on for years," she said.She was asked if she thought by telling lies that she would play down her responsibility for what happened. She said: "No." The trial continues.