Detectives arrested a man today over the murder of a woman killed while walking her dog on a summer day more than 14 years ago.Vikki Thompson, 30, a mother of two and part-time waiter, was found with severe head injuries alongside a railway embankment in Ascott-under-Wychwood, Oxfordshire, on 12 August 1995. She died six days later in hospital.The 34-year-old man who has been arrested is from the same village as Thompson. He remains in custody and is being questioned by detectives.It is believed officers from the major crime review team at Thames Valley made the arrest after re-examining forensic samples from the murder scene.Shortly after Thompson's killing, an odd job man, Mark Weston, was arrested. In 1996, it took a jury at Oxford crown court 40 minutes to find Weston, 21, not guilty of Thompson's murder.Weston was arrested after the trial in 1996 for harassing a police officer who investigated the death. He made dozens of silent phone calls to the home of PC Robert Salmon, harassing him and his wife and two daughters. Weston received a conditional discharge for the calls and later boasted: "I'm glad he felt scared stiff the same way I did when I was arrested for a murder I didn't commit."The family of the Scottish-born murder victim have since campaigned for Weston to face a retrial.Thames Valley police would not say whether the man arrested today – who would be the same age as Weston – was him.Thompson's family described the arrest as "a major step forward" which they hoped would prove significant.Her widower, Jonathan Thompson, who lives in Oxfordshire, said: "I'm aware of the developments today. As Vikki's family we have continuously supported the ongoing police investigation."The cold case review have been actively investigating this for some time now."Thompson, an IT consultant, who is now married to his wife's best friend, Lyn Trowbridge, added: "Most of all we want justice for Vikki. We don't know who the man is who has been arrested. We have tried to rebuild our lives but the ordeal will only end when Vikki's killer is brought to justice."Vikki's brother, Graham Simpson, 44, said: "The family will be delighted if somebody is brought to justice for Vikki's murder."Life has been and continues to be a very painful experience knowing that her murderer is walking free."We have been continually campaigning over the years but we do not know who the person is that has been arrested." Officers arrested the man during a 6.30am raid at his home. Thames Valley police said: "Officers from the major crime review team have arrested a 34-year-old man from Ascott-under-Wychwood this morning, on suspicion of murder."The arrest is in connection with the murder of Vikki Thompson, who died on 18 August 1995 after being attacked on 12 August 1995. "The MCRT was established to enable investigators to concentrate on unsolved serious crimes and ensure that current unsolved serious crimes are preserved evidentially for any future review and reinvestigation."It is mainly responsible for reviewing and reinvestigating unresolved homicide and serious sexual offences and other serious crime, for the whole force area."