Two teenage brothers laughed after one of them admitted in front of two prison officers that they stabbed Damilola Taylor, a jury was told yesterday.One of the officers at Feltham young offenders' institute said she "couldn't stop staring" at the boys and wanted to get out the room as quickly as possibly because she was so distressed. The jury also heard evidence from a fellow detainee at Feltham who said that one of the brothers also told him they were present when 10-year-old Damilola was attacked. Damilola bled to death in November 2000 after allegedly being confronted by youths as he walked home in Peckham, south London. The brothers, now 16, and another 15-year-old youth deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The alleged admission took place in the Bittern wing of the west London centre, where the brothers, who can be identified only as boy A and B, were on remand on unrelated charges, three months after Damilola's death. They were among a group of taking part in an induction session with officers Darren De'ath and Gayle Bennett. Mr De'ath told the court he asked if any of the boys were expecting long sentences. He claimed: "One of the brothers, said: 'Yes, possibly murder' and laughed." One of the other boys asked: "Who did you murder?" The second brother also allegedly laughed and replied: "Damilola Taylor but we didn't kill him. We just stabbed him in the legs. It wasn't our fault he died." Mr De'ath claimed he asked the brothers: "Did you kill him then?" The officer said: "They laughed at each other and the second said: "No, just hypothetically speaking." Referring to a reward for information about the murder, the boy allegedly added: "You're only interested in the 50 grand. You will try to stitch us up." Miss Bennett told the court one of the boys told her she looked "stressed". She said: "I can remember wanting to get out of the room. They laughed, they thought it was funny." Courtenay Griffiths QC, for boy A, suggested it was possible that the brothers had been trying to "make themselves appear tougher than they were to deter the bullies. A 16-year-old boy who met the pair while they were in Feltham claimed one of the brothers told him they took a mobile phone and money from Damilola. The brother alleg-edly told him that another boy stabbed the 10-year-old with a "small knife". However, the prosecution case is that it was unlikely Damilola had any money or a mobile phone. It alleges he was stabbed in the leg with a beer bottle. The court also heard yesterday about a "trawling exercise" carried out by the police to gather information from Feltham and another young offenders' institution where one of the brothers was held. Ann Mallalieu QC, for boy B, suggested to Detective Sergeant Nick Sedgemore that the police were "scraping the evidential barrel" because they had failed to come up with proof. Mr Sedgemore admitted that detainees stood to benefit if they helped police. He conceded he had spoken to a sentencing judge for one youth who had given a statement about the case.