An Indian woman who enslaved and nearly killed one of her workers, claiming that she was obeying the Hindu goddess of death and destruction as she beat the employee, has been jailed for 14 years.Harrow crown court heard how 55-year-old Taru Patel had attacked the woman almost every day with heavy wooden ladles and other kitchen implements, leaving her victim with shattered and gangrenous fingers, suppurating sores and rotting flesh. The victim, who cannot be named for legal reasons, also had her hair pulled out and suffered cigarette burns on her feet and legs. Some wounds damaged the underlying muscle. She faces a lifetime's disability because of muscle wastage that has left her unable to walk properly or lift her arms above her head.It took seven hours and seven minutes for the jury unanimously to convict Patel, of Willesden Green, north London, on one count of grievous bodily harm and one count of false imprisonment. Jurors rejected Patel's claim that the woman had been gangraped.At the start of the trial, the 42-year-old victim told the court that she had left India for the UK to secure a better future for her family. For nearly a year, the mother of two tried but failed to find work, until Patel offered her a £3 an hour live-in job at the pickle factory she ran from her home. The court heard how the woman was starved of regular meals, sometimes working 14-hour days on bread and milk, and was forced to sleep on the floor. She was not allowed out on her own or to speak to the other women who worked with her. Her phone calls were monitored and Patel took her passport away. Patel also persuaded the woman to hand over a large sum of money, claiming that she needed it to process her nationality application. The assaults lasted nearly six weeks, during which time Patel photographed the woman's injuries and threatened to "shame and dishonour" her by sending the pictures to her husband and telling him that his wife had been raped by a "gang of black men".Patel told her victim as she was hitting her that she was obeying Kali, the Hindu goddess of death and destruction. According to the woman, Patel kept a shrine to the deity and would regularly pray in front of it. She finally acknowledged her worker's deteriorating condition by dumping her near a hospital. Doctors spent two weeks treating her injuries, and had to amputate her damaged fingers.Passing sentence, the judge, Roger Sanders, said Patel had turned the woman into a "virtual slave".He said: "When your victim came to this country last year on her British overseas passport her one ambition was ... to be better able to provide for her family. She will never be able to do that now ... indeed it is unlikely she will ever be fit for work in any capacity again." He added: "Your actions were sadistic, cruel and inhuman. Society must be protected from you and the sentence I pass must be sufficient to reflect its abhorrence."