An appeal to track down nine British fugitives, including two murder suspects, who are believed to be hiding in the Netherlands has been launched as part of a joint operation by UK and Dutch police.It was accompanied by a call from the mother of a 21-year-old who was stabbed to death in London last year for the alleged killer to give himself up“Come forward. Hand yourself in. You can’t run forever. Stop our pain. Give answers,” said Tracey Hanson, in a direct appeal to Shane O’Brien, 28, who is accused of killing her son, Josh Hanson, in a bar in Hillingdon in October 2015. “It’s soul-destroying at times. Mother’s Day has just passed and Josh not being here was extremely painful for us. He was a wonderful young man, he was caring. Somebody out there has got to do the right thing. We need to grieve in peace and we have not been able to do that. Five months on, it feels like a lifetime already.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tracey Hanson and her daughter Brooke. Her son Josh Hanson was killed in October 2015. Photograph: Linda Nylind for the GuardianO’Brien is among nine fugitives, including another murder suspect, alleged drug smugglers and a convicted rapist, being sought by British authorities. They have launched a fresh appeal as part of Operation Return, a multi-agency campaign working closely with police in the Netherlands.Dave Allen, from the National Crime Agency, said: “Those who believe they can use the Netherlands to evade capture or continue illegal activities soon find out that it is not a safe haven.”A ”rogues’ gallery” of the fugitives put together by Crimestoppers and the National Crime Agency (NCA) includes:• David Ungi (also known as David Riccio): a 24-year-old from Liverpool who is wanted over the murder of a teenager in the city last July. It is claimed that he and two other men were in a car that rammed a motorbike in the Garston area of the city, before fatally shooting a pillion passenger, Vinny Waddington. Ungi is also suspected of drug dealing.   David Ungi. Photograph: Crimestoppers/PA• David John Walley: a 40-year-old from Manchester accused of bringing drugs into the UK in parcels that were delivered to an address in Manchester. It is also claimed that Walley used a fake passport when he was stopped by Dutch police in Amsterdam in September 2014.   David John Walley. Photograph: Crimestoppers/PA• Shane O’Brien: a 28-year-old from north London accused of walking up to Josh Hanson, 21, in a bar in west London and stabbing him in the neck in front of his girlfriend. A £10,000 reward is available for information leading to O’Brien’s arrest and prosecution.   Shane O’Brien. Photograph: Crimestoppers/PA• Ahmed Dervish Omer: a convicted drug dealer and a ringleader in a drug-smuggling gang, the 45-year-old from Nottingham fled in the middle of his trial in November last year but was found guilty in his absence. He was sentenced to 10 years in prison for conspiracy to supply amphetamine, cannabis and cannabis resin.  Ahmed Dervish Omer. Photograph: Crimestoppers/PA• Michael Paul Moogan: a 52-year-old suspected of cocaine smuggling, he is accused of being linked to a Rotterdam cafe that was used as an operation centre for an international drug-trafficking ring, and was raided as part of a joint UK-Dutch police operation in 2013. Moogan, from Liverpool, is also wanted by the National Crime Agency for conspiracy to import cocaine in 2013.   Michael Paul Moogan. Photograph: Crimestoppers/PA• Robert Stephen Gerrard: a 52-year-old from Liverpool, he is also believed to be linked to the same Rotterdam cafe that was used as an operation centre for an international drug-trafficking ring, and was raided as part of a joint UK-Dutch police operation in 2013.  Robert Stephen Gerrard. Photograph: Crimestoppers/PA• Rezgar Zengana: a convicted rapist, he posed as a minicab driver in Glasgow in December 2006, where he attacked a 25-year-old woman. The 33-year-old Iraqi was convicted of rape but has yet to be sentenced. He is wanted by Police Scotland.   Rezgar Zengana. Photograph: Crimestoppers/PA• Mark Liscott: a drug dealer from Great Barr, Birmingham, he was jailed for nine years for supplying cannabis in January 2005, and released on licence after serving part of his sentence. It is alleged he breached the terms of his licence by getting involved with drug-dealing gangs in London and Nottingham.  Mark Liscott. Photograph: Crimestoppers/PA