Farmer Tony Martin, who was jailed for life for the murder of a teenage burglar, has won the first round of his appeal battle.Jurors in the case of can be questioned over whether they were intimidated, three Court of Appeal judges ruled today. Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Harrison and Mr Justice Tomlinson gave the go-ahead for the jury to be written to and asked to answer certain questions "as soon as possible". The judges, sitting in London, ordered that the terms of the questions addressed to the jury should not be disclosed by the press. Today's brief preliminary hearing saw the beginning of Martin's bid for freedom. He was not at court today. The full appeal is expected to be heard later this year. Martin, 55, was found guilty of murdering teenage burglar Fred Barras, 16, and wounding his accomplice Brendan Fearon, 30, with a shotgun. Before Martin's counsel Anthony Scrivener QC began to make his application to the court concerning the questioning of jurors, Lord Justice Rose told him that the court was "sympathetic, subject to anything the Crown want to say, to the idea that the jury should be asked one or two questions". He added: "We are not sympathetic to them being set an exam paper." At the full appeal Martin's defence team is expected to argue that a fair trial was not possible because there was an atmosphere of intimidation for jurors and witnesses. But their main ground for appeal is the claim that the judge "substantially misdirected" the jury during his summing-up. Martin, of Bleak House, Emneth Hungate, near Emneth, Norfolk, was found guilty of murdering Barras, of Newark, Notts, and was sentenced to life imprisonment after being convicted by a 10-2 majority at the end of an eight-day trial at Norwich Crown Court in April. He was also convicted of wounding Fearon, also of Newark, with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. The farmer was cleared of attempting to murder Fearon and of possessing a pump-action shotgun with intent to endanger life. Jurors heard the burglars had been shot after breaking into Martin's isolated home late at night in August. Barras had been shot in the back and Fearon in the groin. The farmer, who claims he fired in self-defence, has described the death of Barras as "regrettable" and says he did not intend to kill him.