The wife of a man accused of murdering their 15-year-old daughter in an "honour killing" turned to her husband across an Old Bailey courtroom today and demanded: "Look at my face. What did you do to Tulay?"Hanim Goren, 45, was giving evidence against her husband, Mehmet, for the third day when she turned to challenge him over his part in her daughter's killing a decade ago.Her dramatic outburst came after she asked the judge for "two minutes" and apologised. She then turned to the dock, where her husband was staring back at her, and said: "Look at my face. What did you do to Tulay? Say it. Say it so that I can …"But she was stopped by the judge, Mr Justice Bean, who told her: "Please stop. You are here to answer questions from counsel."Tulay Goren disappeared on 7 January 1999 and her body was never found. Mehmet Goren, 49, denies murdering her.Earlier, her mother told the court that since she vanished, she has confronted her husband about what happened to her, increasingly so since her youngest daughter, Hatice, died in a car crash in 2006."I was saying it to his face openly, frankly. I was saying to him 'you swallowed Tulay'. I was saying 'she is alive, in your tummy'. I kept saying it," she said. "During the last few years I started saying it more. Since I lost Hatice I started saying it even more."Goren said that when she had previously confronted her husband, he said: "I don't know anything, I didn't do anything."She told the court: "He used to say 'those who did it are over there'. I don't know who he meant."She said that when she threatened to go to the police, Mehmet said he would tell them she and her relatives were responsible for the disappearance.Goren said she did not tell anyone about her concerns regarding Mehmet's involvement in Tulay's disappearance and parts of her statement to police in February 1999 were untrue. Asked why she kept silent, she said "the reason was Mehmet", but that she later changed her story."They said 'What did you do to Tulay? Did you do it?'. I couldn't take it any more and I revealed. I told the truth to the police then, everything."The court heard that in March 1999 she was arrested for perverting the course of justice and then murder. She was interviewed again and released without charge. She later asked to speak to the police in April and June.Mehmet and his brothers Ali, 55, and Cuma, 42, also deny murdering Tulay. They were not charged until last year.The trial continues.