A taxi driver battered his wife and three children to death with a rounders bat in the family home where their decomposing bodies were found more than three weeks later, a court heard yesterday.Rahan Arshad, 36, fled to Thailand after the killings, using a plane ticket he had booked in advance, and was arrested at Heathrow when he returned voluntarily.The court heard that he told police there: "I confess to murder." He then added: "My beautiful kids ... I don't regret killing that fucking bitch. But my kids ... killing my kids."Mr Arshad denies murdering his sons Adam, 11, and Abbas, eight, and daughter, Henna, six, and his wife, Uzma Rahan, 32. The court was told that he made a statement that he was provoked into killing his wife when he found her with the bodies of the children at their home in Cheadle Hulme, Greater Manchester, in July 2006, and believed that she had murdered them.A distressed woman member of the jury at Manchester crown court wept as Paul Reid QC, prosecuting, gave details of the repeated blows suffered by the family. On the advice of the judge, Mr Reid moved on to a more general account of the injuries.Mr Arshad sat impassively in the dock as he listened to Mr Reid's account of the head wounds and of how the bodies were found by three police officers who broke into the house after a neighbour reported smelling decaying flesh and seeing a large number of bluebottles inside.The jury heard that not long before she died, Uzma had told her brother: "Count the days until he [Arshad] kills me."Mr Reid said Uzma and the children were killed late on July 28 or early on July 29. On July 28, Mr Arshad told the same brother of the £30,000 BMW he claimed to have bought as an early birthday present for his wife. He then added: "Well just wait - there will be a much bigger surprise."Mr Reid said Mr Arshad and his wife, who were cousins, had an arranged marriage in 1992. Mr Arshad, described as "jealous and possessive", later began to believe his wife, who liked western fashions, was having an affair. After a separation, they began living together again at the Cheadle Hulme house in May 2006.The jury heard that Mr Arshad booked his flight from Manchester to Bangkok on July 11, originally for travel on July 31. He later transferred the booking to a July 29 flight from Heathrow. In the days before the killings, he showered his wife with presents, including jewellery, a TV and the BMW, and told his family he had booked a holiday for them in Dubai.He said Mr Arshad bought the rounders bat on July 27 and on the following day took some or all of the family to Blackpool. "Wristbands were issued to at least two of the children at Blackpool Pleasure Beach," said Mr Reid. "The wrist bands were still being worn by Henna and Abbas when their bodies were discovered."The children were found in the lounge. Adam, wearing an England football shirt, and Abbas were both covered by sheets and Henna by a pink duvet cover: her head was resting on a cushion and covered by another. Uzma's body, covered by a towel, was on a bed upstairs. There were 23 lacerations to her head.The court heard that at about 7am, a motorway camera recorded the BMW heading south. The car was parked in the short-stay car park at Heathrow at 10am and Mr Arshad checked in for his flight 10 minutes later. When police examined the car, they found in the boot swimming costumes and buckets and spades presumed to have been taken to Blackpool. Mr Arshad's clothing, searched when he returned from Thailand, included blood-stained trainers, sandals, shorts and a T-shirt. The trial continues.