A pilot project that could lead to fixed penalty fines for anti-social behaviour began in four police forces yesterday.The initiative, derived from an idea by Tony Blair, gives police officers the power to hand out £40 and £80 tickets for offences such as threatening behaviour, wasting police time, making hoax emergency calls to police, fire or ambulance services, and being drunk and disorderly. Offenders can pay their fine by post or challenge it in court. Critics claim the scheme allows officers to be judge and jury for minor offences. Research by West Midlands police, which has taken a leading role in developing the scheme, has shown that dealing with minor offences in this way will spare the force and local courts £600,000 in administration costs. West Midlands has begun a one year trial, and it is also being tested in Essex, Croydon in south London, and by British Transport police in the West Midlands. A scheme in north Wales is due to start next month. The government hopes that fixed penalty fines will show that it is committed to tackling "yob culture" while also giving officers flexibility to deal with lower level criminality so that police cells are not clogged with petty offenders. The Home Office said yesterday: "The project provides police with an additional tool to tackle nuisance crimes and intimidating behaviour which blights the lives of so many people." A spokesman added: "It will reduce the amount of police time spent on paperwork and courts' time in dealing with prosecutions, and yet provides a punishment for the offender." The higher level fines will be for offenders who use threatening behaviour or words causing alarm or distress, wasting police time, knowingly giving a false alarm to the fire brigade or sending false messages under the Telecommunications Act 1984. Being drunk and disorderly or drunk in the highway, throwing stones at trains, trespassing on a railway, throwing fireworks, drinking in a restricted area, wilful obstruction of the highway and buying alcohol for children will get a £40 fine. Chief inspector James Andronov, of West Midlands police, said yesterday that penalty notices would not be issued when there were aggravating circumstances, such as damage being caused to property. In those cases, officers would arrest the culprit. "It is important to realise that the option of issuing a penalty notice is in addition to the existing ways of dealing with offenders," he said. However, beat officers in Essex said that in almost all instances the offender would be arrested and taken to a police station to be issued with a notice, although officers would have the power if required to issue them on the spot. The initiative was given a cool response by the Metropolitan police federation chairman, Glen Smyth, who said officers would soon be walking around like bus conductors. Liberty, the human rights organisation, also expressed concern yesterday. "This scheme lumps together some trivial offences that shouldn't be criminal, and some more serious ones that are criminal and should be subject to the full process of law," said Mark Littlewood, its campaigns director. "Is treating both anti-social behaviour and potentially far more serious criminal acts in the same way as parking tickets really the way forward? It puts policemen in the position of having to be judge and jury for these offences. "It's another shortcut scheme to get around the fact that our police and courts are struggling and under-resourced. The right answer is to give them more resources to enforce existing law properly and fairly."