A good man, a kind man, much loved and a pillar of the community – tributes were still pouring in this weekend for Asad Shah, the man killed outside his shop in what police are calling a “religiously prejudiced” attack.Neighbours who set up a fund for the popular newsagent’s family had by Saturday afternoon raised £18,000 as it was revealed that Shah’s brother, Athar, had witnessed the stabbing outside the newsagent’s late on Thursday night in the Shawlands area of Glasgow.Hours before he died, Shah, a devout Muslim, had posted a message on social media wishing people a happy Easter, and local people talked of how he had given out Easter eggs and cards to his regular customers.Shah, 40, was attacked with a knife and had his head stamped on outside his corner shop, hours after he had posted on Facebook: “A very happy Easter to my beloved Christian nation … Let’s follow the real footstep of beloved holy Jesus Christ and get the real success in both worlds.”Shah was passionate about religious tolerance and wanted to reach out to Christians. He was due to host a Google hangout about the importance of Easter. He had previously spoken out against violence and hatred and called for “unconditional real love for all mankind”.Police have arrested a 32-year-old man on suspicion of murdering the shopkeeper and have confirmed that the arrested man is a Muslim.The brothers’ father, Syed, spoke of his shock and revealed that Athar, a personal trainer who owns the gym next door to the newsagent’s, had been slightly injured in last week’s incident.“I just can’t speak, we are in shock here,” he said. “I don’t know the details of what happened, I wasn’t there, but my other son saw everything. He was there at the time, and he was injured too, but only slightly. I’m sure you can imagine how we are all feeling.”The police cordon around Shah’s newsagent’s was marked by flowers and cards in memory of Shah and a silent vigil on Friday night organised by local people was attended by a crowd of almost 500 people, including the first minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon.She said that she was there paying her “personal respects” as someone who knew Shah. “My heart goes out to the family of Asad Shah, a popular shopkeeper in my constituency,” she said later.Among those who attended the vigil, under the banner #thisisinotwhoweare, was Humza Yousaf, the Scottish minister for external affairs and international development, who described his pride at the way many Glaswegians had reacted to the killing.He said: “When our city is hurting, the people of Glasgow wrap their arms round each other.”Among the tributes were messages reading: “Thank you for being the nicest guy on the planet.” Another read: “A good man. You’ll be sorely missed,” and “a more decent man you could not meet. RIP my friend”.