Swedish police are investigating a racially motivated gunman in the port city of Malmö following a series of attacks on immigrants, including the shooting of two women this week.The police said today they were looking for similarities between the latest incident and 17 earlier shootings of people from ethnic-minority backgrounds with no known ties to organised crime.The attack on the two women, who were wounded after being hit through a kitchen window on last night, has not yet been linked to the other incidents but police have warned residents from ethnic minorities to take extra care when going out at night.The investigation was sparked earlier this week after two black men were shot in the back while waiting for buses in separate incidents in Malmö, in the south-west of the country.Börje Sjöholm, a police spokesman, said the same high-calibre handgun had been used to shoot a 28-year-old on Tuesday and a 47-year-old 10 days ago."In the past the shootings we've had have been linked to organised crime, but now we can't find any connections so we are launching a different investigation," she said. "The 15 unsolved crimes, the two men at the bus stops and yesterday's shooting of the two women are not currently linked but are being investigated."The issue of gun crime, and particularly gang shootings, has been of growing concern in the city. But this is the first time police have suspected a racial motive.They have warned ethnic minority residents to avoid quiet places such as bus stops and to take extra care, especially at night. Police said they were looking for a man aged between 20 and 40 who witnesses say they saw running away from some crime scenes.Tahmoures Yassami, who leads the Iranian-Swedish Association in Malmö, told The Local, an English-language website, that many immigrant families were in shock."Many people are frightened at the moment. Especially families who have children. I had a phone call just this morning from a mother who was concerned and asked what was happening," he said. "We have said to our families to try to stay home in the evenings. We have asked our children to always have their mobile phones on, so we can reach them."Niklas Orrenius, a journalist on the local newspaper Sydsvenska Dagbladet, said that the atmosphere in Malmö had markedly changed since the police announced their investigation. Although residents were worried about the attacks, there was a feeling of solidarity on the streets.The government is believed to be taking the police investigation seriously, and Erik Ullenhag, Sweden's new minister for integration, speeded up a scheduled visit to the city. He described the situation as "acute", but added that it was "too early to draw any political conclusions – but from the government point of view it's important."Referring to the Rosengård, known locally as "the ghetto" and home to around 20,000 immigrants, he said it was important to show that it was not just a problem for that part of Malmö, "but for the whole of Sweden".The latest shooting revived memories of the terror experienced in the capital, Stockholm, in the 1990s, when serial sniper John Ausonius shot 11 people, killing one. Ausonius was dubbed the Laser Man because he used a rifle equipped with laser sight. He is still serving a life sentence.The Malmö shootings also highlights a growing undercurrent of racial tension in Sweden after the rightwing Sweden Democrats gained wins in the September elections on an anti-immigration platform. Although Ausonius also came to light after another rightwing party, the New Democracy, was elected to the Riksdag (parliament) in 1991, the SD have been a presence in regional politics for some time. Yet the centre-left still also holds the political majority in Malmö.