The battle lines in the war about the paedophile Craig Sweeney were quickly drawn. This was a fight where the executive - in the pugnacious shape of the home secretary, John Reid, who thought that the judge had erred on the side of leniency in passing a sentence that would have allowed Sweeney to be considered for parole after five and a half years - was lined up against the judiciary, which pointed out that the life sentence was exactly within the tariff permitted, and that these very guidelines had, in fact, been mandated by parliament in the Criminal Justice Act 2003.The Sweeney case raises huge - and difficult - criminological issues: from the question of how effective the rehabilitation of sex offenders can be, specifically paedophiles, through courses that they undergo in prison, to how best to manage the risks posed to the community after such offenders are released.Outrage over supposedly lenient sentencing or too "easy" parole is one thing, but the bald fact of the matter is that, with the exception of some 30 inmates, all 77,500 of the people currently in our jails will one day return to society; they will be "resettled", as it tends to be described rather quaintly in Home Office policy documents. Murderers, rapists, sex offenders, even paedophiles, will all come back into our world. They might move next door to you, sit beside you on the bus, serve you in the supermarket, or toast England's success with you in the pub.Shouldn't this reality give us all cause for alarm? Shouldn't it make us rush headlong into legislating that "life should mean life", or for a further extension of indeterminate sentencing? Perhaps we should be trying to develop even more sophisticated risk assessment tools to try to predict which offender might go on to commit further crimes. But wouldn't it be easier just to keep every violent or sexual offender locked up? That would in turn deliver benefits to society by reducing possible future crimes. So why can't we just make these people disappear?These seem like easy questions to answer, but they are not. What needs to be remembered is that, with few exceptions, our prison population is made up of that section of our society that has already been excluded rather than included. Most prisoners lack educational qualifications, have few employment skills, and have often experienced long-term housing, family and addiction problems. Prison cannot deal with the causes of poverty and the widening gap between the rich and the poor. It cannot treat addictions, nor can it cope with the underlying mental health problems from which many in our prisons suffer. And since it cannot do these things, an expanding prison system does not make our community safer - because, ultimately, the disappearing act ends, and the prisoner gets released. Sent back to where he came from, he has not been rehabilitated, nor helped to find work, let alone somewhere to live. So what then?Let us take the most difficult example we could think of - someone not unlike Craig Sweeney: a convicted paedophile who targets young girls and children. Remember that such individuals also come with a range of social, sexual and other problems. And let's bear in mind that, on the continuum of paedophilia, those paedophiles who target babies, infants or young children for penetrative sex are regarded as being at the extreme; these are the ones who are most likely to reoffend. Despite the fact that most will have attended sex offender courses, or in some extreme cases will have been chemically castrated, these are the ones who seem absolutely resistant to changing their behaviour.One such paedophile was Charlie Taylor, once regarded as Canada's public enemy No 1. He had been in and out of jail for offences against young children since his teens, and in 1994 had just been released again in Hamilton, Ontario, after his latest sentence had come to an end. Charlie had an IQ of 70, was illiterate, and had never been employed.Understandably, the community into which he was released was up in arms about the fact that Charlie had come home. Several concerned residents took to the streets to make their views known. Forced to "do something" in response to this public uproar, the police promised that they would watch Charlie's bedsit around the clock. Even the local schools got in on the act, placing a photograph of Charlie on every child's desk. Pupils were warned not to go near him if they should spot him in the street or in the park.One child put up his hand. "But Miss," he said, "he came over to our house last night for supper."And so he had, for this child's father, Harry Nigh, had just set up the first ever Circle of Support and Accountability for released paedophiles - in an act that Harry and his wife described to me as "accidental courage". In fact, all they had done was to invite four of their friends over to dinner with Charlie; they wanted to see if they could do anything to help him resettle in the community in the face of public panic. But then, over the next 12 years, they kept following this basic template of the first ever circle. Each day, one of the six would meet with Charlie, the "core member", to buy him a coffee, ensure that he was taking his medication, and just to provide an ear for Charlie to vent his many complaints. Then, on the seventh day, they would all come together to eat a meal, find out how Charlie was doing, and celebrate his successes, or help him to overcome his problems.To put it bluntly, Charlie became part of their extended families. Two months ago, when Charlie died, his circle members were his only mourners. Yet, in the 12 years of liberty before his death, Charlie Taylor had never reoffended.And what holds true for Charlie's circle can equally be applied to the first 50 circles that were set up in Canada, and which have recently been evaluated by Dr Robin Wilson of the Correctional Service of Canada. He has demonstrated that circles - overwhelmingly made up of everyday, working Canadians with little, or no, knowledge of criminology, policing, psychology or social work - have reduced the predicted rates of reoffending for this extraordinarily difficult type of offender by some 60%. He also found that if these "core members" do reoffend, it is for a less serious category of crime than they had originally been sentenced for.Why should this approach work? What is it that succeeds when cognitive behavioural courses, chemical castration, long prison sentences, "naming and shaming" and so forth have all failed?Harry Nigh was clear that the key to the circles' success is in the name. What it offers is precisely support and accountability - support when the released paedophile is facing a crisis; support in finding work, or a home; support in making certain that there is enough to eat, and that there is someone to talk to. But accountability, too, to ensure that the core member of the circle is not going to the park or loitering around schools.In all of this, there is an element of "keeping your enemies close", but there is much more going on besides. At their heart, circles are about including, rather than excluding: they provide a real and meaningful community for a group that has previously been only stigmatised and marginalised - isolated and then pushed from one place to the next. By contrast, in the circle, the released prisoner finds a home - often for the first time in their lives; a home with values and norms; a ready-made society in which they are known, included and have value. And that is why they work.That lesson has not been lost in Britain. Although it is rare to hear about our own circles of support and accountability, we do have them. In the Thames Valley, for example, 25 circles have been set up since April 2002; 105 members of the public are currently working with a number of high-risk, high-need sex offenders on release, including paedophiles. Their work rarely comes to light, but the circles have recently been nominated for one of the Howard League for Penal Reform's Community Awards, which recognise work with offenders in the community to stop them reoffending (as opposed to sending ever more numbers of people to prison). The results of that award will be announced in July.Let us imagine what might have happened if Craig Sweeney had been a core member of a circle. Even better, try to imagine what it might be like for you to volunteer and become a circle member yourself. Would you have the courage to make your community safer by helping released prisoners to resettle - or would you rather just watch the war between the executive and the judiciary, safe on the sidelines, watching the toing and froing of the latest initiative or the next policy review?Prison is central to that war now being waged by our home secretary. Specifically, it is the battle to put more people in prison and for longer periods - the inevitable result if you change the rules on parole eligibility, which has become the new frontline in the conflict. Prison is already performing a huge disappearing trick, sweeping under the carpet huge swaths of the population, hiding them from public view - and thus removing them from the scope of public policy and the home secretary's inbox. At a time when we are reducing welfare provision, prison plugs the gaps that must emerge when there are fewer community mental health nurses, hostels and drug treatment programmes. Prison removes from our streets all the young men who have been excluded from school and then can't find jobs because it is cheaper to outsource the work to the developing world. And it mops up those who don't quite fit in, those whom we would all therefore prefer to ignore.But remember prison is a trick - all those who have disappeared will return. And when they do, none of their underlying problems will have got better; many will have got worse. Prison does not make a community safer. The opposite: prison ultimately contributes to making it more dangerous. It promises too much, and delivers nothing - a reality that becomes obvious when the prisoner returns to a community that is ever more scared and polarised, and so acts to stigmatise, exclude and shun.Contrast that scenario with the courage of the volunteers on circles, who seem to be able to reshape a sense of a confident community through voluntary action. By coming together, they stand above the noise of battle, and are strong enough to include, rather than exclude. More than this, by that inclusion, they are contributing far more to community safety than any number of disappearing tricks. They might even have found the key to managing the likes of Craig Sweeney.· David Wilson is professor of criminology at UCE in Birmingham. He is the author (with Jon Silverman) of Innocence Betrayed: Paedophiles, the Media and Society (Polity Press), and his new series, Leave No Trace, starts on BBC1 on June 26.