After the hullabaloo of the last three weeks, we still don't know who or what caused the Deptford fire in which 13 young black partygoers died last January. The open verdict returned yesterday at County Hall plunged the bereaved families into renewed grief and despair. It is not hard to see why. To lose a child is bad enough; to lose a child in a fire piles horror upon tragedy; to suspect that there are people responsible for the disaster who remain undetected through a miscarriage of justice must be almost unendurable. The inquest into the cause of these deaths was an utter shambles. Rarely can a jury have been faced with a more dismaying task: deciding the cause of a racially sensitive incident on the basis of hopelessly conflicting evidence and under the direction of a coroner whose conduct of the proceedings was openly criticised by a High Court judge. In such circumstances, an open verdict was the only realistic conclusion the jury could have reached - in other words, that they just did not know what to make of it all.The Deptford fire achieved a symbolic significance far beyond the actual tragedy, a significance that laid upon the inquest expectations that it could not possibly fulfil. For the bereaved families in particular and black people in general, the reaction of white society to the fire epitomised the indifference and prejudice which they feel surrounds them all the time. Initial police remarks apparently suggested that the cause of the blaze was a petrol bomb. The Government failed to express prompt condolences, yet reacted publicly and fulsomely to the Dublin discotheque fire. These two developments helped seal an unshakeable belief that the Deptford fire was caused by white racialists and that nobody cared.The misery and suspicion were fuelled and exploited by the New Cross Massacre Action Committee. It was decided right from the start that the tragedy was a racialist "massacre". There was not a shred of evidence to back up this assumption, apart from the highly inconclusive eye-witness account of a white man seen outside the house with his arm raised as if throwing something towards it. Nevertheless, the emotive impact of this theory, plus disbelief that any partygoer could have started such a conflagration even by accident, meant that before the inquest started it would have been impossible for any black person to have doubted openly that a racialist attack had taken place.Upon this sensitive and festering sore the Metropolitan Police then trod with all the delicacy at its command by appointing Commander Graham Stockwell to head the inquiry into the blaze. Mr Stockwell's history has not been an entirely happy one. As a police inspector in 1972, he took down the confessions of three young men who were then imprisoned for the murder of Maxwell Confait. In 1980, they were cleared of any involvement in the crime after their confessions were found to be false. It was almost inevitable that the appointment of such a controversial policeman to such a sensitive inquiry as the Deptford fire would exacerbate the situation. Despite the involvement of 50 detectives who spent more than 40,000 man hours and £320,000 on their investigation, the inquiry provoked such bitterness among the black community that the inquest degenerated into a conflict between witnesses and the police.These young black witnesses had signed statements at the police station, some of them in front of parents or clergymen, claiming that there had been a fight between two guests. But they all then told the inquest that there had been no fight; they had made false statements under pressure from the police. These charges are exceptionally serious and mean either that the police were guilty of a perversion of justice or that the witnesses committed mass perjury at the inquest. They told lies somewhere, either at the police station or at County Hall - but where? Both scenarios are plausible. The police, having decided that the fire stated as a result of a fight at the party, put pressure on the youngsters to support this theory. Since many of them were in trouble with the police already, and couldn't care less what they said as long as it got them home, they said what the police wanted them to say. Alternatively, they told the police the truth; afterwards, realising the importance of the fight to the police theory, and under heavy pressure to support the white attack explanation, they lied to the coroner.The forensic evidence didn't help. The pool of liquid "like paint thinners" on the living room carpet was balanced by the baffling discovery of an unexploded incendiary device in the garden. And the coroner, rightly criticised by Mr Justice Comyn for his "very serious irregularity," muddied the issue even further. He patiently put up with unprecedented abuse from the public benches and from witnesses. But his failure to take a single note, and his highly selective summing up, were distressing.If the families succeed in getting the inquest verdict quashed, there will have to be another inquest. There is a strong case, however, for saying that coroners' inquests are ill-equipped for extremely contentious cases like the Deptford fire, or deaths in police custody. It would be better now to have an inquiry headed by a senior judge, who would assess both the police evidence and individual contributions. In general, surely, a procedure must be devised in which representations can be made to, say, the Lord Chief Justice for a judicial inquiry into a death in circumstances deemed to be beyond the competence of an inquest.