A former police officer and a staff member involved in the Stephen Lawrence murder investigation have been arrested for allegedly failing to pass on information relating to the killing.A 62-year-old retired constable and a 53-year-old member of police staff were arrested by investigators from the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) yesterday on suspicion of perverting the course of justice in relation to the alleged non-disclosure of material. They were bailed until 1 March.The missing material was uncovered during an internal review by the Metropolitan police of the 1993 murder inquiry and its aftermath. The information dates back to the killing itself and was allegedly not disclosed to an inquiry by Kent police in 1997, or the Macpherson inquiry in 1999, which found that the police had been institutionally racist over the investigation.Once the alleged withholding of material was uncovered, the Met's directorate for professional standards was alerted. Two months later they passed their findings to the IPCC. Investigators carried out an independent inquiry which examined whether the information had been considered by the original murder investigation team as well as its non-disclosure to subsequent inquiries.An IPCC spokeswoman said: "The Lawrence family have been kept informed of developments since the material came to light and the IPCC will continue to keep them up to date as the investigation progresses. The IPCC has also been liaising with the Crown Prosecution Service in relation to the case."Stephen was murdered in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993, at the age of 18. No one has been convicted of the killing but five men – Neil Acourt, his brother Jamie, David Norris, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight – were arrested soon after the event.Three of the men were acquitted of murder after a private prosecution brought by the Lawrence family collapsed at the Old Bailey in 1996.Lady Howells, a friend of Stephen's mother, Doreen, and patron of the Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust, welcomed the news. "Lots of people said they gave the police evidence which was never produced," she said. "We knew something was going on. I am delighted with anything that clears up that mess because it was not just one person who committed a murder, it was five or six."Referring to Stephen's father, she added: "Neville should be able to start closing a chapter now."Lord Ouseley, a former chair of the Commission for Racial Equality who pressured police over the original inquiry, said he was not surprised."Clearly this is interesting news," he said. "The important thing about Stephen Lawrence is a lot of people had suspicions about the nature of policing at the time and how people covered for each other. It does not surprise me."I remember being up at a police station in Eltham and you had this feeling that there were people covering for each other."There was not one thing you could prove but there was a sense police officers were 'buddy, buddy' with each other."A Metropolitan police spokesman said the force was co-operating with the IPCC investigation. "As part of the ongoing Metropolitan police review into the murder of Stephen Lawrence and attack on Duwayne Brooks, detectives recently discovered material from 1993 which is not believed to have been disclosed to the Kent inquiry in 1997 or the inquiry led by Sir William Macpherson."Therefore the Met decided that it was necessary to refer the issue to the Independent Police Complaints Commission for investigation."