This is how I decide on a bag: is it easy to carry, and does it fit all that I need? Ascribing it a gender ranks low in my considerations, behind function, quality and the pleasure it gives me. It's why I find the word "manbag" such a bore: it is often used mockingly, and it categorises what I think should be category-free.Last week I had to visit London's Canary Wharf and all I needed for the day was a notebook, my iPod Touch, a Kindle and some keys. They all slotted snugly into a patent red zip-up bag by the young London menswear designer James Long, which I'd been given for my birthday last month. It was its first outing and, talking on the phone outside Canary Wharf underground station, I had it held neatly under my arm – no further thought given. But then I heard someone behind me. I turned and saw a man in jeans and a plain top. "Security," he said quietly but firmly, showing me some ID. "Can I have a word?" I told my friend I'd call her back.He asked to see my bag. "Is it yours?" I said yes, incredulous. This felt like a parallel universe."Have you got any ID?" I gave him my cashcard, from the front pocket of the bag."What are your middle initials?" he asked. I told him. It was only then that he believed it was mine."It's just that we've had a lot of women's handbag thefts."Did he think it was a women's bag? "You can't be too careful."Then I remembered something that I'd heard, and asked him if it was true: is Canary Wharf private land? He said that it was, and seemed very proud of it. And even though it looks like a normal public square, on this land these plain-clothed security guards obviously rule. A Canary Wharf Group spokesperson confirmed that, "We do have plain-clothes security staff that work hard to keep the crime rate down." But to me the implication felt very clear: we don't want your sort round here.It was a disquieting and humiliating experience, this apparent fashion crime. Humiliating because first he thought I was a petty thief, and then he judged me as effeminate. Disquieting because I have never before felt so under surveillance.I'd like to say that this encounter has propelled me to carry the bag with defiance, but instead it has left me slightly bruised. I've since bought an incredibly sombre pair of jeans – unusual for me. It made me sad too, that the codes by which we interpret clothing are so entrenched, and that something away from the masculine norm can cause such an unexpected reaction.