There was no doubting the big story for middle England this week. "You CAN Kill a Burglar!" screamed the front page of the Daily Mail. "You CAN Kill a Burglar!" echoed the front page of the Express. The identical headlines were in fact nicked from the London Evening Standard the night before, whose editor went straight round with his shotgun to test out the new guidelines.These tabloids will soon be launching a range of competitions for their readers: "Top a Robber and Win a Luxury Cruise!" "Romford Heads Dead Burglars League Table - House Prices Soar!" And look out for some unfunny cartoons of an English country home, with stags' antlers above the fireplace, beside the stuffed head of a villain with a stripy jersey and a mask. Perhaps these guidelines are a trade off with the pro-hunting lobby? They're not allowed to kill foxes any more, but if they leave the house unlocked at night, they can now sit on their stairs waiting to shoot anyone who climbs through the window. The Duke of Edinburgh was said to be delighted. The next time a protester in a baggy Batman costume climbs up on to the balcony, Philip will be straight out there with his 12-bore.The Home Office leaflet was supposed to reassure the public that the forces of law and order are still on the side of the victims. The whipped-up fear of crime has not gone unnoticed at 10 Downing Street. Indeed, Tony Blair has become increasingly paranoid about a man climbing over from next door to try to steal his job. Police said they couldn't help him, because they were too busy looking for whomever it was who stole all the Tories' lines on law and order. Even though recent crime figures showed domestic burglary continuing to fall, crime, or rather the fear of it, continues to preoccupy a large swathe of the population. So this is just the first in a series of new guidelines to come from the Crown Prosecution Service; proportionate responses are also being recommended for other types of crime. You can't physically attack a litterbug for example - for that offence they suggest that you tut quietly and glare at them a little bit. If you are on the fast lane of the motorway, and another driver overtakes you on the inside, you are urged to go dangerously close to the car in front to stop them cutting in. But you will be allowed to slap young boys sticking chewing gum in the coin slots of parking meters, and if someone calls at your door collecting for a bogus charity, the police say you may either: a) pull their hair; or b) give them a Chinese burn. But it should be stressed that physical attacks are permitted only for serious crimes such as fraud, robbery and eating apples while driving. And if you attack someone who turns out not to be a burglar, he may then seek official retribution that would permit him to formally give you a dead leg and a poke in the eye. For the CPS and the Association of Chief Police Officers to be telling people that "a rugby tackle or a single blow would probably be reasonable" is very bad advice. What the leaflet should be saying in large letters is, "At all costs avoid getting into a fight with a burglar; it's really not worth it. You could never set that video anyway; he'll suffer enough when he tries to work out the 28-day timer." Contrary to the impression that may have been given in old British films, if you break a vase over a burglar's head he doesn't roll his eyes and then swoon. He gets very cross and tries to hit you back, and there is an outside chance you could end up being stabbed or, worse, receive counselling from a police officer. In the event of a burglary, I am a firm believer in the proportionate use of cowardice. Climb up into the loft and pull up the ladder. If your partner was too slow to join you, that's too bad; tell them they'll have to find their own hiding space. Trembling in terror should then be followed by acute embarrassment when you realise that the gang of burly intruders was, in fact, a solitary 15-year-old. But the loss of property is preferable to risking serious injury every time. So what if he got your laptop? Yes, it's a pain, but it was insured. OK, it's got all your files on it, but they were backed up. And all right, so he'll be able to see all the internet sites you looked at earlier in the evening. "Actually, come back here, you bastard, I'm going to kill you!" comment@theguardian.com