The occupants of the British Airways first class lounge at Heathrow were probably rather relieved last night that the 30-strong entourage of the US rapper Snoop Dogg were turned away.But Snoop and his minders were not happy and what has been described as a "mini-riot" broke out at terminal one that left the rapper and five of his associates under arrest. Seven police officers were injured. One suffered a fractured hand, the others' injuries were more minor, mostly cuts and bruises.According to reports, after being turned away from the first class lounge the rapper and his entourage - who were en route to Johannesburg where they have a gig tonight - moved on to a nearby duty-free shop.They are alleged to have thrown bottles of whisky and argued with staff.The police were called and officers were escorting the group away from the scene when a further disturbance broke out, Scotland Yard said. "Police were called at 6pm last night to reports of a disturbance involving 30 people in a business lounge at terminal one," a spokesman said."The party was told that they would not be permitted to board their flight and officers then attempted to direct the group to baggage reclaim. "A number of the group became abusive and pushed officers." Six men in their 30s, including Snoop, whose real name is Calvin Broadus, were arrested on charges of violent disorder and affray and detained at two west London police stations." The superstar rapper grew up among the streets gangs of Long Beach, California and ended up on the wrong side of the law. In 1993 he was tried and acquitted for murder - the same year he found fame with his debut album, Doggystyle.Since then, he has become a movie star, appearing in film based on the television series Starsky and Hutch. The rapper, who made his name with his lackadaisical drawl, has even been invited to speak at the Oxford Union.Last year Snoop had a happier stay in London, appearing at the Live 8 show. He had offered to take the England captain David Beckham out on the town, but the player's wife Victoria put her foot down, telling the rapper: "Look Mr Snoopy, you're not taking my husband out. I know all about your reputation."