There's someone downstairs. An intruder. You have a choice: cower or confront? Under the latest plan of the justice secretary, Chris Grayling, you will not only be able to fight a burglar, but also use "disproportionate force", without legal reprisals.You might welcome these new rights for homeowners, because, if you or your family were in danger, you would do everything – anything – to protect them, wouldn't you? I thought that. And then it happened.I awoke in the early hours of July 31, 1997, to the sound of people running through my flat. There was nowhere to hide, no time to make a choice about what to do, so I simply got out of bed, just as three men burst through my bedroom door. They picked up whatever makeshift weapons they could see – bricks and saucepans – and beat my flatmate and I in our adjacent rooms. They hit me so hard my teeth were forced through my cheek. I put up no fight. This saved my life. Instead, I simply knelt in my blood pleading. On their way out, after robbing us, one of them said: "There'll be no comeback."It took years to recover psychologically, but it could have been so much worse. And if Grayling's plans are implemented, which looks likely – where is the opposition? – future victims will suffer even more than I did.There is an excellent reason why the police encourage the public to acquiesce to the demands of thieves: you stand a better chance of survival. If I had known before the attack I could fight back disproportionately, I might have kept a knife by the bed. In that instant I could have stabbed one of them. The other two intruders would have retaliated. Would I be here now?Grayling talked about giving immunity to "householders who act instinctively", as if instincts were entirely natural, rather than conditioned. If you teach a child to react with violence, violence becomes their instinct. In the same way, if you give the public licence to react disproportionately, how many more baseball bats will be kept under beds? How many people will attack back only to be murdered?And how, in turn, will burglars arm themselves in future? Mine arrived without any weapons. Following Grayling's announcement, you should be even more terrified if you hear someone downstairs: they will not be empty-handed.And what if you kill them? I know this much: better to be a victim than a perpetrator. My conscience is clear. I cannot forgive the men who attacked me, but I'm aware that they had led considerably worse lives than I had. They didn't deserve to die.If this bill is passed, terrible mistakes will almost certainly be made. Last month 15-year-old Tyler Guiliano from Connecticut put on a ski mask and was shot dead by his father who believed he was an intruder.Last year, if my instincts had been shaped differently, I too could have become an accidental murderer. I went to put the rubbish out, leaving my front door open for a few seconds, and when I turned back I saw someone running into my house. Terrified, I went to the door and saw the culprit – a teenage girl – just as a voice shouted from behind: "I'm so sorry, my daughter's autistic, she just ran in there."Grayling believes his law will "dispel doubts in this area once and for all". It won't. It allows the use of disproportionate force yet, he says, "this is not about letting people go on the rampage". So where is the line? The police, the CPS and in some cases a jury, just as they currently do, will have to establish if the reaction constituted "reasonable force". And you and I will be left with the same question: cower or confront?